April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Increased water use during lockdown, so reduce, reuse and recycle||In many parts of the country, the lockdown owing to the corona crisis is going to spiral into another big issue — water scarcity. With a lion’s share of people still reliant on fresh water and no concept of recycle and reuse in practice, staying put at home has increased everyone’s consumption patterns multi-fold. AR Shivakumar, former scientist, Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology, Indian Institute of Science and water management advisor says, “There has been a surge in the domestic requirement, and with the depletion of groundwater, it becomes every citizen’s responsibility to save water.” Reduce water usage“The mantra is to use less and reuse more. So, collect the water that would be poured down the drain and use it for another purpose. When washing vegetables and fruits don’t do it under running water, soak them for a while in a dish and then wash. This water can be used later, to soak dirty vessels, or even for the first wash of utensils. Also, do not scrub dishes under running water,” advises Odette Katrak, co-founder Beautiful Bengaluru. Re-use and recycle“Every day, we flush down 30-50 litres of freshwater, per person, down our toilets. Substitute this with the water drained out during washing cycles of the washing machine. A washing machine uses 20%-22% of your daily water requirement, while toilet and washing combined uses 40-50%. You can save 20% by diverting the machine’s water outlet into your toilet bowl,” says Shivakumar. You can also reduce the amount of water in the flush tank by putting a one litre pet bottle filled with sand in it, says Lalithamba BV. Odette adds, “Water from washing pulses can be used to rinse dishes or water plants, but not to mop floors. Based on this, I evolved a water needs hierarchy framework depicting what secondary sources can be matched to certain needs, depending on whether clear, cloudy, soapy or muddy water would suffice.” Avoid chemical cleansers, go natural“Use natural cleansers to wash clothes, mop, and clean utensils. Unlike chemical detergents, these do not lather much and the water left thereafter, can be repurposed. We use the washing machine drain to water plants. Since the cleansers are natural and safe, there’s no harm done to the plants,” says Lalithamba. Use reject from water purifiers“For every 10%-15% of drinking water consumed by using a reverse osmosis (RO) purifier, 80% gets flushed out as reject. On average, a family uses 20-30 litres of water for drinking and cooking, which means for every 100 litres of water, you only get 20 that you can consume,” says Shivakumar. Odette adds, “Collect RO reject and use for mopping, watering plants, and cleaning the kitchen and basin, among others.” Wastage is 100 times your drinking needsOn average, a home of four people uses 30,000 litres per month, meaning 250 litres per person per day. Of this, hardly 3-4 litres is consumed, and almost 100 times of the water consumed is being flushed down. SMALL STEPS TO REDUCE WATER USE Redirect washing machine drain to clean toilet bowl Use RO reject to mop, water plants Fit aerators to taps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/increased-water-use-during-lockdown-so-reduce-reuse-and-recycle/articleshow/74919094.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Rosogolla to sandesh: Customers rush for sweets as shops reopen in Kolkata||You can keep sweets away from a Bengali, but you can’t keep a Bengali away from sweets. After a brief yet unexpected separation, Bengalis reunited with their oh-so-favourite mishti on Tuesday as a few renowned sweet chains resumed business, following a green signal from the government. Food app delivery boys queued up at shop counters on Day 1 as online demand surged. Within noon and 4 pm -- the altered business hours for sweet shops -- rosogolla, doi, sandesh, peda, kalakand and gulab jamun flew off the shelves. Welcoming the move, Sudip Mullick, owner of Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick, said, “Thanks to the government and our CM for understanding the plight of sweet makers. This decision will save millions of small dairies and tonnes of milk that was going waste. We are offering our regular as well as signature sandesh. And not to mention, rosogollas.” Safety firstThese shops are taking several precautions to ensure high safety standards. While masks and sanitisers are a must for staff, customers are being provided with hand sanitisers too. To ensure safe distance between customers, some shops have also created markings on the floor while others are asking patrons to wait outside the shop to ensure there’s no contamination. Gupta Bothers, which has sweets like peda, kalakand, sandesh and some namkeen items on sale, is focusing mainly on home delivery through apps to avoid any physical touch or contamination. Owner Muktesh Gupta said, “Our in-house staff are adhering to all hygiene norms while preparing and handling the sweets. In the lockdown period, we will be mostly delivering sweets as we don’t want customers to enter our shops. If someone visits, they can wait for their order to be delivered outside. This is a step we have taken to avoid any risk of contamination.” At Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick outlets, hand sanitisers are available on counters for the customers. Mats have been strategically placed on the floor to make sure patrons stand at a safe distance from each other. Most "Bengalis have a sweet tooth. Popular shops are ensuring proper hygiene and we trust them. I’m so happy that sweet shops are back. Now we have something to brighten up our mood amid lockdown, said Punam Gupta, a Bhawanipore resident. Smaller shops cautiousHowever, it is mostly the bigger chains that have reopened for now. Many traditional and revered north Kolkata shops – including KC Das, Putiram, Jashoda, Girish Chandra and Nakur Chandra Sweets -- are not ready to start yet, fearing safety and labour issues. “We are not thinking about business now. Our main concern is safety. We’ve been advised to stay at home and we are following that to the T. It is difficult to avoid physical contact during transactions and delivery of sweets, so it is best to reopen once the lockdown is over. Also, keeping the shop open just for four hours will hardly help our business,” said Prajesh Nandy, owner of Girish Chandra and Nakur Chandra Sweets. A few sweet shops like New Naba Krishna Guin in Bowbazar will remain open albeit with limited stocks. Owner Supravat Dey said, “We will only allow customers wearing masks inside the shop. Not more than two persons will be allowed inside at one point. We have also kept hand sanitiser for customers. A distance of three feet will be maintained between staff and patrons.” Since most of their staff have headed home in view of the lockdown, the stocks are being prepared by just three labourers. On offer are Ram bonde, rosogolla and a few types of sandesh. Precautions being taken by sweet shops1. Sweet makers and staff at shops to wear masks 2. They will sanitise their hands while making or serving sweets 3. Hand sanitisers to be provided to customers 4. Not more than two to three persons allowed to enter the shop at a time 5. Markings on the floor to ensure safe distance between customers Selling like hot cakes1. Rosogolla 2. Tok/mishti doi 3. Plain Sandesh 4. Peda 5. Kalakand 6. Gulab jamun 7. Samosa (available at a few shops post lunch hours as a snack item before they close down, amount of samosas churned out will be limited)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rosogolla-to-sandesh-customers-rush-for-sweets-as-shops-reopen-in-kolkata/articleshow/74918827.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
April 1, 2020||Business||Down 12,700 pts (31%), sensex has worst quarter||MUMBAI: As the fears about the impact of the spread of Coronavirus weighed on investor sentiment globally, Dalal Street ended its worst quarter ever on a brighter note. On Tuesday, a strong rally in sensex heavyweight Reliance Industries, along with across the board short covering and index management by large funds on the last day of the financial year, helped the index close at 29,648, up 1,028 points on the day. Of the sensex’s 30 constituents, 26 ended higher while IndusInd Bank, of late being hammered due to asset quality concerns, led the slide with a 14.7% crash. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe January-March quarter, that saw the sensex give up almost 12,700 points, or 31%—that too after reaching an all-time high at 42,274 on January 20—has been the worst in terms of points loss as well as percentage loss. Also investors wealth erosion of Rs 42.6 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 112.6 lakh crore, was the sharpest, official data showed. Foreign investors too took out over Rs 48,000 crore during the quarter, again making the three-month period the worst ever. Mutual funds, however, have acted as the cushion in the face of strong FPI selling and have recorded a net buying figure of about Rs 37,500 crore. According to a note by Shrikant Chouhan, EVP — Equity Technical Research, Kotak Securities, the day’s gains could be called the yearly and quarterly NAV management day for the market with several of the large-cap stocks closing at the day’s high. Technically, if the nifty falls below 8,350 level, it would retreat further to 8,250 or even up to 8,000 level, Chouhan said. “Global markets are doing better than expected but our markets are trading cautiously due to consistent selling from foreign institutions.” In Tuesday’s session, it was RIL that rallied over 8% and contributed about a fifth of the sensex gains which came after the company late on Monday said that its board on April 2 would consider fund raising. The decision by the company comes in the backdrop of an expected delay in stake buy by global oil major Saudi Aramco in RIL’s refinery business, a deal to offload a stake in Jio, its telecom arm to social media giant Facebook also being pushed back due to the Covid-related uncertainties, which also had shaved off over 40% of its value in less than three months and oil prices crashing by about 60% in less than two months. The other top sensex gainers in Tuesday’s session were ITC, ONGC and Tech Mahindra. Other than IndusInd Bank, the other index laggards were Maruti, Bajaj Finance and Titan, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/down-12700-pts-31-sensex-has-worst-quarter/articleshow/74921572.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Woman under quarantine in Kargil moved to hospital, delivers baby boy||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old woman, who was quarantined in Kargil near the Line of Control after one of her family members tested positive for Covid-19, has given birth to a bonny baby at a government district hospital. But the family reunion and celebrations will have to wait for a while since her kin, including her husband, continue to remain in quarantine. The father hasn’t been able to see the baby till now. Zahra Banoo gave birth to a boy on March 28, in what is possibly the first known case of “quarantine birth” in India. Zohra Banoo, the gynaecologist who attended to the mother, said the newborn weighs a healthy 3.5 kg and has been vaccinated. Two days before her due date, Zahra was shifted to the hospital from a quarantine facility in Kurbathang in an ambulance. “We shifted the mother to the out-patient department and utmost care was taken to ensure she didn’t come in contact with other patients,” said Dr Kachoo Sikandar Ali Khan, medical superintendent at the district hospital in Kargil. There are 353 people in quarantine in the district, Kargil DC Baseer Khan said. Zahra has tested negative for the coronavirus twice but those attending to the woman wore protective gear as an added precaution. By Tuesday, she had served 14 days of her quarantine and doctors said she would be released soon. Khan added that the delivery had brought much cheer among the hospital staff. “In these times of crisis, our staff volunteered to provide emotional support to the pregnant woman as she was alone,” said a doctor, citing the example of one Fatima, employed as sanitation staff at the hospital, who stayed with the mother during labour. At the quarantine facility, the father said he was happy and anxious at the same time. “This is my third child and I wish I could have been there with them,” said Vilayat Ali. “I’m grateful that the doctors supported us. We were shifted from Sankoo (a town 45km from Kargil) to the quarantine facility after my brother who had no travel history tested positive. It’s a tough region to travel with heavy snow on roads but we are glad the ambulance made that journey to bring us under medical supervision.” The parents don’t have a name for their child yet. “We’ll decide once our family is back together,” said Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/woman-under-quarantine-in-kargil-moved-to-hospital-delivers-baby-boy/articleshow/74921624.cms||Rohan Dua
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Don’t call girls for ‘kanya’ puja today, stay home and help the needy, say Delhi temples||NEW DELHI: Ahead of ashtami, when a lot of devotees perform “kanya” (or “kanjak”) puja by calling nine young girls home, major devi temples of the capital have urged people not to celebrate the occasion by inviting anyone and to stay at home, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsKanya puja is performed on the eighth and ninth day of Navaratri. It involves the worship of nine girls, representing the nine forms of Goddess Durga. Ashtami and Ram Navami also usually witness a large number of bhandaras (community kitchens), but temples heads and managements of temples such as the Kalkaji Shaktipeeth and Jhandewalan Devi have appealed to people to divert resources to help the needy during in these testing times. Rajeev Nanda, who manages the sanctum sanctorum at Katyayani Shaktipeeth at Chhatarpur said under the prevailing circumstances no one should call children at home as they may be exposed to infection. “The chief priests of Chhatarpur peeth have recommended that people keep nine representative kanjak portions in a big thaali and donate a portion to hungry cows, birds or stray dogs. Once the current crisis is over, devotees can worship the kanjaks,” Nanda said. Dedicated to the goddess Aadi Shakti, the Jhandewalan temple near Karol Bagh is among the oldest temples in Delhi and attracts lakhs of devotees during the auspicious period. Temple spokesperson Ramesh Chandra Joshi said that even the idea of “celebration” should not cross people’s minds when nation is fighting the virus outbreak and no one should call nine kanjaks home. “Devotees can carry out puja in their homes without the kanjaks. They take a vow to help the needy based on their capacities. Keep the donation aside that you want give to your temple, and dedicate it after the crisis is overcome,” Joshi said. “Nine kanjak can be replaced by a vow to help the poor and needy. We at the temple are also feeding 20,000-30,000 people who totally depend on us.” Senior public health officials have warned against any festive gatherings during Ram Navami to prevent any further spread of the coronavirus infection. “We should all stay at home and do our bit to contain the spread. That will be the best form of worship,” an official from SDMC remarked. At south Delhi’s Kalkaji shrine, head priest Surendranath Avdhoot also appealed to devotees not to do anything that violates social distancing norms. “Kanya puja has its own importance but the situation this time is such that even we will not be able to call anyone to the temple. There is no alternative. People can feed even one girl if someone is inside their home, otherwise send the food to their homes,” he added. North DMC chairperson Jai Prakash has appealed people to donate soaps, masks and hand-santisers to poor as charity. "Organise soap and mask bhandaras instead of the usual ones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dont-call-girls-for-kanya-puja-today-stay-home-and-help-the-needy-say-delhi-temples/articleshow/74921665.cms||Paras Singh
April 1, 2020||Business||Stocks fall, capping Wall Street's worst quarter since 2008||NEW YORK: Stocks fell Tuesday to close out Wall Street's worst quarter since the most harrowing days of the 2008 financial crisis. The S&P 500 dropped a final 1.6%, bringing its loss for the first three months of the year to 20% as predictions for the looming recession caused by the coronavirus outbreak got even more dire. Stocks haven't had this bad a quarter since the last time economists were talking about the worst downturn since the Great Depression, when the S&P 500 lost 22.6% at the end of 2008. The surge of coronavirus cases around the world has sent markets to breathtaking drops since mid-February, undercutting what had been a good start to the year. Markets rose early in the quarter, and the S&P 500 set a record with expectations that the economy was accelerating due to calming trade wars and low interest rates around the world. But benchmark U.S. crude oil dropped by roughly two thirds this quarter on expectations that a weakened economy will need less fuel. The yield on the 10-year Treasury dropped below 1% for the first time as investors scrambled for safety, and it ended the quarter at roughly 0.67%. Germany's DAX lost a quarter of its value, and South Korean stocks fell just over 20%. The big question is if markets will get worse. At this point, no one knows. "People are trying to digest the length and magnitude of what the coronavirus impact is going to be," said George Rusnak, managing director of investment strategy at Wells Fargo Private Bank. The steep drops from Tokyo to Toronto in recent weeks reflect investors' understanding that the economy and corporate profits are in for a sudden, debilitating drop-off. Economies around the world are grinding to near standstills as businesses close their doors and people hunker down at home in hopes of slowing the spread of the virus. But markets have also cut their losses in recent weeks on hopes that massive aid from governments and central banks around the world can blunt the blow. The S&P 500 was down nearly 31% for the quarter at one point, but it has climbed 15.5% since last Monday. The Fed has promised to buy as many Treasurys as it takes to get lending markets working smoothly after trading got snarled in markets that help companies borrow short-term cash to make payroll, homebuyers get mortgages and local governments to build infrastructure. Congress, meanwhile, approved a $2.2 trillion rescue plan for the economy, and leaders are already discussing the possibility of another round of aid. Whether markets have indeed found a bottom or whether investors have become too optimistic about the economic rebound coming after the viral outbreak peaks is impossible to say without knowing when the number of new infections will hit its peak. "We're kind of on this little milestone journey with markets," said Brent Schutte, chief investment strategist at Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management Co. "First, we get the economic plan in place, then we have to start to see some of the containment actions pay off. At some point it's going to be how do we get back to work." Among the next milestones for investors is Friday's jobs report, which is expected to show a sharp drop in payrolls. Companies will also being reporting their earnings results for the first quarter in upcoming weeks, and analysts are looking for the steepest drop in profits since the start of 2016, according to FactSet. The numbers may get even worse in the following quarter. Goldman Sachs economists said Tuesday they expect the U.S. economy to shrink 34% in the second quarter, but they expect growth to rebound in the third quarter. The S&P 500 fell 42.06 points to 2,584.59. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 410.32, or 1.8%, to 21,917.16, and the Nasdaq was off 74.05, or 1%, to 7,700.10. The relatively modest moves are a big departure from earlier in the month, when huge swings punished investors. The S&P 500 had its worst day since Black Monday 1987 on March 12 with a 9.5% loss, for example, only to outdo itself with a 12% drop two trading days later. Sandwiched in between was a 9.3% surge. The number of known coronavirus cases keeps rising, and the worldwide tally has topped 830,000, according to Johns Hopkins University. The United States has the highest number in the world, more than 170,000. Most people who contract COVID-19 have mild or moderate symptoms, which can include fever and cough. But for others, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, the virus can cause pneumonia and require hospitalization. More than 41,000 have died worldwide due to COVID-19, while more than 175,000 have recovered. We're still not even close to peak coronavirus in the U.S. which has already reported more cases than any other country and will sadly likely see a huge spike in the number of deaths, meaning further lockdown measures will likely follow," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA Europe. "Huge challenges still lie ahead."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/stocks-fall-capping-wall-streets-worst-quarter-since-2008/articleshow/74921685.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Govt slashes small savings rates by up to 140 basis pts||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday announced one of the steepest-ever cuts in small savings rates, which will see returns on the popular public provident fund deposits fall by 80 basis points to 7.1%, starting Wednesday, while the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme will see the annual interest rate drop by more than a percentage point. Similarly, rates on post office term deposits have also been slashed by as much as 140 basis points with one- to three-year deposits now fetching 5.5% instead of 6.9% earlier. The rate on five-year term deposits has been pared by a percentage point to 6.7%. These deposits come with quarterly compounding of rates. Even at the revised rates – which will be applicable for the April-June quarter -- the returns will be higher than what you will earn through a fixed deposit in a bank. For instance, for a five-year FD, State Bank of India is currently offering 5.7%. Besides, some of the schemes such as PPF have the added tax benefit which results in higher returns. For instance, someone in the 30% bracket will earn a post-tax return of over 9%, apart from the tax benefit on investment of up to Rs 1.5 lakh. In a post-budget interview, economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty had indicated to TOI last month, that rates will be lowered at the end of March. Although the announcement move is in line with the falling interest rate regime, the government had earlier ignored its own policy and refused to align the returns with market rates. Even this time, it has done so due to repeated prodding by the Reserve Bank of India as the lower policy rates were not translating into a commensurate fall in deposit and lending rates. While RBI has lowered policy rates by over 2 percentage points during the last couple of years, PPF rates have come down by 90 basis points since October 2016. Watch Govt cuts small savings rates by up to 140 basis pts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-slashes-small-savings-rates-by-up-to-140-basis-pts/articleshow/74921809.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||SC: Fake news spurring migrant exodus worrying||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed satisfaction with the steps taken by the Union and state governments to prevent spread of Covid-19 "at this stage" but expressed serious concern over fake news in social, electronic and print media causing the mass exodus of migrant workers from cities to their villages. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsA bench of CJI S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswar Rao said, "Upon perusal of the status report filed on behalf of Union of India, we are satisfied with the steps taken by the Union of India for preventing the spread of coronavirus at this stage." Noting that the mass migration had stopped with the intervention of the Centre and states and workers were being given food and shelter wherever they have been asked to stay, the bench said, "Migration of large number of labourers working in cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lockdown would continue for more than three months. Such panic driven migration has caused untold suffering to those who believed and acted on such news. In fact, some have lost their lives in the process. It is, therefore, not possible for us to overlook this menace of fake news either by electronic, print or social media." The SC's order underlined Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which provides up to one year imprisonment with fine as punishment to a person who makes or circulates a false alarm or warning concerning a disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic. It also said such panic mongers could be punished under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code. The court made it mandatory for states to follow the Centre's advisory in tackling Covid-19. "We trust and expect that all concerned — state governments, public authorities and citizens of this country — will faithfully comply with the directives, advisories and orders issued by the Union of India in letter and spirit in the interest of public safety," the court said. The bench said it was well known that panic could severely affect mental health. "We are informed that the Union of India is conscious of the importance of mental health and the need to calm down those who are in a state of panic. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informs that within 24 hours, the central government will ensure that trained counsellors and/or community group leaders belonging to all faiths will visit relief camps/shelter homes and deal with any consternation that the migrants might be going through. This shall be done in all the relief camps/shelter homes wherever they are located in the country," the bench said. "Anxiety and fear of the migrants should be understood by the police and other authorities. As directed by the Union of India, they should deal with the migrants in a humane manner. Considering the situation, we are of the opinion that the state governments/Union Territories should endeavour to engage volunteers along with the police to supervise the welfare activities of the migrants. We expect those concerned to appreciate the trepidation of the poor men, women and children and treat them with kindness," the bench said. The court posted the hearing of PILs filed by Lakh Alok Srivastav and Rashmi Bansal on condition of migrant workers for further hearing on April 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-fake-news-spurring-migrant-exodus-worrying/articleshow/74921830.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 1, 2020||Business||Government to borrow Rs 4.9 lakh crore in April-September||MUMBAI: Despite fears of a large borrowing programme to meet excess spending because of the coronavirus pandemic, the government on Tuesday said it would borrow Rs 7.8 lakh crore through gilt auctions in fiscal 2021, compared to Rs 7.1 lakh crore in fiscal 2020, of which 62.6% or about Rs 4.9 lakh, is proposed in the first half of the financial year. This was in line with the borrowing trend in the past few years when the government front-loaded gilt auction in the first six months of the fiscal by mopping up between 60% and 65% of its full-year target. Through weekly auctions of government bonds, the mop up would be about Rs 19,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore, compared to about Rs 17,000 crore in FY20. Through treasury bills, the government plans to borrow nearly Rs 1.4 lakh crore. However, given the Covid-related uncertainties, the bond market expects the total borrowing for FY21 to eventually shoot past the Rs 8 lakh crore mark, thus hardening the yield. According to Atanu Chakraborty, secretary, department of economic affairs, the government’s borrowing plan factors in any Coronavirus-related economic stimulus that may be required. He also said that the government has sufficient funds to meet its cash requirements. Bond market players said that the first half borrowing calender was more or less in line with the trend of recent years. According Ram Kamal Samanta, VP – Investment, Star Union Dai-Ichi Life Insurance, in an environment represented by subdued growth, stable inflation, ample liquidity and lower policy rate, fixed income market is likely to remain supported. “Moreover, use of unconventional monetary policy toll like LTRO and Operation Twist is also likely to contain any near term spike in yields. However going forward, with lower likelihood of any meaningful monetary easing and higher chance of fiscal slippage by the central and state governments, slowly and steadily yield will move up with each successive auction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-borrow-rs-4-9l-cr-in-apr-sept/articleshow/74921571.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Patients beat boredom with movies, mobile||PATNA: Covid-19 patients, who are undergoing treatment at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, are using video streaming platforms and social networking sites on their cellphones to keep themselves busy. Altogether 14 Covid-19 positive people are being treated at different hospitals in the state. Of these, seven have been admitted to the NMCH. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha told this newspaper on Tuesday that arrangements were being made to install one television set in each room to keep the Covid-19 patients occupied. “As all the patients are young and mainly in the age group of 25 to 40 years, they watch films or web series, stay connected with friends and family on social networking sites and read e-books,” he said. He added, “We are planning to provide videoconferencing facility to those who are not tech-savvy so that they can interact with their family members on a regular basis.” A 12-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is being treated at the JLNMCH, is watching cartoon shows and playing games on his smartphone these days. Hospital superintendent Dr R C Mandal said, “Of the six patients here, some do yoga and exercise in the morning. They also watch daily soaps and films on the TV sets in their rooms.” The doctor pointed out that the Covid-19 patients were staying abreast of the day-to-day happenings with the help of their cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patients-beat-boredom-with-movies-mobile/articleshow/74919534.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP thanks cops’ families in letter||Vijayawada: Director General of Police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang wrote an emotional open letter to all the families of the police department thanking them for their support and professional dedication during the present challenging times. The DGP said that while the police personnel are working 24x7 to contain the spread of Covid-19, the hidden sacrifices being made by the family members of the police personnel cannot be valued. Emphasising the efforts of the police who have been staying on roads continuously to implement the lockdown, Sawang said that he was proud of every khaki wearing person irrespective of their rank and cadre working for people risking their own lives. “I see a mother while you are pleading with people who venture out on the roads violating norms and at the same time a see a father in those police personnel who lift their lathis on those who do not heed to the repeated requests to stay at home” he said. Sawang said in his letter that he can understand the amount of physical and mental stress that the police personnel are taking on them during this national emergency. The entire department has left their homes ever since the virus spread and started guarding people. “It amuses me to watch the kids of police personnel who cannot even hug their fathers or mothers in fear of virus but to spread the message to masses on social media to support their parents,” Sawang said. Sawang said the amount of hard work that the Andhra Pradesh police are putting in to save the lives of people inspired him to go on to the roads to participate in the duties at ground level. He said he will do duty at police pickets along with other personnel in this difficult times. He promised the family members of the police that the welfare of the officers working on the ground level is being taken care of by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-thanks-cops-families-in-letter/articleshow/74919959.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||GMC dean says high-risk staffers should take preventive medication||Panaji: Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital Dr S M Bandekar issued a directive that all doctors and staff working in clinical departments, laboratories and the mortuary who may have been exposed to coronavirus patients or suspects must take chemoprophylaxis (of an anti-viral drug) in prescribed doses to reduce their risk of respiratory complications linked to Covid-19. Over 2,000 medical staff have been prescribed this medicine in GMC alone, a senior doctor said. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recently recommended the drug for healthcare workers and contacts of patients, but not for the general public. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-dean-says-high-risk-staffers-should-take-preventive-medication/articleshow/74921394.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank, PSU lenders cut rates||Mumbai: After holding on to its 6% return on savings account for almost a decade, Kotak Mahindra Bank has decided to finally lower rates. Meanwhile, a host of public sector banks have reduced their lending rates in line with the 75 basis points rate cut by the RBI on Friday. Kotak was among the first banks to respond to the deregulation of savings interest rate in 2011 by hiking return on deposits in savings accounts above Rs 1 lakh to 6%. On Tuesday, the bank said it would offer 5% on savings accounts with daily balances above Rs 1 lakh with effect from April 1 as against 6% earlier. For savings accounts with a daily balance of up to Rs 1 lakh, the interest rate will remain 4%. Bank of Baroda, India’s second-largest public sector lender, has reduced its Baroda Repo Linked Lending Rate (BRLLR) by 75 basis points with effect from March 28, 2020. Punjab National Bank besides reducing the repo-linked rate also cut its MCLR rates by 30 bps across tenures. The bank reduced its term deposit rates in various maturities buckets with a maximum rate of 5.80% for deposits maturing in 1 year and above. Chennai-based Indian Bank besides cutting slashed its benchmark lending rate linked to repo by 75 basis points also reduced its term deposit rates by 30-55 basis points and cut savings bank rate by 50 bps to 3%. For other borrowers, the bank has reduced its marginal cost of lending rate by 15 basis points across all tenures. The new rates will come into effect from April 1, 2020. Another Chennai-based lender Indian Overseas Bank reduced its repo rate by 75 bps and one-year MCLR from 8.45% to 8.25%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-psu-lenders-cut-rates/articleshow/74921582.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar government seals borders||PATNA: The state government on Tuesday sealed its borders with Nepal, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand to ensure strict implementation of the countrywide lockdown for preventing Covid-19 spread. Thousands of migrants have come back to Bihar over the past few days. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI that anyone coming from outside will now have to stay in the disaster relief camps set up in the government schools and buildings in the bordering districts. “Following the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments’ decision to send migrants back home on special buses even amid the lockdown, we allowed them to enter the state and took them to district headquarters and also to their native villages. But all of them have been kept in isolation camps for 14 days. No person will now be allowed to enter the state till the lockdown ends,” SuMo said. He said more than 50,000 people came back to Bihar over the last two to three days. “We were not prepared for such a heavy influx of people amid the lockdown, but the government handled the situation quite well. Disaster relief camps were set up in the bordering districts as well as villages within hours. We also provided relief to hundreds of people from Bihar in other states,” he said. On being asked about the people still stranded in other states, the deputy CM said: “Distress calls are being received on the helpline numbers of the state government, including in the office of resident commissioner of Bihar in Delhi, over the past few days and necessary action has been taken for more than 40,000 people so far. More than 12 officers have been appointed to take up each case and provide the required assistance by communicating with the district level officials in the states concerned. The state government will continue to help people from Bihar anywhere in the country or across the world at this challenging time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-seals-borders/articleshow/74919473.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jail inmates interact with kin via video conferencing||PATNA: The prisons inspectorate, which had prohibited visitors from entering jail premises for meeting inmates as part of social distancing measures to prevent spread of coronavirus, has now come up with virtual interaction system to enable people interact with the prisoners while sitting at home with the help of their smartphones. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra said the ‘e-mulakat’ system of videoconferencing had been started for the prisoners to reduce their mental stress as they might get disturbed if not allowed to interact with their family members. “Telephone booths have also been set up at the jails so that prisoners can talk to their relatives,” Mishra added. Prisons sources said the proposal to implement virtual interaction system had come earlier as well, but it is now being implemented on a war footing in all jails. “In fact, the prisons department rolled out the system on March 26,” the sources added. The IG (prisons) had temporarily banned entry of visitors to jails on March 14 as a precautionary measure to combat Covid-19. “The system will eliminate several security related hazards and ease pressure on jail authorities as large count of visitors throng jails for meeting prisoners regularly,” the sources said, adding configuration for ‘e-mulakat’ had already been completed in at least 20 jails in the state. “At Begusarai, Katihar, Bettiah, Samastipur and Darbhanga district jails, the project has already been implemented. Prisoners have started interacting with their relatives through videoconferencing,” they said. A senior home department official said the project would be implemented in other prisons, including eight central jails, soon. “Around 20 such calls were made till Tuesday in jails. One prisoner at a jail can use the facility at a time for five minutes,” the official said, adding those keen to interact with prisoners will have to download a mobile-based application for videoconferencing. A senior prisons official said one has to first send an e-mail via e-prisons platform to the superintendent of the jail where prisoner is lodged for registration and seeking approval for video conferencing. “Once superintendent is satisfied after verification of documents, he can give approval for videoconferencing and fix date and time for the same,” the official said. The official added that process is also on to enable prisoners appear for trial before separate courts at one go from inside jails in the future. On March 19, the Patna high court had become the first high court in the country to conduct hearing via videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jail-inmates-interact-with-kin-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/74919251.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 1, 2020||Patna||In Bihar, youth sounds ‘Covid alert’, lynched||PATNA: The death of a youth in Sitamarhi district on Monday allegedly after being thrashed for informing officials about Covid-19 suspects in his village has raked up a controversy. Even Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan expressed his concern over the incident on Tuesday. “The news of a youth thrashed to death in Bihar for informing about suspects of Covid-19 is extremely saddening. We are required to stand in unity as a society at this difficult time. The future of Indian society depends on it. Don’t step back from your responsibilities,” he tweeted while tagging an ANI tweet regarding the incident. बिहार में #COVID19 के संदिग्धों की जानकारी देने वाले एक युवक की पीट-पीट कर निर्मम हत्या की ख़बर बेहद दु:खद है।इस मु… https://t.co/w1Vx0s7UP6— Dr Harsh Vardhan (@drharshvardhan) 1585633100000Bablu Kumar (20) was brutally assaulted by some people at Madhaul under Runnisaidpur police station in Sitamarhi district, leading to his death on way to the SKMCH at Muzaffarpur. The deceased’s brother, Guddu Singh, in his statement before Ahiapur police in Muzaffarpur, alleged that Babloo was killed by fellow villagers for informing on the district helpline about Munna Mahto and Sudhir Mahto, who had returned from Mumbai. Guddu has accused six people, who used to help his father in his agricultural work. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar Singh, however, said the allegation was not found true during preliminary investigation. “The incident is a fallout of an altercation between the deceased and the accused after a motorbike hit one of them on March 29,” he said, adding that two of named accused have already been arrested. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Babloo’s murder had nothing to do with coronavirus. “The incident is a result of personal enmity,” he said. He, however, said one Munna Mahto was examined by a team of doctors at the village on March 27. “The deceased’s relative has not provided any evidence to substantiate the claim that Munna’s health was examined by a medical team on the basis of information given by Babloo,” he said and added that the medical team had, in fact, examined Munna on the information given by one Om Prakash Bharti, stated to be the husband of Sitamarhi district board chairperson. The deceased’s father, Vinod Singh, alleged that the case was being suppressed. “The police officers are under pressure,” he alleged. Meanwhile, Munna and Sudhir were sent to jail on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sitamarhi-youths-death-rakes-up-row/articleshow/74919441.cms||Ramashankar
April 1, 2020||Business||E-tailers eye railways, India Post for essentials||BENGALURU: India’s largest online retail platforms are looking to tap into the century-old networks of Indian Railways and India Post for removing supply chain bottlenecks to deliver essentials to consumers amid the national lockdown, three people aware of the matter said. There was a meeting on Saturday evening on the same issue between top officials of government departments like the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) and online platforms such as Amazon, Flipkart, third-party logistics firm Delhivery and Uber. Top bureaucrats from consumer affairs, civil aviation, railways and India Post were also present, sources added. As passenger trains are not running now, e-commerce firms are looking to use the railways to ship goods faster without traffic on tracks. India Post, which has one of the largest last-mile delivery networks in the country, would come in handy in getting essentials to consumers across top metros and smaller cities as well. India has over 1.5 lakh post offices. A senior government official in the DPIIT confirmed the development. This comes at a time when online platforms continue to battle labour shortage even when offering double incentives for deliveries. “Railways is doing couriers right now. It is prepared to run the extra services for e-commerce companies. Railways board chairman was also present in the meeting (with the online platforms). They can do these short services while running trains at Rajdhani’s pace (one of the fastest trains). India Post is already involved in essential services and they can do both — the first mile and last mile,” this official said. The transportation from railways will help e-commerce companies take goods from manufacturers to warehouses, as overall trucking routes remain choked, while India Post can act as a potential last-mile distributor of goods, another person aware of the goings-on said. “Conversations with India Post are still at a discussion stage. What is being discussed is post offices serving as drop locations where consumers can pick up fixed packages of essentials. Or the postman can also deliver these,” the source mentioned earlier said. Another aspect that is being discussed is pick-up of orders and packages from large offline retailers, including D-Mart, to avoid crowding at stores. “This is something platforms have to decide. If they want to do this at scale and solve the ongoing issue, they can,” the government official added. According to him, the situation still remains dynamic with daily improvements in the supply chain network compared to the previous week. “To achieve the objective of moving essential supplies across the country, from our sellers/vendors to the customers, our teams are exploring all possible collaboration ideas, including the railways among several other innovative ideas,” said Rajneesh Kumar, chief corporate affairs officer at Flipkart. He added the company has been hiring and that it is offering incentives to supply chain and delivery executives engaged in grocery/essentials to strengthen delivery capabilities. An Amazon India spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-eye-rlys-india-post-for-essentials/articleshow/74921530.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 1, 2020||Business||Steadview funding values Nykaa at $1.2bn||Bengaluru: Nykaa has raised a total of Rs 100 crore, or $13 million, from hedge fund Steadview Capital at a valuation of Rs 9,200 crore, or over $1.2 billion, according to MCA filings from business intelligence platform Tofler. With this, the online beauty and cosmetics seller has become the latest unicorn (valued at over $1 billion) in the Indian startup industry. The new round of funding comes as online retail business is set to enter a tough quarter, with sales restricted to just essentials and the overall slowdown likely to impact discretionary spending like cosmetics. Nykaa sells beauty products via its online store as well as 50-60 offline stores across the country. The funding includes the sale of shares by some existing investors and employees of Nykaa, which has been done at a discount to the $1.2-billion valuation. The latest round comes about a year after the company raised $15 million from TPG Growth, which had valued it at $724 million. Avendus Capital was the financial advisor to Nykaa on the fundraise. At the same time, Nykaa said that it is taking precautions as it told its vendors in a communication that its cash flows and income will be impacted. “The lockdown has already impacted business across industry, and this will have significant impact on the business cycle, including cash-conversion cycle...In light of this, we find it prudent to update you that there will be a delay in making payments of outstanding invoices to all vendors and partners,” Nykaa communicated on Tuesday. Nykaa confirmed the Steadview investment. “We are very grateful to achieve this significant milestone...In the midst of this unprecedented global crisis, we are working to ensure all our stakeholders are well served and that Nykaa emerges as a leading retail player in the industry,” Nykaa founder & CEO Falguni Nayar said in a statement on Tuesday. Nykaa, which was started by the former investment banker Nayar, is one of the leading players in the online beauty space, competing against e-commerce players like Amazon Fashion, Myntra and other niche players like Purplle, which was recently funded by Goldman Sachs. Nykaa counts Hero Group’s Sunil Munjal, FMCG major Marico’s Harsh Mariwala and Max Group among investors. The company’s net revenue more than doubled to Rs 1,159 crore at the end of March 2019 as against Rs 555 crore in the year-ago period. But what sets Nykaa apart is that it is one of the few unicorns that makes money, as it reported a profit of Rs 2.3 crore during the period against a loss of Rs 17.7 crore earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/steadview-funding-values-nykaa-at-1-2bn/articleshow/74921497.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 1, 2020||Patna||No entry without medical check-up: Villagers to migrants||PATNA: It’s a double whammy for hundreds of migrant labourers who came back to their native villages from outside Bihar following the nationwide lockdown. While they faced untold hardships to reach their destinations from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala, their entry to their homes have been banned by fellow villagers out of the fear of contracting Covid-19. Three youths, including two brothers, were denied entry to their homes Dhanauti villagers under Barun block in Aurangabad district on Monday. The villagers asked the youths returning from Ludhiana to first visit the special camp. Sujeet Sao (24), Anil Singh (30) and Rahul Singh (32) had no option but to get examined by doctors at the local primary health centre (PHC) from where they had to spend a night before being let off as there was no symptoms for coronavirus. In another incident, three youths were picked up by the police and health department officials from Silwatia Bargo under Ram Nagar police station in West Champaran on Sunday and subsequently admitted to a hospital at Bettiah. While Sanjay Choudhary and Vaikil Patel were let off after medical check-up, Dhananjay Choudhary was sent to the quarantine centre and his blood samples were sent to the RMRI, Patna for examination. The police team reached the village after being tipped off by some local residents that the three youths had returned from Tamil Nadu and had not undergone medical test. Such reports poured in from over a dozen villages in Vaishali, Kaimur, Banka, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Madhepura, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Katihar, Supaul and Bhagalpur districts. Narrating his woes, Sajjan Thakur (49) of Rampatti in Madhubani district said, “Pahle to bhukhe pyase kisi tarah ghar pahuche. Ab gaon mein entry ban hai. Jayen to jayen kahan (First we reached home hungry and now we are not allowed to enter the village. Where should I go)?” What distresses more is that those who have been quarantined at their homes have been socially boycotted. Handwritten pamphlets or notices indicating that they have been quarantined have been pasted on the walls. The neighbours were being told not to visit those under home quarantine. “These people are being treated as if they have committed a crime,” said social activist Pramod Kumar. Physician and secretary of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development, Dr Shakeel, has written to the principal secretary (health) and National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to stop ‘stigmatising’ the Covid 19 suspects. Authoritative sources said around 50,000 migrants have returned home from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Nepal in the last three days alone. While some were allowed to go home after screening, others were sent to quarantine centres in the border areas. The state directive to conduct health examination of all those returning from outside the state is also taking its toll on the government officials. In Jehanabad and Nawada, medical teams, which had gone to collect samples from some migrants, were attacked. Jehanabad BDO Ajay Kumar said, “The team was attacked when it visited Dayali Bigha after getting information from some residents that 22 villagers had come back from Delhi and four from Punjab. The locals became furious when a youth was being taken to the hospital for medical check-up. Two official vehicles were damaged in stone-pelting.” The SHO of Okri police outpost, Chandra Shekhar Kumar, said two people had been arrested in this connection. Earlier, a similar incident was reported from Nawada district. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said those found to be taking law into their hands won’t be spared. In the Jehanabad incident, raids were on to nab the other accused, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-entry-without-medical-check-up-villagers-to-migrants/articleshow/74919429.cms||Ramashankar
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist panchayat to form a disaster management force||Thiruvananthapuram: The district panchayat will be joining hands with the disaster management authority to form a disaster management force in the district. This was one of the key schemes in the budget 2020-21 presented by district panchayat president V K Madhu on Tuesday. The aim of the district panchayat is to form a force with a strength of 15,000 volunteers. A fund of Rs 25 lakh has been set aside for this project. V K Madhu said that while the district panchayat will train 500 volunteers, and various other grama panchayats in the district will train 14,600 volunteers. The idea for the project is apparently borrowed from the successful internship programme initiated by former district collector K Vasuki as well as former city corporation mayor V K Prasanth’s initiative of Green Army. The service of these volunteers will be utilized when the district faces a natural calamity or any exigency of massive proportions. This year, it was a gender budget that was presented. More than half the total fund was set aside for projects and schemes for the welfare of women. Fitness centres for women will be set up at select anganwadis in the district under the label of Smile Centre. These fitness centres will have mini gymnasiums and yoga training facilities. A fund of Rs 25 lakh has been set aside for this project. The panchayat will also be launching a new scheme to help financially poor people who are ailing from various illnesses. Through the project named ‘Aswas’ the panchayat aims to give medical aid to eligible people. A fund of Rs 1 crore has been set aside for this project. A fund of Rs 3.25 crore has been granted for Patheyam, a scheme started in 2016-17 with the slogan Hunger Free Kerala. At present a total of 6592 indivduals in as many as 73 grama panchayats are being given food through Kudumbashree workers. This year, the scheme will be incorporated with the Janatha Hotel scheme that is being implemented by Kudumbashree. Rs 7.5 lakh will be granted to 75 Janatha Hotels that are being opened in the rural district. A fund of Rs 2 crore has been set aside for Snehasparsham scheme for children with special needs. There are over 3000 children under this category in the district. Under this scheme, each child with special needs is given up to Rs 28,500 each year. Besides this, funds are also set aside to buy learning assistance equipment, laptops and computers for the children. The budget also has schemes to convert schools under the panchayat limits to hi-tech schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-panchayat-to-form-a-disaster-management-force/articleshow/74919968.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Four non-functional ventilators of civil hospital to be moved to CMCH||Ludhiana: A day after the death of a coronavirus-positive city woman, who had to be moved to Patiala after she could not be put on a ventilator at Ludhiana civil hospital, the health authorities on Tuesday decided to shift all four ventilator machines from civil hospital to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for high-risk Covid-19 patients. The ventilator machines that had been non-functional since their installation more than a year ago could have played a crucial role in saving the life of the high-risk patient. Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Datta said, “Health authorities have decided to make optimum use of all the four ventilators by shifting them to CMCH. Higher authorities will co-ordinate with CMCH to deal with high-risk Covid-19 patients in future.” There are nine other ventilators in the neonatal care unit of the civil hospital, but that too have been lying non-functional after installation due to non-availability of trained staff to run them. “We have informed the authorities about the need of well-trained medical staff for smooth functioning of rest of the ventilators, which are for newborns. Authorities have assured help in the next few days,” said Datta. The health authorities have asked the contacts of the coronavirus victim to quarantine themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-non-functional-ventilators-of-civil-hospital-to-be-moved-to-cmch/articleshow/74918994.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Man out of quarantine centre dispels false beliefs||Vadodara: The very thought of being locked into a quarantine facility may sound like solitary confinement, but that is hardly the case if the experience of a person who spent 10 days there is anything to go by. Umlesh Pandit, who spent 10 days at the quarantine facility at the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW), dispels many notions attached with the facility. He had opted to go there with his family after a relative who returned from abroad tested positive for COVID-19. “We opted to go to the facility right away instead of insisting on staying in home quarantine,” he said. Pandit, his wife Kalpana and son Shubham were kept in different rooms a SIHFW. “The rooms were spacious with an attached bathroom. We were given with fresh towels, toilet kits and slippers,” he said. “Diabetics like me were given tea, coffee and milk without sugar. Those who did not eat dinner were given fruits and milk. Those serving us were also polite and never complained,” he said. “We used to inquire about each other’s health and talk as a family,” he said. Pandit’s daughter Riya is studying MBBS in Spain. She stays with a relative there and is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-out-of-quarantine-centre-dispels-false-beliefs/articleshow/74919188.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||After Covid, cos will strive for ‘best place to be human’ tag||By Raj BowenOver the last month, the Covid-19 epidemic has brought humanity to its knees as nothing has ever done before, not even the two World Wars, seen in context. Once this is over (and surely it will be), there will be post-mortems, analyses, hindsight, conjecture and definitely a blockbuster movie or two. And the world will lick its wounds and limp back to normalcy. The human spirit has levels of resilience that stretch in direct proportion to the challenge they are tested with. The key word to note here is ‘human’ and that will need to be brought out of mothballed corporate cupboards. Physics defines the concept of ‘work’ as the measure of energy transfer as an object is moved over a distance by an external force, at least part of which is applied in the direction of the displacement. Embedded here may lie the clues to some of the fundamental shifts we need to make to first understand that organisations are not ruled by physics but by humanities. Here are some guidelines that we will now ignore to our own peril as, potentially, a Covid-20 will not take any prisoners: * Not capital, but energy: Organisations don’t run on capital — their essential lifeblood is the ‘energy’ that the employees bring with them and convert into something of value to the organisation’s clients. Yes, to an extent it mirrors part of the physics definition of energy transfer. The missing part is the understanding around ‘how’ this energy is created. The conventional party-time corporate phrase that ‘command and control of employees is dead’ is as clear a lie as there ever was. Ask any junior level employee what goes on in his head the day he wants to leave a little early because it’s his son’s first birthday. If he wants to make this happen, he needs to know how to work around the command-and-control reality, instead of mistakenly assuming it’s dead. * Not objects: The next reality that must change is about the understanding of employees as objects and the sharpest proof of that is the existence of human resources as a business function itself. Objects do break, get lost, get stolen, get rusted, become obsolete. Similarly, resources get depleted, dissipate, depreciate and, ultimately, are destroyed. Do we now have a case to (if not to formally re-label this part of an organisation) at least start believing that we don’t have thousands of ‘objects’ in the organisation — we have thousands of ‘humans’? Hopefully, the award to be coveted by corporations may well then be ‘A Great Place to Be Human’. * No need to shout: The third hangover of the physics definition that needs to be thrown out of the window is the part about ‘moving the object over a distance by an external force’. Think about it — very simply, the manager (it’s just wrong to use the word leader here) who shouts at and pushes his team hardest is the one who wins the promotions, the bonuses and the awards. This continues even as we get busy with power point slides quoting, ‘People don’t leave companies, they leave managers’. Don’t make any mistake here: Those managers still get promoted. This will now compulsorily call for a total overhaul to help managers transition into leaders by unlearning the physics way of creating energy/results of ‘pushing objects’ and learning the humanities way of creating energy/results by ‘engaging the human’s potential’. So, the ‘external force’ will not work any longer. Managers will have to learn the new skills of engaging humans. * Redefine work: The final part that brings this all together — or apart — is the physics notion, at least part of which is applied in the direction of the displacement. In the humanities context, the question is, ‘How aligned are an organisation’s employees towards pulling (remember, not pushing) in the same direction?’ Even the physics definition provides for ‘at least partial alignment’. Global studies around employee (redefined as human now) engagement point to low double-digits, possibly around 15% at best. There is no way 15 out of every 100 humans in an organisation will be able to pull the firm back from the devastating impact of Covid-19, no matter how loud the managers shout or threaten or push. We tried that for Covid-19, and finally retreated into our own personal spaces and hunkered down to sit quietly and allow it to pass on. The organisations that understand this reality must start setting the scale back to zero now, in multiple ways, and the re-definition of ‘work’ is the beginning. The existing calendar we all grew up following in the corporate world was BC and AD. The new one will now be BC and AC — before and after corona. The beauty is that it’s possible, if we want to. (The writer is managing partner at EMA Decision Dynamics)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-covid-cos-will-strive-for-best-place-to-be-human-tag/articleshow/74921596.cms||Raj Bowen
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||We’re ready to serve but need protective gear, staff: Docs||Nagpur: After orders from the collector and warning from municipal commissioner, the city doctors have restarted their clinics but complain of lack of help from the government, particularly failure to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) to prevent coronavirus infection. Many doctors had shut their clinics after the nationwide lockdown last week, which led to a slew of complaints by patients. The government then came out with orders to reopen them, despite strong opposition from Indian Medical Association (IMA).“We are also not keen to stop our livelihood, but are forced to do so due to unprecedented circumstances. When the lockdown began, the police beat up nurses and other staff coming to work and they now aren’t ready to resume duties. Most come from far off places, particularly in Mumbai and Pune, and they’d don’t have any means of transport. Some of our doctors are above 60 and also suffering from diabetes and blood pressure. Since morbidity rate of Covid-19 is more in this age group, they should be exempted, but the government is not listening,” IMA state president Dr Avinash Bhondve said. The doctors said they were not concerned with their own safety but also of nurses and other staff working with them, along with their family members.“Doctors are supposed to be the saviour of mankind. They are demigods who risk their own life to cure ailments. Covid-19 outbreak in India has posed a different type of challenge to our fraternity. Firstly, we don’t have PPE (includes gown, cap, mask, goggles, boot gloves at least), which is must for treating persons with highly infectious viruses/pathogens,” said consultant ENT surgeon Dr Sanjiv Ukil. Another doctor having clinic at Manewada Square said even patients weren’t coming unless in emergency due to lockdown. Therefore, there was no point in keeping the clinics open. “We have been putting the lives of staff like nurses and receptionist at risk along with those of patients. Unlike doctors, our staffers aren’t that much health conscious,” he said. Some doctors feel in such critical situation, operating small clinics was against the very principle of social distancing. “Individual clinics usually function from small premises where waiting area is not that spacious. The patients and relatives sit in cramped spaces and are at higher risk of getting infected. Doctors are always available for emergency cases,” former IMA national president Dr Y S Deshpande said.Stressing that PPE’s were a must in such situations, another ex-IMA chief Dr Ravi Wankhedkar said many patients coming to their clinics had symptoms of cough and cold and fever which could be Covid-19. “India already has shortage of human resource in healthcare sector. If doctors fall ill, the situation will only worsen. You don’t expect soldiers to fight without protective gear,” he said.Doctors are also facing problems of their staff’s unwillingness to report to duty due to virus threat. “Family members of our nurses, lab assistants, attendants are not allowing them to come. Many staff members don’t have identity cards. They face harassment by police. How to run clinics without proper help,” asked Dr Manish Jadhav, who runs a small clinic in Narendra Nagar.After Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) permitted telephonic consultation, many practitioners started to tide over the crisis. “This is completely safe for both doctor and patients and also saved our time and fuel. If doctor is infected, s/he could pass it on to hundreds of others. Hence, a middle way must be found out,” another doctor running a clinic at Laxmi Nagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/were-ready-to-serve-but-need-protective-gear-staff-docs/articleshow/74920766.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 1, 2020||Business||Sunil, Lakshmi Mittal cos commit Rs 100cr aid each||Mumbai: As India continues to face the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, a fresh set of names from the world of business are stepping in to help those in need. On Tuesday, Sunil Mittal-led Bharti Enterprises committed Rs 100 crore to relief and recovery initiatives related to Covid-19. Beyond this, Bharti said it will match the amount contributed by its employees towards India’s fight against the coronavirus onslaught. On similar lines, steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal said his Indian ventures will contribute Rs 100 crore to the ongoing relief efforts countrywide. New Delhi-headquartered Jindal Steel & Power, Piramal Group, IFFCO — a fertiliser company owned by a cooperative society, and component maker Bharat Forge donated Rs 25 crore each to the PM CARES Fund, which was introduced last week by the Centre for Covid-19 relief efforts. While Mumbai-based Indiabulls gave Rs 21 crore. Companies have been closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with local authorities and NGOs to bolster disease prevention and resilience efforts. They have been providing medical kits that include surgeon gowns, hood caps, shoe covers and infrared thermometers to the hospitals. Some consumer durable makers have also been offering air purifiers, refrigerators and water purifiers to medical centres. Oil PSUs — ONGC and IOC — contributed Rs 300 crore and Rs 225 crore, respectively, to the PM Cares Fund. ONGC’s contribution makes it the biggest PSU donor to the PM’s relief fund. Other PSUs — Power Finance Corporation, NTPC and NHPC — have put in a total of Rs 1,125 crore. SBI employees pledged Rs 100 crore to the PM CARES Fund. The 2.6 lakh employees will contribute two days’ salary. This is perhaps one of the biggest commitments by employees of an organisation. Last week, the PSU bank had announced a commitment of 0.25% of its FY20 profit in support of Covid-19 control. Tata Group, which announced a commitment of Rs 1,500 crore, tweeted that it will allocate Rs 500 crore to the newly formed relief fund by the Centre. The government has allowed companies to contribute from their CSR funds to the PM Cares Fund. Rules require companies with a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore or profit of Rs 5 crore to contribute 2% of profit for CSR. A significant chunk of the pledge by companies have gone to the PM Cares Fund. Xiaomi India pledged Rs 15 crore to various Covid-19 relief initiatives, while digital solutions provider for capital market transactions CDSL, Jyothy Labs and Care Ratings contributed Rs 7 crore, Rs 5 crore and Rs 2.5 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sunil-lakshmi-mittal-cos-commit-rs-100cr-aid-each/articleshow/74921537.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Staff of Patna University dispensary on toes||PATNA: Even as all the postgraduate departments and colleges of Patna University (PU) have been shut due to the coronavirus lockdown, its central dispensary is extending medial help to the people residing on the campus and in the neighbourhood. All the seven medical officers and 19 supporting staff of the dispensary work from 9am to 5pm every day and render medical help to the people visiting the health centre. PU dispensary’s chief medical officer Dr Richa Sinha told this newspaper that a number of people from Lal Bagh, Bhikhana Pahari, Saidpur and Golakpur were visiting the centre to seek medical help. “The dispensary is preparing sanitizers as per the guidelines of the World Health Organization and distributing them. As a precautionary measure against Covid-19, it has provided sufficient number of gloves and masks to all the staff on duty,” Sinha said. She added, “As instructed by PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, steps have been initiated for setting up an isolation ward with at least four beds at the dispensary to accommodate the suspected cases of Covid-19. The proposed ward will be set up in the hall, which is allotted to the PU Yoga centre.” The VC claimed that PU would try to get all the buildings fumigated in order to ensure people’s safety against coronavirus. “I have directed the registrar to get thermal scanners installed at the main entrance gate of the university for screening the officers and the staff. All the sections of the administrative block are being sanitized regularly,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/staff-of-pu-dispensary-on-toes/articleshow/74919579.cms||B K Mishra
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: App tracks movement of migrants||PATNA: Altogether 1,80,652 migrant workers have so far returned to the state after the announcement of nationwide lockdown. State’s disaster management department’s (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit gave this information to CM Nitish Kumar during a high-level meeting held at the CM residence here on Tuesday. Amrit also informed the CM that proper screening of these people were being done near inter-state border areas and strict vigil is being maintained on their movement through ‘Garuda’ mobile app. He said adequate number of disaster border relief camps have been opened near all major entry points besides inter-state border for migrant workers. Besides these camps, necessary arrangements of food and lodging have also been made at village schools, he said. The high-level meeting was called by the CM to discuss the issues related to non-resident Biharis (NRBs) stranded outside the state and people who have already returned to the state during the last one week after the lockdown. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and other top officials were also present in the meeting, CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar said that all necessary efforts are being taken to solve the problems of stranded migrants on the basis of feedbacks being provided by them on the helpline numbers of the DMD and Delhi-based office of the resident commissioner, as well as the phone numbers of the CM residence in Patna. Nitish also said that relief camps are being run in the state capital for daily wage earners. “If necessary the number of such relief camps can be increased,” he said. He also reiterated that people, who are stranded in other states due to lockdown, should stay there. “Bihar government is committed to help them. Officials of Bihar government are doing the needful to solve the problems of stranded people after coordinating with the governments of respective states,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/app-tracks-movement-of-migrants/articleshow/74919502.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Agra||Click on weblink to get veggies, groceries delivered at doorstep||Agra: To ensure doorstep delivery of vegetables and other essentials during the lockdown, the administration in Agra has launched a weblink on which names and phone numbers of vendors have been put up according to their wards. The project was launched by Agra administration with support of Agra Smart City project team on Tuesday. Using it, citizens will be able to access ward-wise details of door-to-door suppliers of fruits, vegetables and groceries. The portal also has a self-assessment section with 10 questions on the symptoms of novel coronavirus. On Tuesday afternoon, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar who is also the chairman of the Agra Smart City Project launched the weblink http://agrasmartcity.in/EssentialItemSupplier.aspx. The list of essential item suppliers and self-assessment option can also be accessed through the official website of Agra Smart City. Municipal commissioner Arun Prakash said, “We have made available names and contact numbers of all the authorized grocers, fruit and vegetable sellers for doorstep delivery on the weblink. Citizens just need to enter their ward number and details of all nearby essential item sellers will be available on the screen. They can call the numbers as per the requirement and place order for home delivery.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The weblink has been created to ensure citizens do not face any inconvenience due to lockdown. Besides, the phone number of the essential item sellers, contact numbers of the police stations have also be made available on the weblink. We have also setup a corona medical control room which can be contacted on 0562-2600508 and 412. People can seek doctor’s help using WhatsApp number 7830067676 and call helpline number 108 and 102. Medicines prescribed by the doctors will be delivered at doorstep. People are advised not to step out of house without any necessary reason”. The DM added, “A self-assessment form containing ten questions to check for possibility of Covid-19 infection is available on the website. People are advised to answer the 10 questions. The assessment of each person will be categorized in high, medium or low risk category. The health department teams will contact the people in high and medium category. These people will be screened, and if required their samples will be collected for coronavirus testing”. With 435 cameras installed at 125 locations in the city, Agra police is monitoring the enforcement of lockdown in different parts of the city from the Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC) at Agra Smart City Office. Superintendent of police (traffic) Prashant Kumar Prasad said, “We are monitoring the movement of vehicles on road. Any vehicles which looks not associated with essential services are being spotted using cameras and policemen on duty are alerted. Through ICCC, Agra police is also ensuring that people do not gather at public places and outside shops in violation of lockdown. In such a situation, the concerned police station is directed to send people back to home”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/click-on-weblink-to-get-veggies-groceries-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/74919952.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 1, 2020||Business||22 lakh health workers to get Rs 50 lakh cover from New India||MUMBAI: New India Assurance has issued to the government a personal accident policy for over 22 lakh public healthcare providers with Rs 50-lakh cover each. The premium in respect of the policy is understood to be Rs 128 crore. The government has said that a loss of life due to contracting Covid-19 in the course of work would be treated as an accident. The health and family welfare ministry issued an order on March 29 entrusting New India Assurance with the issue of the policy. New India subsequently issued it on Monday in the form of a tailor-made personal accident cover valid for the next 90 days. This is for the first time that a personal accident policy is being issued to cover an infectious disease. Hitherto non-life companies could provide life insurance only for accidental death. While life companies issue policies covering death due to natural causes, there are no life policies for specific events. Speaking to TOI, New India chairman Atul Sahai said that currently most of the treatment for the coronavirus is being done at government hospitals. The policy therefore provides only death benefit. He said that the company had the capacity to provide this cover without going in for reinsurance support. The 22.12 lakh insured in the policy include healthcare providers and community health workers who may have to be in direct contact with Covid-19 patients, and private healthcare staff and workers as detailed in the health ministry order. Government officials said that the policy was aimed at boosting the morale of healthcare providers. In Italy, in three months, around 90 healthcare providers passed away on account of contracting coronavirus during the course of service. Healthcare experts say that the mortality rate numbers for coronavirus are not reliable as testing is very restricted in many countries. The higher the incidence of the disease compared to the death rate, the lower the mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/22l-health-workers-to-get-rs-50l-cover-from-new-india/articleshow/74921558.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 1, 2020||Patna||Patna: In times of coronavirus, telemedicine comes to patients’ rescue||PATNA: With people seeking medical help via virtual platforms amid lockdown, telemedicine services have finally taken off in the city. Of late, a sudden surge is being witnessed in the number of online and telephonic consultations people are seeking with doctors. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), telemedicine is one of the most essential services in strengthening the health system’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is also making efforts to deliver free consultancy to people, for which it has issued numbers of health specialists. The state health department is also running a helpline number for all non-emergency complaints. IMA-Bihar senior vice-president Ajay Kumar said around 300-400 doctors are giving consultation over phone to people across the state. “Keeping in mind the coronavirus spread, IMA has given a green signal to telemedicine facility. In just two-three days, more than 300 doctors from across the state, including Purnia, Muzaffarpur and Patna, have started giving free consultation to people who need medical advice,” he said. Former IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Brajnandan Kumar said it was decided at a recent meeting with health officials that a website will soon be launched for availing telemedicine services. “The online portal will have different phone numbers on which people can give a missed call to avail free check-up,” he said. The state health department is also running a helpline number – 104 – for all non-emergency complaints. State surveillance officer Dr Ragini Mishra said altogether 35,000 calls were received from across the state on this number and other district-level helpline numbers till Tuesday. “The queries have comparatively increased in the last few days. People are mostly asking questions about normal flu and viral infections,” she said. Meanwhile, doctors said they receive more than 20 queries via phone calls per day. Dr Pratyush Kumar of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) said the number of patients coming to the hospital has dropped significantly. “I receive around 10-15 queries regarding different health problems every day. Telephonic calls apart, several people have started consulting me through online chatting platforms. People don’t come to the hospital apprehending that they might come in contact with Covid-19 suspects,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-times-of-corona-telemedicine-comes-to-patients-rescue/articleshow/74919550.cms||Archi Rani
April 1, 2020||Patna||Lockdown hits several railway projects: ECR||PATNA: The 21-day Covid-19 lockdown has disrupted all the construction works being carried out at different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) at a cost of Rs 4,614 crore. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar claimed that the lockdown had hit the ongoing railway projects in Bihar. “Works like construction of new lines, rail bridges and foot overbridges as well as doubling of tracks and gauge conversion have been affected. Even after the lockdown ends, it will take time for the railways to restart the suspended projects,” the CPRO told this newspaper. During the current fiscal, a sum of Rs 1,113 crore has been allocated to the ECR for completion of the Koderma-Ranchi, Koderma-Tilaiya, Hajipur-Sugauli, Bihta-Aurangabad and Motihari-Sitamarhi new rail line projects. Another Rs 2,243 crore has been allocated for track doubling work on the Kiul-Gaya, Samastipur-Darbhanga, Hajipur-Bachhwara, Karaila Road-Shaktinagar, Danea-Ranchi Road, Garwa Road-Ramna and Ramna-Singrauli routes. “The Patliputra-Pahleza Ghat new line work, the yard remodelling work at Kiul and Lakhisarai and the gauge conversion work on the Sakri-Laukaha Bazar and Jayanagar-Bardibas routes are also likely to be delayed, leading to additional expenditure. The lockdown has created labour crisis,” the CPRO said. He added, “The lockdown has affected production work at the Bela wheel factory in Saran district and the electric locomotive manufacturing unit at Madhepura. Except track maintenance work, nothing else is being done under the ECR’s jurisdiction due to the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-several-railway-projects-ecr/articleshow/74919282.cms||Kumod Verma
April 1, 2020||Business||Aditya Puri successor may have to be finalised by June||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank may have to finalise potential successors for Aditya Puri by June 2020. In revised guidelines, the RBI has said that proposals for the appointment of a new MD & CEO of a bank should contain a panel of at least two names in the order of preference and should be submitted at least four months before the expiry of the term of office of the present incumbent. Puri, who is 69 years old, will complete his term in October 2020. Also, in the case of reappointments, the RBI has said that it must receive six months in advance an application along with the completion of fit and proper formalities by a board-level committee. The fit and proper guidelines include a declaration and undertaking from the candidate certified by the nomination and remuneration committee of the board. The revised guidelines were issued by the RBI on Tuesday. The declaration includes details of the investment, proceedings against the candidate and disclosure of any instance where the candidate has been reprimanded, censured, restricted, suspended or barred by any financial sector regulator. HDFC Bank had earlier this year said that it would tap executive search firm Egon Zehnder to help identify a successor to Puri. It was widely expected that it would take until July 2020 for the board-level committee to finalise a successor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/puri-successor-may-have-to-be-finalised-by-jun/articleshow/74921504.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||RBI deputy governor Kanungo gets 1-year extension||MUMBAI: The government has extended the term of RBI deputy governor B P Kanungo by a year even as N S Vishwanathan, another deputy governor, stepped down three months ahead of the end of his tenure. The RBI reallocated the portfolio managed by Vishwanathan among the three other deputy governors, Kanungo, M K Jain and M D Patra.  Jain will be in charge of regulation and supervision, which are now consolidated departments unlike in the past when they were split for banking and non-banking entities. He will also be in charge of communications. In a statement on Tuesday, the RBI said Kanungo’s reappointment was for a period of one year effective April 3, or until further orders. Kanungo has under Vishwanathan at the RBI the department of currency management, department of external investments & operations, department of government & bank accounts, department of information technology and department of payment & settlement system. Other departments are Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), foreign exchange department, internal debt management department, legal department and right to information departments. Vishwanathan was reappointed deputy governor for one year but chose to step down early, according to sources, on grounds of health. Vishwanathan was in charge of the important department of supervision, which had come to the fore in recent years due to the divergence in bad loans detected by the RBI and those published by banks. He served under three governors, Raghuram Rajan, Urjit Patel and Shaktikanta Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-dy-guv-kanungo-gets-1-yr-extension/articleshow/74921577.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||PE VC deals fall 36% YoY in Jan-Mar quarter||Chennai: Private Equity-Venture Capital (PE-VC) firms invested $5.9 billion (across 164 deals) during the quarter ended March 2020, 36% lower than $9.2 billion (across 249 transactions) during the same period last year, shows data from research firm Venture Intelligence. The latest quarter witnessed 14 PE-VC investments worth $100 million or more, down from 20 in the same period last year. The largest PE-VC investment announced during the quarter was the $567 million takeover of power generation company RattanIndia Power by Goldman Sachs and Varde Partners. At $1.7 billion, VC investments too investments were 22% lower (in value terms) compared to the $2.22 billion (across 196 transactions) during the same period last year. CureFit and Unacademy bagged large deals worth $114million and $110 million respectively. While VC investors in India seemed to have shrugged off the chilly winds emerging from the US (owing to the WeWork IPO fiasco and Uber stock price slide of late 2019), the Coronavirus contagion infected the ecosystem sharply starting mid-March,” said Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence. “We can expect VC investors to be highly selective when it comes to making new investments in the months ahead and to be focused more on helping existing portfolio companies survive the downturn,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-deals-fall-36-yoy-in-jan-mar-quarter/articleshow/74921034.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||CM visits shelter home in Peddem||Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited Peddem Sports Complex, Mapusa, on Monday, where around 300 migrants have been provided with shelter. Sawant said the migrants were walking to their homes in Karnataka, when they were intercepted by police at the checkpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-visits-shelter-home-in-peddem/articleshow/74921389.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Viral fever: Down 12,700 pts, sensex sees worst qtr ever||Mumbai: Dalal Street had a relatively good day on Tuesday, closing up 1,028 points — ironic, because the day’s trading session brought to an end the worst quarter ever in the history of the 30-scrip sensex. The January-March quarter, which saw the sensex give up almost 12,700 points, or 31% — that too after reaching an all-time high at 42,274 on January 20 (it ended at 29,468 on Tuesday) — has been the worst both in terms of points loss as well as percentage loss. Also, investors’ wealth erosion of Rs 42.6 lakh crore, with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 112.6 lakh crore, was the sharpest, official data showed. Foreign investors too took out over Rs 48,000 crore during the quarter, again making the three-month period the worst ever. Mutual funds, however, have acted as the cushion in the face of strong FPI selling and have recorded a net buying figure of about Rs 37,500 crore. On Tuesday, of the sensex’s 30 constituents, 26 ended higher while IndusInd Bank, of late being hammered due to asset quality concerns, led the slide with a 14.7% crash. However, the sensex was helped by a strong rally in index heavyweight Reliance Industries, along with across-the-board short-covering and index management by large funds on the last day of the financial year. According to a note by Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan, the day’s gains could be called the yearly and quarterly NAV management day for the market with several of the large-cap stocks closing at the day’s high. Technically, if the Nifty falls below 8,350 level, it would retreat further to 8,250 or even up to 8,000 level, Chouhan said, “Global markets are doing better than expected, but our markets are trading cautiously due to consistent selling from foreign institutions.” In Tuesday’s session, it was RIL that rallied over 8% and contributed about a fifth of the sensex’s gains, which came after the company said late on Monday that its board on April 2 would consider fund-raising. The decision by the company comes in the backdrop of an expected delay in stake buy by global oil major Saudi Aramco in RIL’s refinery business. Also, a deal to offload a stake in Jio, its telecom arm, to social media giant Facebook may get pushed back due to the Covid-related uncertainties. This had shaved off over 40% of its value in less than three months and oil prices crashing by about 60% in less than two months. The other top sensex gainers in Tuesday’s session were ITC, ONGC and Tech Mahindra. Besides IndusInd Bank, the other index laggards were Maruti, Bajaj Finance and Titan, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/viral-fever-down-12700-pts-sensex-sees-worst-qtr-ever/articleshow/74921483.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||HipBar offers digital help to overcome withdrawal symptoms & lockdown blues||Chennai: Diageo-backed liquor-tech start up HipBar has offered its bouquet of tech-services to the Tamil Nadu and Kerala state governments, which will ensure safe alcohol home delivery to bonafide consumers, satisfying the primal objective of social distancing. The platform which to deliver with proper checks including age verification, it could well turn out to be the perfect via media. With lockdown shutting down liquor supplies across states, withdrawal related issues are sweeping across the country. States such as Kerala has seen seven suicides as tipplers were denied their quota of booze, cases of spurious liquor and home brewing is surfacing, opening a newer set of problems to an already stretched government machinery. Kerala Government had announced prescriptions from government doctors for dispensing liquor to the dependents, and this was shot down by the IMA.HipBar, whose payment solutions are currently used by TASMAC, ran India’s first alcohol home delivery service in Bengaluru from August 2017 to November 2018 before facing legal headwinds. From its on ground experience, it developed an e-governance technology platform to help governments to organise and manage last mile delivery of alcoholic beverages in two working models, the hyperlocal model (Swiggy / Zomato) and the next day delivery model (BigBasket / Grofers). The state excise departments control the supply chain using a number of archaic methods like licenses and passes in movement of alcoholic beverages. HipBar said, when its technology is put to use, it can effectively regulate the last mile deliveries from a single dashboard. HipBar says if the governments want to cater to the alcohol deprived in a state of lockdown, home delivery can be operationalised almost immediately. “We are ready and waiting by the phones. States will realise that technology assisted home delivery of alcoholic beverages is better than the status quo on all fronts. Technology assisted alcohol home delivery is not a poor alternative. It's the best way to regulate consumption at a micro level and implement the moderation agenda at scale,” said Prasanna Natarajan, CEO, HipBar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hipbar-offers-digital-help-to-overcome-withdrawal-symptoms-lockdown-blues/articleshow/74921022.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 1, 2020||Business||Banks to roll out EMI waiver options soon||MUMBAI: Banks will soon come out with the operational procedure for retail borrowers to avail a three-month moratorium on their loans. Most lenders plan to send out text messages and emails allowing borrowers to avail the facility, while some have already done so. State Bank of India said that its technical team was working on the RBI circular and giving an option may take some time as this requires changes in current systems and procedures. The bank told customers that if an EMI was debited and they wish to avail the moratorium, they can contact the branch to initiate the refund process. ICICI Bank sources said that it was working late into the night to create a channel to give an option to customers. Read AlsoMissing two instalments may add 10 months to loanHit by the lockdown and faced with uncertainty, many people are looking to avail of the repayment relief that banks are offering. Although banks are yet to announce the details of the relief package and how it will work out, we do know that this is only a grace period and they are likely to chargeOn Monday, banks had a video-conference under the Indian Banks Association, where it was decided that the option has to be rolled out to all borrowers. HDFC, the country’s largest housing finance company, said that it would start sending out options to borrowers on whether to avail of the moratorium or not. Lenders across the board stressed the point that the moratorium was not a waiver of interest and that the interest for the three months would be recovered from the borrower. They also stressed that borrowers whose cash flows were unaffected should continue to repay their instalments as always. Meanwhile, to reassure borrowers, a host of public sector banks took to social media to say that a moratorium would be made available. Bank of Baroda said that it was providing the moratorium on all instalments falling due between March 1 to May 31 for all term loans, including corporate, medium and small enterprises. “EMIs of housing loans, vehicle loans, MSME loans and payment of all other term loans falling due after March 1 and up to May 31 have been deferred by 3 months,” Syndicate Bank said. UCO Bank told borrowers that it has granted moratorium of three instalments of term loans up to May 31. “The next instalment is now payable in June 2020. Your repayment schedule will be extended accordingly,” the bank said. Central Bank of India indicated in a tweet that the moratorium will be given to all. “Three months deferment is automatic & customers need not approach bank for the same,” the bank said. “However, customers may approach the bank to change the standing instructions or any other mandate given by them for payment of their loan instalment. Interest will accrue in loan accounts but no penal interest. March 20 instalment already paid will be automatically appropriated towards next EMI due, that is for June 20,” the tweet said. (1/2) Clarification regarding Covid19 relief measures on Loan Repayment. Three months deferment is automatic & cust… https://t.co/CEUaNqeMdk— Central Bank of India (@centralbank_in) 1585665601000Banking sources said that the RBI circular was not a directive to lenders to grant a moratorium to borrowers but a permission in case they wanted to grant relief. “It is up to each individual bank to take a view according to their credit policy,” he said. Lenders said that it was taking long as some of the matters had to be referred to board-level committees to enforce. Lenders said that they were seeking clarification from the RBI on whether it was necessary to recover interest from business immediately at the end of three months as mentioned in the central bank’s circular. “If we postpone for only three months and seek recovery immediately after that, it would be a burden on the borrower,” said a bank chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-roll-out-emi-waiver-options-soon/articleshow/74921490.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 1, 2020||Patna||No change in power subsidy: Bihar minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there is some good news for power consumers as the new tariff rate for 2020-21 fiscal with 10 paise per unit lower charges for all category of power consumers will come into effect from Wednesday (April 1) without any reduction in subsidy. Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) had announced the new tariff rates on March 20 on zero subsidy basis. Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the subsidy to be given to the power consumers will remain unchanged. “It has been decided in principle by the government that subsidy given to the power consumers against their electricity bills will remain unchanged. A final announcement regarding the same will be made in a few days,” he said. The decision to keep the power subsidy unchanged will benefit power consumers in Bihar as the BERC has reduced the power tariff for the first time in 15 years. The tariff rates will further come down after introduction of subsidy. For instance, after the announcement of subsidy last year, the effective rate for domestic power consumption in urban areas came down to Rs 5.40 per unit and Rs 3.17 per unit in rural areas despite a marginal hike in the tariff order of BERC. The practice of zero subsidy tariff petition was introduced in 2016-17 fiscal. The subsidy is announced by the state government after finalisation of tariff by the BERC. “The subsidy against power consumption normally varies in the range of Rs 2,500crore-Rs 4,500 crore. Thus, cabinet’s nod is required as it involves huge funds,” he said. In 2018, the state cabinet had approved Rs 4,137 crore for giving subsidy to power consumers. Another reason to rejoice for the power consumer is the decision of discoms to abolish meter rent, which are basically monthly fixed charges for energy meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-change-in-power-subsidy-energy-min/articleshow/74919309.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 1, 2020||Patna||70 hotels ready to keep Covid-19 suspects: Patna DM||PATNA: City hotels, including the luxurious ones, can be used as quarantine centres, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said after a meeting with representatives of hotels on Tuesday. “They are ready to help,” he said. “We have instructed them to clean their premises and be ready,” he said and added that around 70 such hotels have been listed for the purpose. Ravi said the administration will bear the cost incurred during the quarantine period. “We will also give some amount to these hotels to provide three-time basic food. As of now, all the hotels are shut. If we use their premises, they will also get certain amount,” he added. However, he said presently it is not needed as there are sufficient beds for Covid-19 suspects. “Around 40 people are already quarantined in Hotel Patliputra Ashok. Even Youth Hostel and Patliputra Sports Complex have been made ready as quarantine centres,” he said. On March 28, the district administration had a similar meeting with representatives of private schools and many had given permission to use their premises. Talking about migrant workers coming back to their native places, Ravi said local police stations have been instructed to support them with food and basic needs. “We are already running a community kitchen for this purpose and some 3800 packets were distributed among the migrants as well as local daily wagers and those staying in the slums,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-hotels-ready-to-keep-covid-19-suspects-dm/articleshow/74919560.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 1, 2020||Pune||PCMC staffers to donate to CM’s relief fund||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The current and retired employees of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation(PCMC) will donate a day’s salary and pension amounting to Rs1.5 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight the Covid-19 spread. “Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar will decide on whether to cut a day’s salary of this month or the next one,” Ambar Chinchwade, president of the Pimpri Chinchwad Mahanagarpalika Karmachari Mahasangh, told TOI on Tuesday. The PCMC pensioner’s association has also expressed its desire to donate a day’s pension to the corpus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-staffers-to-donate-to-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/74921388.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 1, 2020||Agra||Newly-married couple commits suicide in Agra||Agra: A newly-married couple allegedly committed suicide in Agra’s Shahganj area on Tuesday morning due to family dispute. The couple, identified as Gopal (21) and Priya (20), were found hanging from ceiling fan inside their room. The couple got married on January 18 and were living at Ramswaroop colony of Shahganj police jurisdiction along with Gopal’s parents and his three siblings. Speaking to TOI, circle officer of Lohamandi area, Namrita Srivastava said, “The couple were living on the first floor. At around 10:30am, Gopal’s younger sister Monica saw them hanging from the ceiling fan. The exact reason for the step is not known yet, but it looks like Gopal had some dispute with his father. He used to work along with his father at their family-run jewellery shop at city’s Albatia area.” “The bodies have been sent for autopsy. We are waiting for Priya’s parents who live in Shikohabad area of Firozabad district. We need to question them also,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/newly-married-couple-commits-suicide-in-agra/articleshow/74919965.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Agra||Transgenders of Hathras offer food to hungry||Agra: At a time when many daily wagers, the homeless and others have lost their means of livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown, a group of transgenders in Hathras have taken up the responsibility of feeding the hungry. Manisha, a member of the community, on Tuesday, distributed around 2,000 packets of cooked food. “This is a tough time for everyone and as responsible citizens, it is our duty to take care of others who are in need,” she said. She added that the transgenders may not be able to do much but will continue distributing food packets till the lockdown is does not end. Manisha, a transgender, said she and 12 others of her community, wear masks and take the required precautions while preparing and distributing the food. “We maintain social distancing while distributing food packets,” she said. Manisha and her group are also helping the needy by distributing raw material like flour among them. “We cannot sit idle after seeing the plight of these people who are starving,” said Manisha. She said that many of them who depend on begging for survival are going without food as everything is shut. “We don’t have a family to think about but we can help those who have families to feed. Our happiness is linked with the happiness of others, as we get money from people when they enjoy our performances,” said Manisha. The transgender said they have a bond with society and just want to lend a helping hand to those in need. Sent from my iPhone X||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/transgenders-of-hathras-offer-food-to-hungry/articleshow/74919973.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Govt to use Rs 120cr from ore fund||The government has decided to utilise Rs 120 crore of the Rs 400 crore in the Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund for setting up facilities for Covid-19, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. This, along with utilisation of funds from the district mineral fund, will mean the state has Rs 170 crore for these facilities. Sawant said the Union government would take a decision whether to extend the lockdown after April 14. He also said that the government would take a decision on conducting SSC and HSSC exam after April 14. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-use-rs-120cr-from-ore-fund/articleshow/74921414.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Heartrending scenes as two victims cremated||KABUL GURDWARA ATTACKLudhiana: Heart-breaking scenes were witnessed at the homes of two Ludhiana residents who were among those killed in the terror attack on a gurdwara in Kabul. Their families caught their last glimpse before they were cremated at a ground near Daresi. The bodies reached Ludhiana early Tuesday morning. Shankar Singh of Chawni Mohalla and Jeevan Singh of Nanak Nagar in Ludhiana were among those killed on March 25. The families had insisted that they wanted to see their faces one last time before they were cremated, so the bodies were brought in a special flight from Kabul to Delhi airport. Sunny Chawla, brother-in-law of Shankar Singh, said his sister-in-law along with the bodies had reached Delhi airport around 5pm on Monday, but they had to complete certain formalities before being allowed to travel to Ludhiana. He added that four relatives accompanied them and they reached Ludhiana around 4am. “The bodies were taken to the civil hospital for some tests before the cremation. My brother-in-law’s family, including his wife, three daughters and three sons, were at the cremation, besides other relatives. Harpreet Kaur, wife of deceased Jeevan Singh, her 13-year-old son and two daughters were also present at the cremation,” he added.“After the cremation, my sister-in-law Topi Kaur was tested at the civil hospital. Now she is admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital though she has no symptoms of coronavirus.”He said Topi Kaur was an Afghan passport-holder, but would not return to Kabul, as there was no one from her family there now.An eyewitness said about 100 persons attended the cremation.Ludhiana (north) MLA Rakesh Pandey represented the state government and laid a wreath with the message, “From the people of Punjab, India”, on the bodies. Police had made adequate arrangements for the cremation with ADCP-I Gurpreet Sikand also in attendance.Their children were inconsolable. Their close relatives said the deceased were lone breadwinners of their families.Manjeet Singh, brother-in-law of Shankar Singh, said he has left behind wife and six children, and none of them earn. He said his nephew, Akash, had a rehri at Ghanta Ghar Chowk and his two other nephews, Gurri and Babbu, who were between 14 and 16 years old, respectively, did not work. “My brother-in-law would send them money for their basic needs. My nieces, Kiran and Simran, study in classes IX and X, and their sister Roshni left studies after Class VIII. I don’t know how they will manage. We request the government to provide compensation to the family and also give job to a member.” ‘Went to Kabul 9 yrs ago’A relative of deceased Shankar Singh said he had gone to Kabul about nine years ago and was in cloth business there. He added that the deceased would daily do service in the gurdwara for about one-and-a-half hours. ‘Was to come on Baisakhi’A relative of Jeevan Singh said the deceased had told them that he would return on Baisakhi and get one of his two daughters married. He said the deceased has left behind a seven-year-old son, two daughters and wife. The relative said both Shankar and Jeevan were Afghanistan citizens and had learned the local language well. Vishal Singh, son of Jeevan Singh, said he studied in Class VI and the government should help them. His mother, Harpreet Kaur, said she has no source of livelihood and they live on rent. Apart from her son, she has two daughters, 19-year-old Simran and 13-year-old Kesar. She said her husband had gone to Kabul to work about eight years ago and he had recently come to India and left on February 4 after fixing marriage of their elder daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heartrending-scenes-as-two-victims-cremated/articleshow/74919006.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Tablighi members being tracked across R’seema||Tirupati: The state government on Tuesday alerted district administrations to locate and place under quarantine participants who had returned from a congregation at a mosque in the Nizamuddin area in Delhi. Close to 2,000 people had attended the session which was held between March 15-17 and stayed at the Markaz Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat group. The Kurnool district administration has said that 258 people from the district who attended the event have been identified. District collector G Veerapandiyan said 188 persons have been placed under quarantine at Rayalaseema University and 43 under home isolation. It is likely that 12 people travelled to other states. In Chittoor district, collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said 46 people have been identified, of which 28 have been placed under quarantine and 18 have travelled to other states. Forty-nine persons from Anantapur district have been identified, of which four are yet to return. In Kadapa, 40 persons attended the congregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tablighi-members-being-tracked-across-rseema/articleshow/74919978.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 1, 2020||Goa||Validity of driving licences extended||The ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of documents like driving licenses and various permits that expired since February 1. In an advisory issued to all states and UTs, the ministry has asked them to treat such documents as valid till June 30. The documents include fitness, permits (all types), driving license and registration, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/validity-of-driving-licences-extended/articleshow/74921398.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||GMC dean says high-risk staffers should take preventive medication||Panaji: Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital Dr S M Bandekar issued a directive that all doctors and staff working in clinical departments, laboratories and the mortuary who may have been exposed to coronavirus patients or suspects must take chemoprophylaxis (of an anti-viral drug) in prescribed doses to reduce their risk of respiratory complications linked to Covid-19. Over 2,000 medical staff have been prescribed this medicine in GMC alone, a senior doctor said. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recently recommended the drug for healthcare workers and contacts of patients, but not for the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-dean-says-high-risk-staffers-should-take-preventive-medication/articleshow/74921399.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NGO pledges 25 litre sanitizer per day, ambulance||Nagpur: Responding to #savethedoctors call by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH ), NGO Nagpur First has started supplying it 25 litres of liquid sanitizer everyday to help doctors and paramedics fight novel coronavirus.The NGO has crowd-sourced the money beside pooling funds from its office-bearers in two days to provide the safety kit to IGGMCH. The NGO has offered an ambulance and masks to them.Nagpur First is also reaching out to citizens for donation to help doctors in their fight against Covid-19.Following shortage of safety kits and sanitizers, an emotional post went viral pleading for support to doctors at IGGMCH, also known as Mayo Hospital, where an isolation ward for positive Covid-19 patients has been set up. The other is at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).“If you are affected by coronavirus, there is a good chance of recovery, but you need a doctor to treat you,” the post reads. It goes on to seek personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks for hospital doctors who are in the frontline in fight against the disease. “As the patients increase, they will need protection. They can’t stay home like other citizens. We need to protect young doctors risking their lives,” it says.Nagpur First treasurer Sachin Jaghirdar said, “We are getting sanitizers from a village near Narsinghpur in Madhya Pradesh. The supplier is charging us Rs125 per litre. Before pledging the sanitizers, we had collected funds by making a public appeal at our level.”“Personally, I reached out to my contacts as well. Local individuals connected to Nagpur First contributed money. As of now, in two days of appeal starting from March 29, we have collected Rs1.5 lakh. Some kits form this money will also be distributed through city authorities,” he said.The NGO’s trustee Tanveer Mirza, who is a TOI Nagpur Hero, is coordinating the distribution of washable masks across the city.Jaghirdar said the ambulance is ready but Mayo authorities do not need it as of now. “But anybody can reach Nagpur First if they need the ambulance free of cost,” he said. Nagpur International diaspora is also contributing for the big fight back. “Chairman (international) Dinesh Jain, co-chairman Shashank Rao, chairman (India operations) Hemant Lodha and secretary Faiz Wahid are contributing from the respective countries they are based out of,” he said. Citizens willing to contribute can call or WhatsApp on 98223 25265.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-pledges-25-litre-sanitizer-per-day-ambulance/articleshow/74920778.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown effect: Air quality improves across Andhra cities||Vijayawada: It been a week since the nation-wide lockdown was announced and Andhra Pradesh has already witnessed a huge improvement in terms of air pollution. The difference has been particularly noticeable in urban areas like Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Velagapudi areas, where the Air Quality Index (AQI) values have dropped below 50, marking the present status as ‘good’. In Visakhapatnam, the AQI value stood at around 121 on March 1 deeming it ‘moderately polluted’. A day after Janata Curfew on March 21, it fell to 45 and entered the ‘good’ category. Speaking to TOI, BV Prasad, junior scientist of Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) said the air quality in Vijayawada and elsewhere in Andhra Pradesh earlier was satisfactory (AQI between 51 and 100) before the lockdown. “During the lockdown in most of the cities it is good. (AQI below 50). However, air quality will return to its original quality of satisfactory AQI, once the lockdown is lifted,” Prasad told TOI. AQI dropped to its lowest, 31, after the lockdown in Tirumala. The most prominent pollution parameter across the urban areas in the Andhra Pradesh happens to be PM10 and PM2.5 particles. The lockdown has been most effective in improving the air quality in Vijayawada. The capital region of Amaravati, too, saw a massive improvement with the present AQI value falling down to 36. AQI of Rajahmundry is at 50, which is categorised as ‘good’. However, in terms of water pollution, officials said there will only be a minimal impact even if there is no pilgrimage activity on the river banks. “Usually there is a minimal impact on water quality of river Krishna by the pilgrim activity and the impact is localised. It is the domestic sewage generated by Vijayawada that is adversely affecting the quality of water. There is no letup in that. Hence, there won’t be any lockdown effect on water quality of river Krishna,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-effect-air-quality-improves-across-andhra-cities/articleshow/74920001.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Two Dudhwa jumbos to help drive killer tiger back to PTR||Pilibhit: A day after a man was mauled to death by a stray tiger in Mala Colony, the second in 10 days in the area, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities have sought help from their counterparts in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) to capture or force the killer big cat to go back to the forest.The deputy director of PTR, Naveen Khandelwal, has urged the field director of DTR to send two trained jumbos to Pilibhit to monitor the movement of the killer tiger and drive it back to the wild.In addition, PTR's field forest teams have installed 10 camera traps around a wheat field where the stray tiger had killed a farmer on Monday evening.According to Khandelwal, a team of PTR has been sent to DTR on Tuesday morning to fetch two elephants to aid the field force to monitor the tiger.The jumbos are expected to reach PTR on Tuesdsy night. They would be kept in the elephants’ shed at Mala forest guest house, Khandelwal said.Meanwhile, the pictures captured by camera traps revealed that as many as three tigers of Mala forest range have strayed out of the forest into the rural belt adjoining PTR.“We have also set up two cages with live bait to trap the tiger. The elephants will also be deployed to patrol the 5 to 7 km-long stretchbetween the forest and agricultural beand.which adjoins the villages, including Mala Colony and Goel Colony," Khandelwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dudhwa-jumbos-to-help-drive-killer-tiger-back-to-ptr/articleshow/74918094.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||2 close contacts of Buldhana deceased turn out to be +ve||Nagpur: A 12-year-old girl and a 65-year-old woman in the family of the 45-year-old deceased from Buldhana tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 23. Seven of them have recovered and been discharged.The Buldhana deceased had no travel history, neither had any of his family members travelled recently. Health officials believe that these family members must have received the infection through the deceased person. This means the source from where the deceased got infected is still unknown.“We are tracing contact details and local travel history of the deceased from last two days. He had been to Yavatmal district, in Darwha tehsil, some days ago,” said Dr Premchand Pandit, civil surgeon of Buldhana.“There had been some positive patients in Yavatmal earlier. We have alerted police and health agencies there. They will now see whether the person had any contact history with any of the positive patients in Yavatmal,” he added.Meanwhile, the health department continued its door-to-door survey and contact tracing drive on Tuesday. Samples of some more contacts of the 60 admitted in isolation facility will be tested on Wednesday. A complete lockdown is being observed in Buldhana city, with the district borders sealed. Even shops of essential goods are not open in the locality where the positive patients used to reside. Health officials conducted a survey of every house in this locality.During this survey, some rumour mongers circulated a message on social media that this was a survey for NPR and NRC. So, many residents started opposing the survey. Eventually, higher authorities had to intervene and convince people that the survey was regarding Covid-19 only.Suspecting local spread of Covid-19, the district administration of Buldhana has taken some very important steps on Tuesday. On April 1, a WHO-sponsored online session about Covid-19 has been organized for all local doctors in Buldhana from 3 to 5pm. Dr Sanjay Suryawanshi and Dr Mujib of WHO will answer questions of local doctors on Zoom platform.CLUELESS ABOUT CORONASource of infection for Buldhana deceased yet to be traced12-year-old girl and 65-year-old woman in family tested positive on TuesdayBoth don’t have any history of travel out of Buldhana Doctors believe they were afflicted from deceased personMystery regarding source of infection in deceased unsolvedContact tracing and surveillance continuesSome more samples collected on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-close-contacts-of-buldhana-deceased-turn-out-to-be-ve/articleshow/74920793.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Traffic fine waiver: Rs 5.5cr till Mar 20, Rs 15L during lockdown||Kolkata: The one-time traffic fine waiver scheme launched by Kolkata Police from March 1 has got off to a flying start. In the first week, Rs 1.5-crore fine was collected and 2.7 lakh cases were disposed after 37,000 vehicle owners responded to the scheme. The response got even better when sergeants started collecting fines on the road. Till March 20, total collection of fines reached over Rs 5.5 crore. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, the collection of fines, however, reduced to a trickle. Total amount collected on March 31 is a little more than Rs 15 lakh, though online collection is still active. Senior traffic department officials said that the deadline for the fine collection is likely to be extended beyond March 31. Police sources said the lockdown affected the popular scheme in two ways: physical absence of vehicles on road, which means police had little option of pursuing anyone, particularly commercial vehicles like buses and taxis. Secondly, cops have been busy with the enforcement of lockdown and other duties associated with keeping the Covid-19 menace at bay. “We expect that the scheme will continue, but we will have to take a decision based on ground realities. We might reintroduce the scheme once things get normal,” said the police officer. The joint CP (Traffic) Santosh Pandey said that the traffic department’s priority goes to Covid-19 and the scheme has not been suspended for a single day as “it can be settled online.” The last round of waivers — one that ran for 75 days — had yielded around Rs 40 crore, compared to the paltry Rs 6 crore in a 30-day period this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traffic-fine-waiver-rs-5-5cr-till-mar-20-rs-15l-during-lockdown/articleshow/74921411.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar officials tracing Tablighi Jamaat members who attended event in Delhi||HARIDWAR: After six coronavirus-positive Tablighi Jamaat members died in Telangana, city administration has sounded an alert and is tracing the members of the congregation from Uttarakhand who attended a religious event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin with infected patients. The event was reportedly attended by about 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat members from March 13 to March 15. According to sources, 34 state residents, who are part of the group, attended the religious event at Nizamuddin. Among them, 26 members (12 from Dehradun, 11 from Haridwar, and 3 from Uttarkashi) have been quarantined in Delhi. The other eight Tablighi Jamaat members from the state are still missing. Abhay Singh, circle officer, Haridwar, told TOI, “We are collecting information from the local unit of Tablighi Jamaat and have asked them to provide data of all those who went to take part in the religious event in Delhi. So far, 26 members from the state have been quarantined in Delhi. We are tracing the rest of them and they will be quarantined as soon as possible.” Meanwhile, the local intelligence unit is also tracing those members of Tablighi Jamaat who had reached Haridwar from other states before the lockdown. Such members might also be quarantined. According to sources, 14 members of the congregation had come to Haridwar from different states to preach in city mosques. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “We are tracing all the members of the Jamaat who had come to Haridwar before the lockdown and they will be quarantined soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-officials-tracing-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-attended-event-in-delhi/articleshow/74920797.cms||MS Nawaz
April 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: New test kits likely in 2 months, ICMR says||NEW DELHI: India is likely to start manufacturing new serological diagnostic testing kits within the next two months as many advances have been made after the virus was isolated by research agencies, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. ICMR’s chief epidemiologist and communicable disease expert Dr R R Gangakhedkar said once the virus has been isolated, it helps in taking research forward for developing diagnostic kits, medicines and vaccines and India is working in that direction. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates“We are hopeful that at least a serological diagnostic testing will be made in India in next one to two months,” Dr Gangakhedkar said. Serological tests are tests that look for antibodies in blood and help in diagnosing diseases. Meanwhile, to take speedy decisions on R&D for SARS-CoV2 and Covid-19, the government formed a science and technology committee co-chaired by V K Paul and principal scientific adviser K Vijayraghavan. The committee will work in coordination with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), department of biotechnology(DBT), department of science and technology (DST) and other science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies for taking quick decisions on solutions to the disease. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe committee has given its consent to institutes under DST, DBT, CSIR, DAE, DRDO and Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to self-assess and prepare their labs for research and testing through standard and rigorous protocol. Besides, ICMR with its strength in clinical trials and operation research is working with the DBT and CSIR on the agenda of developing a vaccine for the Covid-19 disease. Amid concerns of time lag in giving approval to private testing laboratories, Dr Gangakhedkar categorically said “there is no time lag”. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“There is no delay, we are allowing those who are fitting into criterion. Now, the kit has to be procured by them. If they face problem in that, then they have to resolve it. We cannot do anything about it,” Dr Gangakhedkar said. He further clarified that the slight delay in reporting of approvals could be because of the load on data entry operators which takes a few hours. So far, the ICMR has approved 49 private labs and 399 patients have been tested in these labs. ICMR maintained there are adequate capacity and stocks of reagents in government labs to meet the current testing requirements. “The kits used in public sector labs are being procured and stored by us and we are not facing any problems in that,” he said. Till Tuesday, a total of around 42,788 tests were conducted by government diagnostic labs. So far, 123 public sector labs are functional under ICMR to test Covid-19. However, given the current testing protocols, India at present is using only 36% of this capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-test-kits-likely-in-2-months-icmr/articleshow/74921888.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||All Vidarbha patients asymptomatic, will recover||Nagpur: Amid the Covid-19 scare, there is some heartening news. Even though there are a dozen positive patients in Nagpur, none of them is critically ill. Excluding one woman who is 60, all are under 50 years of age and three are under 19. All of them are asymptomatic carriers and don’t have any ailment or complaints related to health. According to doctors, these have all the chances of making full recovery provided they follow medication schedule and isolation rules strictly. “All nine patients admitted in Mayo isolation ward are doing well. We have patients right from a 12-year-old girl to a 60-year-old woman. All of them are asymptomatic carriers of coronavirus. Doctors are monitoring their crucial health parameters periodically,” said a doctor treating these patients at IGGMCH. As they are not showing any symptoms or having any complaints, doctors are concentrating on improving their immunity. Fluids, multivitamins are given to them along with nutritious protein-rich food. Those having diabetes and hypertension are continuing their regular medicines while in isolation. Some were so enthusiastic that they recorded motivational video messages and shared it on social media platforms.In GMCH, all three patients admitted are from the same family. They are husband, wife and their son. As husband is suffering from paralysis, he is given separate medicines while the other two are taking common fluids and multivitamins. “We have experience of treating asymptomatic patients. Three such patients have already recovered and discharged from GMCH. Our focus is on maintaining their critical health parameters like temperature, blood pressure, and ensure ample rest to all of them,” said a professor from medicine department of GMCH.In Yavatmal, three patients who recovered were all above 50 years of age. One of them was having fever. Still, all of them recovered and were discharged. In Gondia, a 23-year-old youth is admitted in GMCH and he is also an asymptomatic carrier. “If we refer available preliminary data, age and co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, and obesity play vital roles in Covid-19. All other patients have great chances of recovery,” said a doctor in Gondia GMCH. While this is good news for Nagpur, people must understand that following social distancing and lockdown is important at least for next two weeks. Social distancing is the only way to avoid spread of infection. Covid-19 Still Controllable Here* Nagpur city has had total 16 Covid-19 ccases so far, 4 of them have recovered * In Vidarbha, total number of cases is 23, and seven have recovered * No patient admitted in Vidarbha was critical nor anyone needed ventilator support * All 16 patients admitted in Nagpur, Gondia and Buldhana are doing well* Eldest patient in Nagpur is 60-year-old woman, and her parameters are fine* All others are below 50 and have good chances of recovery * They still need to follow isolation strictly to avoid further spread of coronavirus * Everyone needs to follow social distancing up to April 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-vidarbha-patients-asymptomatic-will-recover/articleshow/74920812.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Admin limits veggie vehicles, brokers at Kalamna mkt yard||Nagpur: In a bid to avoid large gatherings and people throwing caution to the wind at wholesale Kalamna and Cotton Markets, the district administration has decided to allow only 100 vegetable vehicles and 50 brokers to do business per day. “In view of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, it has been decided to restrict the number of people at the markets. There are around 300 brokers and they will be allowed to work on rotation basis till the lockdown period,” said Rajesh Bhusari, administrator, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), Kalamna market yard. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “The collector has taken the decision to stop crowding. At least 8,000 people throng Kalamna daily. Now, this crowd will be distributed to 24 grounds identified by the NMC in 10 zones from where farmers will sell vegetables directly. All retail vendors and people can buy from these grounds. This will help avoid large assembly of people at one place.” The decision, however, did not augur well with the farmers and brokers. Vinod Lokhande, one of the leading vegetable brokers at Kalamna, said, “The rush at Kalamna on Tuesday was due to closure of vegetable market for four days from Friday to Monday. So, on Tuesday when the market opened, there was huge rush. The decision by Vegetable Brokers Association to close market for three days was wrong.” “Secondly, due to closure of Cotton Market, farmers reached Kalamna to sell their produce. On Tuesday, there were 3,000 vehicles, the number of which otherwise remains around 500 daily. For smooth supply of vegetables, the administration should impose time restriction from 5am to 9am instead of market closures,” said Lokhande. Lokhande said, “Brokers take guarantee to sell farmers’ produce. We also take risk in case it does not sell. On Tuesday, as limited vehicles were allowed, farmers sold their produce at throwaway price standing outside the Kalamna Market. There was a line of vehicles up to 3km.” Another broker Rahul Rakhe said, “It is the local people who are into panic buying. As weekly markets are closed, wholesalers are not coming and 70% buyers are residents. Kalamna vegetable market on Tuesday was more of a result of mismanagement.” “Another issue grappling is the foodgrain supplies. As police are not allowing private carriers and labourers inside, wholesale traders are not coming to buy foodgrains. Even though foodgrains come under essential commodities, its supplies are restricted. The business has come down to 25%,” said Gulab Balkote, one of the leading brokers. In March, there used to be supply of 5,000 sacks each of tur, gram and wheat. Due to lockdown, it has been restricted to 500-1500 sacks. Balkote said, “There are 500 labourers at the grain yard. Amid exodus of labourers, we managed to stop 100 of them from UP, Bihar and Chhattisgarh by offering them 50kg rice, 50kg wheat flour and 15kg tur dal.” However, even as the administration is imposing restrictions, no social distancing is followed. Though sanitizers have been placed at the main entrances, Bhusari said, “We are facing shortage of sanitizer stock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-limits-veggie-vehicles-brokers-at-kalamna-mkt-yard/articleshow/74920804.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Increased cop vigil slows down ganja trade in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: While the recent lockdown by the government was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, it has also ended up containing ganja trade in the district. The police and officials of the prohibition and excise departments have not registered any case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the past 10 days. In the post lockdown period, not a single ganja smuggling case was detected in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, which have emerged as safe havens for ganja smugglers. With the lockdown in tribal pockets, border areas and the NH-16 stretch, police presence at check-posts has increased across the state, promptimg ganja peddlers to stop smuggling the crop in vehicles suspecting that they may be caught, said deputy excise commissioner of Visakhapatnam, T Srinivasa Rao. “During this period (from March onwards) every year ganja smuggling increases in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Vizianagaram and along Andhra-Odisha-Border (AOB). But smuggling has dipped drastically after the lockdown. We saw this trend last during demonetization, after November 2016, as cash flow dried up,” said a senior police officer. Large swathes of areas in remote Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and AOB are used to cultivate ganja. People in these pockets cultivate Sheelavathi variety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ganja-trade-down-in-agency-areas-due-to-increase-in-police-patrolling/articleshow/74920017.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Good Samaritans of Karimadom Colony||Thiruvananthapuram: It has been more than a week since A Akbar, a tyre repair shop owner, opened his shop at Attakulangara. But he is not sitting idle in his home either. Akbar, along with his friends and neighbours in the Karimadom Colony, has taken up a task: To provide food for guest workers staying near their colony. Three days ago Rafeek M, a taxi driver, who has not been going for work due to the janatha curfew and lockdown, told the Karimadom colony residents about the plight of guest labourers. Soon, they collected utensils from a resident who has cutlery rental services and started preparing food for around 60 people. However, when they completed the task, there was sufficient food for around 120 people. “A friend informed me that the guest workers were living without food as they could not go out during lockdown to purchase provisions. With no work, it has become difficult for them to buy food. So, I thought of collecting money to prepare some food. But, later when I discussed the same with my friends in the colony, they came forward to prepare the and serve them food,” said Rafeek. “We have been sitting idle at home for past one week due to lockdown. The idea to make food collectively kept us busy all these days. Three days ago, we made idli and sambar for around 120 people for dinner. The next day’s breakfast was also arranged. The Fort police station officers helped us in collecting and distribution of food as it wasn’t safe for us to distribute it directly,” said Sudheer K, an autorickshaw driver from the colony. People in the colony also pooled in money to buy three sacks of rice for the guest labourers. “We were told that they prefer to cook the food themselves and requested us to provide them provisions. We also collected some money and bought rice for them on Sunday. On Monday morning, officials informed us that a community kitchen has been started at Manacaud and they will supply food for the labourers,” said Akbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/good-samaritans-of-karimadom-colony/articleshow/74920041.cms||Anasooya.S
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||About 400 youths in Pusad for job ‘dumped’ at 2 hostels||Yavatmal: The curfew imposed to contain the coronavirus spread has aggravated woes of 418 youths who have been staying in two hostels and rented rooms at Pusad for the last 10 months. About 400 inmates at the hostels are living in inhumane condition without food, water or medicines. The hostels were locked from outside and the youths were not even allowed to go out to stock up essentials.On receiving a tip off, TOI contacted the hostel inmates. A few of them, on condition of anonymity, narrated their plight. It is learnt 1,600 educated youths were allegedly sent to Pusad by a Delhi-based company ‘Glaze Trading India Pvt Ltd,’ with its office at Janakpuri area of the country’s capital, after hiring them from various parts of the country.The company allegedly lured these youths by offering various incentives through social media. Over 1,000 were provided accommodation in hostels of BP Ed College and BN Engineering College. The remaining stayed in private rented rooms in Shreerampur area where the company has it branch. Now, 418 youths are staying at these three locations while whereabouts of the remaining are not known. The youths were allegedly also not paid salary. A few of them were given only a few hundreds as incentive. The company’s office in Shreerampur is closed and the manager is untraceable. None of the inmates either knows the names or contact numbers of their bosses.TOI alerted district collector MD Singh on Monday night who moved his machinery to save the starving youths at the hostels.On directives of the collector, Pusad tehsildar Vaishak Rahurwagh visited the hostels on Tuesday. According to Vaishak, 134 youths are housed in the BP Ed College hostel, 259 in BN Engineering College hostel and 25 in Shreerampur.The tehsildar summoned a medical team which examined the youths. The company markets medicines for skin care among other products. Ironically, the youths are suffering from contagious diseases like scabies, chickenpox fever, cough and similar infections, the tehsildar said. The toilets at the hostels are uncleaned for days together and garbage is lying scattered. It is learnt, the doctor who checked the sick inmates gave them sleeping pills and two other tablets.Vaishak claimed food grains have been sent to the hostel, but the inmates told TOI that they were not served food till 2pm on Tuesday. In the morning they were given only poha, the inmates said. The canteens at the hostels were closed down on Tuesday.The tehsildar is likely to file an FIR against the company for deceiving the youths, most of them hailing from south Indian states like Tamil Nandu, Kerala and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/about-400-youths-in-pusad-for-job-dumped-at-2-hostels/articleshow/74920817.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to shift veggie markets to large playgrounds, open spaces||Nagpur: In an effort to ensure social distancing and stop people from crowding in vegetable markets, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to turn 24 playgrounds or open spaces into markets. Civic officials said all weekly vegetable and roadside markets, which were closed either due to the anti-encroachment drive or the coronavirus scare, will be shifted to playgrounds.Out of the 10 zones, the NMC is allowing farmers to sell vegetables in open spaces or playgrounds in nine zones, excluding Satranjipura zone. The NMC, with the help of vegetable growers, is also planning to provide fresh vegetables at the doorstep of citizens in each and every locality from April 1, stated a press note released by the NMC.Despite the lockdown and appeal to ensure social distancing in public places, there was no response from the public, especially at places like Cotton Market, Gokulpeth road market and other market places in the city. As NMC’s marking to maintain social distancing failed to get the desired results, the city police took control and prevented people from crowding markets.With Cotton Market shutting down temporarily, farmers from nearby villages and towns will now sell their produce directly to citizens in the open places.The 24 places for the markets were identified by the assistant commissioners of nine zones. The NMC has also put some guidelines in place for vegetable vendors. Permission to sell vegetables will be given to those who follow the rules, clarified the press note.The NMC has chalked out terms and conditions for entering the market and they include following social distancing, marking to avoid crowding, keep valid documents of vehicles and driving licence. If the driver has cold, cough or fever then he should get himself examined at a nearby government hospital.NEW VEGGIE MARKETSZone 1 — Jaitala weekly marketZone-2 — Ram Nagar playground & Yeshwant StadiumZone-3 — Reshimbagh ground; Indraprasth Society open land (Kalode Mahavidyalay, Beltarodi road) and Pipla Road (near Dhage’s bungalow)Zone-4 — Unthkhana Ground (in front of Tata Capital Heights); Raja Baksha ground, Bhagwan Nagar playground (Near post office); Balaji Nagar ground (near Velu Corner); Renuka Vihar Colony ground and Narendra Nagar NIT GroundZone-5 — Shrinagar Ground (Darshan Colony) and Stadium on Tajbagh Road (near PF office)Zone-6 — Dighori ground (old Bagadganj) and NMC School (new Shukruwari, Model Mill Chowk, Gadikhana)Zone-8 — Sardar Wallabhai Patel playground (Kucchivisa Bhavan, near Satnami Nagar) and Bhaskar Vyas ground (east Wardhaman Nagar)Zone-9 — H R Cancer Hospital (Kalamna Ring Road) and Deepak Nagar (Uppalwadi Road)Zone-10 — Nara Road; Krishna Dham (Zingabai Takli) and Gumnam Lawn (Gorewada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-shift-veggie-markets-to-large-playgrounds-open-spaces/articleshow/74920837.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Supply streamlined, traders shift focus to safety protocol||Kolkata: Traders in the wholesale hub of Burrabazar have now shifted focus to social distancing and maintaining hygiene protocol while conducting business after some normalcy has returned in reviving the supply lines for commodities. While some outlets have cordoned off their shops dealing with customers standing outside, others have barred entry of more than one person at a time. At least one oil agency has promised to waive off coolie charges if a customer pays through digital wallet and does not come to their place physically. Posta and Burrabazar are the biggest wholesale hubs in the state where lakhs, including traders, labourers, drivers, helpers and customers congregate every day. The gathering has not been huge since the lockdown as most of the establishments have remained shut but they want to implement a standard operating procedure for the coming weeks. Several department stores and even retail markets are trying to decrease crowding in the market and also washing or sanitising hands before entering. The objective of the three-week long lockdown is to isolate people and prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. “Till now, all our efforts were focussed on getting the market open and making it operational. Now, we were concentrating on getting hold of labourers and delivering goods to the retailers. We have also started receiving good to replenish the stock to some extent. In a wholesale market where thousands of people work together, it is very difficult to practice social distancing, but we are trying to put in place a norm where some sort of isolation can be practiced,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association. The owners of Anshul Trading have cordoned off the entry gate of their shop with a rope. They are dealing with the customers from the other side. After the deal is finalised, only one labourer can enter and lift the goods. “We cannot sit at home because we deal in essential commodities. But the threat of novel coronavirus is equally dangerous for us, which is why we have restricted entry to the shop,” said Sanjay Goel, one of workers in the shop that deals in biscuits, papad, besan and makai. Navratan, a cooking oil agency, has waived off coolie charges for customers paying through digital wallet. “Nowadays, the means of communication are excellent, and a person need not go to a shop physically to purchase. We will waive off their coolie charges for those who place orders over phone and pay through digital wallet,” said Madhusudan Binani, owner of the agency. Platinum, another oil agency, has curtailed its working hours. The outlet is now open till 1pm only. “We want to do business but, in the meantime, save ourselves and our employees too,” said one of the owners. The merchants’ association has instructed the labourers to wear masks and wash their hands regularly. Food is being provided by the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/supply-streamlined-traders-shift-focus-to-safety-protocol/articleshow/74921420.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Drones to keep tabs on people violating prohibitory orders||COIMBATORE: The city police are planning to deploy drones to monitor people’s movement at markets and other places, and depute cops, who are below 50 years of age, for vehicle check as part of the precautionary measures to contain Covid-19. In the past, the city police had used three drones to monitor the rallies that were taken out both in support of and against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Many anti-CAA public meetings were also monitored with the help of drones. Now, they are mulling the option of using the drones for “patrolling” during lockdown. While the public have been advised to come out only to buy essential commodities, police have been seizing vehicles form the people, who have been coming out deliberately in violation of prohibitory orders. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said they have been controlling the movement of public in the city. “We plan to use drones to identify people, who are deliberately coming out and gathering at a place in large numbers. We have already deployed more than 1,200 cops, who are working in two shifts in the city, to identify such people.” In another instance, inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah inspected security arrangements in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Nilgiris districts. He visited Thudiyalur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai and Mettupalayam in Coimbatore, inter-district border on Annur-Avinashi Road, and toll plazas at Kaniyur and Vijayamangalam. Periaiah urged the motorists to use face mask and hand sanitizers. Later, he inspected the security arrangements at the inter-state border check post at Walayar. “All the 14 inter-state borders and 13 inter-district borders have been sealed. At least 1,900 cops are deployed in Coimbatore alone,” he said. As on March 30, Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode district police had registered 3,573 cases for violating prohibitory orders. While 3,206 people were arrested, 2,266 vehicles were seized during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drones-to-keep-tabs-on-people-violating-prohibitory-orders/articleshow/74920822.cms||Sindhu Kannan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man jailed for post on sale of liquor||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old man was nabbed by the city police on Tuesday and sent to jail for circulating a fake government order (GO) on social media stating that the excise department will open liquor shops. The fake GO had gone viral on social media. The accused was identified as K Sanish Kumar alias Sunny, a resident of Uppal. On Saturday, cybercrime police received a complaint from Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), state task force and excise department. The excise department stated that few miscreants created a fake order by forging the signature of the director of prohibition and excise department and were circulating it on social media which stated that liquor shops would be open from 2pm to 5.30pm on March 29. “This is a fabrication and the state government and the prohibition and excise department have not issued any such orders,” stated the complaint. According to cybercrime police, notices were served to five other persons for forwarding the order to others. The accused was booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the IT Act and sent to jail. “This is a warning to those who want to create or circulate fake news,” said an officer from Hyderabad commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-jailed-for-post-on-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/74920843.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Surat||42 untraceable after foreign visit in Surat district||SURAT: As many as 42 out of total 600 people, who landed in Surat district from foreign locations between March 1 and 22, remain untraceable, forcing district health department to seek help of the state government and police to locate them. A detailed list of 42 travellers with their names, addresses, travel destination and date of arrival has been published by the district health department and also sent to the state government for further action. The district health department had received from the state headquarters the list of travellers, who needed to be in quarantine but had gone to various talukas of Surat. The department was successful in tracing majority of travellers since March 1, but 42 remain untraceable. Dr Piyush Shah, epidemic medical officer (EMO), Surat district, said, “Travellers landing at Surat airport from foreign destinations have to submit self-declaration forms to the immigration. The forms are sent to the state governments and forwarded to the districts concerned where the travellers go. We had received a list of 600 people from the district in the last one month. These 42 are from Bardoli, Palsana, Kamrej, Choriyasi and Olpad talukas.” Dr Shah added, “Our teams went at the addresses mentioned, but couldn’t find them. We believe they had filled in false information in the self-declaration forms to avoid home quarantine. At present, about 300 are under quarantine in the entire district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/42-untraceable-after-foreign-visit-in-surat-district/articleshow/74920039.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cooked meal twice a day for 12 lakh people at 2,800 locations||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will expand its base to feed the poor and start distributing cooked meal for 10-12 lakh people twice a day at about 2,800 locations from Wednesday. According to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the AAP government is at present providing ‘jan ahaar’ to almost four lakh people at 800-odd locations in the capital. To ensure that social distancing was maintained at each hunger relief centre, the Delhi government has now decided to add 2,000 more locations from Wednesday. Officials said the district magistrates of each of the 11 districts along with officials of the directorate of education (DoE) have been asked to identify schools or other prominent government buildings and set up hunger relief centres. The locations, said officials, will be in close proximity to jhuggi clusters, resettlement colonies and those pockets where the daily wagers and poor reside so that they don’t have to walk long distances for food. The government had earlier set up two feeding centres in schools in each municipal ward. With enough space for people to stand and maintain social distancing, the schools were the ideal locations for the purpose, said an official. The decision to add more such locations was taken during a video conference chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to review the measures taken to contain Covid-19. Kejriwal, some of his cabinet colleagues and top officers of Delhi government and police attended the video conference. According to officials, the LG expressed concern over reports of violation of social distancing norms at some of the food distribution centres. “The LG clearly stated that ensuring social distancing should be the topmost priority at the moment to prevent Covid-19 from spreading in the capital. In view of such reports it was agreed upon that the number of food distribution centres should be increased from present 500 to 2,500 so that social distancing is adhered to effectively,” said an official. The Delhi government currently runs 568 hunger relief centres, each having the capacity to provide food to 500 people. In addition, about 260-odd night shelters also provide cooked food largely to the homeless apart from any other person willing to eat there. “Right now, food is available at around 800 locations in Delhi. From Wednesday, 2,500 schools and 250 night shelters will start distributing food for 500 people each, which makes it a total of 2,800 centres. We were feeding 3.5-4 lakh people daily and from tomorrow and we will start feeding 10-12 lakh people from tomorrow,” Kejriwal said in his digital press conference on Tuesday, adding that people were crowding at the food centres leading to the decision to increase their numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cooked-meal-twice-a-day-for-12l/articleshow/74920847.cms||Atul Mathur
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Uneasy calm grips Old City localities||CHARMINAR: Most mosques in the city have been locked down with entry permitted only to imams and mauzins to offer prayers and make the call for prayer. However, unscheduled prayer calls have been heard from the terraces of houses at nights regularly in certain parts of Old City. One of the devotees from Tabligi Jamat told TOI on the condition of anonymity that mosques have been shut down and the entry of devotees totally barred. Details of those who returned from the congregation in Delhi have been shared with officials by Mallepally Markaz. “The names of the returnees from Delhi have been shared with officers concerned. Most have been moved to hospitals from their homes. Several have tested negative too,” one of those who attended the Jamaat told TOI on condition of anonymity. Syed Mohsin, a resident of Old City objected to civilians assisting cops and the lack of safety gear on them. “How can people be allowed to help policemen without wearing masks and other protective gear? On par with other citizens they should be careful and alert else they may spread the virus,’’ Syed Mohsin told TOI. The residents in Old City sought the state government’s help to sanitise localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uneasy-calm-grips-old-city-localities/articleshow/74920831.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||WHO clears air on disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies||Hyderabad: Amidst confusion over the disposal of the bodies of Covid-19 victims, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that the bodies can either be cremated or buried. WHO has described as myth, the argument that bodies of Covid-19 patients should be cremated. The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions and their families should be respected and protected throughout. Hasty disposal of a Covid-19 dead person should be avoided. “It is a myth that persons who have died of a communicable disease should be cremated, but this is not true. Cremation is a matter of cultural choice and available resources,” WHO said in its interim guidelines on how to deal with the bodies of Covid-19 victims. The guidelines gain significance in the backdrop of the alleged order of Mumbai municipal commissioner that the bodies of the victims, irrespective of their religion, should be cremated. WHO further elaborated that authorities should manage each situation on a case-by-case basis, balancing the rights of the family, need to investigate the cause of death and the risks of exposure to infection. The interim guidelines warn that children and adults above 60 years and immuno-suppressed persons should not directly interact with the body. “Based on current evidence, the coronavirus is transmitted between people through droplets, fomites and close contact, with possible spread through faeces. It is not airborne. As this is a new virus whose source and disease progression are not yet entirely clear, more precautions may be used until further information becomes available,” WHO said. According to WHO, except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola, Marburg) and cholera, bodies are generally not infectious. Only the lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Otherwise, cadavers do not transmit diseases. “Till date, there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons, who died of Covid-19,” WHO said, adding that the safety and well-being of everyone who tends to bodies should be the priority. Before attending to a body, people should ensure that the necessary hand hygiene and personal protective equipment (PPE) supplies are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/who-clears-air-on-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies/articleshow/74920036.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||False alarm raised over home quarantined man||Vadodara: With both awareness and fear over COVID-19 spreading, officials have started getting information regarding violation of home quarantine apart from violations of the lockdown. One such incident turned out to be a false alarm as the person had completed the quarantine period on Tuesday itself. The incident was reported by an alert citizen from Godhra. A man who was home quarantined was spotted by an alert citizen in the Kalal Darwaza area. The citizen clicked a photograph and even relayed it to a health officials. Teams of the health department rushed to the residence of the man and verified his details. It came to light that the man had completed his home quarantine period on Tuesday itself. “The man was under observation of our teams. There was unnecessary panic, but it is good that people are alert,” said the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/false-alarm-raised-over-home-quarantined-man/articleshow/74919198.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||People posting fake info will be booked, warn cyber cops||Bhopal: The cybercrime branch of Bhopal Police, issued an advisory on Tuesday, warning people against online fraudsters active amid the lockdown. Police said, such fraudsters are making efforts to disturb peace in the society by spreading false rumours online. If you find someone spreading misinformation, you can report them to the police, said cops. Police have also warned people not to share any rumours carrying uncertified and unscientific information on Covid-19. Any person who shares such posts will be booked under violation of Section 144 and Disaster Management Act. During lockdown, messages offering “free Internet data” are being circulated over social media platforms, Bhopal Police told TOI on Tuesday. These messages have a link — clicking on which may give fraudsters an opening to steal private data from your device, including siphoning off money from your digital wallets, said ASP cybercrime branch, Sandesh Jain. Jain said, another message which is doing the rounds of social media is of “free recharge” offered by the government. It even has names of Prime Minister, CM and other ministers, he said, adding that no such scheme is being run by the government and people are advised to not trust any such message or forward them to others. “Many messages asking for donations for helping those in need are also being circulated. Ensure that you only deposit money in trusted and verified organisations and check before making any donations,” Jain said. Jain said people should avoid forwarding rumours or inflammatory messages. “Before forwarding a message, you should verify the content ... In case, you find any rumour being spread online, you can report it to police on 7049106300,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-posting-fake-info-will-be-booked-warn-cyber-cops/articleshow/74920829.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Students lend helping hand to poor||Kolkata: Students and alumni of Jadavpur University and Presidency University have come forward to help the daily wagers and vendors affected by the lockdown. While the JU students have formed Commune, a community kitchen to feed hundreds of homeless and daily wagers in and around Jadavpur station, Dhakuria station and Golpark, the PU students have been raising funds to help the vendors around the university with medicines and essentials. The kitchen at JU has come up on the parking area near Gate No. 4. Research scholar Hindol Mazumdar said, “After getting the JU authorities’ approval, we have set up the kitchen to feed hundreds of pavement dwellers, migrant labourers, daily wagers, including cycle rickshaw pullers. Given the present crisis, it is our social responsibility to ensure that none is starving.” On Monday, the JU students had cooked khichdi and distributed it to 150 people in and around Jadavpur station, Dhakuria, Gariahat and Golpark. “We are following the health advisories while cooking and distributing the food. Our initiative will continue till the lockdown ends. We are trying to cook more food and cover wider areas between Garia and Golpark daily,” said Debjan Sengupta, an ex-student of JU. Some teachers and non-teaching staff of JU have also joined the social initiative by helping the students financially. Among the vendors helped by PU students during the lockdown include Badam Kaka, Dilip Kaka, Sukumar Da, Lal Da, Ananda Da, Chat Kaka. Asif Abdullah, a student of PU, said, “Badam Kaka was out of money for medicines. We have solved the problem for a week or two.” The Presidency University Students’ Union members have also started raising funds to help the mess-staff and canteen-staff and requested students, teachers, non-teaching staff for donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-lend-helping-hand-to-poor/articleshow/74921433.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh chilli farmers want to shift stock to cold storages||GUNTUR: Chilli farmers are in a fix as they could not sell the produce with the sudden closure of the agriculture market yard due to the lockdown. The agriculture market yard suspended the activities in the yard last week little after the state government declared the lockdown as part of containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Contrary to the initial expectations that the yard will resume its operations on Wednesday, the government has extended the lockdown schedule till April 14 following a directive from the Centre. The long lockdown has put farmers in a tight spot as they are worried that the quality of chilli might be affected if the mercury levels go up in the coming days. In that case, they might have to sell their stocks at lower prices. Demand was soaring for chilli when the situation suddenly changed due to the spread of Covid-19. The prices were actually steadily rising due to the high demand from exporters giving the growers profitable margins before the closure of the yard. While the top varieties Teja, Guntur Sannalu were quoted anywhere around Rs 14,000-Rs 18,000 per quintal, even average qualities were picked up at not less than Rs 10,000 per quintal. These prices were highest in the recent history and farmers were virtually dreaming about reaping rich dividend when the Covid-19 shattered their hopes. Farmers are now demanding that the state government allow them to transport their stocks to keep them in the cold-storages till the yard resumes activity. While one round of yeild had been picked and bagged and kept in their back yards, the farmers are yet to pick the last yield. Added to this is the shortage of agriculture labourers. “The government should immediately allow us to engage workers to pick the remaining chillies as the crop is drying up fast due to rising temperatures,” said a grower Narasimha Rao of Muppalla village.  A leading exporter Lanka Kranthi Sekhar observed that allowing the farmers to keep their stocks in cold storage is the best solution as the prices would not go down even after the reopening of the yard. He said there was sufficient space in the cold-storage in and around Guntur city to take in entire stock available with the farmers. Meanwhile, BJP MP GVL Narasimha Rao has said that he had discussed the plights of chilli farmers with senior officials and expecting them to take remedial measures. He hoped that the yard would be reopened shortly to take the stocks in a phased manner. The government should immediately allow us to engage workers to pick the remaining chillies as the crop is drying up fast due to rising temperatures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chilli-farmers-want-to-shift-stock-to-cold-storages/articleshow/74920043.cms||Samdani MN
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||WHO clears air on disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies||HYDERABAD: Amidst confusion over the disposal of the bodies of Covid-19 victims, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that the bodies can either be cremated or buried. WHO has described as myth, the argument that bodies of Covid-19 patients should be cremated. The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions and their families should be respected and protected throughout. Hasty disposal of a Covid-19 dead person should be avoided. “It is a myth that persons who have died of a communicable disease should be cremated, but this is not true. Cremation is a matter of cultural choice and available resources,” WHO said in its interim guidelines on how to deal with the bodies of Covid-19 victims. The guidelines gain significance in the backdrop of the alleged order of Mumbai municipal commissioner that the bodies , irrespective of their religion, should be cremated. WHO further elaborated that authorities should manage each situation on a case-by-case basis, balancing the rights of the family, need to investigate the cause of death and risks of exposure to infection.The interim guidelines warn that children and adults above 60 years and immuno-suppressed persons should not directly interact with the body. “Based on current evidence, coronavirus is transmitted through droplets, fomites and close contact, with possible spread through faeces. It is not airborne. As this is a new virus whose source and disease progression are not yet entirely clear, more precautions may be used,” WHO said. According to WHO, except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola, Marburg) and cholera, bodies are generally not infectious. Only lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Else, cadavers do not transmit diseases. “Till date, there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons, who died of Covid-19,” WHO said, adding that the safety and well-being of everyone who tends to bodies should be the priority. Before attending to a body, people must ensure hand hygiene and personal protective equipment supplies are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/who-clears-air-on-disposal-of-covid-victims-bodies/articleshow/74920851.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Pune||Parole gain for 6,000 convicts serving 7 years or less term||PUNE: Additional director-general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand said on Tuesday that the state government’s notification amending the existing parole rules to facilitate extension of the parole benefit to convicts serving 7 years or less in jails was expected to be issued by Thursday. The move was being considered in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and the need to decongest prisons in the state. Ramanand told TOI, “Close to 6,000 convicts lodged in state jails are expected to benefit. We have recommended amendment of rule 9 of the Bombay Parole and Furlough Act 1959 for granting emergency parole to the convicts. The amendment will empower the jail superintendents to release them on parole after checking their past conduct. For instance, if a convict was earlier released on parole, whether he had returned to the jail after the parole lapsed etc will be looked into.” “The notification amending the parole rules will be issued by the disaster management department. The jail superintendents will have the power to release the convicts on parole for 45 days. The parole can be extended for 30 days as per the Epidemic Diseases Act. The parole will stand terminated after the notification is revoked or withdrawn. The convicts will then have to return to jail,” he added. The state police will monitor the movements of around 1,694 under trial prisoners (UTPs) released on bail so far, including 138 from the Yerawada central prison since March 27. More UTPs are expected to be released in a phased manner. Pune police’s additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale told TOI, “All police stations and crime branches will check undertrial prisoners released on bail by visiting their residences on a regular basis for maintaining surveillance and keeping tabs on their current activities.” “We have complied data of all criminals in the Criminal Intensive Surveillance System. The data will be used for monitoring their movements. The criminals will be summoned to the police stations and crime branches to deter them from committing new crimes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parole-gain-for-6k-convicts-serving-7-years-or-less-term/articleshow/74920849.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 1, 2020||Surat||Three-day exemption for employers to pay salary||SURAT: After the recent clash in Vadod between police and migrant labourers, city police has announced three-day relaxation from Tuesday for employers in the city to go out to pay salaries to their employees. Considering the workers’ allegations of not having food and cash, the cops will allow employers till Thursday to pay salaries or money for other expenditures to their employees. However, the employer should ensure that there is no crowding while distributing salary, cops said. "Police have discussed the issue of payments to the employees with other government officials. After discussion we have decided to give relaxation for three days to the employers to go out to pay salaries to the employees," city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told TOI. City police officials have also discussed the issue of food supply to the migrant workers with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-day-exemption-for-employers-to-pay-salary/articleshow/74920075.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Politicians too begin spraying disinfectant to control corona||Nagpur: Apart from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), public representatives, too, have started distributing and spraying disinfectants in their localities. Some corporators have not engaged workers as they themselves are spraying the disinfectant. With the rise in Covid-19 patients, the NMC on March 28 started manual spraying in areas where positive patients were found and also engaged 11 fire tenders for spraying on main roads. The NMC is spraying sodium hypochlorite, claiming it will prevent the spread of Covid-19. Some public representatives started spraying much before the NMC’s drive. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, who is also Congress city president, said, “I distributed 50 machines which can be mounted on backs. Spraying will be done all over my constituency. I also engaged three four-wheelers in which a big tank has been installed with a pump for spraying. It’s my responsibility to keep citizens safe and sound. There is also panic among people who feel relaxed after spraying is done in their areas. I’m continuously providing sodium hypochlorite and necessary materials for the drive,” he said. When asked whether it’s permissible, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said, “They are public servants. So, no problem. But all should follow the guidelines. NMC has launched the drive across the city and is covering all areas,” he said. BJP corporator Jitendra ‘Bunty’ Kukde engaged 10 machines in his ward from March 23 onwards. “I personally mount the machine on my back and do spraying between 7am and 1pm daily. I have covered all the areas in my ward along with my nine supporters. I’m willing to give the machines to other wards,” he said. Another BJP corporator, Dayashankar Tiwari, engaged a four-wheeler for spraying. “As the NMC is short of staff, the entire city cannot be covered fast. It is also our responsibility as public representatives to keep our people safe. There is also no violation of the lockdown as it is an essential service. It is also not a violation of section 144 as just two persons — a driver and a sprayer — are engaged,” he said. BJP city president and corporator Pravin Datke, too, distributed 50 spraying machines. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said, “Union minister Nitin Gadkari is likely to engage three private fire tenders for spraying soon. Gadkari also plans to give one bottle of hand sanitizer to every household. Many such initiatives have been planned by Gadkari and the BJP’s city unit. We are public representatives and always in public service in all situations,” he said. Some party leaders were seen spraying sodium hypochlorite with tools used for watering plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/politicians-too-begin-spraying-disinfectant-to-control-corona/articleshow/74920840.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Burnt by boiling oil thrown by husband, woman dies in hospital||BHOPAL: Five days after a 32-year-old man allegedly threw boiling oil on his 30-year-old wife, while she was sleeping with her three children at her home in Jehangirabad locality, the woman died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Monday. The woman had sustained severe burn injuries on face, eyes and upper body. Jehangirabad police added sections of murder to the case and launched a manhunt to nab the accused, who is absconding since the incident. After committing the horrendous act, the accused allegedly stole Rs 25000 from the woman’s cupboard. He had a major fight with his wife on Wednesday night when he saw that she had got the money which she was saving with a self-help group. He asked his wife to give him the money for liquor, but she refused.So next day, he burnt her with boiling oil and fled the spot with money. Police said that the victim Geeta Shaqya, 30, hailed from Gwalior. She got married to Bunty Shakya, a resident of Bheem Nagar, in 2008. They have three children. Police said that accused Bunty was addicted to alcohol and often quarrelled with Geeta in inebriated condition. Three months ago, Geeta had filed a complaint against Bunty at Jehangirabad police station, after which he went absconding and was residing at his native town in Gwalior. Recently, when lockdown restrictions were enforced, Geeta called him and asked him to return home to avoid coronavirus. Police said that Bunty returned home a few days ago and started quarrelling with Geeta in inebriated condition. The couple had a dispute over money on Wednesday night after Bunty returned home drunk. After arguments, they went to sleep. Bunty got up around 4 am on Thursday and boiled oil in a pan on the pretext of preparing tea. He threw boiling oil on Geeta while she was asleep. Geeta sustained around 30 per cent burn injuries on face, eyes and upper body. She rushed outside in terrible pain and raised alarm. Her sister Rajkumari, who stays in the neighbourhood, called ambulance and dialled 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/burnt-by-boiling-oil-thrown-by-husband-woman-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/74920846.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||LMH joins Covid-19 fight with 350-plus beds||Nagpur: Lata Manageshkar Hospital (LMH) attached to NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences, city’s only private medical college, has now joined the fight against Covid-19. LMH Dean Dr Kajal Mitra said that hospital had reserved 350 beds for isolation of patients, ten Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 13 High Dependency Units (HDUs). “Looking at the burden of patients at two government hospitals in city, LMH had offered to give our services in a meeting with divisional commissioner. Earlier, we created a ten-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 suspects. Now, we have extended the capacity to 350,” said Dr Mitra. LMH will not only admit the coronavirus suspects but also collect their samples for testing. In case found positive, the patient will be shifted to separate rooms where ICU and ventilators will also be available, if needed. LMH has also agreed to shift non-Covid-19 patients from GMCH and IGGMCH to their campus if these government hospitals require vacating some more beds for coronavirus patients. Campus of LMH hospital is situated at Digdoh hills on Hingna road which is comparatively far from city centre. This could be an advantage as chance of infection will reduce in case community spread of Covid-19 starts in Vidarbha. The hospital has 1,200 plus students of UG, PG and superspecialty courses. Added strength * At present, the Covid-19 patients/suspects are treated only at IGGMCH and GMCH* After 12 new patients found in city from March 26, the burden on these two hospitals increased* At present, these two hospitals together have 97 beds reserved for Covid-19 cases* Number of ventilators and ICU beds is very limited in both hospitals * LMH will offer 350-bedded isolation facility, 10 ICU beds with ventilators and 13 HDU beds * The hospital on Hingna road is also ready to shift and treat non-corona patients from GMCH and IGGMCH immediately||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lmh-joins-covid-19-fight-with-350-plus-beds/articleshow/74920850.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Pune||IMD finds major changes in rainfall trend in last 30 years||PUNE: An IMD analysis on the rainfall trends from 1989 to 2018 has shown significant changes in India’s monsoon and annual showers, which in part could explain the extreme heavy downpour events and the simultaneous dry conditions in parts of the country during the past few years. Scientists involved in the study have connected these changes to climate change, especially during the past 30 years. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) study found that frequency of rainy days showed an significant increasing trend over Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, northern parts of Madhya Pradesh and parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. On the other hand, significant decreasing trends were seen over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab and the country’s northeastern parts. In Maharashtra, the analysis showed that in the months of June to September, there has been a significant increase in rainy days in the stations in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigad, Kolhapur and Bhandara. “There is a significant decrease in rainy days in stations in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha districts,” said Pulak Guhathakurta, head, climate application and user interface, climate research and services, IMD, Pune. In October last year, Guhathakurta said, the Parliament standing committee had told the ministry of earth sciences to gauge the effect of climate change on the rainfall patterns of India during the recent 30 years. “Past analysis reports have estimated the impact of climate change on rainfall from 1901 to 2010. But this is the only study so far in India that gauges the impact of climate change on rainfall patterns during the recent 30-year period,” he said. “One shocking aspect of the study was the decreasing trend in rainfall and increasing trend in dry days during the last 30 years over the fertile Ganga Brahmaputra basin, a major agricultural zone,” he said. In Maharashtra, the study also showed that every year, there is a significant increase in rainy days in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigarh, Kolhapur and Bhandara districts. In contrast, there is a significant decrease in rainy days in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha districts. “We noticed that during June to September, there is also a significant increase in heavy rainfall days in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigarh, Kolhapur and Bhandara. On the other hand, there is a significant decrease in heavy rainfall days in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha,” he said. State-specific analysis showed that only five states (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Nagaland) have shown significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall. All these five states, along with Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, have also shown significant decreasing trends in annual rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-finds-major-changes-in-rainfall-trend-in-last-30-years/articleshow/74920856.cms||Neha Madaan
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||No bread for breakfast as city bakeries work with skeletal staff||KOLKATA: Bread, which is a staple in most city homes, was hard to come by at most markets on Tuesday. The trickle of a supply on Sunday virtually dried up on Monday, leaving lakhs discontent about an essential breakfast item disappearing from the menu. Families were forced to shift to alternative options, including roti-sabzi, poha, corn flakes or oats. If the bakers’ association is to be believed, the shortage is liklely to be on till the end of the lockdown. According to bakery owners, almost all labourers have left for their villages before the three-week lockdown started, leading to a halt in product of bread and other bakery products. Scarcity of flour and maida in the wholesale market has only compounded the problem. Bread manufactured by some of the popular brands have also disappeared from shops. “In our household, bread is a must for breakfast. Till Sunday, we received at least some quantity but from Monday, there is absolutely no bread available in the markets. Families with children are bound to face a lot of difficulty. We are forced to explore other options,” said Arpit Ganguly, a resident of Premchand Boral Street in Bowbazar. Pointing to the reason for the sudden shortage, Ariful Islam, chief executive officer of the West Bengal Bakers’ Association, said, “Only 5% bakeries are open in the city, which is highly inadequate to meet the demand.” According to Islam, most labourers left the city for their villages on the Saturday before the Janata Curfew. “Saturday is a holiday in bakeries. These labourers, who live in the districts, could not return because the entire country was locked down with no local trains and buses plying. We were operating the bakeries with skeletal staff but now, even their families are scared and calling them back. Many of them have managed to leave already,” said Islam. Alleged police highhandedness has also been making it difficult to retain the few hands, who have been reporting to work. A baker in Bowbazar alleged his employees had put the dough in the oven and were standing outside the bakery because it was very hot inside, when cops thrashed them. “The cops did not even give any time to explain they were employees of the bakery. One of the boys was badly injured and the rest were so scared that they have refused to work until the lockdown got over,” said the owner of the bakery. Shortage in supply of flour and maida is causing a huge problem in production of bread. “Almost all flour mills in the state are shut. All the wholesale outlets in Posta are yet to open. The bakeries are not getting enough raw material for production,” said Aslam. Owners said they were trying to convince some of their workers to return. “Some of them may return in a day or two but the supply of bread will return to normal only after the lockdown is lifted,” said Islam .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-bread-for-breakfast-as-city-bakeries-work-with-skeletal-staff/articleshow/74920877.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Truck driver robbed, murdered near Daund||PUNE: A 55-year-old truck driver was stabbed to death, while the cleaner of another heavy vehicle suffered injuries after a gang of six men assaulted and robbed them of valuables collectively worth Rs7,000 in the early hours of Monday on Pune-Solapur highway near Daund, about 110km from the city. The Daund police have identified the deceased driver as Kashinath Kadam of Osmanabad district. The injured cleaner of another truck, Mohammed Pathan (49) of Osmanabad, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Daund. Shakil Shaikh, the cleaner on Kadam’s truck, has lodged an FIR with the police. Inspector Sunil Mahadik of the Daund police said Kadam and Shaikh were on their way to Pimpri from Osmanabad in the early hours of Monday. They were carrying pulses in the truck. “Around 2am, Kadam stopped at Malad village along the Pune-Solapur highway for answering nature’s call,” Mahadik said. While Kadam was returning to the truck, the six men all of a sudden surfaced in front him and started beating him up. “When Kadam resisted them, one of them stabbed him near the chest and robbed his Rs3,000 and cellphone,” Mahadik said. He said the suspects attacked the driver and the cleaner of one more truck parked near Kadam’s truck. “They robbed Rs2,000 and cellphone from its driver, Altaf Patel of Osmanabad. The cleaner of the second truck, Pathan, suffered injuries in the assault,” Mahadik said. Shaikh, the complainant, took Kadam to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. “We registered the offence under sections of dacoity and murder with dacoity of the Indian Penal Code,” Mahadik said. He said there was already heavy police deployment along the highway because many people were attempting to migrate to their native places during the lockdown because of the Covid-19 situation. “We are suspecting involvement of local gang behind the robbery and murder of the truck driver. There are few gangs in the area involved in train robberies,” Mahadik said. “We are working on some clues and have also intensified patrolling in the area,” he added. The lockdown across the country because of the Covid-19 situation had left several truck drivers and cleaners stranded on highways with their vehicles. No food joints were open for them and they had a torrid time waiting on roads for the state borders to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-driver-robbed-murdered-near-daund/articleshow/74920861.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa goverment, MEA may evacuate 8,000 Goans abroad: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI/COLVA: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that his government, with the aid of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), wishes to evacuate around 8,000 Goans working abroad — including seafarers — and quarantine them in Goa. “A decision in this regard will be taken in the next two days,” he said. Sawant met Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao (NCP), Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco (Congres) and seafarers’ associations on the issue. “The associations’ claim is that there are around 7,000-8,000 seafarers and Goans working in the US, Italy, Spain, etc,” Sawant said. “I have spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah about it. We are still discussing how to get them back and where to quarantine them. With the help of the MEA, we want to resolve the issue. We want to help them.” Founder of Seamen’s Association of India (SAI) Dixon Vaz told TOI that the CM was informed about the situation and conditions on cruise liners where seafarers are stranded with food stocks depleting. A call was then made to the director general shipping, he said. Vaz said that Sawant assured the delegation that he is in tough with the PMO, home ministry and MEA to make the necessary arrangements to get those stranded back to Goa following all safety procedures. Vaz said he also told the CM that crew members are stranded in coronavirus-affected countries, and that arrangements have to be made here in Goa to quarantine them upon their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-mea-may-evacuate-8000-goans-abroad-sawant/articleshow/74921453.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur likely to get three more Covid-19 testing labs||NAGPUR: With Mayo Hospital overburdened, the Central and state government are likely to give permission for testing of swab samples for Covid-19 to three more government institutions of the city — AIIMS, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), and Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu). At present, Mayo Hospital is the only approved lab in entire Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and some parts of Madhya Pradesh (MP). With rise in number of suspected cases and close contacts of positive persons, Mayo Hospital is reportedly overburdened. As per public representatives and family members of patients, reports are delayed up to 24 hours or more. Mayo Hospital has only one Real Time PCR Machine, which is required for testing of swab samples for Covid-19. If given permission, Mafsu may come as a big relief as it has three machines, of which one has the latest technology at its state-of-the-art Centre for Zoonosis at Nagpur Veterinary College, Seminary Hills. Deputy director (health) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and his team inspected Mafsu’s centre on March 28 and submitted a report to the state’s public health department. Mafsu director (research) Dr NV Kurkure and registrar Chandrabhan Parate told TOI, “Mafsu is ready to take up the challenge in larger interest of country if given permission by the government. It is our social responsibility to serve the nation and people. We have experienced staff and mechanism, which can be easily utilized for testing Covid-19 samples. We have already sent six doctors for training at Mayo Hospital a day ago.” Dr Kurkure added Mafsu has three Real Time PCR Machines at its veterinary public health department, pathology department and microbiology department, and all can be brought to Centre for Zoonosis to begin work as per protocol of WHO and government. “Centre for Zoonosis was developed 3-4 years ago and is equipped with all types of facilities,” he said. As per officials, the government is also likely to give permission to AIIMS situated at MIHAN and GMCH. These two institutions have one machine each, and, most importantly, treatment facilities. Another major advantage will be that all four institutions are situated in different locations of the city. The government, in association with the district administration, can chalk out districts and area wise distribution of samples. Reports can be delivered quickly and in large numbers if all four laboratories are in service in the city. A private establishment — Druv Pathology and Molecular Diagnostic Lab — has also reportedly applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-likely-to-get-three-more-covid-19-testing-labs/articleshow/74920859.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighi Jamaat congregation: Participants urged to get tests done||HYDERABAD: With concerns being raised about those who returned from Nizamuddin in New Delhi after attending a religious programme, health authorities in different districts of Telangana began identifying them and urged them to come forward for health check-ups. In Mahbubnagar district a new facility was created for corona suspects to be quarantined. Minister V Srinivas Goud said 17 people who had attended the programme in the district were already under home quarantine but would be shifted to hospital quarantine. In Nagarkurnool, authorities identified 12 people who had attended the gathering. Out of them, 10 tested negative for coronavirus, and one tested positive. The result of another was awaited. Meanwhile, migrant workers are being taken care of in various districts. In Siddipet, finance minister T Harish Rao distributed rice and Rs 500 each to the workers and assured them that they would be assisted during the lockdown period. In Nirmal district, collector Musharraf Ali Farooqui organised camps and distributed rice to migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/participants-urged-to-get-tests-done/articleshow/74920860.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Abandoned pets wander through deserted streets under Covid-19 lockdown||HYDERABAD: A yellow Labrador scavenges from a garbage bin near Secunderabad without a collar or owner in sight. Similarly, a German Shepherd, also without a name tag or collar, was found tied to a pole in Narayanguda Government Veterinary Hospital earlier this week. While the city’s streets have become deserted since the lockdown was announced, animal rescue teams say that they are witnessing an unusual increase in the number of pet dogs being abandoned on city roads due to the spread of Covid-19. The average number of calls received by Animal Rescue Shelter, an NGO, regarding such cases, has increased from one to two cases per week to at least three cases per day. “It is very concerning. We have been receiving at least two to three calls every single day. One of our recent rescues was of a Lhasa Terrier from Attapur. The dog was so scared that it used to constantly shake in fear when someone would go close to her. Another Pomeranian that we rescued was left at a car mechanic workshop in Jeedimetla,” said Shruti Darak, founder of Animal Rescue Shelter. Animal welfare organisations also say that the number of calls from pet owners wanting to give up pets is also on the rise.“There is a sudden surge in number of pet owners wanting to give up pets. Our Facebook page on pet adoptions is a proof that people are scared they might get infected. We are working on overcoming that by counselling them and disseminating correct information,” said Aanchal Khanna, an animal activist. Despite the World Health Organisation (WHO) clarifying that Covid-19 cannot be transmitted through dogs, many are either abandoning their pets on streets or frantically calling shelter homes to give them up. Clearing the air about the misinformation, Dr Jasleen Kaur from Allvet Pet Clinic said, “Pets do not get Covid-19. They do not get the strain of coronavirus that can be transmitted from them to humans. There is absolutely no reason to abandon your pet or send it to a shelter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abandoned-pets-wander-through-deserted-streets-under-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/74920864.cms||Moulika.KV
April 1, 2020||Delhi||WhatsApp messages of Delhi officials under lens||NEW DELHI: Leaked WhatsApp messages from a group administered by a Delhi government official who faces disciplinary action for "dereliction of duty" is being investigated by intelligence agencies as it points to actions which were at odds with the 21-day lockdown announced to stop the spread of coronavirus. Sources at the Centre said contents and the dates of the messages coincided with the surge of migrants on Delhi roads who were seen moving towards the borders with UP and pointed to actions meant to facilitate or encourage the flow of workers during the weekend. Four Delhi government officials face action for failing to carry out lockdown orders and putting public health at risk. Renu Sharma, additional chief secretary, transport department, and Rajiv Verma, principal secretary, finance, were suspended. Satya Gopal, additional chief secretary, home and land buildings department, and Ajay Kumar Arora, SDM, Seelampur, were served show cause notices. The agencies, which are collecting information on the migrant movement in the capital, are looking at reports and videos of announcements made in certain areas asking people to move to the borders where it was claimed buses were available to take them further to UP and Bihar. The availability of DTC buses to move migrant workers in large numbers to the border is also being investigated. The WhatsApp communication, however, points to an effort to take people on the roads to certain points for onward journeys. Home ministry officials have held that the actions, in contravention of the lockdown orders, amounted to a sabotage of the effort to contain the coronavirus infection spread. Sources said the Centre's displeasure was bluntly conveyed to the UT administration on Saturday evening as thousands of migrants swamped inter-state bus depots. There have been migrant movements in other states and cities as well, but the events in Delhi are being seen in a different light by the Centre which feels that officials charged with implementing the lockdown order failed to do so and perhaps acted with deliberation. Delhi government has not reacted to action taken by the Centre against its key functionaries. TOI reported on Tuesday that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had also expressed unhappiness over the migrants being allowed to move outside the city despite the lockdown. The largescale of movement of migrants has presented central and state health authorities with the challenging task of tracking workers to their villages and hometowns. Bihar, home to thousands of migrants, is indignant about the "breach" of the lockdown and has struggled to figure out ways to deal with the return of hundreds of potential carriers of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/whatsapp-messages-of-delhi-officials-under-lens/articleshow/74920901.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Rising to the challenge, textile units of Indore make PPE kits for state||Indore: As Madhya Pradesh is facing acute shortage of protective gears for health workers, textile units in Indore have swung into action to supply Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit across state. Textile units will cater to the demand of protective gears for the entire state and kits will be distributed through a centralized supply chain from Bhopal, claimed officials. The state government has roped in over half a dozen textile units in Indore such as Pratibha Syntex to manufacture PPE kits, masks, gloves and other medical essentials crucial to prevent infection in health care workers. Madhya Pradesh Industry Development Corporation (MPIDC) Indore head Kumar Purushottam said, “PPE kits will be supplied from Indore to across the state. We have roped in Pratibha Syntex and many allied textile units to manufacture these kits for which the design and material have been approved by the state health department and initially over 2,000 PPE kits are being manufactured in a day. The target is to scale up production to around 5,000 PPE kits in a day.” According to industry experts, the daily requirement of PPE kits in the state is about 6,000-7,000 kits per day. Principal Secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, looking after supplies of medicines and logistics, said, “We are targeting around 1 lakh suits, our present manufacturing capacity is 2,500 and very soon it will be 5,000 per day at Indore. We are also buying from other sources and expecting 10, 000 in next 10 days and another 20,000 after the delivery of first lot.” He said efforts are on to start manufacturing of PPE kits in Bhopal. To ensure continuous supply of PPE kits, the state government has called raw material from Pune, Gujarat and Bangalore and targeting to build inventories for around 70,000 kits. HS Jha, vice president, HR said, “We are making one-time use protective gears, masks and gloves at our factory. Demand is huge and we are trying to meet the demand by enhancing production capacity but raw material and workers are a few challenges. We have set up a separate room for making these protective gears. We are also working to make reusable suits.” Jha said the factory is producing around 1,000 suits and 15,000 masks per day at the facility. State government also plans to send some samples of the kit to Central testing laboratory in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rising-to-the-challenge-textile-units-of-indore-make-ppe-kits-for-state/articleshow/74920857.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Max risk but few masks for cops||Bhopal: Police personnel — frontline warriors enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown — are the most vulnerable since they come in contact with people. And they do so with little more than cloth masksand a prayer. While senior police officers are working 15-16 hours at a stretch, field staff have 12-15-hour shifts in this unprecedented crisis. They have to face a lot of challenges, including the anger of people, who violate the lockdown. A force of around 3,200 cops has been deployed across the city, day and night. Although the department has distributed masks, gloves and sanitisers yet many cops, especially the lower-ranked staff complained that they have not been provided any such protective gear. They said that they were arranging these items on their own. Every police station has been given a budget of Rs5,000 for arranging sanitiser/ handwash and masks along with wash basins on their premises but several cops told TOI that it wasn’t enough as complainants, too, use the facilities. “In this unprecedented crisis, police and health workers are the most exposed to the disease as they come in contact with a large number of people daily, especially while enforcing lockdown in crowded areas,” a senior officer said. Little or nothing has been provided by the department as far as protective gear is concerned, said the officer. “I personally procured 200 litres of chemical to sanitise police stations in my jurisdiction. Masks and hand sanitisers are being procured by staff themselves,” he added. A constable deployed at a checkpost near the airport said that 22 of them, including 10 from SAF, have purchased masks on their own. RI Deepak Patil, however,said the police control room procured 9,000 masks and 2,500 gloves, which have been distributed at police stations. Small bottles of sanitisers have been provided to every cop on duty. Personal protection equipment (PPE) kits will be procured and provided by BMC. SP (HQ) Dharamveer Yadav said that those who opt for police force are mentally strong and understand how to deal with the hazards of their profession. He said that policemen have been made aware to follow basic rules during duty, including maintaining social distance. “They have been directed not to go home during the duty hours to avoid infecting family members. Masks and gloves are being provided to the force and the distribution process is underway. If demand grows, more supplies will be provided”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/max-risk-but-few-masks-for-cops/articleshow/74920858.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 1, 2020||Pune||5 more test +ve in Pune, 2 sans foreign travel history||PUNE/MUMBAI: Five more individuals tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection in the city on Tuesday, taking the Pune’s case tally to 48. “One of the persons testing positive is a 28-year-old man of Kalyaninagar. He has recent history of international travel. He was admitted to the quarantine facility at Naidu hospital on Monday and tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” a civic health official said. Another infected persons is a 55-year-old resident of Ghorpadi Peth. “He has no history of recent foreign travel. He went to KEM hospital with complain of mild breathlessness. He was referred to Naidu hospital where he tested positive for the infection. His condition is stable,” the official said. Another person diagnosed with Covid-19 is a 51-year-old woman from Junnar, the rural parts of Pune. “Her son has tested positive and is being treated at Kasturba hospital in Mumbai. She got admitted to Naidu hospital after she developed flu-like symptoms. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” the official said. A 60-year-old man, a resident of Kondhwa, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He also has no history of international travel. He developed breathlessness, following which he was referred to Naidu hospital. His condition is stable,” the official said, adding a 38-year-old man, resident of Lohegaon, also tested positive for the infection. He is being treated at Armed Forces Medical College. “He has no history of international travel. His contacts are being traced,” he said. Two Covid-19 deaths were reported from Mumbai and Palghar on Tuesday. The latest patient who died in Mumbai was a 60-year-old resident of Worli Koliwada, sealed after a dozen cases were detected there in a few days. On Tuesday, three fresh cases were found there, including that of a technician who worked with the cardiac surgeon associated with Saifee Hospital who died last week after testing positive. Palghar reported its first Covid-19 casualty with the death of a 50-year-old with no travel history. Dr Dayanad Sooryavanshi, Palghar’s district health officer, said the patient had come to stay with his family comprising wife and two daughters at his Saphale home as the factory was shut due to the 21-day lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-test-ve-in-pune-2-sans-foreign-travel-history/articleshow/74921443.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Without regular professional care, special children struggle during lockdown||PANAJI: One section that is feeling the impact of restriction on movement during the lockdown is children with special needs and their parents. Fifteen-year-old Guirim-resident Mahiya Vernekar, who has cerebral palsy, is growing restless being constantly indoors. She cannot make the weekly visit to her grandmother’s house in Mapusa. Parents of the Anand Niketan student, Mahiya, are also concerned over her not getting physiotherapy sessions. “Mahiya has become naughtier and restless since being restricted indoors. We used to take her to her grandmother’s place in Mapusa once a week, besides, taking her for a joyride to Panaji. That kept her in good spirits. She is missing her physiotherapy and speech therapy. But we cannot do anything about the current situation, we have to deal with it,” Mahiya’s father Ramesh Vernekar said. Special educator Snehal Verenkar is one of the founders of the Grey Blend Foundation, which offers services of special educators at homes across North Goa at a nominal cost. Since the novel coronavirus threat, many parents have themselves opted out of the service to avoid any possibility of infection. In cases where parents have expressed the need to continue the service, most of the Foundation’s special educators and therapists are unable to travel as they are dependent on public transport. “I have received calls from three parents already who said there is increase in behavioural problems in their autistic children. Autistic children don’t like their routine to be changed and when schools will open now after a long time it will take an extra effort to bring these children back on track. Parents do not have the same skills of special educators to deal with the children and we can be of limited help over the phone,” Snehal said. She said that the lockdown has led to shortage of some food items and this is especially tough to deal with for parents of special children. “One parent was frantically calling me today to ask where she can get biscuits from. Biscuits and other bakery products form a major part of her child’s diet and the special child is having trouble adjusting to rice and dal meals. Many special children do not understand verbal instructions, and special educators can help in convincing them,” Snehal said. She said special educators are providing parents tips like how to engage children with autism with visuals such as cartoons on TV and picture books. Headmaster of Sanjay School for Special Children in Porvorim, and with centres in Curchorem and Vasco, Tatu Kudalkar said that parents also have the added burden of taking extra care of their special children during this period, as many of these children have lower immunity. “Children with cerebral palsy need physiotherapy on a regular basis. Without it, their muscles tighten and then you are back to square one once they return to school. We were considering arranging for such children and the physiotherapist to come to the school during the lockdown for continuity in therapy. But it was felt that it is not advisable as the immunity of many of the children is low. The older students at our vocational centre too have to deal with having nothing to keep them busy at home,” Kudalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/without-regular-professional-care-special-children-struggle-during-lockdown/articleshow/74921446.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 1, 2020||Indore||Grain procurement postponed again||Indore: State government once again postponing grain procurement process on Tuesday increased worries of farmers as apart from struggling financially, they are dealing with issues including that unavailability of labours, storing harvest and safeguarding standing crops. Indore on Tuesday morning reported third incident of fire in standing crops in as many days. Following state government’s instructions, some district administration including Mandsaur had made required arrangements to start grain procurement process from Wednesday but the same had to be postponed at the 11th hour due to rise in coronavirus patients and threat of further spread. "The procurement of Rabi crops has been postponed in view of increasing threat of Covid-19. New date to start process is yet to be decided," senior administrative official leading statewide process of grain procurement said wishing anonymity. While Indore administration had already decided not to start the procurement process, other district administrations including Mandsaur cancelled the same by evening. Disappointment was also witnessed among wagers and traders, who are active in Neemuch-based grain wholesale market. Meanwhile, fire destroyed standing crops in a farmland in Katkoda village of Depalpur tehsil. This was the third incidents of fire in farms under Depalpur and Hatod tehsil in as many days, where negligence on part of power company was alleged. Bablu Jadhav, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Mandur Sena said on witnessing rise in incidents of short circuits, they had requested power company not to supply electricity during day hours but the officials did not pay attention leading to fire incidents damaging standing crops in the fields. He demanded state government and discom to compensate affected farmers and take required steps to check fire incidents in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/grain-procurement-postponed-again/articleshow/74920870.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Police to track flu-like symptoms||Tracking symptoms : Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy has asked resident associations to inform the police if anyone has flu-like symptoms. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-to-track-flu-like-symptoms/articleshow/74920888.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||One more released from hospital after recovery||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: One more Covid-19 patient was discharged from the New Bhosari Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad on Tuesday evening, after his successive throat swabs tests came negative. With this, 10 positive Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged after 14-day isolation and treatment. The health of the other two, who are also on the verge of completing their treatment, remains stable. “Even so, we have to be watchful. We are now in the process of testing more. Hopefully, the count will remain stable,” Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said, adding that no new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the PCMC said it surveyed 27,500 households and 87,346 citizens. It has so far surveyed 6.30 lakh patients for the contagion. The surveys are mostly based on self-declaration by members whose houses are visited. Citizens are asked to self declare their health conditions, age and travel history. In case the visiting officials find anything amiss, people are either taken to the hospital or are advised home quarantine. Consequently, a total of 1,498 persons have been home-quarantined till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-more-released-from-hospital-after-recovery/articleshow/74921456.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||No contact of Central Nagpur patient is positive||Nagpur: After reporting novel coronavirus positive cases consecutively from March 26 to 30, Nagpur reported no new confirmed case of Covid-19 on Tuesday. All samples tested till late Monday night were found negative. These include samples of remaining 20 contacts of Central Nagpur man who has travel history of Vrindavan (UP). More than 35 contacts of this person have been tested negative so far. Although tested negative, all of his close contacts have been shifted to MLA Hostel for 14-day quarantine. NMC, on Tuesday, brought two more housemaids and aged parents of the patient for testing. Their results are pending. Tuesday also brought relief for doctors and nurses of the GMCH. Nine doctors and eight nurses, who were in close contact of one of the positive Covid-19 patients earlier, were quarantined on Monday and their samples were taken for testing. All of them tested negative for Covid-19. These doctors and nursing staff had treated 45-year-old brother of a Jaripatka patient. He had a paralysis attack and was under treatment in GMCH. As his younger brother was tested positive for Covid-19, doctors had collected elder brother’s samples too. As they were tested positive, entire medical staff which treated this patient was at risk. Even though their samples have tested negative, they will be in home quarantine for next 14 days as a precautionary measure. Total 39 samples from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and 28 from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) were tested on Tuesday. Apart from these, one sample recommended by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 23 coming from Buldhana, four from Wardha, three from Sawangi, and one each from Sevagram, Akola and Chandrapur were tested negative. No new sample was sent from Gondia, where a positive patient is under treatment. Wednesday is going to be an important day for Nagpur. Mostly, low-risk contacts of the positive patients were tested on Tuesday. If tested negative on Wednesday, it would be a major step towards restriction of Covid-19 spread in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-contact-of-central-nagpur-patient-is-positive/articleshow/74920982.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE (Mains) put off till May end||Hyderabad: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Mains), which was scheduled to be held on April 5, 7, 9 and 11, has been postponed till May end by the National Testing Agency on Tuesday. According to a press release by NTA, exact dates will be announced after assessing the situation in the coming weeks. “The admit cards for the exam will now be issued after April 15 based on the situation at that time, ” read the release.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-mains-put-off-till-may-end/articleshow/74920871.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Youth booked for stalking minor girl in Pune||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Monday booked a 20-year-old youth on the charges of stalking a minor girl (15) for the past one month and for beating up her father after he reprimanded him on Monday. The youth was booked under sections 354-D (Stalking) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Nigdi police in this regard on Monday night. The woman stated in her complaint that on March 3, when her daughter was on her way to the dairy, the suspect stalked her and also used lewd language. “He had been following her ever since,” the complaint stated. “On Monday evening, when the girl’s father went to his house and reprimanded him, the youth beat him up. The youth also threatened the man of dire consequences, if the latter approached the police,” an officer from the Nigdi police said, adding that further investigation was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-booked-for-stalking-minor-girl/articleshow/74920880.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 14 strays captured at Gandhi Hospital||HYDERABAD: Following a spate of complaints of strays entering the Gandhi Hospital premises, GHMC workers captured 14 dogs on Tuesday and shifted them to the north zone shelter. GHMC veterinary assistant Goverdhan Reddy told TOI that the strays had been shifted to the corporation’s kennel temporarily. “The hospital authorities had informed us that these dogs are moving around within the hospital and disturbing their routine while treating Covid-19 cases,” he said. He said they also talked to some animal welfare activists before shifting the dogs to the GHMC kennel. “They are kept in a separate section of the kennel so that we can leave them back in the same place once things get better,” said Reddy. The hospital authorities had asked GHMC to step in as the dogs were entering the hospital premises during inspections conducted by the higher authorities and hampering certain services in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-strays-captured-at-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/74920876.cms||Moulika.KV
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Eerie silence, grim faces in Prof Colony||Bhopal: A week into the 21-day lockdown and five days after Professor’s Colony was declared ‘containment area’, residents are coming to terms with the hardships. Supply of milk and essential items have dried up forcing residents to move out. Residents moving out of containment area pose a threat to the general population. The administration has failed to streamline supply of essentials in the area, complain residents. Barring public announcement to stay indoors and maintain social distancing nothing has been done for screening of people or sanitisation of the area, alleged residents. The containment area resembles a war zone—an eerie silence, with grim faces occasionally spotted from the balconies of the houses. Majority of the residents of the colony are abiding by the rules and learning to live with the hardships. “We have been complying with the government orders, but what about the administration? Is it complying with its own order of containment area?” a resident, Dr Sumit Agrawal, asked. “Two most important measures mentioned in the CA order, issued by the additional district magistrate of Bhopal on March 27 night, also include sanitization operations around the colony and screening by health officers at the exit points of the colony,” he stated. But nothing of that sort is happening, he added. Another resident told TOI, “Even the supply of milk, an essential commodity, has been stopped, forcing the people to move out of the colony and violate the rules. Why can’t these be made available to the residents in the area.” The first positive case of Covid-19 was detected on March 22 from the colony. Seven days since, on Tuesday, public announcement explaining the importance of ‘social distancing’ continue to blare through the speakers. An autorickshaw with a loudspeaker fitted atop went around the colony saying, “lockdown is a must in these circumstances, coronavirus destroys automatically in 10 to 12 hours, which is why staying indoors is necessary.” The announcement also allayed fears about shortage of supply of essential commodities, saying medical stores are open 24 hours. “Please stay at home and spend time with your family for the safety of your family and yourself. All the essential commodities have been made available to you. We are working for your well-being.” The public announcement also informed the people, “Stay indoors. You will also not be able to move out of Bhopal, now. No one will be able to enter the city also as all the boundaries are sealed.” Anxious residents are keen to learn about the fate of the two positive cases found from the area and the recent test reports on them, besides screening of people in the area, if and when it would be undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eerie-silence-grim-faces-in-prof-colony/articleshow/74920882.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MERC gives major relief to solar rooftop consumers||Nagpur: Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has given a major relief to solar rooftop consumers by rejecting MSEDCL’s demand to impose astronomical grid support charge (GSC) on them. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) had proposed the GSC ranging from Rs3.60 per unit to Rs4.08 per unit for high tension (HT) consumers and as high as Rs8.60 per unit for low tension (LT) consumers. GSC at this level would have made solar rooftop unviable. The commission in its recent order stated that the total capacity of solar rooftop in the MSEDCL area is 460MW. This is way behind the target set by the state government. The commercial impact on MSEDCL is not significant. Therefore, to incentivize solar rooftop systems, the commission has decided not to impose any GSC on them. GSC will not be imposed until the total capacity of solar rooftop reaches 2000MW in the state. Solar experts said the MERC has ensured there will be no GSC for another four to five years. According to a sample calculation done by the commission, GSC will be very reasonable when imposed. However, to compensate MSEDCL for the revenue loss caused by solar rooftop consumers, MERC has imposed banking charge on the consumers. It is 7.5% for HT and 12% for LT consumers. Explaining the banking charge, solar expert Ajit Ganguly said if a consumer uses more energy than he generates through solar, then he will not have to pay any banking charge. Same is the case if generation and consumption is equal. However, at the end of the year if the consumer has generated 100 units more than his total consumption and sold it to the MSEDCL then the discom will pay only for 88 units (for LT consumers) and money equivalent to 12 units will be the banking charge. MERC has ruled that all consumers having net installed capacity up to 10KW will be exempt from banking charge. Those opting for net billing arrangement will also be exempt. Same is the case with solar rooftop systems behind the net meter and not opting for either net billing or net metering. Solar experts Ganguly and Sudhir Budhe welcomed the order and said it would encourage more consumers to go in for solar rooftop. “New consumers had put their plans on hold due to the proposed GSC,” said Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/merc-gives-major-relief-to-solar-rooftop-consumers/articleshow/74920867.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Pune||Rural police impound 80 bikes from rule violators||PUNE: The rural police on Monday impounded around 80 two-wheelers from residents moving on the roads without permission, valid reason or essential purpose. The action was carried out in the areas under the jurisdiction of Shikrapur, Loni Kalbhor, Haveli and Loni Kand police stations, which account for several semi-urban areas. “Many of the motorists had come out merely for fun,” a police officer said. The impounded vehicles will remain at the police stations concerned till the lockdown period ends or until further orders. The rural police have also been maintaining a close watch on the movement of vehicles in semi-urban areas such as Wagholi, Shikrapur, Sinhagad Road, Lonavla, Khed, Baramati, Daund and others. Sandeep Patil, the superintendent of police, Pune rural, said the police would take action against motorists violating the lockdown orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). “Such people will be booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” he said. A senior police officer told TOI, “The riders had came out on the village roads and highways. When officers intercepted their vehicles, the riders told them they were going to meet their friends, family or wanted to buy vegetables. But they had travelled around 10-20km for the same. The riders were also lying to avert police action. So, their vehicles were impounded and were taken to the police station for further action.” Some of the errant riders were found travelling in groups of two or three vehicles, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-police-impound-80-bikes-from-rule-violators/articleshow/74920873.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy tells officials to track contacts of all Covid positive cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In view of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy called an emergency review meeting on Tuesday with chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and higher officials of the health department. At the meeting, the officials informed the chief minister that the 21 new cases that have been reported have been identified as those who attended a religious congregation in New Delhi from March 15 to 17. The CM directed officials to gather information about the people who attended the religious congregation and all possible secondary contacts. Since the virus has a tendency to spread rapidly from person to person, the CM asked officials to trace all potential contacts on war footing and quarantine them to contain further spread of the virus. DGP Gautam Sawang told the chief minister that the administration had gathered information from various sources, including the railways and the organisers of the congregation, and most of the participants have already been quarantined. The chief minister appealed to those who travelled to New Delhi to come forward voluntarily and undergo necessary tests for the safety of their family and the society at large. Further, the chief minister directed officials to intensify the door-to-door survey in urban areas to identify potentially infected people who have travel histories to Covid-19 affected areas. The CM asked officials to provide means of communication like website and phone numbers so that people can come forward to report their health condition. While reviewing the distribution of essential commodities in urban areas, the CM suggested that the distribution of essentials including vegetables be decentralised. He also asked officials to take stringent action against those who jack up prices. He said that officials should ensure that every shop displays the price chart to curb overpricing of essential commodities. CM Jaganmohan Reddy further asked officials to ensure that farmers get minimum support price (MSP) for all crops including tomato and banana. He said that necessary steps need to be taken for perishable goods. Officials told the CM that they are allowing farmers to sell fruits and vegetables in front of shops so that they can increase retail sale. The CM told officials that apart from taking temporary measures, officials should also look for permanent measures by creating area-wise ‘janata markets’ according to demand. Officials informed the chief minister that export of aqua products to China and USA has resumed. Out of 69 processing units, 41 have resumed work with limited staff. Control rooms have been set up to resolve issues pertaining to aqua farmers. He said that all pending bills under Arogyasri have been cleared for network hospitals and that district-level officials should ensure proper healthcare facilities are made available at all hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-tells-officials-to-track-contacts-of-all-covid-positive-cases-in-state/articleshow/74920112.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||People throng markets before complete lockdown in Mhow||Dhar/Mhow: Before the three-day complete lockdown along with sealing borders of Mhow, people rushed to markets to buy groceries, vegetables and other items at Mhow on Tuesday. People from Mhow town and nearby areas thronged almost all vegetable and grocery shops. Markets remained crowded till 4 pm as the administration had ordered the closure of markets by 4 pm. Home delivery of grocery items continued till late evening as it was allowed by the authorities. People also came out to celebrate the festival of Ashtami of Navratri which falls on Wednesday. On the other hand, preparations for sealing Mhow town were carried out on Tuesday. Barricades were erected at all four entry points viz Dharnaka, Simrol Road, Kishanganj and near DSOI square. The barricades were closed at midnight restricting any movement. After the Nizamuddin incident, the administration conducted a search in the mosques of Tablighi Jamaat at Mhow. During this, 11 outsiders were found at Tin Gali mosque which is Markaz of the Jamaat at Mhow. All of them were taken to Mhow civil hospital and were examined for coronavirus. Hospital in charge Dr HR Verma told TOI that no symptoms of Covid-19 were found in any of them, on which they were allowed to go but were advised to remain in isolation. Earlier on Monday late evening, five women out on the roads and a shopkeeper Arvind Pal selling groceries were taken to Mhow police station. Mhow TI Abhay Nema told TOI that though no case was registered against them, they were made to sit in the police station for more than an hour as a punishment. Despite lockdown ordered by Dhar collector Shrikant Banoth, its wasn’t enforced at Pithampur. Almost all shops were found open and none of the customers at any shops maintained physical distance. In Dhar, 13 samples were sent to the laboratory on Monday evening, out of which 10 have been found negative while reports of three patients have not come. Till now, 76 persons have been kept under isolation at house or hospital and 17 have been discharged from isolation after the medical authorities were they were confirmed to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/people-throng-markets-before-complete-lockdown-in-mhow/articleshow/74920886.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Food and shelter in camps, but workers worry about home||PUNE: A huge clamour goes up as IAS officer Vishal Solanki walks around the quarantine camps in Daund and Loni Kalbhor. His instructions to his staff about cleanliness and medical facilities here are almost lost in the voices of the migrants demanding that they be allowed to go home at least 1,200km away. “The only thing they all are saying is that they want to go back home. We cannot allow them as per the government mandate till April 14,'' he said. Solanki is coordinating the operations. After reports of migrant workers leaving the camps and some errant employers ferrying them across the district’s borders surfaced, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday said the district administration will register First Information Reports against such persons. He said his officers are convincing the migrants at 150 sites to stay put. “Ration distribution has been streamlined and we will ensure that all 150 sites get enough,’‘he added. They have been put up in community halls, schools and even hostels. Many reserved quarantine facilities are being used to accommodate them. They get food, drinking water, area to bathe and toilets. But many just want to go home, even if it is over 1,000km away, there is no transport and they will have to walk. The bleakness of the situation has got to them. The 14-days that stretch ahead, lack of work, fear about contracting the coronavirus in the close confines of the quarantine camps, family ties and farm work waiting back home have made the workers restless. P Singh said he left the transit camp in Shirur but was stopped by the police. “We are finding it very difficult to stay here. We get food and ration but we do not want to stay here. Our families are worried. The government should send us back home,'' he told TOI. A worker from Daund said the police are keeping them all there. Another said social distancing was absent as the mats are laid close to each other. “There are some workers from Tamil Nadu and they have been told they will be taken care of,but it will be difficult to keep them here till April 14,” he said. In Indapur, just 20 migrants from Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka of the over 100 remain, after their contractor took them away at night. “We can give them food and shelter but they are not willing to stay back at all. They are determined to leave,'' the official said. A woman with a two-month-baby said she cannot stay in the makeshift camp and officials shifted her to another site. The camps are manned by the police but there is no tracking system at all. “We can't follow them everywhere. Some say they are going to the toilet and escape. Some refuse to eat and some get aggressive as they push us and leave. It is tough to keep them locked up in one place,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/food-shelter-in-camps-but-workers-worry-about-home/articleshow/74921465.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Manglaur home quarantined||HARIDWAR: As many as eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Manglaur have been put under home quarantine for the next 14 days to avoid any chances of spread of the deadly coronavirus. Police officials will put a notice at their homes so that their neighbours and other visitors know that a suspected coronavirus patient has been quarantined in the house. Swapn Kishore Singh, superintendent of police (rural), told TOI, “Eight people — one from Akbarpur village near Manglaur and seven from Malanpura locality of Manglaur — had gone to Delhi on February 17. After staying in Delhi for a couple of days, they visited Sultanpur district near Lucknow.” Meanwhile, Piran Kaliyar police arrested a 25-year-old man from a Roorkee village on Tuesday for posting derogatory remarks against a community on his Facebook wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/eight-tablighi-jamaat-members-home-quarantined/articleshow/74920897.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 1, 2020||Indore||Jail inmates released on parole||Indore: Keeping in view the coronavirus outbreak, 111 undertrials and 218 convicts were released from Central jail on Monday and Tuesday. Jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangre told TOI that all undertrials, who were serving a sentence less than five years were released whereas the convicts who used to go home regularly on parole were given two months parole. “On Monday morning 111 undertrials and in the evening 51 convicts were released whereas on Tuesday morning 167 convicts were released. We are going to release 51 more convicts today,” said Bhangre. He added that they had received help from private schools who provided them with two buses to drop prisoners home. “The buses were sanitised well before and after the prisoners were dropped,” he added. The inmates were released after a health check-up. They were dropped at their respective homes in 10 buses. Abiding court orders, over 475 inmates of Bhairavgarh jail were released on parole for 60 days. Officials said 100 inmates were released on Monday whereas over 350 were released on Tuesday afternoon. Jail superintendent Alka Sonkar said that the capacity of the jail is only 1600 whereas over 2550 inmates were lodged in the jail. In order to reduce the overcrowding and keeping in view the coronavirus outbreak, the inmates were released. More release will follow in the coming days, she said. The jail officials also accompanied the inmates in the bus and dropped them at their respective homes. Sonkar advised the inmates to stay indoors. District jail superintendent Aditi Chaturvedi said, “ 208 prisoner were released on Monday and 10 on Tuesda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/jail-inmates-released-on-parole/articleshow/74920894.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Cops help maintain essential supplies in Durga Nagar||Bhopal: After a railway guard tested positive for coronavirus at Durga Nagar in Semra area on the city outskirts, the area in the 1-km radius of the colony was declared "containment zone” by the district collector. While all movement of people from within the area and outside have been banned, district administration is trying hard to ensure essential supplies to the households.Cops are helping out the residents by forwarding their daily requirements to food officer, who along with the SDM is later distributing it to the residents.People in the area have taken to the lockdown seriously and are not venturing out, said Raju Saxena, a resident. Most of us have confined ourselves indoors, but keeping the kids in 24 x 7 is proving to be a tall order, he said.Meanwhile, in a news that would be of relief to the people oin the area none of the family members of the railway guard have tested positive, so far.“The guard’s wife and his two children tested negative. The spread of coronavirus in Bhopal is limited to people who contracted it from outside the city — except for the journalist, who got the infection from his daughter. We have been able to check spread of the virus at community level so far and it is very satisfying,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore.He further said, people in the “containment area” should stay indoors for 14 days, and no one from outside should be allowed to visit anybody in the area. All residents of the area are screened for coronavirus and 50 houses on each side of the Covid-19 positive patient are being regularly monitored.All essential goods are being supplied to the neighbourhood as per their needs by the administration to ensure that no one goes out.A resident of the area, Jeetu Rathore, said that essential goods were being delivered to every house by a team led by the SDM and a food officer. The residents have to tell the on-duty cops about their requirement, and they forward the information further. He said, doctors also came to the area, but he isn’t sure whether they examined people in all householdsStation house officer, Bajaria police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls said the police was reasonably tough in not allowing people to venture out or let people from outside come in but it is not always possible to accomplish it 100% lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-help-maintain-essential-supplies-in-durga-nagar/articleshow/74920896.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, ‘RoadVigilant’ tohelp track violators||Thiruvananthapuram: The Varkala police are turning to technology to nab people roaming on streets citing excuses like purchase of essential commodities and medicines. From Wednesday, the policemen at Varkala station will be using a mobile phone app, Road Vigilant, developed by two techies of a startup firm to track down the movements of motorists in their limits. The app has been developed by Shibin A S and Abhinand S of Catch a Cloud Technologies Private Limited that is incubated under Kerala Startup Mission. According to Shibin, the app works on the simple principle of cloud computing. When a motorist is checked by police at a checking point, they would enter the registration number of the vehicle and the purpose of the trip in the app. The same information will be immediately synced to the devices of cops on duty at other checking points. “If the motorist roams around unnecessarily and is caught by the cops at any other location, he/she cannot use the same excuse they used give earlier as the police already have the information of their trip,” said Shibin. Varkala station house officer inspector G Gopakumar said they already conducted a trial run and the app was working fine. The Varkala police have five checking points at Palachira, Pazhaya Chantha, Maithanam Junction, Punnammoodu and Beach Road. Meanwhile, the city police have intensified the vigil during lockdown in the wake of the death of a Covid-19 patient at Pothencode in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-roadvigilant-tohelp-track-violators/articleshow/74920115.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Lapsed driving licences valid till June 30||PUNE: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has said it would consider all vehicular documents lapsing during the lockdown valid till June 30. These documents include driving licences, fitness certificates, permits, etc. “In an order on Monday, the ministry of road, transport and highways has directed that the validity of fitness, permits, driving licences, registration or any other documents — which could not be renewed due to the lockdown, and those that have expired since February 1 or will expire by June 30 — be treated as valid till June 30,” an RTO official told TOI. The official added that the Pune RTO had stopped issuing fitness certificates on March 23, creating a huge backlog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lapsed-driving-licences-valid-till-june-30/articleshow/74920895.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown brake on pujas, devotees go tech-savvy||Kolkata: The nationwide lockdown imposed to minimise the spread of novel coronavirus has put the brakes on the celebration of the last puja on the Hindu calendar: Navratri for Gujaratis and Punjabis and Basanti Puja for Bengalis. While all community celebrations have been called off, families traditionally holding Annapurna puja on Ashtami have done away with all the elaborate arrangements, carrying out the rituals with bare minimum flowers and prasad. It goes without saying that no invitation has gone out. Pricey fruits and scarce sweets are another reason for people to cut down on prasad. In spite of supply improving, fruits are being sold for a premium and most sweet shops remained shut. People also complained about not getting enough milk to prepare kheer. Those who took the trouble to visit flower wholesale market at Jagannath Ghat on Tuesday were shocked to see the rush for the limited fares. With local train services being suspended, flowers from Sheoraphuli, Uluberia and Kolaghat have not been arriving; even retail shops across the city have been closed. In spite of the scarcity, some sellers brought flowers to Jagannath Ghat, hitching a hike on the small trucks and battery-operated rickshaws being used by vegetable sellers. But all that they could offer were hibiscus, rajanigandha, bel, dopati and marigold.  Prabir Lahiri from Ballygunge Place will go ahead with his family’s Annapurna puja. But he has cancelled the order for an idol and that of a caterer. “It will be just the four of us in the family this time. I will perform the puja in the absence of a purohit,” Lahiri said. Some Gujarati families in Bhowanipore used technology to celebrate Navratri. They read out “kathas”, connecting friends and relatives over videoconferencing. “We usually get together to chant the prayers and sing garbas, but these are extraordinary times,” said Amit Popat. His wife, Bhavika, has decorated the picture of the Goddess and kept a smartphone in front of it, through which extended families joined in the puja. A large number of people will also celebrate Ram Navami on Thursday online. Among them is 76-year-old Bharat Kumar Raja, a resident of Elgin Road, who heads one such group that will chant the ‘Ram Raksha mantra’ over a videoconferencing app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-brake-on-pujas-devotees-go-tech-savvy/articleshow/74920909.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Four rumour mongers arrested in separate cases||Nagpur: Cyber cell sleuths on Tuesday arrested four rumour mongers in separate cases for spreading fake news related to the outbreak of Covid-19, and the ongoing curfew in city. Meanwhile, the cyber cell of city and rural police is keeping a strict vigil on social media, as Wednesday is April Fool’s Day. Cops have urged citizens to refrain from sending fake news, or face action. The two arrested persons, identified as Shoaib Sheikh and Mohd Irfan Qureshi, were booked for spreading a fake message on Tuesday regarding the deployment of military in some sensitive areas in the city. The other two, identified as Sanjay Chanekar and Ramdas Tonge, were arrested for spreading a fake message regarding disinfectant spraying in the city at night between 10pm and 5am, with a picture of municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, earlier this month. In both the incidents, cases were filed at Sadar police station under relevant sections. Last week, city police had arrested three persons who had made a fake audio clip claiming that several patients, including a few doctors had tested positive for Covid-19. The audio clip had spread like wildfire among the citizens. An offence was registered and city police, with the help of cyber cell nabbed the trio. In the latest incident, the WhatsApp number of Nagpur police enquiry had received a message claiming that some areas in the city were blacklisted, and that military would be deployed in those areas. The areas imcluded Mominpura, Shanti Nagar, Pili Nadi, Jafar Nagar, Gandhibagh, Tajbagh, Kamptee and Hasanbagh. The message claimed that police could not control these areas, and hence the military force was being called in there. The message also said that lathicharge and rubber bullets would be fired by the military to control the crowd, so citizens should stay in their homes. In the end, the message read, “Please share this message with everyone and don’t go out of the house”. Police officials later verified the message with the police commissionerate and district commissioner’s office and learnt that it was a fake news, following which Ashok Bagul, senior PI of police control room, filed a complaint with Sadar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-rumour-mongers-arrested-in-separate-cases/articleshow/74920893.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Pune||1.5 lakh construction labourers under govt care: Walse Patil||PUNE: The labour department has reached out to construction workers. All six revenue divisions have directed officials to focus on the 1.5 lakh workers stuck in the state. Labour minister Dilip Walse Patil said the government has made arrangements for midday meals for registered construction workers in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nagpur under the Atal Ahar Scheme at their sites. “Most are migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. We have arranged for their food and shelter as they are not able to go back to their home states,” Walse-Patil said. All developers’ associations across the state have been told to ensure that construction site workers are looked after. Pune CREDAI metro president Suhas Merchant told TOI that labourers at 45 sites across the state are getting food as of now. CREDAI Maharashtra had already promised ration to those stranded at construction sites. “I was planning to arrange for a vehicle and leave for my home town in Madhya Pradesh. But my family has told me to stay put. I am getting food and ration and we are taken care of,” a worker told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-5l-construction-labourers-under-govt-care-walse-patil/articleshow/74921471.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Over 11 lakh screened in Chhota Udepur for COVID-19||Vadodara: The health department of Chhota Udepur completed door-to-door survey of 98% houses in the tribal-dominated district for coronavirus by Monday. The survey was initiated a week back with 690 teams roped in for the mammoth task.According to district administration officials, over 11.6 lakh people in the district have been screened for symptoms of coronavirus. “Our teams have also created a database of people who have travelled abroad and other cities and whether they have any symptom or not so that nobody in disease can fall ill due to the virus,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra.“Not a single case of coronavirus has been recorded in the district so far. Thirteen people have been kept in the home quarantine and two in government facility,” said chief district health officer Dr M R Chaudhary.“Once the quarantine period will be over our health workers will check their health twice in a day for some period to make sure that they do not show any symptoms,” Mayatra added.“Along with screening people our teams have also advised people to contact nearest health centre if they have cold, cough or breathing problems,” said another district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-11-lakh-screened-in-chhota-udepur-for-covid-19/articleshow/74919218.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Industries distribute food, ration to workers||Indore: Rising to the occasion, industries of Indore and Pithampur have started distributing food packets and ration to workers in the region. Industries have joined hands to supply food to the needy hit by Covid-19 lockdown, which they expect may help in prevent migration of workers to their home towns. The country has witnessed massive migration of workers mostly dailywage labourers and contractual workers from industrial towns to native villages due to lack of work and remuneration. Dinesh Mishra, head of corporate affairs at SRF Ltd said, “We are distributing 500 food packets daily to workers and the needy in Pithampur. We are in touch with our labour contractors and ensuring feeding workers of unorganized sectors.” Amid complete lockdown in city due to a spurt in Covid-19 positive cases, food and ration are being supplied through district administration. The Centre has directed state governments and collectors to make arrangements for food and basic amenities for migrant workers to prevent massive migration from industrial towns in past few days. Rajeev Mujumdar, deputy general manager, HR, Unichem laboratories ltd, Pithampur said, “Looking at the seriousness of the situation and request from district administration, we are distributing around 300 food packets every day in areas where workers reside. We are maintaining proper hygiene and following norms to ensure healthy and clean environment.” Many industries are supplying sanitisers and masks. Pratibha Syntex Ltd is feeding around 1,500 workers daily in their canteen and distributing 500 food packets every day. Some industries are also arranging accommodation for unorganized sector workers while many companies are supplying rations to their workers in these hard times. Pramod Dafaria, president, Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh said, “The association has identified areas, where most workers reside with their families. Asha Confectionery is distributing over 9,000 food packets every day. We are giving ration packets containing wheat, pulses and rice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/industries-distribute-food-ration-to-workers/articleshow/74920900.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Spl teams to ensure supply of essentials||Vijayawada: The state government has constituted coordination teams to ensure proper implementation of the lockdown and maintain the supply of essential commodities. A total of 32 officials have been divided into seven teams to oversee issues regarding supply of essentials. The coordination team headed by MT Krishna Babu, principal secretary (transport)will look after the overall coordination of all issues. The team headed by Rajat Bhargava will look after the manufacturing of essential commodities. The team headed by Kona Sasidhar will look after their supply. Y Bhanu Prakash will head the team that will oversee transportation and movement of essential commodities and Gopal Krishna Dwivedi will head the team that will deal with management issues related to local bodies and essential services like water, power and sanitation. Vijay Kumar Reddy has been appointed for media management and dissemination of information to the public. District collectors have been asked to set-up coordination teams on similar lines at district levels. Daily reports of the situation will be generated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-teams-to-ensure-supply-of-essentials/articleshow/74920136.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||40-year-old toddy addict ends life||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old labourer ended his life by clutching a live electric wire at Kothur in Rangareddy district on Monday. Police said that the man, who was a toddy addict, might have taken the extreme step due to severe withdrawal symptoms. The deceased was identified as Laxmaiah from Kodicherla village near Kothur. According to Kothur inspector N Chandrababu, the incident happened at Kodicherla village on Monday afternoon. “Laxmaiah was addicted to toddy. Due to the lockdown, he was unable to get toddy. Family members said that he suffered from withdrawal symptoms for a few days and could not sleep. On Monday afternoon, Laxmaiah held the live wires of an electric transformer in the village and died on the spot,” the inspector said. Police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC and shifted the body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-year-old-toddy-addict-ends-life/articleshow/74920926.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hundreds of Jharkhand workers eager to go home||HYDERABAD: Fear of being stuck in an alien city far away from their families is haunting hundreds of construction workers from Jharkhand, who are working at a site in Kandi of Sangareddy district. They are eager to go back home as they feel their villages are better suited to protect them from contracting the dreaded coronavirus. “I am scared of something happening when I am all alone here,” 31-year-old Inderdev Kumar, a carpenter from Pallamu district in Jharkhand, said. Explaining what home means to him, the migrant worker says, “Ma, biwi, gaon, parivar (Mother, wife, village, family).” The sole breadwinner, he shudders to think what will happen to his two small children without him. “Work is not everything,” he says. Kumar is among 2,000 workers, many of them from Jharkhand, hired by two companies working on the site. Till Monday, they did not have food but after activists raised their issue, the companies provided essential commodities under government supervision. Anup Kumar Paswan, supervisor at the site, said, “We have tried reaching out to the Jharkhand chief minister’s office as well as the collector, but in vain.” Paswan says with the spread of the virus, it is safer for them in their villages than here. “Our villages are better isolated and there are no cases that have been reported there.” Paswan said some of the workers had left on foot for Jharkhand. He, however, could not confirm the numbers but said they remained small as most amenities were being provided by government here. Activist Vinay Vangala, who has been instrumental in drawing the government’s attention to the plight of the workers, said, “We are directing migrants to Annapurna centres. For those who do not have access to this, we are providing food packets.” Vangala and other activists were working on a site in Bhanur in the city on Tuesday where 50 migrants had been living on biscuits for two days. Speaking to TOI, M Nagesh, revenue divisional officer, Sangareddy, said the two companies had given good facilities to the workers and after the government’s intervention they had provided ration and santizers as well. “Most migrants want to leave because they are scared to be away from their families in a time of crisis. We are trying to convince them to stay and have informed them that road, rail and air networks are shut for now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-of-jharkhand-workers-eager-to-go-home/articleshow/74920907.cms||Uttara Varma
April 1, 2020||Pune||Actor’s interim relief extended till April 20||PUNE: A sessions court on Tuesday extended the interim pre-arrest bail granted to actor Vikram Gokhale in the Girivan cheating case till April 20. The case, alleging cheating of Rs96.99 lakh, was lodged against Gokhale and two others by an investor in a plot scheme at the Girivan hill station project, at Dongargaon and Hotale villages in Mulshi taluka. “The matter came up for hearing before in-charge sessions judge H R Waghmare as the regular court was not in session. The judge extended the interim protection as the Paud police have yet to file a report on the notice the court had issued at the last hearing, seeking their reply on the actor’s anticipatory bail plea,” Shivraj Joshi, a lawyer representing the actor, told TOI. Kothrud resident Jayant Bahirat has alleged that Gokhale, as chairman of Sujata Farms Pvt Ltd, and two of its director misrepresented the project and cheated in allotment of plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/actors-interim-relief-extended-till-april-20/articleshow/74920904.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 1, 2020||Pune||With check-up & medicines, this doc helps many fight lockdown blues||PUNE: For the past few days, a modest multi-speciality hospital in Chikhali has been an oasis of hope in a city left feeling bleak by the novel coronavirus outbreak. Apart from providing free treatment and medication, general physician Jitendrasinh Rathod also feeds about 1,000 daily wage workers, women and children from the area. Rathod’s 20-bed facility is located at Sane Chowk. “I have been running the multi-speciality facility for a few years,” Rathod said. About three-four months ago, he established the Rathod Foundation for social work. “Under the foundation’s banner, I had started medical check-up for daily wagers in the initial stages of the coronavirus outbreak,” Rathod said. During these check-ups, Rathod noticed that the workers were struggling to find food, and started providing packaged food — mostly rice khichadi. Rathod recalled how, at first, some workers with major health complaints got really worried — this was before the lockdown was enforced — and would come to him for check-ups. “They had some flu-like symptoms, but unrelated to Covid-19. With proper medication and care, they recovered,” Rathod said. As the service was free, word spread rapidly, and the other daily wagers from the vicinity rushed to Rathod’s facility for any health-related complaints. “Earlier, I would also go to their transit camps and distribute food, but I haven’t been able to do that since the lockdown came into effect. So we now distribute food directly from the hospital,” Rathod said. Soon, Rathod started getting phone calls from other people and volunteers’ organization, with requests for food. “We provide food to them too as per requirement.” he said. The food is prepared in the hospital’s kitchen, and Rathod has been funding the entire initiative out of his own pocket. “My social foundation is in its nascency and has no outside funding. I have been spending from whatever income my hospital gets to help people out in this time of crisis,” Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-check-up-medicines-this-doc-helps-many-fight-lockdown-blues/articleshow/74921478.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat TR takes control of Tipeshwar||Nagpur: Finally, from April 1, administrative control of Tipeshwar (149sqkm) and Painganga (400sqkm) wildlife sanctuaries in Yavatmal district will be brought under Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), Amravati. Both the sanctuaries in Pandharkawda wildlife division were under Pench Tiger Reserve. The state government had issued orders in this regard on January 30, 2020. With better wildlife management in the last 4-5 years, Tipeshwar has come a long way and has hit the global map for presence of tigers and regular sightings. Tipeshwar hogged limelight when a collared tiger travelled 3,000km to reach Dnyanganga sanctuary in Buldhana. In 2012 and 2014, Tipeshwar and Maregaon villages were relocated. In 2015-16, there were two tigresses and a male. Today, the park has 17 tigers with three males, five females and nine sub-adult cubs. Now MS Reddy, APCCF & field director of MTR, will take over the control of these two sanctuaries with immediate effect. Reddy, who already controls over 3,058 sqkm area, which includes eight wildlife sanctuaries and one national park in three districts, will get an additional control of 574sqkm now. The total area under MTR’s administration will be 3,633sqkm. But, Isapur wildlife sanctuary (121sqkm), which is under Pusad territorial division, has been left out. The logic behind handing over both the sanctuaries to Melghat is that these protected areas (PAs) fall under Amravati revenue division. Till now the PAs were under the Nagpur revenue division. The divisional forest officer (DFO), wildlife, Pandharkawda, used to look after Tipeshwar and Painganga. Now he will report to the Melghat field director. The area under Melghat will now be quite close to what APCCF (wildlife), East Nagpur, looks after. As per the new GR, Reddy will straightway report to PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar, who will be his controlling officer. The fresh move will help expediting relocation of villages in which the revenue department has an important role to play. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-tr-takes-control-of-tipeshwar/articleshow/74920908.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopalis stranded in other states count down to end of lockdown||Bhopal: With the country-wide lockdown and suspension of trains, flights and inter-state buses, many Bhopalis are stranded all over the country and having a tough time fending for themselves in hostels, hotels and apartments. Komal Nagdavne, a private employee based in Mumbai, has been stuck in her apartment all by herself since March 24. With little supplies and nowhere to go, she fears what will happen to her if the lockdown extends further. “I was supposed to work from home so when I tried booking my train or flight tickets on March 21, the portals were jammed because of the rush. I could not get home and all the flights were cancelled after March 24. I only have supplies for two weeks, but I don't know what will I do if the lockdown continues after April 14. All the shops are closed and policemen are not letting people go out even to get groceries and medicines", said Komal. Snehlata Sharma Bharadwaj, mother of Ragini Gupta, a lawyer, told TOI that her daughter is stuck in her PG accommodation in Delhi and is unwell. Due to the lockdown, she is suffering all alone. “She is in a really bad state with stomachache and fever. The private hospital did not admit her and only gave her painkillers. Doctors say if her bleeding does not stop, she will not be able to have children in the future. I would have gone to Delhi and brought her back, but due to the lockdown I am not able to take care of my daughter", said Snehlata. Ragini Tiwari said her five-year-old daughter is in Raipur with her grandmother and aunt since March 12. Recently, she also had a flu, which has got her really worried. “I was out of town on an assignment when my mother-in-law had to leave for Raipur for treatment. She took my daughter. When her treatment was over and they were about to come on March 22, all trains got cancelled. Since then, my daughter and mother-in-law are at a relative's place. My daughter is suffering from cold, I just hope it is not coronavirus", she said. Saroj Kumar, a private employee based in Abu Dhabi also tried to make it home in Bhopal, but could not get flight tickets. "My wife and children are in Bhopal, while I am here at the mercy of my company. So far, we have not faced any problem, but my family is having trouble in the city as everything is shut down,", Kumar said. Himanshu Sharma, another private employee, is stuck in Goa and is living in the company-provided accommodation. "Initially it did not seem as serious, but now that everything is closed, here I am feeling lonely without my family. Though there has not been a problem of survival, the only things I am relying on is the stuff I have in store. Hope it lasts till the end of the lockdown," he said. Many other families are having to spend the lockdown time away from their loved ones as there is no means to come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-stranded-in-other-states-count-down-to-end-of-lockdown/articleshow/74920915.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt initiates measures to help tomato farmers||Amaravati: Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu has directed officials to help tomato farmers who are facing trouble selling their produce due to the lockdown. He asked them to allow the tomato vehicles to reach marketplaces. Responding to a plea made by a farmer on social media, the minister on Tuesday said he has asked officials to track down the farmer and purchase his entire quantity. He assured that they are taking necessary measures to allow the transportation of the agriculture goods across the state. He said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has already directed them to discuss the issue of transporting perishable goods to the markets in the neighbouring states if they are opened. He revealed that officials are negotiating with the exporters of perishable agriculture produces, including tomato and fruits, as measures are needed to clear the stocks from AP. He said the chief minister is particular about initiating measures to help farmers in the time of the lockdown. He admitted that they could not move the stocks out of the agriculture fields due to non-availability of transport and agriculture labourers. He, however, said that the Centre has already issued a notification to allow movement of agriculture commodities across the country by opening inter-state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-initiates-measures-to-help-tomato-farmers/articleshow/74920127.cms||Samdani MN
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Training to cooking, players make themselves at home||PANAJI: Terraces, balconies, unoccupied rooms and even the road in front of the house is being put to good use by Goa’s top footballers as they fight to remain fit in times of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. With a 21-day lockdown across the country, there are challenges for everyone. Footballers are coming up with innovative ideas to maintain their fitness levels at home, drawing inspiration from superstars like Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. The Goan footballers may not have the best facilities like the Barcelona and Juventus stars but that has not put a full stop to their fitness training. They haven’t stopped and are now urging fans to stay safe, fit, and indoors. “There isn’t much I can do right now but I always work on my fitness even in off season. I train on the terrace. Running is restricted but can’t help it. I eat healthy food and my diet is on track,” FC Goa midfielder Lenny Rodrigues told TOI. FC Goa captain Mandar Rao Dessai hasn’t stopped training, even when at home, and has been urging fans to protect themselves. “These are testing times and we need to fight together to get through them,” said Mandar, who was last seen playing foot volley with former teammate Jonathan Cardozo, at home. This is off season for Mandar and Lenny with the Indian Super League (ISL) already coming to an end. But for others like Churchill Brothers FC defender Meldon D’Silva, there are still five matches to be played in the I-League. “Our movement is restricted. There are cops roaming everywhere in Benaulim. I just try to do some body weight and abdomen exercise at home,” said the Churchill defender. “Fitness levels have dropped but there is little we can do about this,” he said. Former Churchill Bros midfielder Nicholas Fernandes, now with Gokulam Kerala FC, is making the best use of the lockdown, working out, spending time with family and even learning cooking from his mother. “It has not been easy due to restrictions, but we are fine for now. Have been working out and sleeping really well these days. I get time to spend with my family and my dog, which I have missed lately,” said Nicholas. Many players from the Goa Professional League are also finding it tough with the state league approaching its business end, yet there is no stopping. FC Goa developmental team striker Aaren D’Silva has a ground just ahead of his house. He’s tried training there, only to be stopped by the police. The road in front of his house has come in handy. Nobody really knows when the restrictions on movement will be lifted. Until then, footballers will continue with what they know best: staying fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/training-to-cooking-players-make-themselves-at-home/articleshow/74921472.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||American woman who spent 2 weeks in Rishikesh tests Covid-19 positive on return to US||DEHRADUN: An American woman who had spent two weeks in Rishikesh in March created a stir in the yoga town when she put up a post on Facebook a few days ago after she had returned to the US that she has been found Covid-19 positive. In the post which she put up on a friend’s timeline, she alerted that all those with whom she had come in contact with in Rishikesh, should get themselves checked. The woman had stayed at a resort in the Tapovan area when she was in Rishikesh from March 2 to 14. Speaking to TOI about the issue, Dr Jagdish Joshi, health department in-charge of Tapovan area, said, “The woman’s friends told us that she has written — I was with you guys for a long time and now, I am tested positive for coronavirus so I request all of you to please get yourself tested and take care.” In another post, she told her social media friends that she became asymptomatic on March 23. “The incubation period is from my last day in New Delhi, the two days travel and my week home. Who knows really where I got it from. Thank you all for your wishes. Please everyone follow the guidelines set forth by your medical communities,” she wrote further. The health department, on the basis of her hotel and travel details, identified 27 people who have been quarantined for 14 days. Among those she met were some children in a local school in Rishikesh as well. Health officials said that none of the people have so far showed any symptoms. Meanwhile, it also came to light that the woman had stayed in Delhi’s Paharganj area for about five days. “We are writing to the medical authorities in Delhi to get the locations she had stayed in, so that people she came in contact with can be alerted,” Dr Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/american-woman-who-spent-2-wks-in-rishikesh-tests-covid-19-positive-on-return-to-us/articleshow/74920913.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Star quarantine facilities charge guests over Rs 4,000 per day||HYDERABAD: Quarantined in star hotels in New Delhi, international passengers, many of them from Hyderabad, who flew into the country hours before the lockdown, have been hit by a double whammy— steep tariffs and an approaching ‘exit’ date. Some of the families that TOI spoke to said that the daily rent at these hotels ranges between Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,600 per day, which comes to Rs 56,000 to Rs 64,400 for the entire isolation period. But the hefty bill is only part of their problem. Guests say that some of the hotels have asked them to vacate the premises by April 5, leaving them worried about where to go next. With all domestic connections suspended and several borders sealed, they are not sure how to get home once they check out. “We have no relatives or family in Delhi. There is also no communication from authorities about alternative arrangements. I don’t know what my parents will do if they have to leave the hotel by April 5,” Naveen Amaravadi told TOI from Toronto. His elderly parents arrived in India from the US on March 22 and were taken to a star hotel. “We had to take a tough call and send them back (from my sister’s place in New Jersey) because my father is diabetic and he was running out of medicines. Also, the situation in the US was deteriorating so we thought they’d be safer in Hyderabad,” said Amaravadi, who even tweeted his story to officials in India, seeking help for his parents. He said there were at least 30 families from Hyderabad staying at the same hotel. When TOI contacted the hotel, the staff confirmed that the exit date was fixed as April 5. “Maybe the government will make some arrangement after that,” said an executive at the front desk, adding that 100 families had been quarantined at the property. Another resident from Nizampet shared a similar story. “My parents returned from Philadelphia on March 20. They were asked to wait for mandatory screening at the airport for 19 hours...Since my father is 60 years old, they were asked to stay in quarantine for 14 days. They are staying in a hotel by paying Rs 4,000 per day. These are such tough times...Do they have to keep paying and stay in Delhi...Can they not return home?” Navya tweeted, seeking IT minister KT Rama Rao’s help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/star-quarantine-facilities-charge-guests-over-rs-4k/day/articleshow/74920938.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Muted Rama Navami this year as celebrations move indoors||Vijayawada: The state government has urged the public to avoid large gatherings as part of Sri Rama Navami celebrations this year. The festival will be a low-key affair with the lockdown in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. One of the widely-celebrated festivals in the state, Sri Rama Navami is observed for over five days with devotees offering prayers to Lord Sri Rama and the performance of the Seetha Rama Kalyanam in pandals on Rama Navami. This year, authorities of the endowments department will perform the Rama Kalyanam at Vontimitta without permitting devotees as part of measures to prevent large congregations. In a similar move, authorities at the Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada have announced that the Sri Rama Kalyanam will be performed at the temple without allowing any devotees. Officials are looking into the possibility of live telecasting of the Kalyana utsavam. The Ram Mandiram at Eluru Road is also gearing up to celebrate the festival without devotees. Artisans selling Rama idols in Vijayawada are running into losses as no buyers have come forward with the lockdown in force. “We sell Sri Rama idols every year during Sri Rama Navami. Hundreds of pandal organisers used to purchase idols from us. But the situation is quite opposite this year. Not even a single set of idols has been sold to date. We are migrant workers from Rajasthan and the government should help us,” said Jaidheer, a seller from Kanuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/muted-rama-navami-this-year-as-celebrations-move-indoors/articleshow/74920172.cms||Venu Lanka
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Avoid panic buying, no shortage of LPG: IOC||Bhopal: Indian Oil Corporation has allayed fears of LPG shortage in times of Corona lockdown, assuring that the supply chain is functioning “very effectively and efficiently, as ever”, and that “ there is no shortage of petroleum products in the state. However, a refill is allowed only 15 days after availing the last one. Talking to TOI, V Satish Kumar, state head of IOC and state-level coordinator for the oil industry, said, “As of March 31, we have pending booking calls of 19,097 and a backlog of 1.17 days only. We deliver around 16,500 filled cylinders every day in Bhopal city. The situation is absolutely normal and well with in control. There is no need to worry.” “We have introduced a system of enabling booking a refill only after a gap of 15 days from the day of availing a refill, as this will avoid hoarding arising out of panic booking and help meet requirements of all needy customers in time,” Kumar said, adding: “We request our customers to understand and abide by that in the interest of all.” He said immediately after the lockdown, there was a 25% spike in LPG cylinder refill booking between March 24 and 26. “It has tapered down to normal levels now,” he said, adding that all of IOC’s bottling plants in the state are functioning at more than 125% of their capacity, adhering to health protocols. “All of our LPG distributorships are fully operational,” he reiterated, urging LPG customers not to resort to “panic booking” as there is sufficient stock. Customers needn’t visit a showroom to book refill, as all other modes of booking, including SMS, IVRS, WhatsApp, website and mobile app are operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/avoid-panic-buying-no-shortage-of-lpg-ioc/articleshow/74920941.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||All eyes on Markaz Nizamuddin after spike in coronavirus cases||Hyderabad/Vijayawada: After a sudden spike in positive cases in AP and Telangana, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the Telugu states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All the six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some of the participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of Covid-19 when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train and a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz, which can accommodate about 10,000 people. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to the lockdown. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform 104 helpline immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of the society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help the authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. Of the 746 persons from AP, 122 are quarantined in the hospitals, 207 sent to government quarantine centres and 297 are in home quarantine. Search is on for the remaining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-eyes-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-spike-in-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/74920163.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||City sweet-makers want morning slots||Kolkata: Sweet-makers in Bengal have appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to consider changing the timings of their shops and allow them to operate between 8am and 1pm, instead of the current noon-4pm slot. “We had written to the CM, requesting her to allow us to open shops as over 10 million litres of milk had been going waste every day. But the timing we have been allowed to operate is not conducive to sweet shops and hence, the fresh appeal,” said Jagannath Ghosh, joint secretary of Paschimbanga Mishtanna Byabasayee Samity that has written to the CM , asking for a time change. While smaller sweet shops in residential areas opened around noon on Tuesday, bigger brands remained shut for want of workers, who had gone home following the lockdown. A review by the association showed most customers stepped out to buy essentials in the morning and there was hardly any buyer in the afternoon. Post 1 pm, it would be difficult to find customers for sweets, the association said. “We are taking some time before we are able to start functioning normally,” said Dhiman Das, of K C Das. Among the big brands, Hindusthan Sweets and Balaram Mullick opened on Tuesday. But the entire range of sweets was not available on the first day, when the milk and chenna supply was yet to be restored. Sweet shop owners said they would ensure safety for their workers and there was no question of crowding as not too many labourers were employed. “The question of crowding outside the shops also doesn’t arise because we will follow the same rules as that at grocery shops,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick. Child specialist Apurba Ghosh waited in a queue outside Hindusthan Sweets, said owner Rabindra Kumar Pal. “We were happy to see him. It helped to boost our spirit,” Pal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-sweet-makers-want-morning-slots/articleshow/74920959.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kids of Covid patient too test positive||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after concerns were raised over compromise of room quarantine by a Covid patient in Malayinkeezhu, two of his kids were also tested positive for the disease on Tuesday. This is the second time the district administration is coming across violation of home quarantine. The authorities have communicated to the field volunteers to insist on room quarantine and assign a single member of the family to take care of person under quarantine. Samples were tested positive for a 13-year-old boy and 8-year -old girl. However, the samples of his wife came negative on Tuesday. A total of 300 people were brought under isolation in the district on Tuesday. 23 people completed 28-day home quarantine on Tuesday. Currently, 17,749 people are under home quarantine in the district. Thirteen were admitted to hospitals with disease symptoms and 22 were discharged on Tuesday. Meanwhile, on Tuesday one more Covid-19 case was reported in Kollam. The new case is that of a family member of the Prakkulam native who was tested positive last week. Meanwhile, health authorities identified 139 primary contacts and 155 secondary contacts of the Prakkulam native through field visits. All except one primary contacts have been tested negative. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kids-of-covid-patient-too-test-positive/articleshow/74920181.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Govt’s scientific adviser ‘differs’ with ministry, pitches for home-made masks||NEW DELHI: Referring to research that claims once 80% of the population wears a mask, the coronavirus outbreak “can be stopped immediately”, office of the principal scientiﬁc adviser (PSA) to the government on Tuesday issued a detailed manual on homemade masks which can be easily produced with household material and can also be reused. “Wearing the masks is specially recommended for people living in densely populated areas across India,” said the office of the PSA, K Vijay Raghavan. Quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), the manual emphasised that “masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. If you wear a mask, then you must know how to use it and dispose of it properly.” The manual, issued by the PSA office, will help people to make such masks at home with the help of simple household materials such as cotton cloth, scissors and sewing machine. The analysis of the US-based National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) says masks can minimise the risk of the Covid-19 spread. “If 50% of the population were to wear masks, only 50% of the population would be infected by the virus. Once 80% of the population wears a mask, the outbreak can be stopped immediately,” the PSA’s office in its statement said. The analysis further said, “Covid-19 virus spreads easily from person to person contact. Virus carrying droplets dry fast enough to form droplet nuclei and remain airborne eventually landing on different surfaces. The SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has been detected in aerosols for up to three hours and on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to three days”. The proposed guide is meant to provide a simple outline of best practices to make, use and reuse masks to enable NGOs and individuals to self-create such masks and accelerate widespread adoption of masks across India. Besides, the PSA asked scientific institutions to self assess and prepare their labs for research and testing through the standard and rigorous protocol. The entire response is being monitored by the science and technology empowered committee for Covid-19. The committee, constituted on March 19, is responsible for coordination amongst science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govts-scientific-adviser-differs-with-ministry-pitches-for-home-made-masks/articleshow/74921930.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||6 TN workers stranded in NZB||Hyderabad: DMK president MK Stalin on Tuesday brought to the notice of Telangana government six Tamil Nadu workers stranded in Nizamabad due to the lockdown. In reponse, IT minister KT Rama Rao said that the migrant workers are being taken care of and put out photographs of the group of persons being extended provisions. “Thank you for your quick support to Tamil Nadu workers during this critical period,” Stalin told KTR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-tn-workers-stranded-in-nzb/articleshow/74920953.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government seeks clarity on people’s entry from other states||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Tuesday moved the high court seeking review of the orders regarding restriction of the entry of people coming from other states at the state borders. The HC had issued orders in two separate petitions regarding the entry of the people. The government moved a review petition saying the orders were contradictory. The government contended that in one of the orders the high court directed the government to follow national protocol but in the second, it directed the government to allow people enter the state without mentioning the national protocol. The high court heard the review petition through video conference for the first time in its history. Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy heard arguments from their homes while advocate general S Sriram and counsels for the petitioners presented their arguments through mobile phones. The AG said the orders were contradictory and requested the court to take back the order that did not mention national protocol on Covid-19. The chief justice said his order clearly mentioned the national protocol. The counsel for the petitioner said the second order was given by Justice Satyanarayana Murthy. The high court reserved its orders on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-seeks-clarity-on-peoples-entry-from-other-states/articleshow/74920198.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Denied entry into their villages, migrant labourers seek FIR against President Xi for spreading Covid-19, unemployment||Bareilly: A group of migrant labourers from Lakhimpur Kheri and Nepal, who were working in Maharashtra, Delhi and other states, have given a written complaint to local police seeking action against China’s President Xi Jinping for spreading Covid-19 pandemic across the world. Main complainant Pinku Kumar, who is a resident of Palia town, was not allowed to enter his village and was forced to stay in the quarantine camp. Another complainant, Sanjay Kumar, also belongs to Lakhimpur Kheri district and he had reached his hometown after travelling for nearly five days and spending much part of his savings. In their complaint, the migrants also said that Jinping is responsible for all the deaths, lockdown and unemployment, “so he should be booked and compensation should be provided to the affected people”. Circle Officer Rakesh Nayak has received a copy of the complaint from them and handed over to the Palia SHO. Palia SHO Vidhya Shankar Shukla told TOI, “A group of labourers have collectively given a complaint and asked for action against Xi Jinping for spreading novel coronavirus and unemployment. We cannot register an FIR on such a complaint and have forwarded the complaint to the SSP. Police and district administration are ensuring that proper food is provided to the migrants until they are quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/denied-entry-into-their-villages-migrant-labourers-seek-fir-against-president-xi-for-spreading-covid-19-unemployment/articleshow/74920214.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, cabinet and MLAs defer 75% of their March salaries||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot deferred payment of 75% of his gross March salary to himself along with deputy CM, cabinet ministers and all MLAs. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting held at the CM's residence on Tuesday. The move has taken due to the shortfall in the expected revenue of Rs 17,000 crore for the month of March. Similarly, 60% and 50% of the gross salary of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officers, respectively, has been deferred by the government. Other than Grade IV employees, 30% of the salaries of all other government employees will be deferred for some time. The 30% deduction will be applicable also to pensioners. Health workers, policemen and contractual employees have been exmpted from this deduction. The state had gone under lockdown even before the Centre announced a countrywide shutdown. The revenue of most of the departments has gone down following the move. In a major relief to disadvantage groups, Gehlot has decided to give a financial assistance of Rs 1,500 to BPL families, beneficiaries of state BPL and Antayodya Yojna, 25 lakh construction workers and registered street vendors who are not covered under the social security pension scheme. The total cost of the financial payout will be Rs 500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-cabinet-mlas-defer-75-of-their-march-salaries/articleshow/74921498.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Woman booked, youth held for sharing fake news||KOLKATA: Two FIRs were registered and a person was arrested in the last 48 hours as cops stepped up their fight against rumour-mongering. What was appalling was the fact that most of these rumour-mongers are well-educated students, bankers, chartered accountants and even government officials. Worsening things was an ‘April Fool’s’ message stating that the lockdown will continue for 10 additional days after August 14. Only when an attached file is downloaded does the receiver understand that s/he has been ‘fooled’. A day after a woman was arrested for spreading panic in New Alipore, it was the turn of Techno City police under Bidhannagar police to arrest a 26-year-old man who has been spreading rumours of as many as six people of a New Town housing complex being diagnosed with Covid-19. The accused — Muslem Ali Moll, a resident of Patharghata — is unemployed. He had forwarded a message that he had received and claimed to have no idea about the consequences. “He was spreading fake information over social media and WhatsApp. He had also sent in the message that the owner of the security firm was also infected. After getting the message, locals were very scared and tried to leave the place. The security guards also refused to work due to fear. Soon, a suo motu complaint was lodged and the accused nabbed,” said an investigating officer. In north Kolkata, netizen Jayanta Kumar Saha lodged a complaint against a woman for sharing a malicious video shot outside the city, passing it off as an incident that took place within Kolkata. “The complainant was surfing his mobile phone on Ahiritola Street when he noticed the post on his Newsfeed on Facebook. Sharing such content can lead to communal tension,” an officer said. The case was recorded at Jorabagan police station under sections 153A/295A/504/505(1)(c)(2) of IPC. The port division has lodged another FIR over the same video. “We are investigating the charges. The video was shot in Ahmedabad, but was passed off an incident in our area,” claimed the second complainant Asraful Hossain. The Kolkata police, meanwhile, have decided to question 100 people under CrPC 41 for sharing and sending fake messages. Both CID and Bengal police have warned against circulating fake videos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-booked-youth-held-for-sharing-fake-news/articleshow/74921027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||17 more cases in Indore in a day, Madhya Pradesh tally 66||INDORE/BHOPAL: As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s Coronavirus hotspot. With one more patient each testing positive in Bhopal and Ujjain, the state’s count shot up to 66 on Tuesday. With 44 cases, Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally. To add to the day’s grim tidings, one more patient died in Indore, taking the city’s toll to three and state to five. The eruption of Covid-19 cases in Indore has alarmed the administration, which extended the total lockdown to a week (until next Monday). Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that tougher measures may have to be taken to stem the tide in Indore. In a message to Indoreans, the CM said: “It’s because of you that Indore came first in Swachh survey thrice. We have to defeat coronavirus. Lockdown is the only way.” Tuesday’s reports came from AIIMS-Bhopal. “Forty samples were sent to Bhopal from Indore Virology Laboratory after ICMR, which monitors every test report, sought re-test of samples because of an error in the process,” said MGM Medical College PRO Rahul Rokade. Bhopal’s fourth Covid-19 case is a rather bizarre one. The 25-year-old had returned from UK in mid-March but was dodging quarantine, say officials. He was placed in home isolation in Indore upon return, but hopped on his motorcycle and drove to Ujjain and then to Bhopal, where he started showing symptoms and was admitted to a private hospital. His swab sample tested positive on Tuesday and he was shifted to AIIMS. Now, officials are scrambling to trace possible contacts on a 200-km stretch. Most of the new patients in Indore were in close contact with Covid-19 cases reported earlier. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “The report released by AIIMS-Bhopal shows 17 new cases in Indore. With this, the number of positive cases stands at 44. Most of the new ones were in close contact with patients tested positive earlier.” Indore had a third corona death, too. According to a bulletin issued by MGM Medical College, a 49-year-old woman died at 10.20pm on Monday. She had tested positive on March 23, a day after she was referred to MRTB hospital from a private hospital. The woman had high blood pressure and diabetes but she didn’t have any travel or contact history, said the health bulletin. This was the second Covid-19 death of the day in Indore -- in the morning, a 41-year-old man had died after being shifted to MY Hospital from a private hospital on Sunday night. His condition deteriorated rapidly and he died the next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/17-more-cases-in-indore-in-a-day-state-tally-66/articleshow/74920972.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers stare at losses due to lockdown||Jaipur: Farmers in Rajasthan are facing immense difficulties in selling their perishable produce like fruits and vegetables amid lockdown. Thousands of tonne of farm produce are either packed or ready for sale but due to low demand in the market farmers fear that they will be hit hard this year. Hastimal Rajpurohit, a farmer of pomegranate in Barmer district, said that he is not sure he will be able to sale even one fourth of his produce. “Earlier, around 400 tonne of produce was sold in the market within a few hours. Now, not even 20 tonne of fruits is sold for two days. After harvesting, transportation from one place to another a permit is required the process of which takes days to complete. At the time of harvest, it is difficult to find labour as well,” said Rajpurohit. Farmers say that perishable items cannot be kept for more than two weeks. “If it was wheat or cumin, we would have stocked it until price becomes stable. But with perishable items, we cannot keep them for long. There is also no cold storage facility available. Many farmers have already packed their produce but nowhere to sale. My condition is better as I can afford this loss but small farmers who have taken loans on interest will be ruined,” said Rohan Vishnoi. There have been incidences in last week when due to low prices in the market, farmers sent tons of cucumber to the goshalas to be fed to the cows. “I am getting minimum price in the market. What is the point of letting them rot? Now, it is being used for some animals,” said Kishan Lal, a cucumber farmer. As per the wholesalers, it is not just the availability of produce in the market but also the supply of the produce to nearby town. Jinen Ghelani, one wholesaler explained that one big mandi in the city works to transport produce to the nearby town which has now stopped.“Mandis are very important for the sale of produce. But with street vendors finding it difficult to go to mandis, restriction in transport to nearby cities and state is hampering our business,” said Ghelani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-stare-at-losses-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/74921496.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||38 Germans evacuated, flown to Frankfurt||Hyderabad: A group of 38 German nationals, who were stranded in Hyderabad, were evacuated on Tuesday via a special flight. They were flown to Mumbai and subsequently taken to Frankfurt. Air India operated this relief flight to carry stranded German nationals from Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai. The group comprised 19 women, 17 men and two infants. The exercise was carried out by the airport authorities in coordination with the German consulate and Telangana government. “All these passengers were serviced through the fully-sanitised interim international departures terminal (IIDT),” GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL) said in a release. “Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the Covid-19 threat. The passengers from Hyderabad were joined in the aircraft by a few already-seated German nationals who flew in from Chennai,” it said. On March 28, RGIA handled another special rescue flight of IndiGo that was used to evacuate its crew members stuck in Hyderabad. The flight came from Mumbai with eight crew members, who disembarked at RGIA and departed to Chennai with five stranded crew members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/38-germans-evacuated-flown-to-frankfurt/articleshow/74920988.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||17 more cases in Indore in a day, Madhya Pradesh tally 66||INDORE/BHOPAL: As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s Coronavirus hotspot. With one more patient each testing positive in Bhopal and Ujjain, the state’s count shot up to 66 on Tuesday. With 44 cases, Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally. To add to the day’s grim tidings, one more patient died in Indore, taking the city’s toll to three and state to five. The eruption of Covid-19 cases in Indore has alarmed the administration, which extended the total lockdown to a week (until next Monday). Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that tougher measures may have to be taken to stem the tide in Indore. In a message to Indoreans, the CM said: “It’s because of you that Indore came first in Swachh survey thrice. We have to defeat coronavirus. Lockdown is the only way.” Tuesday’s reports came from AIIMS-Bhopal. “Forty samples were sent to Bhopal from Indore Virology Laboratory after ICMR, which monitors every test report, sought re-test of samples because of an error in the process,” said MGM Medical College PRO Rahul Rokade. Bhopal’s fourth Covid-19 case is a rather bizarre one. The 25-year-old had returned from UK in mid-March but was dodging quarantine, say officials. He was placed in home isolation in Indore upon return, but hopped on his motorcycle and drove to Ujjain and then to Bhopal, where he started showing symptoms and was admitted to a private hospital. His swab sample tested positive on Tuesday and he was shifted to AIIMS. Now, officials are scrambling to trace possible contacts on a 200-km stretch. Most of the new patients in Indore were in close contact with Covid-19 cases reported earlier. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “The report released by AIIMS-Bhopal shows 17 new cases in Indore. With this, the number of positive cases stands at 44. Most of the new ones were in close contact with patients tested positive earlier.” Indore had a third corona death, too. According to a bulletin issued by MGM Medical College, a 49-year-old woman died at 10.20pm on Monday. She had tested positive on March 23, a day after she was referred to MRTB hospital from a private hospital. The woman had high blood pressure and diabetes but she didn’t have any travel or contact history, said the health bulletin. This was the second Covid-19 death of the day in Indore -- in the morning, a 41-year-old man had died after being shifted to MY Hospital from a private hospital on Sunday night. His condition deteriorated rapidly and he died the next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/17-more-cases-in-indore-in-a-day-state-tally-66/articleshow/74931532.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cheer amid gloom as 12 kg rice distribution begins today||HYDERABAD: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement, the distribution of 12-kg rice (per person) to white ration card holders will commence on Wednesday. Officials along with local leaders under each fair price shop (FPS) will distribute time slot tokens to the card holders from April 1 to ensure that a large number of people do not throng FPS for rice. Civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar held a high-level review meeting on Tuesday and said 12-kg rice per person would be given to every card holder without fail and as such they should not rush to the fair price shops and ensure social distance is maintained. Civil supplies commissioner Satyanarayana Reddy said the card holders who have been taking rice regularly under PDS need not give their thumb impression on the biometric equipment. They have to just show a copy of their white ration card and after verification on EPoS machine at the shop, they would be given the rice. However, those who have not taken rice under PDS for over three months have to give their thumb impression on the biometric equipment. Tokens would be given at the door steps of the card holders who have been regular to FPSs as their residential address data is available with officials and local leaders. Those who have shifted or have been irregular can go to the shop and request for tokens. However, all of them should not gather at FPS at the same time and maintain social distance. FPSs in rural areas can also start distributing rice from Wednesday itself if their token distribution is finished. In GHMC area wherein every FPS has a large number of card holders attached with it, the rice distribution is likely to commence on Thursday. Officials, local leaders and FPS dealers can keep shops open from 7 am to 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cheer-amid-gloom-as-12-kg-rice-distribution-begins-today/articleshow/74920991.cms||Roushan Ali
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||T releases Rs 29 cr to feed migrants||Hyderabad: Telangana government has released Rs 29 crore towards distribution of rice or wheat flour to migrant workers in Telangana. The money has been kept at the disposal of collectors, who have started supplying either rice or cooked food to the migrant workers. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had said each migrant will get 12-kg rice or wheat flour and Rs 500 cash per person. The government has identified 3.36 lakh migrant workers in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-releases-rs-29-cr-to-feed-migrants/articleshow/74921002.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown: Ration may soon be delivered at doorstep||NEW DELHI: Delhi government may soon start delivering dry ration to a section of beneficiaries covered under National Food Security Act 2013 at their doorstep. Sources said the food and civil supplies department is working on a plan to send the ration—wheat, rice and sugar—to senior citizens, widows, differently abled and other vulnerable sections. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday expressed his concern over sudden rush of people at city’s fair price shops to collect their monthly entitlement of foodgrains. In view of lockdown to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading, the government has started giving 1.5 times of the actual entitlement of ration for the month of April free of cost to over 71 lakh beneficiaries covered under public distribution system. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday also announced that the government was trying to explore sources where it can procure foodgrain from to provide ration to those not covered under the NFSA – 2013. While Delhi government officials said the food and civil supplies department was still working on the modalities and no final decision had been taken, sources said only vulnerable section would be covered under doorstep delivery of ration during the lockdown period. According to the data available on the website of the food and civil supplies department, 71,08,074 members of 17,50,523 families are covered under the food security act in the national capital. There are 2,011 fair price shops in Delhi to cater to more than 17 lakh beneficiary families. While the government had instructed distribution of ration from March 30, some fair price shops opened two days earlier and witnessed long queues of card-holders. This has forced the government to explore other options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-may-soon-be-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/74921008.cms||Atul Mathur
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Suspected deceased was not Covid-19 patient||Nagpur: The 55-year-old Chandrapur man, who died yesterday at Mayo Hospital, was not infected by novel coronavirus. His swab samples, collected right before his death, tested negative on Tuesday. Doctors said he died of viral pneumonia, and not of Covid-19. The person was admitted in a private hospital at Ramdaspeth for two days. Being a pneumonia case, the private practitioner treating him referred him for the Covid-19 tests. “We received a communication from the NMC health department on Tuesday morning that the person tested negative for Covid-19. It was a great relief for all of us,” said the doctor. As a precautionary measure, NMC authorities had sanitized the entire private hospital late on Monday night itself. Authorities had also planned to seal this hospital and shift admitted patients from here in case the person had tested positive. “But, there is no need to seal our premises now. We are back at work and serving patients. NMC officials have collected swab samples of doctors and health workers who treated the deceased during the two days. But since he himself tested negative, their test reports are also irrelevant now,” the doctor said. According to him, the deceased was a patient of viral pneumonia. He had other problems like obesity and hypertension. He came to Nagpur in a serious condition. Following protocol and new ICMR guidelines, he was referred for the Covid-19 tests. He did not have any travel history since long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suspected-deceased-was-not-covid-19-patient/articleshow/74921063.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||No waiver, schools only asked to defer fee demand till after lockdown||Nagpur: A state education department circular requesting schools not to demand fee payment till the lockdown period ends, was misrepresented by fake news peddlers on WhatsApp causing a lot of confusion. Many parents and schools were led to believe that a complete waiver of fee has been announced even though it was at best a ‘deferred payment’ suggestion. The circular clearly mentions that all schools are being requested not to force parents to pay either pending or next academic session’s fee till the lockdown is in force. The circular probably assumed not only financial difficulty but also the fact that many parents still prefer to pay fee by depositing cash or cheque at banks or at school fee counters. With the traditional format of fee payment not a possibility in the current situation, the state education department rightly told schools to suspend fee demands till the lockdown ends. Some messages on WhatsApp are twisting its meaning and causing a lot of confusion. Some schools too approached TOI after incorrect interpretation of the circular reached them. As per the circular, it is clear that once the lockdown is over schools can again start collecting their pending dues. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said they appreciate the government’s stance. “We will comply with the state education department’s guidelines on fee collection, as we too understand the restrictions on movement,” said Dayma. However, the Pan-Maharashtra Trustee’s Association also reminded the government that school owners are also reeling under financial stress not only because of coronavirus effect but also because of non-payment of RTE bills. Dayma said, “We have so many schools that have not been reimbursed even a single rupee for the free RTE admissions. In some cases, the reimbursement amount is already with the district education department but they are not giving it to our schools on some or the other pretext.” IESA says it stands firm on boycotting all RTE admissions till every bill has been cleared. The RTE lottery has already been conducted in the state with parents being informed about the school their ward has got admission in. However, due to the lockdown the entire admission process has been put on hold till the government removes restriction on movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-waiver-schools-only-asked-to-defer-fee-demand-till-after-lockdown/articleshow/74920995.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government allows firms to manufacture essentials||JAIPUR: The state government has allowed manufacturers of essentials to operate their factories for ensuring supply continuity in the lockdown period. As per a notification, the willing units are required to take permission from the district authorities or RIICO and follow a long list of conditions aimed at insulating the operations from coronavirus. The industries department, that initially allowed the processing of oil, flour and daal, has now expanded the list essentials that include drugs, pharmaceutical and medical devices and their raw materials and intermediaries. Manufacturing units of packaging material for food items, drugs and other essential commodities and devices, manufacturing and packaging units for fertilizers, pesticides and seeds are also included in the list. A senior official of the industries department said close to 400 units have sought permission to start their operation to manufacture products listed in the essentials list. While additional chief secretary, department of Industries, Subodh Agarwal did not provide the exact number of units that have sought permission, but he said, “Industries department in accordance with the advisory from Central and state home ministry, is granting permission to these industries.”  He said that while granting the permission, the industries department will strictly follow all advisories which are issued at different times by state and Central governments and as per instructions, the industries will have to ensure availability of medicated sanitisers, soaps, masks and important safety equipment in working areas apart from availability of all daily requirements of living for the workers living on their residential premises. “Industries will have to provide complete sanitization and fumigation while taking care of social distancing and contact-less transfer of goods from one person to another. As per advisory, industries will have to inform the administration about any outbreak of viral infection, fever, cold and cough and any other infection for earliest medical screening,” added Agarwal. Industries commissioner Muktanand Agrawal said RIICO will provide necessary pass, permit, and permission letter to industries operating in RIICO while general manager of District Industries Centers will provide the permission to industries operational outside RIICO boundaries. Source, said 88 units have contacted so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-allows-firms-to-manufacture-essentials/articleshow/74921500.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||done2 foreigners in Ahmednagar who tested +ve had attended Delhi meet||Nashik: The Ahmednagar district administration has picked up 35 people, mostly foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi on March 13. Two of these foreign nationals who tested positive for Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at Evangeline Booth Hospital here in Ahmednagar. The remaining 33 have been quarantined at the Ahmednagar civil hospital. While the swab reports of 21 of them are still awaited, the other 12 have tested negative for the infection. Ahmednagar district collector Rahul Dwivedi confirmed that the group of 35 was part of the congregation at Nizamuddin. Some of them were scholars and the rest participants. “Majority of the scholars are foreign nationals,” he said. The foreign nationals hail from countries like Indonesia, Tanzania, Brunei, Iran, Ghana, Mauritius and Ivory Coast. District police sources said the 35 people came from Delhi to Ahmednagar in three batches by train in mid-March. “The first group of 14 people had put up at a mosque at Jamkhed taluka. The other two batches comprising 11 and 10 people respectively were put up at mosques in Ahmednagar city and Nevasa respectively,” police sources said. “A congregation similar to the one that had taken place at Nizamuddin was planned in Ahmednagar city on April 3. But the district administration declined permission following the Covid-19 pandemic. The groups staying in the mosques could not move out of the district due to the lockdown restrictions,” the sources said. District superintendent of police Sagar Patil said the local police has registered FIRs against some residents who had provided shelter to the groups staying in the mosques. “These residents were duty-bound to inform the local administration about hosting foreigners so that their medical examination could have been done in view of the Covid-19 situation,” he said. The administration picked up the first group of 14 people from the Jamkhed mosque on Sunday after a tip-off. On Monday, the other groups were picked up from Ahmednagar city and Nevasa. District civil surgeon Pradip Murambikar said three local residents who came into contact with the group at the Jamkhed mosque tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “We are waiting for the reports of 80 other locals who were in touch with these groups,” he said. “The district administration has sealed areas near the mosques in Ahmednagar city, Jamkhed and Nevasa. It is undertaking an extensive survey to detect persons who came into contact with these scholars,” Murambikar said. It is learnt that the Ahmednagar district administration played a crucial role in telling the state government that the huge religious congregation had taken place at the Delhi-based headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Highly-placed official sources told TOI that the district administration shared details about the congregation with the state government on Sunday after it picked up 14 scholars from Jamkhed. “Our feedback is that the state government shared this information with the Union government,” district officials said. A police official said the group members who were picked up did not think it necessary to share details with the local authorities about their visit to Ahmednagar. “They were too casual in their approach about entire issue. Their local contacts in the district said they did not inform the authorities about the visit to these group members since they feared that the administration would quarantine them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/done2-foreigners-in-ahmednagar-who-tested-ve-had-attended-delhi-meet/articleshow/74920228.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
April 1, 2020||Ajmer||Round 2 of screening in Ajmer||AJMER: The 17-year-old sister of Kharikoi youth was also found coronavirus positive on Tuesday taking the total number of people infected in Ajmer to 5. The father, mother and brother of the first patient had earlier been detected positive and are under treatment at SMS Hospital in Jaipur. District administration has identified 6 people from Kharikoi and Dizzi Bazaar area with high fever and admitted them to JLN Hospital in addition to 10 suspect cases. Out of the 1,132 samples, 127 have so far turned negative while results of others are awaited. More than 7,000 people have been home quarantined and teams of medical department have again started screenings in Kharikoi, Mulasar Road, Diggi Bazaar and Pannigram Chowk. After it was found that relatives of infected patients were residing in Khanpura and another team went for screening to Khanpura on Beawar Road. Strict curfew remained imposed in four police station areas while remaining city remained under lockdown. There are now supplies of food and eatables in the city and police are working 24 hours to maintain the lockdown. DGP Bhupender Singh on Tuesday came to Ajmer and discussed the situation. He later went to Bhilwara. Railway hospital has started a fever clinic from 9am to 4pm. Emergency services in railway hospital for 24 hours has also started. Families of RPF staff is preparing to make masks on largescale and provide it to those who are working during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/round-2-of-screening-in-ajmer/articleshow/74921499.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Suspect tests negative in Kota, movement bar in 1-km periphery of house||Kota: District collector Om Kasera has issued an order under Section 144 of CrPC for zero mobility within the periphery of one km in Teen Batti Circle, Basant Vihar, Dadabari area of the city after a 65-year-old man was suspected to be infected with coronavirus in preliminary screening on Monday evening. The test report of his samples from Jaipur, however, declared him corona-negative on Tuesday morning. The medical and health department as a precautionary measure, referred him for further treatment to SMS Hospital in Jaipur. Over 100 people, who were found to have come in his contact during travel and home stay in last 15 days, were asked to be home quarantined. Door-to-door screening in the locality has begun. A 65-year-old man, a resident of Teen Batti Circle, Basant Vihar area of Kota city in the preliminary screening was diagnosed positive with coronavirus on Monday evening and the sample report by local microbiologists was inconclusive, following which his samples were sent to Jaipur for confirmatory test late on Monday night and in the confirmatory report received on Tuesday morning, he tested negative, said Kota collector Om Kasera in a media briefing on Tuesday afternoon. The suspect, a medical representative by profession, is a native of Kota but is currently living in Jaipur with his family, he added. The suspected person went to Jaipur by train on March 13 and returned to Kota by train on March 16 and with symptoms like cold, cough and fever, he was admitted to the MBS Hospital’s isolation unit on March 30, he said. The suspect’s family members in Jaipur, his milkman, maid at Kota have also been home quarantined. One of the two taxi drivers, who took him to stations, has been identified and has been asked for home quarantine while the other taxi driver is yet to be identified, he added. As per the protocol of medical emergency situation, all the preventive and precautionary measures have been put in place, the collector said. The order under Section 144 of CrPC has been declared till April 3 and door-to-door survey, screening in every household in the area have been started, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspect-tests-ve-in-kota-movement-bar-in-1-km-periphery-of-house/articleshow/74921514.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Borrowers perplexed as banks deduct EMI||Visakhapatnam: Confusion ensued among borrowers who received message alerts on EMIs from banks, days after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a three-month moratorium on EMI payments to mitigate the effects of Covid-19. The RBI had on March 27 announced that all banks, including housing finance companies, could allow deferral of loan repayment by three months but “central government had announced the moratorium on EMIs. But unless we receive instruction from our central office, we can’t do anything. People are not listening to us,” said an assistant bank manager at Indian Overseas Bank (IOB). Sathia Narayanan, senior regional manager at IOB told TOI that borrowers should inform the bank in advance in order to seek relief in loan repayment. “As per guidelines, borrowers can contact the banks and inform the concerned authorities about relief,” he said. Many borrowers, however, were unaware of the procedure and regarded the announcement as a three-month EMI holiday. A private company employee Srinivasa Rao said, “When I inquired about deduction of EMI from my savings account, bank officials said they have not got any instructions from their head office. I kept the money for the ration of April month as nobody knows how many days this lockdown will go on.” “Every bank has its central system linked with servers. If central offices of banks are not changing the procedure and providing relief as mentioned by the RBI, borrowers will not get relief,” said another banker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/borrowers-perplexed-as-banks-deduct-emi/articleshow/74920246.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Go for online classes, CISCE asks schools||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked schools to go for online teaching as classroom teaching has been suspended for a prolonged period due to the nationwide lockdown. CISCE has expressed concern over the outbreak of Covid-19, which has affected every aspect of human life. The schools too had to put all the academic activities on hold. Under the circumstances and keeping the interest of students in mind, the council has provided some suggestions for utilising the lockdown period productively. Council secretary and chief executive Gerry Arathoon wrote to the principals that in order to ensure that the teaching and learning activities don’t suffer, all affiliated schools should make alternative arrangements, using modern and digital means. Online learning platforms, which help schools conduct their classes online without any limitations on the hours or numbers of classes, can be an option. “We are aware that many schools have already started using such systems. However, it is requested that schools that are yet to go for this should use these progressive alternative measures. Besides developing their own module, schools may also use those which are already available in the public domain,” said Arathoon. Principal of a school pointed out that the council is especially worried about the delay in holding the classes for students who are set to appear in the board examinations in 2021. “We won’t be able to complete the syllabus on time. Also, it will help if the council postpones the exams by a month,” he said. “To conduct online classes, some audio-visual online platform may be used by teachers,” added Arathoon. CISCE has also advised teachers to utilize the resource material available on the council’s website. “There is an abundance of material on the council’s website for every level — from Class I to Class XII, which may be used as assignments or practice material for students. These include past years’ question papers, specimen question papers, students’ performance documents for all major subjects at the ICSE and ISC level for the past 6 years,” reads Arathoon’s letter to the heads of the schools. For the aspiring ICSE and ISC examinees, subject-wise analysis of Pupil Performance Documents have been suggested to be studied in detail by the teachers to prepare a set of guidelines for their students on how to prepare for the ICSE and ISC examinations, as well as how to attempt the questions. “We have also asked teachers to encourage project work,” Arathoon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/go-for-online-classes-cisce-asks-schools/articleshow/74921007.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Walled City curfew, prohibitory ordersin Jaipur district extended indefinitely||JAIPUR: The prohibitory orders (Section 144) imposed in Jaipur district and curfew clamped in Walled City have been extended indefinitely from March 31 midnight in the light of the spurt in corona positive cases. The curfew and prohibitory orders were initially imposed till midnight of March 31. Gathering of more than five people at any public place, religious, and other functions without the permission of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) continues to be illegal and punishable under Section 188 of IPC, said an order issued by collector Jogaram. Police will monitor the curfew with the help of drones, he said. In its fresh directive, the administration said the Walled City areas have been completely sealed and those living there must stay indoors till further orders. The residents can also report any suspected cases to helpline 181. Essential services will be allowed to operate during the curfew period. If any resident in the area has an emergency, they will have to get passes from the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-curfew-prohibitory-ordersin-jaipur-district-extended-indefinitely/articleshow/74921512.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||NDMC flats in Bakkarwala turned into isolation centres||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)’s sanitation and health department swung into action on Tuesday after suspected novel coronavirus cases were shifted to its isolation centre at Bakkarwala from Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin. The civic agency had earlier provided its newly constructed 240 EWS flats at Bakkarwala for quarantine purpose to Delhi government. As many as 120 flats are housing the suspected cases, with one person staying in each flat. How the remaining flats will be used will be decided in a day or two. A senior NDMC official said that they sanitised these flats as soon as a decision was taken to use them as isolation wards. “Our staff are regularly cleaning and disinfecting the complex as well as the nearby areas, apart from ensuring proper lighting and water supply arrangement in each flat. A team of our doctors, along with the doctors from Delhi government, has also been deployed,” added the official. On Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that of the 1,033 people evacuated from Markaz, 333 were sent to hospital and 700 to quarantine centres. Over 2,000 people had gathered at the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters to attend a religious congregation in mid-March. “The flats are far from a crowded area. Though the area doesn’t fall under our jurisdiction, these one-room flats were constructed for our staff at a land belonging to us. These were not yet occupied by our staff,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-flats-in-bakkarwala-turned-into-isolation-centres/articleshow/74920910.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw project tenders: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday urged Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to either withdraw or reconsider some of the decisions taken by his government that defeat the purpose of the lockdown. In a letter to the CM, Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said, “These decisions will defeat the very purpose of lockdown and the massive operations launched to prevent spread of coronavirus. If Kaleshwaram project tenders are not withdrawn, it has to be assumed that the government has some vested interest in it,” alleged Revanth.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-project-tenders-cong/articleshow/74921006.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jodhpur||22 people discharged after 2-week isolation in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The first batch of 22 quarantined suspects, who had returned from foreign trip, was released by the administration from two quarantine centres set up in the city. They were released after they completed the period of 14 days from their arrival. Incharge of the quarantine cell and registrar of the ayurveda university, Arun Purohit said 15 of these quarantined were released from JIET College and 7 from Maheshwari Bhawan, the other centre in the city. According to him, currently, there are 93 suspects quarantined in JIET College, while 37 have been quarantined in Maheshwari Bhawan. The Jodhpur administration had decided to shift all persons, having reached Jodhpur after March 17 from any foreign visit, in the quarantine centres to keep them under 14-day observation and ensure they do not come into contact with other persons. Their family members had also been screened. “The tracing of such persons continues and some new suspects had also been quarantined in these centres on Tuesday also,” Purohit said. Meanwhile, the decision of the administration to shift these suspects to quarantine centres had met with stiff resistance by the family members stating that they would better be quarantined at home as they had already been doing. “But given our experience with regard to the first case of the city and its history, we decided to shift them to quarantine centres for 14 days, deducting the days they had already spent in quarantine at their home,” Purohit said. Complaints through videos poured in wherein inmates complained about lack of cleanliness in the rooms of JIET College and expressed concern that it could be a threat to them. Admitting this, Purohit said, initially the sanitation workers were hesitant to go in, but they were counselled and provided with the required kits for safety, after which they agreed to begin cleaning from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/22-people-discharged-after-2-week-isolation-in-jodhpur/articleshow/74921505.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ties between states strengthen as battle against coronavirus hardens||HYDERABAD: The fight against coronavirus has improved inter-state relations as top officials along with chief ministers of the respective states are cooperating with each other and taking steps to help the cause of each state in the interests of the people. Telangana depends on West Bengal for supply of gunny bags to store paddy and rice. With a super bumper crop of 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy expected in Rabi season from the first week of April, Telangana is faced with huge shortage of gunny bags. As on date, Telangana has 35 lakh gunny bags, but as per official estimation, it would need another 35 lakh to 40 lakh gunny bags in view of the expected 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy. As the gunny bag manufacturing plants in West Bengal have shut due to the lockdown, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and chief secretary Somesh Kumar have taken up the matter with West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to ensure supply of gunny bags. A few days ago, Mamata Banerjee had requested KCR and chief ministers of other states to take care of the workers from West Bengal and ensure that they do not face food shortage. Similarly, governments of Telangana and Bihar are also in touch with each other over requirement of workers for loading and unloading of paddy and rice in Telangana. The chief minister had announced that he will speak to the Centre and arrange for special trains if needed to bring back labourers from Bihar. Over 95% of the total workers involved in loading and unloading of rice bags at rice mills and godowns in Telangana are from Bihar, but a majority of these workers who went home for Holi could not return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ties-between-states-strengthen-as-battle-against-virus-hardens/articleshow/74921012.cms||Roushan Ali
April 1, 2020||Nashik||SPPU, NMU, YCMOU declare lockdown period as vacation||Nashik: Three state universities have decided to declare the lockdown period as their official vacation period. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Pune, Kavayitri Bahinabai Choudhari North Maharashtra University (NMU), Jalgaon, and Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU), Nashik, said on Tuesday that all the colleges affiliated with these universities will consider the lockdown period as part of their summer vacations. SPPU released a circular on Monday and instructed all heads of departments, administrative sections, principals of affiliated colleges and directors of affiliated institutes that the university has declared interim vacation from April 1 to 14. Prafulla Pawar, the SPPU registrar, said: “Given prevailing Covid-19 situation, the management has taken the decision. Further decisions in the matter will be taken as the need arises.” The circular states that the faculty members of the university and the affiliated colleges may be called to carry out essential work as and when required. Also, the non-teaching (non-vacation) staff shall continue to work from home during the interim vacation. According to the university sources, SPPU is also planning to cancel the examinations of the first-year students, but the decision in that regard is yet to be taken. Taking similar measures, NMU and YCMOU also declared interim vacations on Tuesday. E Vayunandan, vice-chancellor, YCMOU, said: “We generally break for two months twice a year — once in May-June and then in November-December. This lockdown period shall be adjusted in the coming vacations.” Deelip Mhaisekar, vice-chancellor, MUHS, said: “Our university functions with a different pattern. We are planning to adjust these days of lockdown in the next academic year’s vacations but no decision has been taken yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sppu-nmu-ycmou-declare-lockdown-period-as-vacation/articleshow/74920256.cms||pragya jain
April 1, 2020||Delhi||‘How many times can we revise the text?’||New Delhi: For Class XII student Ayush Singh, all his Central Board of Secondary Education exams would have been over by March 24. He had everything planned for the month he would have to wait for the results to be declared. But the anti-coronavirus lockdown has upset all his intentions with two exams still to be written. Annoyed by his parents constantly asking him to study, Singh is desperate for the lockdown to end.“How much can I keep studying the same thing repeatedly. I am so done,” said the commerce student of Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, who has to write his Hindi and business studies exams. “Unlike a few friends who want to sit for their chartered accountancy exams and are studying, I only aim to pursue a BCom at Delhi University.”The uncertainty of the exam schedule due to the lockdown has left parents and students stressed. Gauri Mathur, who apart from the Class XII exam also has to sit for competitive exams, grumbled, “I only have the computer science exam remaining, and, of course, the competitive exams. But everything has been rescheduled and this is a stressful time for me.”Ritesh Anand’s daughter has just the Hindi paper to write. “It is just one paper, but it also means my daughter cannot feel free. Moreover, the NEET exams have also been rescheduled. CBSE should give us an idea of when the exams will be held."Mohammad Zunaid, a student of Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Sunder Nagri, is in a worse situation. He has three exams pending in geography, Hindi and English. “Due to riots, our English exam was postponed. A new date had been announced for it, but now we don’t know when it will be held. How much can I study? So I am sketching and painting instead these days,” said Zunaid.Student counsellor Geetanjali Kumar recalled a distress call recently. “The mother was worried about her son’s exams being rescheduled,” Kumar revealed. “She wanted her son to study, and he wasn’t. So, she called me complaining that seeing him watch TV through the day was causing her anxiety and irritation.” Kumar advised her to let him relax and study at his own pace and not force him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-many-times-can-we-revise-the-text/articleshow/74934155.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Minister plea to give relief to farmers||Jaipur: Tourism minister Vishvendra Singh has appealed to the CM to give relief to the farmers and poor by waiving off their electricity and water charges. He said the farmers in Bharatpur have already suffered by the recent hailstorm and now because of coronavirus, their situation has worsened. “In view of the difficulties being faced by the farmers and the poor, I urge the chief minister to waive off their electricity and water charges,” the minister said in a release. He also appealed that the rest of the hailstorm relief money due for payment be made immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-plea-to-give-relief-to-farmers/articleshow/74921520.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik schools begin mid-day meal ration distribution||Nashik: After the state department of primary education, Pune, turned down the district headmasters’ request to delay the distribution of mid-day meal rations to students, the Zilla Parishad schools have started the distribution activity. On Tuesday, the ration was distributed in nearly 300 primary and secondary schools in the district in small batches. Dattatreya Jagtap, the director of the primary education department, said the state government has decided to distribute the mid-day meal ration to the students for their welfare during the time of distress. “On March 27, all the districts in the state were instructed to start the process of distributing the ration, which is to be used to cook the mid-day meal for the students. Since the students are not coming to the schools, the ration should be sent to them,” Jagtap said. According to him, out of 35 districts, only seven districts had delayed the process of distribution. The other 28 districts have actively started giving away the ration packets. The ration includes rice, pulses, spices and oil. It is to be distributed equally among all the students. The headmasters association of the Nashik district had told the state department that they want to postpone the distribution in view of the lockdown. S B Deshmukh, the secretary of the association, said: “We had requested that due to the police embargo, let us distribute the ration after April 14. Also, if there are any families that require ration urgently, we can make arrangements for them. But our request was turned down.” Deshmukh said there are nearly 900 schools that have to distribute the mid-day meal rations for the students of Classes I to VIII. Jagtap said the schools have to make arrangements to call the parents in small batches. “There are not many students in rural schools. The headmasters can call the parents in small batches each day. It is not an unmanageable task,” he said. He added that the schools can take assistance from the police. “If required, police can help in preventing crowding at the schools. Other districts have marked boxes at a distance of one metre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-schools-begin-mid-day-meal-ration-distribution/articleshow/74920268.cms||pragya jain
April 1, 2020||India||Ministry’s mask-use advice at odds with PM adviser’s stand||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Tuesday said it is framing guidelines for home-made masks. However, its current guidelines on masks saying their use should be limited depending on the risk of exposure and that healthy people do not need to wear masks are at variance with a manual released by K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the PM, suggesting home-made masks as a strategy to prevent the spread of Covid-19 disease. On the other hand, ICMR chief epidemiologist Dr R R Gangakhedkar said India must not be compared to other western countries where the incidence of the disease is much higher. “Masks are to prevent the risk of exposure to the infection. Let us not compare India with the US where the Centre for Diseases Control has advised people to wear masks. The level of disease outbreak in India is not the same as in the US," he said. While Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, at the same briefing as Dr Gangakhedkar, said that masks were a scarce resource and everyone need not use one, earlier on Tuesday, K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the PM, tweeted: “Masks lower the chances of coronavirus entering the respiratory system through droplets still in the air from an infected person, reducing the chances of inhaling the virus. Especially useful for people in densely populated areas.” The tweet was not necessarily at odds with the “risk exposure” criteria but suggested widespread use which the health ministry did not. Raghavan advocated home-made masks, noting “home-made masks are 70% effective and in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with soap and water or frequent hand rubbing with alcohol-based sanitiser”. However, home-made masks did not immediately receive approval of the health ministry with Agarwal saying guidelines will be issued soon. Gangakhedkar was more forthright, saying, “the US today is the second most Covid-affected country after Italy. Indian outbreak is at a very different level. The probability of exposure to Covid in India is low. So, only sick people should wear masks. The better way to prevent Covid spread is social distancing which India is following.” Agarwal also said people should wear masks only when needed and when they are suffering from cough and need to wear a mask to prevent the infection from spreading. “Masks are a scarce commodity which we must use judiciously,” Agarwal said. He said the PSA’s manual is being technically examined by the experts and guidance will be issued in time, even as he maintained that even the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not specifically advised countries on the use of home-made masks. As per health ministry’s current guidance, healthy persons need to wear a mask only if they are taking care of a person suspected with Covid-19 infection. Besides, one who is coughing or sneezing should wear a mask. “Masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water,” the health ministry guidance says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ministrys-mask-use-advice-at-odds-with-pm-advisers-stand/articleshow/74921931.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL artificially reduced distribution losses: MERC||Nagpur: After years of manipulating agricultural pump power consumption figures, MSEDCL has been finally caught red-handed. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has accepted recommendations of a working group on agricultural sales, constituted by it, and stated that the distribution loss was far higher than that claimed by the MSEDCL. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its tariff hike petition had claimed that distribution loss in its area in 2018-19 was 14.7%. However, the working group stated in its report that it was 5.84% higher, that is 20.54%. The artificial reduction was done by inflating farm pump power consumption. MSEDCL has been for years not reducing power theft and claiming that farmers were using more units and passing off electricity stolen as electricity used. The artificial increase in farm pump consumption was done in two ways. The first was to claim that unmetered farmers were using more electricity. There was no data to back this claim. MSEDCL put forth this claim every year in its tariff hike petitions. This could not be possible with metered farmers. So, the discom sent them inflated bills. This problem was acknowledged by then BJP energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. He had ordered MSEDCL to hold camps to correct power bills of farmers. In 2015, Bawankule also formed a three-member committee under MSEB Holding Company director Vishwas Pathak to find out actual power consumption by farm pumps. IIT Powai was also asked to estimate it. Based on the IIT report, two members of the committee — consumer activists Pratap Hogade and Ashish Chandarana — concluded that MSEDCL was inflating agricultural power consumption. However, Pathak refused to sign the report and submitted a separate report exonerating MSEDCL. Now, Pathak has been proved wrong and Hogade and Chandarana have been proved right. The commission has pulled up the MSEDCL for claiming more subsidy from the state government by inflating agricultural electricity sales. The government pays a subsidy on every unit of power sold to farmers because they get it at a highly subsidized rate. MSEDCL has thus duped government of thousands of crores over the years, it was bared. The commission has, however, not charged MSEDCL with deliberately inflating farm pump consumption. It has claimed that accurate figures could be calculated by the working group due to use of advanced technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-artificially-reduced-distribution-losses-merc/articleshow/74921015.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Retail vegetable sale at Peth Rd APMC halted after crowding||NASHIK: The agriculture produce market committee and police jointly stopped the retail sale of vegetables at Sharad Pawar APMC along Peth Road after people crowded there. The civic and district administrations have already appealed to people to maintain social distancing, but people are not following it. There are two APMCs in the city -- one along Dindori Road and another along Peth Road. Usually, vegetables are auctioned at Dindori Road and fruits and potatoes are auctioned at the mandi along Peth Road. However, the operations at Dindori APMC were closed down from March 25 and all activities were shifted to Peth Road facility. Wholesale and retail vegetable sale was underway at Peth Road. On Tuesday morning, there was a rush of people to buy vegetables at Peth Road APMC. Moreover, vegetable vendors and consumer were not following social distancing norms. Taking serious cognizance of this, Nashik APMC management and police jointly decided to stop the retail vegetable markets at the APMC. “We have stopped retail sale of vegetables at Peth Road APMC. The wholesale auction of vegetables and fruits will continue as usual,” said Arun Kale, secretary, Nashik APMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/retail-vegetable-sale-at-peth-rd-apmc-halted-after-crowding/articleshow/74920283.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Sex workers run out of food, essentials||New Delhi: “Are we not human that we have been left to die like this?” This was asked by one of the thousands of sex workers at GB Road, who are struggling to survive because of lack of income amid the countrywide lockdown. More than 4,000 sex workers usually operate from the cramped multi-storeyed brothels. Of these, at least 2,000 are still staying in their dingy quarters, while the others have been shifted out by their handlers. When TOI spoke to the sex workers, they said they have been making distress calls for the past three days as they have run out of food. Virender Kumar, director of NGO Mission Mukti Foundation, said they along with officials from Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights rushed to check on the sex workers after getting the distress calls. “We saw the women living in a very sad state. They had rations for only one meal. Since nobody is visiting the brothels due to the lockdown, there is no way for them to make money. They have not been able to buy the bare essentials, including milk,” Kumar said. Kumar added that they are making a list of the brothels where help is required. “We will buy food for these women with donations so that they can stock it for at least a week. I urge agencies to help these women during these difficult times,” he added. A sex worker lamented, “Delhi government is providing food in several schools, but we feel ashamed of going out. So, we have locked ourselves in the brothels. We don’t have medicines and haven’t eaten since the past two days. We’ll die like this.” Many of these sex workers have children too, which is another reason for them to worry. “Some of us have savings. But even that will get over in no time if things continue like this. I don’t have milk to feed my child. We know we are outcasts in society, but even we are human. If the government doesn’t save us, we will starve and eventually die. Don’t save us, but at least save our children,” said a sex worker. “People look at us with disrespect and treat us like untouchables. That’s why we haven’t been going to the hunger relief centres. The younger girls have been taken away, but we have nowhere to go. I have been at this brothel for the past 35 years and have never starved like this,” said a 50-year-old sex worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sex-workers-run-out-of-food-essentials/articleshow/74934176.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Three persons found dead in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Two persons died reportedly due to health issues due to withdrawal symptoms, both were addicted to alcohol, in Malkajgiri. In the first case, J Franquilin, 45, a daily-wage worker, was reportedly addicted to alcohol and was staying on the footpath near Moula Ali railway bridge. The victim’s body was found near the bridge on Tuesday. Police suspect the victim could have died due to health issues. Another victim, Mohammed Dasthagiri, 40, of Secunderabad, was reportedly addicted to toddy and suffered seizures. The victim died in Yadavnagar, Malkajgiri. Police suspect he died after a seizure attack. Malkajgiri police booked separate suspicious death cases. In another incident, the body of a 26-year-old private employee was found in a sump at Kistapur brick manufacturing unit in Medchal. The victim, D Santosh, 26, from Gudimalkapur, was suspected to have accidentally fallen in the sump under the influence of alcohol over a week ago. A case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-persons-found-dead-in-hyd/articleshow/74921018.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||They can’t cook to save their lives...||New Delhi: Shikha Mittal, a resident of south Delhi’s tony Safdarjung Development Area, is a successful entrepreneur who lives alone, works from 9.30am to 9.30pm and travels frequently. Cooking, however, was a skill she neither possessed nor required — until the novel coronavirus upended everyone’s life.The 36-year-old said, “I live alone here to be closer to my office and the airport, while my parents live in Kamla Nagar in north Delhi.” Hiring a domestic help, cook and gardener ensured the founder-director of Be.artsy, which helps organisations involved in financial literacy and prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace, didn’t have to worry about her home.She returned from an overseas visit in early March and opted for self-quarantine, surviving 14 days mainly on milk and fruits. Just when her isolation ended, the nationwide lockdown was announced. Deprived of her cook, Mittal requested her mother to send her voice notes on how to cook basic things. She also looked up cooking instructions on YouTube. “I typed ‘aaloo ki sabzi basic’ and saw hundreds of videos,” said Mittal. Thanks to tech, the entrepreneur has quickly learnt how to make paneer parantha, papad ki subzi, tahri and other dishes. She has also got used to the jhaadu-pochha routine.For thousands of Delhi residents who can’t cook to save their lives and depend on domestic helps, neighbourhood eateries or tiffin services for meals, technology has come as a saviour. From online cooking courses to voice notes and video calls from family members, it has saved the day for those who never thought a lockdown could leave them starving.Videos with catchy tags, such as ‘lockdown recipes’, ‘Coronavirus cooking’ and ‘quarantine recipes’, are a rage on YouTube. Indian recipes requiring basic cooking skills are garnering lakhs of views. In fact, such videos are being uploaded every hour and the less fussy the recipe, the more popular the video. Most of the videos instruct newbies on cooking meals with the minimum resources, at times without even vegetables. Of course, the lockdown recipes of celebrity chefs like John Torode and Jamie Oliver are garnering outlandish number of views.Sudhir Kumar, 24, a Munirka resident employed in a private firm, relied on his ‘aunty’ for meals, but the virus curtailed all her arrivals. Kumar learnt to make dal chawal when he found kneading flour for the more preferable chapati was beyond him. “But you can’t eat dal chawal twice a day for days,” Kumar laughed. “So, I started looking up online vidoes.”Kumar experimented with continental food, which he liked but couldn’t find ingredients in Munirka. He replaced processed flour and butter with the readily available atta and ghee. “I even used atta to make white pasta sauce today,” he smiled. “I have huge stock of oregano seasoning and chilli flakes and I use these liberally for every dish.”For Shaheen Bagh resident Aamir Aijaz, 32, a self-proclaimed foodie and a cookery illiterate, simple food wouldn’t do the trick. “During my wife’s frequent travels to Mumbai, I ate out. But now she’s stuck in Mumbai and the eateries in my area are closed,” said Aijaz. Unlike most caught in a similar predicament, online videos didn’t work for the development sector worker. “When in doubt, you can’t ask questions to a video,” he explained. Instead he chose to make a video call to his wife.“I started with dal chawal and then moved to aaloo ki subzi. With the confidence I gained, I graduated to egg curry and yesterday, I made pulao and chicken curry,” Aijaz said with unhidden pride. His wife approved of his effort, but did he? “It was awesome,” Aijaz beamed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-cant-cook-to-save-their-lives-/articleshow/74934193.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Postal dept to facilitate mobile veg markets||Hyderabad: To facilitate mobile vegetable markets in various colonies, the postal department has tied up with Telangana agriculture department. The move will help people make purchases in their colonies. The department’s Mail Motor Service (MMS) has tied up with Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) for distribution of life-saving medicines, surgical items, saline bottles, oxygen cylinders to various primary health centres (PHCs) in 33 districts of the state. For this purpose, 20 MMS vehicles were pressed into service. MMS vehicles were also ensuring essential supplies to the needy migrant workers in partnership with NGOs . Three postal department’s mobile vans would also be available from Wednesday for money transactions like deposits and withdrawals in Padmaraonagar, Golconda Chowrastha, Gandhi Nagar, Zamistanpur, Chikkadapally, Ashoknagar, Kulsumpura, Karwan Sahu, Toli Chowki, Mehdipatnam, and Golconda areas. All arrangements were made for disbursement of Aasara pensions to over 22 lakh beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-dept-to-facilitate-mobile-veg-markets/articleshow/74921016.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors diagnosing virus symptoms on WhatsApp||Nagpur: The incessantly rising number of people infected by Covid-19 is a daunting challenge for those working day and night to save lives. The unprecedented situation is taking a toll on the mental and physical health of these saviours of humanity. With an aim to ease the pressure off doctors, city-based NGO Parindey Foundation has started a digital doctor consultancy helpline for coronavirus on WhatsApp. The helpline offers patients the opportunity to get free consultancy from specialist doctors. The initiative, christened ‘Niraamayaa Bhava’ was started by Siddhartha Roy, a 21-year-old author and community developer, and chartered accountant Niranjan Jadhav, supported by Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani — who manages the operational aspect of the advisory. When patients reach out on the WhatsApp number 7020844301, the doctor in-charge sends a symptom sheet to them to know their profile and travel history. After analysing the report, the doctor provides a solution and if needed, sets an appointment for a video/telephonic call. If the symptoms are severe, the patient is advised to meet the doctor in person. After the physical check-up, the patient is prescribed medicines or necessary tests. “I have been working on various government projects for innovation and social change, but this is the time when we all should come together and do our bit,” says co-founder Siddhartha Roy. “I had this idea in my mind from a long time, but felt that executing it alone would be challenging, which is why I collaborated with Parindey Youth Foundation and several doctors. It feels good to do our bit for the society,” he adds. “We had seen the sufferings of China and knew that if Covid-19 hits India, it'll hit us really hard. So we decided to make our citizens aware about it and reduce the stress on government hospitals. It has worked well and people have given a really good response,” says co-founder Niranjan Jadhav. The initiative was launched by district collector Ravindra Thakare on March 20, and around 110 people have been helped through this platform by now. Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, a senior doctor who is associated with the initiative, says, “More than the disease itself, it is the fear which needs to be fought. The situation is such that even if people have regular cough, they start worrying of contracting the virus. The symptoms, travel history and other sources of exposure need to be carefully analysed for us to give measured advice. We are working on removing this fear from their minds.” “I was very scared when I developed coronavirus-like symptoms. After a detailed online consultation through the platform, I was advised some tests. However, my reports were negative and I was discharged from the hospital,” says a beneficiary on the condition of anonymity. The panel of doctors associated with the initiative comprises Dr Shailendra Mundhada, Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani, Dr Satish Deopujari, Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, Dr Devika Jadhav, Dr Madhavi Deshmukh, Dr Shreya Kate and Dr Nishi Roy. Dhruv pathology and molecular diagnostic lab is helping with the research and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-diagnosing-virus-symptoms-on-whatsapp/articleshow/74921623.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Shut down weekly markets where social distancing is not followed: Game||Nashik: Civic chief Radhakrishna Game has ordered that all weekly markets where social distancing norm is not being followed will be shut down. The Nasik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also issued fresh guidelines for vegetable vendors informing them about the precautions that they need to take. The civic chief has also banned sale of vegetable on handcarts. The vendors have been instructed to give the vegetables in packets or baskets so that the agriculture produce are not touched by everyone. Game has expressed concerns over people not following the social distancing norm at the weekly markets. “The NMC has already issued instructions to vegetable vendors and people to maintain at least 1 meter social distancing. Also, there should be a space of five metre between two vendors. But these instructions are not being followed,” a civic official said. “Taking serious cognizance of this, Game has directed the civic administration to shut down such weekly vegetable markets,” he added. Vendors have also been told to display a board asking the consumers to buy weekly stock of vegetables and should not visit the market frequently. “Some vendors are selling vegetables on handcarts in various colonies across the city. Thus, the NMC has also decided to ban sale of vegetables by vendors on handcarts and the municipal commissioner has already issued an order,” the officials said. Meanwhile, some agriculture producer companies like Sahyadri Farms have started doorstep delivery of weekly baskets of fruits and vegetables for the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shut-down-weekly-markets-where-social-distancing-is-not-followed-game/articleshow/74920292.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||No bail pleas during lockdown: HC||The Rajasthan High Court directed the registry on Monday to not list any bail pleas as “extremely urgent case” as it had decided that only important matters would be taken up during the lockdown. During a hearing of a second bail application, a single-judge bench of Justice Pankaj Bhandari ordered that no bail application would be listed before the court for hearing. The bench observed that even during Diwali, Holi and winter breaks, the bail applications were not listed. It asked how come the courts be “forced” to hear a bail application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-bail-pleas-during-lockdown-hc/articleshow/74921528.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||...While they cook to make a living||New Delhi: Perhaps antakshari comes first to mind when you have to while away the hours with your family in these days of the anti-coronavirus lockdown. But there’s something more interesting cooking. Chefs, barred from their hotel kitchens, are using the break to stream cookery sessions. These are helping people not only to bring out their inner cooks, but also proving it is more stimulating to wield a ladle than sing about one.Home cooking and home workout are the only two online trends beating the news about the novel coronavirus. The drudgery of being imprisoned at home appears suddenly to be lightened by the cardamom and almond phirni of chef Abhishek Gupta, the carrot coconut and turmeric soup and tomato rice of chef Megha Kohli, the pancake recipe of The Grammar Room and the corn khichdi and green chilli prawns of Comorin restaurant. And for those inclined more to liquid sustenance, no antakshari success could outdo the sessions on how to make heady Quarantini and other cocktails by mixologists Nitin Tewari and Yangdup Lama. These chefs are enabling people to prepare dishes with minimal, available ingredients. Chef Vanshika Bhatia related how her friends started messaging her for recipes of basics like roti and parantha. “Many singles in the city rely on ordering in or domestic maids for their meals. I realised many of them hadn’t cooked in their lives and were facing a genuine problem,” said Bhatia. “That is the reason I decided to keep my recipes simple and use readily available ingredients.”Bhatia has posted videos on making pizza and bread as well as preserving and pickling. She taught how bread can be made without yeast and crepes with kuttu atta for Navratri, suggested ways to make pizza toppings and sauces and even showed how easy it was to make cough remedies. Most usefully, she suggested alternatives to fancy ingredients.In one session, chefs Anchal Bhalla and Suchana Bera discussed how to enjoy the simple but popular Bengali staple, aloo makha (mashed potatoes), with flaxseed chutney. Both Bhalla and Bera concurred on the need to stop binging on unhealthy snacks at home, with still quite a few days of indolence left. Bhalla has posted videos, for instance, on healthy home-made crackers. “I am trying to post videos of essential dishes for single professionals and dishes that a mother can cook with a rkid, such as a cake, with the ingredients normally found in homes,” explained Bhalla.From his home in Uttarakhand, chef Pawan Bisht has been countering the overall despair and panic through his videos. “There was so much negativity online that I thought rather than be an expert on the coronavirus, I would share what I know,” Bisht said. “When I started posting the cookery videos, the response showed that people needed a break from the information deluge on Covid-19.”Bisht is also acquainting Indians with his native cuisine, cooking with ingredients from his home state. His videos teach people how to use alternative ways of cooking. Bisht laughed and said he never imagined that people would be able to destress themselves by looking at him making bhang ki chutney, aloo ke gutke, sarson ka saag and urad dal ke vade. He certainly helped the citizens go one up on the national isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-while-they-cook-to-make-a-living/articleshow/74934209.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyient to make critical medtech parts||Hyderabad: City-based Cyient Ltd, a global engineering and technology solutions company, on Tuesday said its Mysuru facility has got clearance to run its medtech manufacturing lines to support the production of medical equipment that is critical in the fight against COVID-19. Cyient will be producing assemblies that are used in X-ray generators from GE Healthcare and diagnosis units from Molbio Diagnostics to enable rapid disease testing in India. Cyient will manufacture PCBAs (printed circuit board assembly) used for regulating power, rotation control & filament control of X-ray generators used in CT scanners and X-ray machines. For diagnosis units, Cyient will make the complete unit which includes PCBAs, wire harness and enclosures. Cyient said it has received permission from the Mysuru district deputy commissioner under the Essential Services Maintenance Act 1968 and the governing state ESMA that allows uninterrupted services of medical essentials to healthcare institutions as they are essential services for the community. Commenting on the development, Rajendra Velagapudi, senior vice president and CEO, Cyient DLM, said, “We are proud to support our customers in the healthcare industry at this critical time. We will continue to do everything we can to help reduce the impact of this crisis on our customers’ operations as they focus on delivering the technology needed to fight Covid-19 at a national and global level.” Cyient’s factory in Mysuru, which was acquired from Rangsons Electronics, is dedicated to electronic manufacturing processes, including printed circuit board assemblies, cable harnesses, and box-builds that closely align with our core competence in electronic systems design, integration, and manufacturing services. Cyient acquired 74% stake in Rangsons Electronics in 2015 and went on to increase it to 100% in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyient-to-make-critical-medtech-parts/articleshow/74921033.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||17 Tablighi members visited Jaisalmer two weeks ago||Jaisalmer: Around the time when cases of Covid-19 started increasing in the country, a 17-member group of Tablighi Jamaat arrived here from Delhi on March 17 and took part in programmes held at a few mosques. The group had arrived in the district on February 26 before heading to Jaisalmer three weeks later. The group went to Pokhran on March 19. Though no case of coronavirus has been reported here, the visit of this group has alerted the local intelligence officials, security agencies and the district administration. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang confirmed that the group came from Delhi in mid-March. “They went to various areas of Sadar police station. We are trying to find out the places they visited. We have received information about them going to Pokhran from Jaisalmer,” Kang said on Tuesday.According to official sources, the group had started a 40-day tour to various parts of the country and was in Jaisalmer on March 17 during which they visited few religious places and mosques and took part in programmes in which dozens of people were present. Sources said when CID and other intelligence agencies got information about the group going to different places in the city without permission, they objected to it following which the group left for Pokhran the next day. Reportedly, the group stayed in Pokhran and took part in some programmes and when security agencies got information, they were asked to leave Pokhran as well. After this, their last local movement was found at a few places in Jodhpur division. Sources said till now, there is no information about them, but intelligence and security agencies are trying to trace the members. Since the virus shows symptoms after a few days, therefore local administration and security agencies are worried and are trying to collect more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-tablighi-members-visited-jaisalmer-two-weeks-ago/articleshow/74921532.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||What steps taken for migrant workers: HC to Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court has sought a reply from the state government on what measures have been taken for migrant workers walking on the roads amid the lockdown. The bench comprising Justice G R Moolchandani and Justice NS Dhadha sought a reply while hearing a petition by advocate James Bedi, which was converted as public interest litigation (PIL). In the letter, Bedi informed the court that much discomfort was caused to migrant labourers while they walked thousands of miles amid the lockdown. He also brought it to the notice of the court that thousands were still trapped on the road without food, water and transportation facilities and alleged no facility of stay for these labourers. The bench heard the advocate through audio calling. Advocate Bedi appealed to the court to protect the human rights of the workers. The bench stated that they too have seen this in many news and videos, though the government has tried to provide food, transport and shelter. But such conditions were created due to fear among the workers. In this regard, the court has sought a detailed report on April 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-state-what-steps-taken-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/74921536.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||BMC starts ‘sealing’ hospitals if a patient turns out to be positive||MUMBAI/THANE: The number of nursing homes and hospitals being “sealed” after unknowingly treating Clovid-19 patients is increasing across the city. TOI found at least five nursing homes and small hospitals whose staff is under quarantine and they are unable to accept new patients. BMC officials refused to confirm any number, though. Experts said the BMC’s idea to quarantine medical staff of such centres for 14 days would affect access and quality of healthcare in the city. On Tuesday, a Chembur-based 100-bedded hospital became the latest to “shut” its doors on patients after a patient turned out to be Covid-19 positive. When TOI called the hospital’s reception desk, the operator said it isn’t taking new patients even in casualty. A Thane nursing home’s staff is quarantined there itself as a patient tested positive after being transferred to another hospital in Mumbai. One of the first victims of Covid-19 from Deonar was admitted in a local nursing home and her positive reports came a day after she passed away. In another instance, an 86-year-old Ghatkopar resident who died in L H Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, on Monday had spent a week in a nursing home in Mulund. It was closed for a 14-day period. A senior BMC official said there is no policy to seal a hospital or nursing home, but according to World Health Orgainisation rules, its staff has to get tested for Covid-19 and quarantined. Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s T Ward, said, "After the 86-year-old patient tested positive for Covid-19, we immediately got the staff tested as per protocol.” Of the 55 persons tested, one nurse was positive. “We hence asked the hospital to not admit any new patients for the next 14 days and asked those who were tested to home quarantine for the next 14 days,” he added. Hospital owner Dr Prince Surana said given the shortage of medical manpower, stopping every such nursing home or hospital would only worsen the crunch. Another doctor said the government should ask medical staff to use protection equipment and N95 masks even while treating non-Covid-19 patients. In Thane (West), 32 staff and 11 patients admitted to a private hospital in Vartak Nagar were quarantined after a 34-year-old man previously admitted there tested positive on Monday. He has a travel history to the UK, said TMC deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi. He is the 11th positive patient in Thane. (With Richa Pinto)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-starts-sealing-hosps-if-a-patient-turns-out-to-be-ve/articleshow/74920328.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC develops app to track people under home quarantine||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has developed a mobile application, Mahakavach, to keep a track on Covid-19 suspects who are under home quarantine. All those who have been put under home quarantine will have to download this application on their mobile phones. The suspects will also have to register self-attendance on the application every day. The administration will get an alert if the quarantined person crosses the area marked through geo-fencing on the application. This will help the administration to monitor the movement of the suspects. This app has been developed jointly by the NMC, Maharashtra state innovation society (MSIS), Nashik District Innovation Council (NDIC) and Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL). Currently, the process of checking home quarantined people is being carried out manually. “Mahakavach mobile app is to be used by only those people who are under home quarantine and also by people as suggested by health department. Other people are not allowed to use this app. Moreover, the link and the QR code for this app will be sent by the municipal corporation,” an NMC official said. “It is difficult to keep an eye on every person who is under home quarantine. These people are expected to stay at home for 14 days, but some do not. The radius of their movement is geo-fenced. It will be easier to track people under home quarantine through this app,” he said. The administration will immediately get an alert if the person under home quarantine crossed the radius. “This app is being used by the administration and soon will be launched in Maharashtra,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-develops-app-to-track-people-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/74920306.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 266 coaches to be made quarantine units||JAIPUR: The engineering wing of North Western Railways (NWR) is tirelessly working to convert 266 coaches into isolation wards for keeping Covid-19 suspects. On the direction of the railway board, the engineers and technical staff at the carriage workshop in Ajmer and in other divisions of NWR are burning midnight oil to complete the task. These coaches will have extra space for oxygen cylinders, medical equipment and toilets. With the preparation of these coaches, NWR will be able to accommodate 4,256 isolation beds for patients to be brought for quarantine isolation. Authorities of NWR on Tuesday said work was in progress and they were on the job of making the isolation coaches as early as possible. As a part of Covid-19 preparedness, it was decided by Indian Railways to have 20,000 coaches with quarantine facilities. “We have been assigned the task to convert 266 coaches into quarantine isolation facility. Our engineers and other technical staff are on the job to get it done as soon as possibleWe are going to provide it to the state government to bring patients needing quarantine isolation,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. On specification and modifications of these coaches, a senior officer of engineering wing said, “We have been asked to remove the middle berth and ensure proper space for patients, dedicated space for doctors and para-medical staff attending to them. Extra electrical switches and holders in every cabin to facilitate the team of doctors,” the officer added. Mosquito nets would be provided on the windows of the coaches. “Also for insulation of the coaches, bamboo/khus mats would be fixed and pasted on the roof. Also extra charging points for laptops, mobile phones and for medical equipment will be installed,” the officer added. “These are non AC sleeper coaches which are under modification. Each coach is expected to have 16 beds for quarantine isolation which means NWR would have 4,256 beds for patients,” the officer added. Also every cabin in the coach would have three dustbins each with foot operated lids of red, blue and yellow colour suitably lined with garbage bags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/266-coaches-to-be-made-quarantine-units/articleshow/74921534.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Migrant workers get lukewarm welcome at native villages||Jaipur: Even as thousands of migrant workers return to their native villages in Dausa, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and other districts of the state, their journey does not just end there. The people residing in their villages are cautious about the Covid-19 pandemic, and are asking these workers to stay under quarantine and not to visit their homes directly. In some districts, the villagers themselves are intimating the district authorities on their arrival and the administration is then keeping these people in isolation at schools, panchayat buildings and other places in the villages. TOI on Tuesday spoke to many villagers in Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur districts where a sizeable number of migrant workers have arrived from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. “Five people have arrived from Delhi, where they work as labourers in Pitampura locality. We have informed about their arrival to the Patwari as soon as they were spotted entering into the village. They are kept at a house away from their home where they are given food. A team of paramedical staff and district administration had also visited them,” said Nekiram Gujjar of Bhandarez village in Dausa district. Similarly people in Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Sikar too have reported such arrivals to the district authorities and local officials like Gram Patwari. “Even there is good awareness in the villages, our teams comprising ANMs, Asha workers and others are doing survey. Yet, many cases in which migrant workers have arrived have been reported by the villagers themselves,” said a senior officer in district administration, Sawai Madhopur. However, there are also complaints that health officials and other concerned officials are not going for door-to door surveys at many villages. Health department has already directed various districts and its health, local administration and police to keep an eye on the migrant workers arriving there, who have come either from other districts in Rajasthan or from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrant-workers-get-lukewarm-welcome-at-native-villages/articleshow/74921542.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Five vehicles launched to sell veggies in Ramnad||MADURAI: The district administration has launched five vehicles to sell vegetables and thereby avoiding overcrowding in Covid-19 lockdown in Ramanathapuram district on Tuesday. Addressing reporters, collector K Veera Raghava Rao said the district administration officials have taken steps to ensure the availability of vegetables and fruits for people by setting up temporary shops at three places in Ramanathapuram town in the district. He said that apart from three places, five vehicles have been arranged to sell vegetables to residents in Ramanathapuram town. He said that this arrangement has been made to ensure that people get quality vegetables at nominal price. He said that steps are also being taken to arrange 50 such vehicles to sell vegetables at important places in Ramanathapuram town areas. Works are underway to arrange similar vehicles for the sale of vegetables across the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-vehicles-launched-to-sell-veggies-in-ramnad/articleshow/74921039.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||MP urges 1-month special pay for 108 ambulance employees||MADURAI: Virudhunagar Congress MP B Manickam Tagore has urged the state government to provide one-month special pay to the 108 ambulance employees in the state for effective service to prevent the spread of Covid- 19 during the lockdown period. In a representation to the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Tagore reminded that he (CM) had announced in the assembly session that one-month special pay would be given to doctors, nurses and sanitary workers who are working effectively for the containment of Covid-19 in the state. He said that even after the promulgation of Section 144 during the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, all the 108 ambulance employees are working round-the-clock in order to help the people during emergencies. Tagore said there are nearly 5,200 employees working with the 108 ambulances in the state and they are rendering an effective service during this emergent situation. Hence, the request to provide the special pay. Tagore also said the government should ensure that sufficient quantity of masks and sanitizers are provided for the safety of all 108 ambulance employees in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-urges-1-month-special-pay-for-108-ambulance-employees/articleshow/74921038.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||31 undertrials of Vadodara Central Jail released||VADODARA: Thirty-one undertrials of Vadodara Central Jail were released on bail for two months on Monday as per the guidelines of the high-power committee of Gujarat high court. Of the 31 undertrials, 17 were in jail in connection with cases related to payment of maintenance while 14 are facing trial for petty offences in which the jail term is less than seven years. “On Tuesday too more inmates, who are in jail for cases of maintenance payment will submit their bail applications,” said jail superintendent Baldevsinh Vaghela. Vadodara Central Jail has 609 undertrials currently. Vadodara District Legal Services Authority is helping prisoners with bail procedures. “Panel advocates of DLSA were there at the jail. On Tuesday too if an inmate who wants to submit his or her bail application does not have a lawyer, they can seek help of our panel advocates,” said DLSA secretary Aasutos Raj Pathak. Judicial magistrates will be visiting the central jail to hear the bail pleas of the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/31-undertrials-of-vadodara-central-jail-released/articleshow/74919232.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Teachers to observe shelter homes in city||Jaipur: Government school teachers in Jaipur district have been assigned the task to supervise the schools that had been converted into shelter homes for the migrant workers and homeless people. Government teachers are supposed to be present on duty 24x7 in fours shifts as directed by the government. Lately, teachers have been entrusted with many tasks related to coronavirus outbreak. Teachers are involved in conducting survey for coronavirus. Dug, a panchayat in Jhalawar district, has appointed government teachers for delivering food and ration to the houses of the people. The government teachers are cooperating in the time of crisis but they have been demanding medical kit for their protection. Vipin Sharma, general secretary, Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Union said, “We are in support of the government in the time of crisis but they should provide us safety kits for supervision work because we will be under threat. Moreover, teachers must also be included in the insurance plan recently declared for the medical staff. When we are working on field, we should be given this protection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-to-observe-shelter-homes-in-city/articleshow/74921055.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Onion auctions shut in APMCs across Nashik district, scarcity likely||NASHIK: All APMCs in Nashik district, including the country’s largest wholesale onion market in Lasalgaon, have been closed due to the coronavirus scare. Every day, on an average, 1.25 lakh quintal of onions are auctioned in the district and around 1 lakh quintal are dispatched to different domestic markets in the country, particularly to North to South India. Although few traders are still dispatching onions procured in the past two days, onion consignments to domestic markets are expected to come to a grinding halt in a day or two. According to traders, this may create a scarcity in the next few days and may lead to a rise in wholesale onion prices if supply is not resumed. Around 30-35,000 quintal of onions are auctioned every day at Lasalgaon APMC and two of its sub-markets in Niphad and Vinchur. Nearly 20,000 quintal are auctioned at the Pimpalgaon APMC. The remaining 70,000 quintal are auctioned at other eight APMCs at Chandvad, Umrane, Malegaon, Sinnar, Satana, Kalwan, Deola and Yeola. Jaydatta Holkar, the former chairman of Lasalgaon APMC and an onion trader himself, said: “There is likely to be an onion scarcity if auctions do not resume.” “Prices may also increase,” added Sandip Magar, the secretary of Chandvad APMC. “The detection of Nashik district’s first positive Covid-19 patient — a resident of Pimpalgaon Nazik village adjacent to Lasalgaon — has sparked fear among the traders. Moreover, workers are also not available for loading, unloading, grading and packaging of the onions. This is why the auctions at Lasalgaon had to be stopped,” said Manoj Jain, a trader. Hotels and restaurants are big onion purchasers but, currently, they are closed too. However, if the auctions do not resume in a few days, there is a real possibility of onion shortage, said Jain. “We are struggling due to the non-availability of workers. Most of our workers have already left for their native places. Even the local workers are not stepping out of their homes,” said an office-bearer of Lasalgaon onion traders’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-auctions-shut-in-apmcs-across-nashik-district-scarcity-likely/articleshow/74920340.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||War room ops kick off in Jaipur district||Jaipur: A war room has been established in Jaipur district to deal with the problems faced by the residents during lockdown. The first meeting along with the officials going to work in the war room was held on Tuesday at Jaipur district collectorate. Orders were issued by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a few days back to establish a war room in every district to resolve citizens’ issues. Officials of all the departments – PHED, JMC, water, medical, animal husbandry and others have been made part of the war room. Additional district collector (IV) Ashok Kumar said the main purpose of this war room is to resolve citizens’ issues as soon as possible. “About 16 officials have been appointed who will be on duty 24x7 attending calls of people who are facing difficulty in getting water, electricity or ration. The officials have been asked to resolve the complaints within one day,” Kumar said. Officials have been asked to immediately inform their departments concerned regarding the complaints received. Any complaint, if not resolved in a day, should be informed to the authorities. A list of complaints received and resolved should be submitted to the collector every day. “I request to all the citizens to stay at home and avoid going out without any reason to prevent the spread of disease. Anyone can call on – 0141-2204475 or 0141-2204476 to register a complaint for any problem during the lockdown,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/war-room-ops-kick-off-in-jaipur-district/articleshow/74921056.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||For women, dupattas turn protective gear||MADURAI: In view of Covid-19, it is important to wear masks as a precautionary measure to curtail the spread of the virus. However, many people, who come for shopping, predominantly women, are seen covering their faces with a piece of cloth, handkerchiefs or dupattas as protective gears while their husbands are seen wearing a proper mask. Most men in the markets can be seen wearing the green mask sold in medical shops. “What is surprising is that some couples come to do the shopping, and while the husbands are seen wearing a proper mask, the women are seen using their sarees or dupattas around their face as a mask. This is so wrong in the current situation and I have told some of them that the mask was equally important for both,” said a policeman on duty near the Anna Nagar market. There is also the problem of many people reusing the disposable masks after doing the shopping and that could be dangerous. A corporation official said that many people seemed to be in holiday mode, shopping in pairs and some of the couples were carrying infants while shopping in crowded places like the Nelpettai fish market. City’s leading pulmonologist Dr M Palaniappan said that wearing masks while going to public places was a must. “They should be wearing proper masks and not cloth and handkerchiefs as that would not serve the purpose,” he said. He added that a person may be asymptomatic or a sick person could have sneezed or coughed in a particular place and moved away. But, the aerosol containing the virus would be in the air for about one hour or more, hence wearing a proper mask was a must in these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/for-women-dupattas-turn-protective-gear/articleshow/74921046.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Online grocery stores not taking new orders||HYDERABAD: The online grocery stores, despite all assurances, are not fully functional in the city and this is causing severe inconvenience to the citizens. Though most of these stores resumed their operations, a majority of them are not accepting new orders owing to the ‘massive backlog of orders and operational constraints’. “I have been trying to place an online order for groceries since last Monday. None of the online stores are accepting orders,” said Krishna B, a housewife. She said that unless these stores start functioning fully it will be hard to remain in self-isolation as people will be forced to step out to buy groceries. “Despite the officials saying that they are issuing passes for delivery boys working with these online stores, the situation on the ground looks very different. Even yesterday, one of the online stores pointed out that they are working with the local authorities for permission to start their operations,”asked C Bharath, a techie. One of the online stores, based out of Gurugram, said that they would be accepting new orders in a day or two. “With the help of local authorities, we have obtained permissions and restarted our operations. We are delivering older orders first and should begin taking new orders within a day,” read a message on its app. Online stores are also facing a shortage in manpower, which is forcing them not to accept any new orders. “Dear customer, slots may not be available currently. We are working with cab aggregators, restaurant association and other retailers to get help without manpower requirement,” read a notification on the app of a Bengaluru-based online store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-grocery-stores-not-taking-new-orders/articleshow/74921065.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Vegetable vendors in Trichy against collection of user fee now||TRICHY: Even as the Gandhi market facility has been closed indefinitely as part of the lockdown, vendors in makeshift vegetable markets are reluctant to pay the indirect user fee charged by the person who had taken the Gandhi market space on lease from the corporation. The user fee collection will impact the price of vegetables, vendors said. While ensuring supply of vegetables amidst the lockdown remains an uphill task for authorities, vegetable vendors on Tuesday lamented the Trichy Corporation’s insensitive approach in charging indirect user fee. People continue to hand out tokens and collect user fee from vegetable traders at the behest of the lessee. “Collection of user fee during such a difficult time is inhumane. Traders are using the land provided by the district administration, why should the corporation collect user fee?” Akbar Ali, a vegetable trader said. A section of vegetable traders said that the user fee, around Rs 25 to Rs 50 per shop, may force small-time traders to compensate their expense by hiking vegetable price. The user fee collection was reported at all the four makeshift markets including Anna Stadium and Cauvery bridge. Understanding the difficulty in sourcing vegetables and since Gandhi market space is not used by vegetable traders, the vendors urged the corporation to stop the lessee from collecting user fee. However, the corporation seems unmoved. “The market was leased to a person for Rs 1.75 crore. If we insist him to stop the fee collection, we will have to repay the sum which is unlikely now,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vegetable-vendors-against-collection-of-user-fee-now/articleshow/74921049.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Locals help stray dogs beat hunger||TRICHY: The lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus seems to have turned foes into friends as Trichy residents, who often complain about stray dog menace, have come to the rescue of canines loitering for food. A group of people from various walks of lives have taken permission from the city police to feed the dogs once a day through a common kitchen to prepare food. The closure of commercial establishments, particularly street food stalls, has hit stray dogs hard as they depend on them for their daily feed. Also, with public movement drastically reduced and with no littering, stray dogs have been roaming around for food. That was when a group of people formed a WhatsApp group called “Feed stray dogs” comprising around 30 people from various parts of the city. The group has also availed of vehicle pass from the city police to move around to feed the animals. “We have arranged a common kitchen in Singarathope to cook food for the stray dogs. Five volunteers will place the food on paper plates in the evening and night,” G V Karthik, one of the volunteers, said. On Monday alone, the group fed 50 stray dogs at Palpannai, Lakshmipuram and Ariyamangalam localities. Rice, egg and chicken waste from shops and sponsored by people were mobilised for the common kitchen to feed the canines. “We have planned to feed at least 500 stray dogs a day during the lockdown. Lack of food may prompt the canines to attack people,” M Sekaran, a social worker added. Besides the group, various individuals who usually complain about stray dog menace have come forward to help the animals craving for food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-help-stray-dogs-beat-hunger/articleshow/74921047.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 1, 2020||Madurai||69 wagons of sugar from Karnataka reach Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Indian railways, working round-the-clock, has managed to transport 69 wagons of sugar bags to Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts from Karnataka.  Nearly 31,125 bags of sugar weighing 1,713 tonnes, were transported in 27 wagons and unloaded at Virudhunagar goods shed on Monday. Similarly, 53,130 bags of sugar bags weighing 2,667 tonnes were transported in 42 wagons and unloaded at Milavittan goods shed in Tuticorin district on Tuesday. Though the railways have suspended the passenger train services till April 14, the freight services continue to operate across the country to ensure the availability of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-wagons-of-sugar-from-karnataka-reach-tn/articleshow/74921045.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC Covid-19 & Nashik Bazaar apps for citizens||Nashik: Apart from the mobile app ‘Mahakavach’ particularly for quarantined patients,the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has developed two more mobile apps — ‘NMC Covid-19’ and ‘Nashik Bazzar’ — to help people during the lockdown. Those who have come from abroad or those who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients may fill up their information on ‘NMC Covid-19’ app. With this application, the administration’s task of finding out who has returned from foreign/affected countries has reduced to a great extent. People can voluntarily inform authorities about the same via this app. “Once any such information has been received on the app, the municipal corporation will immediately send medical teams who will take necessary medical precaution,” said NMC officials. “Moreover, this ‘NMC Covid-19’ app will also have all the necessary contact numbers of doctors, hospitals, news feeders, food donors, shelters, etc. This will help common people to get in touch with the necessary services,” said officials. In addition, another mobile app — ‘Nahik Bazzar’ — will help city residents to order groceries and get home delivery. The app will have a list of grocery shops and other essentials. The residents will have to place order through the app and the items ordered will be delievered at their doorstep. The NMC has developed the grocery special app in association with the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA). Citizens can download these mobile apps from ‘nmc.gov.in website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-covid-19-nashik-bazaar-apps-for-citizens/articleshow/74920356.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||World||White House projects 100K to 240K US deaths from virus||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Tuesday warned Americans to brace for a "rough two-week period" ahead as the White House released new projections that there could be 100,000 to 240,000 deaths in the US from the coronavirus pandemic even if current social distancing guidelines are maintained. Public health officials stressed that the number could be less if people change their behavior. "We really believe we can do a lot better than that," said Dr. Deborah Birx, the coordinator of the White House coronavirus task force. That would require all Americans to take seriously their role in preventing the spread of disease, she said. Trump called American efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus "a matter of life and death" and urged the public to heed his administration's guidelines. He predicted the country would soon see a "light at the end of the tunnel" in the pandemic that has killed more than 3,500 Americans and infected 170,000 more. "I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead," Trump said. "We're going to go through a very tough two weeks." Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government's top infectious disease expert, said the numbers are "sobering" and called on Americans to "step on the accelerator" with their collective mitigation efforts. "We are continue to see things go up," Fauci said. "We cannot be discouraged by that because the mitigation is actually working and will work." Birx said pandemic forecasts initially predicted 1.5 million to 2.2 million deaths in the U.S. But that was a worst-case scenario, without efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus through social distancing. Birx said states that have not yet seen a spike in cases as New York has could take action to flatten the curve of rising hospitalizations and deaths. As for the projection of 100,000-240,000 deaths, Fauci of the National Institutes of Health said: "We don't accept that number, that that's what it's going to be. ... We want to do much better than that." The comments came after Trump announced Sunday that he was extending to April 30 the social distancing guidelines that urged Americans to cease social gatherings, work from home, suspend onsite learning at schools and more in a nationwide effort to stem the spread of the virus. It was an abrupt reversal for Trump, who spent much of last week targeting April 12 as the day he wanted to see Americans "pack the pews" for Easter Sunday services. Many states and local governments already have stiffer controls in place on mobility and gatherings. Trump spoke after another troubling day for the stock market, which has been in a free fall as the cononavirus ground the economy to a near-halt and left millions unemployed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 400 points, or roughly 1.9%, to seal the worst first-quarter finish of its 135-year history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/white-house-projects-100k-to-240k-us-deaths-from-virus/articleshow/74921934.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Migrant labourers use farms to walk to avoid getting caught||NASHIK: The fear of getting caught is forcing migrant workers off the roads and into the fields. Many workers from Mumbai and Pune are now walking through the farms adjacent to highways to approach their respective destination. Many migrants from Mumbai were spotted walking through the fields to prevent getting spotted by the police amid the country-wide lockdown. Those spotted outside their homes are being detained by the police and handed over to the district administration. On Monday, superintendent of police Arti Singh said that a large number of people were found walking through the fields and open spaces on either side of the highways in an attempt to hide from police at the checkposts. On Monday, 750 people were detained by the police. While some were found travelling in six trucks and tempos, many were spotted walking. “Those detained have been handed over to the district administration. They will be boarded in different facilities till April 13. They are being provided with food and medical attention,” the police said. Police officers added that they did not find anyone walking on the roads on Tuesday. However, at around 4 am, 49 people were found travelling in a truck. They were heading towards the Nashik city from Trimbakeshwar. DCP Vijay Kharat said they had put up a checkpost in Pimpalgaon Bahula on the Trimbak Road. Around 4 am, the police saw a truck approaching from the Trimbakeshwar side. They intercepted the truck and interrogated its driver who told police that his name was Pappu Abdul Khan (27) and he was a resident of Bhivandi in Thane district and a native of Baihiraich in Uttar Pradesh. When police asked him the reason for travelling during the lockdown, he failed to give a satisfactory answer. When his vehicle was checked, police found 49 men cramped inside it. They were immediately shifted to school number 26 of the Nashik Municipal Corporation in Swarbaba Nagar, Satpur. Police said that they were provided with food and accommodation at this facility, adding that their medical check-up will also be conducted. Meanwhile, an offence was registered against the truck driver under various section of the Indian Penal Code including section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Police are also keeping a vigil on open fields adjacent to the highways to check if more people are heading towards Nashik from Mumbai and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrant-labourers-use-farms-to-walk-to-avoid-getting-caught/articleshow/74920365.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Staying at home true service to nation: Guv||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra sent a message to the people on Tuesday to abide by the lockdown and be patient in the time of crisis. Everyone has to stand united and support the country. Staying at home is the true service to the country, you are alone but not alone, he said. “As a family member, I request the people of the state to call the helpline numbers in any emergency so that the administration can provide the necessary help and medical immediately,” he appealed. If there are people around you who do not have food, help them, but keep a distance of one metre, he said. “We have to take necessary precautions to avoid corona. This is necessary for ourself as well as our family, society, state and country,” the governor added. He further said that, “it is everyone’s collective responsibility to cooperate with the government in making arrangements. The doctors, nurses and pharmacy and other staff associated with this profession are fulfilling their responsibilities. I thank all of them.” “Milk, vegetable-fruit and grocery traders are also doing their job in this time of crisis. I appreciate it.” “I request the traders that this is the time to serve the country. You should not do any activity like black marketing or hoarding during this crisis. Cooperate with the administration in making arrangements. This is the collective responsibility of all of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/staying-at-home-true-service-to-nation-guv/articleshow/74921058.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Villages abide by lockdown, fence entry and exit||TRICHY: While the city folks were seen flouting the physical distancing rule while purchasing essentials from meat and vegetable markets here, their counterparts in Ariyalur and Karur villages have shown the way to combat Covid-19 by fencing their entry and exit points to prevent outsiders from venturing into their village and also avoid residents from leaving. “Villagers are extremely cooperative to section 144 imposed by the state government. The movement of people within the villages has come down drastically,” said P Kannan, vice-president of Unjini panchayat. People in around 1,400 houses in Unjini panchayat, not completely relying on the rural civic body for taking up preventive measures, disinfect their houses with turmeric water. The panchayat has also sprayed natural disinfectant using neem leaves paste on public roads and near water tanks. In the city, even on Tuesday, people as couples were seen visiting makeshift markets set by the district administration. Maduram school ground and Cauvery bridge markets saw multiple members of families thronging vegetable markets. “Though the authorities had made circular markings to maintain social distancing, people come as a family to purchase vegetables,” said S Ramachandran, a vegetable vendor. Since milk and vegetables are available nearby, villagers said that they hardly go out of their houses. “We move out only to check our agriculture fields. Villagers abide by the lockdown,” said P Balakrishnan, a farmer from Pettavaithalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/villages-abide-by-lockdown-fence-entry-and-exit/articleshow/74921053.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown taking toll on mental health of Rajasthan residents||JAIPUR: Real estate broker Saurabh Choudhary spends hours every day on his mobile phone checking the latest updates on coronavirus. An avid traveller and a social person, Choudhary keeps waking up at night since the lockdown was announced by the state. “He constantly thinks about the impact of the epidemic in his business and personal life. Remaining glued to his cellphone throughout the day and losing sleep at night is a simple case of high levels of anxiety,” said neuro-physician Dr Bhawna Sharma, while sharing the case of one of his patients who consulted her on Tuesday. Choudhary is not alone whose life has turned upside down after the government forced people to go into self quarantine to combat the spread of the virus. Manjari Shah (name changed), a mother of two children aged 3 and 6 years, is a relationship manager at a private bank. “Living in a house 24/7 with a family is a luxury, but it becomes a nightmare with intense work pressure, discharging household work added with fear of the epidemic. It is completely disorienting my focus. Not only am I making mistakes in my office work, but while I cook, I miss some ingredients,” said Shah. Sleep disorders, cognitive imbalance and anxiety are the most common symptoms many people are complaining to neuro-physicists, clinical psychiatrists and psychologists in Jaipur. The lockdown, which has forced people to stay indoors, has started taking a toll on the mental health of people. Most complainants are highly educated or businessmen. Students are at the receiving end of the lockdown due to the indefinite postponement of their exams and uncertainty of the future. “I have noticed changes in the behaviour of most of them. They over react to every situation, display their anger too often and remained isolated,” said Sarvesh Kumar, a hostel warden in Kota. He has 16 students in his hostel stuck up due to lockdown. S S Nathawat, the former head of department psychology, Rajasthan University, termed it a situation akin to national emergencies. “The mental health problem is spreading like an epidemic especially among the young brigade. The uncertainty about future is a single most reason slipping them into depression. The government has to work towards spreading positivity by diverting their attention towards self-belief,” said Nathawat, who has authored 11 books on behavioural science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-taking-toll-on-mental-health-of-residents/articleshow/74921059.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Curbs on goods carriers lifted||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government in a significant move eased lockdown restrictions on Tuesday through a government resolution (GR) freeing the movements of all kinds of goods carriers, while earlier only those transporting food and essentials items were allowed. The GR issued by the transport commissioner says, “To control the spread of the coronavirus (COVID 19) in the country the government of India under the Disaster Management Act 2005 banned movement of all vehicles except those carrying food items and medicines. However, with revised instructions from the government of India’s home secretary, it has been directed to lift the ban on the movement of all kind of goods carriers so hereby all collectors, police commissioners, district police authorities, RTO officers are directed to not restrict movements of any goods carrier. After this order any goods carrier may move without any movement pass.” By this order, the government will freely allow all kind of goods carriers to move, which will help restart many economic activities that were hit by the lockdown. “Restricted movement of transporters was hampering supply of several non-essential commodities which were used as raw materials for packaging industry. The move will help ease supplychain issues. However, manpower issues are still rampant." Mukesh Dave, president, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transport Association (AGTTA). Meanwhile, reacting to the development, president of Gujarat Trader’s Federation, Jayendra Tannna, said, “The government decision will add to the ease of movement of goods, at a time when the demand has gone up and the supply is slow. However, manpower issues are being faced by transporters as well as distributors and thus, special permissions for movement of drivers, labourers and others involved in transport should be done and they should not be harassed by police personnel."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curbs-on-goods-carriers-lifted/articleshow/74921332.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu government locates participants of Tablighi Jamaat conference, put them under observation||KARUR: A 42-year old man of Karur who tested positive for Covid-19 was one among the 29 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Trichy and Pudukottai also have a total of 30 attendees of the conference who have been isolated at government hospitals besides the Indonesians quarantined in Thanjavur. Participants of the conference are also home quarantined in Perambalur district. “As many as 29 people, including a Kulithalai-based man who was tested positive for Covid-19, from the area had attended the Delhi conference. All of them have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur and blood samples taken for testing,” state transport minister M R Vijaya Baskar said. He said that the details about their residences, family members, the places they visited etc were collected by the officials. After attending the conference, he returned to Kulithalai after landing at Trichy by flight from Chennai on March 26. As he developed Covid-19 symptoms, he approached the hospital and was admitted. The minister said two of his co-passengers have been kept under observation at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) and another one has been admitted to IRT Government Hospital in Perundurai. Vijaya Baskar said that 5-km radius around the residence of the man is brought under surveillance. “Spraying of disinfectants and health check-up are being conducted in the area,” he said. In Trichy, 20 people who attended the Tablighi conference have been isolated at MGMGH. Samples of 13 of them have been taken for testing. In Pudukottai, the district administration and public health and preventive medicine department have identified 10 people who had attended the Delhi conference. “All of them have been isolated at the government hospital at Aranthangi and blood samples taken for testing. Ten more people from Pudukottai area are in Delhi,” Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari told ToI. One man from Aranthangi had attended the Malaysian Tablighi conference. However, the collector said that he has completed 28 days of home quarantine. The case of Thanjavur is different. The district administration has identified 12 Indonesians at Adhirampattinam and Patttukottai areas. An official said that they had not attended the Delhi conference. All of them would be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur, the official said. A resident of V Kalathur in Perambalur district had also attended the Delhi conference. On his arrival at Trichy airport, he was sent to home quarantine. “My blood sample was taken and I have been advised to be in quarantine. I am feeling well,” he said. (With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj and S Deepak Karthik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-locates-participants-of-tablighi-jamaat-conference-put-them-under-observation/articleshow/74921066.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Equipment for Miraj lab installed, trials begin||Kolhapur: The equipment for laboratory, which will test suspected Covid-19 swab samples, has been installed at the Miraj government medical college and the trials have begun from Tuesday, said Abhijeet Chaudhary, district collector of Sangli. Chaudhary told TOI, “We will be sending our trial test results along with the swab samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for verification. If everything goes well and the accuracy is approved, the laboratory will be operational from as early as Thursday.” “The machine has been provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and will prove quite helpful for speedy detection of the swab sample results,” he said. State minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that the lab will resolve the swab testing issue for Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, and Ratnagiri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/equipment-for-miraj-lab-installed-trials-begin/articleshow/74921743.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra partially defers March pay of CM, government staff, even cops and health workers||MUMBAI: The cash-strapped Maharashtra state government has partly deferred payment of March salaries to its employees and elected representatives. The decision applies to the chief minister, cabinet ministers, MLAs as well as staff in government and semi-government establishments, universities and aided organizations. Salaries of police personnel and health staff, who are working round-the-clock to fight Covid-19, will be affected too. Finance minister Ajit Pawar said the salaries will be paid in two instalments over the next few months. CM Uddhav Thackeray said, “There is no question of slashing anyone’s salary. We will be giving it in instalments due to the economic crisis the state is going through currently. Also, we will prioritize the instalments for all our staff engaged in providing essential services, like police and health workers.” As per the decision taken by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the CM, cabinet ministers and MLAs will be paid 40% of their salaries for March. Class I and II employees will be paid half their salaries and Class III 75% of their salaries. Class IV employees will get full salaries. The state has nearly 17 lakh employees and pensioners. As the monthly salary bill comes to about Rs 12,000 crore, deferment of pay will save government up to Rs 5,000 crore this month. The state’s salary bill is Rs 1.5 lakh crore annually. Nearly 1.1 lakh people are Class I and II employees, five lakh are Class III staff and 1.2 lakh Class IV. Then there are two lakh in police and two lakh teachers. “All our resources are being used to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The state government is also under a lockdown, which has also led to a decrease in state revenue. The state’s financial condition is such that some expenses need to be pushed,” said Pawar. The Opposition criticized the decision to put off salary payment of health staff and cops. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane tweeted: “Why is Maharashtra Gov cutting salaries of Police and health department workers and officers.. they r the ones... risking their lives n working overtime for us!” “The state has promised to pay the remaining part of the salaries in the next months. We accepted it in larger public interest,” said G D Kulthe, advisor to the Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers’ Confederation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-partially-defers-march-pay-of-cm-govt-staff-even-cops-health-workers/articleshow/74920383.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pets suffer as vets refuse to visit, shops run out of food||KOLKATA: While keeping the home stocked with groceries and the constant need to check one’s hygiene to prevent contracting Covid-19, the importance of keeping a food supply for pets unhindered has been overlooked. Few pet stores are open and even those are low on stocks as distributors are refusing to deliver. Online portals, too, are cancelling orders. Worsening things is vets’ refusal to attend to pets. In such an instance, a 7-year-old labrador — Buzo — died on Tuesday after vets refused to come and check on him. Buzo’s owner Anirudh Ghosh, a resident of Ballygunge, said, “I called multiple vets when Buzo’s condition worsened. But no one agreed to see him due to the lockdown despite veterinary services not being restricted.” For 48-year-old Mitali Banerjee, it’s getting more difficult by the day to feed her cats. “I have five rescued cats and they all are used to eating cat food. Now that the stores are shut, I have no option but to feed them milk. But they are lactose intolerant and are falling ill,” she said. Two of her cats gave birth recently and are refusing to eat the homemade khichdi. “I tried ordering cat food online but they refused to deliver. I want the government to help get the supplies started,” she pleaded. Aniruddha Bose, a Shyambazar resident, is in a similar situation with 10 dogs to care for. “I have food for my dogs that would last just a week,” Aniruddha said. Most pure-breed dogs grow up having a particular brand of pet food and have health issues if forced to change it. Kashika Arora, who runs a pet grooming salon, has 25 pets and her stocks are almost over. “I hope the government provides help to these poor animals soon,” she said. Feeding her dogs — Honey and Tiger — has become a tough task for south Kolkata resident Ayesha Nadeem. “My German spitz and pug are used to only special dog food and are not willing to eat home-cooked food. I have exhausted my stock of pet food now,” she rued. Not just food, medicines, too, are unavailable and with veterinarians staying indoors, pet parents are anxious. Goutam Guha, who runs a pet shop in Baguihati said, “We get supplies from Dhulagarh but they have shut shop because of the lockdown. Local suppliers, too, refuse to deliver as they are scared of being beaten up by the police. Only government intervention can solve the problem.” South Kolkata pet shop owner Amit Prasad said, “This is not the time to profit. The aim is to help pets get their food. Dogs and cats suffering from kidney issues or diabetes need specific food and cannot survive without them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pets-suffer-as-vets-refuse-to-visit-shops-run-out-of-food/articleshow/74921067.cms||Kathakali Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||2 deaths in city, swabs to be tested||Kolhapur: Two people — a 37-year-old man and an 85-year-old woman passed away in the city on Tuesday, confirmed Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR). She said that both the deceased had pneumonia and had no previous history of travel or possible contact with any of the Covid-19 patients. However, their swab samples have been collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for testing. The reports are likely to arrive by Wednesday. The 37-year-old patient was admitted to a private hospital at around 3 am on Tuesday. He passed away at around 11.30 am. The 85-year-old woman was admitted to another city-based private hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-deaths-in-city-swabs-to-be-tested/articleshow/74921738.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘Maintaining psychological safety is more important’||Psychologist Anagha Bhave is busy quelling the coronavirus fear in the minds of people, especially parents, who are seeking her solutions to problems of their own as well those of their children. Her phone is forever buzzing and by going the extra mile, she is injecting positivity. Bhave shared her tips with TOI on how to cope with the situation with a strong mind. Excerpts... How can one make up one’s mind to accept the coronavirus situation and yet find hope? During such unusual and trying times, a lot of us may find ourselves dwelling on ‘what-if’ and worst case scenarios. One way that can help one to feel hopeful is by remembering that anxiety arises when we focus on the likelihood of a future’s negative outcome. Just as there is a possibility that the virus outbreak might worsen in the future, there is also a possibility that it may not. People who are extroverts are feeling trapped inside their homes. How can they divert their mind positively? A: Social distancing and self-isolation are bound to be more difficult for people who are extroverts and enjoy socializing on a routine basis. By remembering that you are not alone in this, you may find that the feeling of loneliness and isolation reduces. A lot of youngsters are staying in touch with each other through mobile applications which are safe. It may also be helpful to shift the internal narrative from temporary discomfort to long-term health and safety, keeping in mind how one’s individual contribution can lead to the greater good. How should parents help their children positively? Parents should understand that maintaining their own as well as their children’s psychological safety is more important. Depending on the age group of the child, an open and calm conversation is the need of the hour. For younger children, storytelling is a great way to give a message. Stories should have a similar theme (virus outbreak) with a positive ending on how it was contained. Parents must have credible information from sources such as CDC and WHO. Teaching good habits and staying away from fake news also help. In what way can ‘quarantine’ feel like a ‘good time’? It can be utilized to accomplish skills and activities that are otherwise difficult to pursue due to a busy schedule. A routine can be established. This routine can involve self-care activities such as cooking healthy meals, practicing relaxing meditation, yoga and engaging in artistic endeavours. How can one control anxiety? One should strictly stick to the information derived from trustworthy sources. Inaccurate information not only induces stress and fear but also spreads contagious negative emotions. One can also limit constant monitoring and checking for updates, which is more anxiety-provoking than calming. If anxiety is rising, take a break from the news and social media. Avoiding information overload is a must because it will lead to over-thinking. How can parents deal with children who are curious and scared about corona? Equipping their mind with information is vital. It will allow the extra clutter to go away. Answer your child’s curiosity. Don’t put a veil on their questions. Gently keep a check on their emotions. Normalize the hype at home and engage them in creative and mindful activities depending on their age. Replacement of negative thoughts with positive ones helps a lot. For example, instead of ‘I’m going to fall sick’, say ‘I’m trying everything in my power to stay healthy’. How can one create a positive environment at home? Most of us were used to spending a sizeable portion of our day outdoors, in school or at the workplace. It can be overwhelming to suddenly feel homebound with all the family members under one roof. Wisdom then lies in bouncing back from the conflict at the earliest and not dwelling on it. If one has the privilege of space, retreating to a quiet and peaceful corner of the house can allow one to take a break from the hustle bustle of a busy household. Designating duties in advance to every family member can be very useful. Additionally, families can see this situation as an opportunity to spend quality time with each other and enjoy each other’s valued company. How can we equally divide time between watching news and performing refreshing activities? If one is frequently feeling gloomy, anxious and fearful after watching news, then it may be due to excessive exposure. The best way out is to watch news just twice a day and that too from one trustworthy source. Practicing mindfulness and gratitude should top the list to calm anxiety. It allows one to be in the moment, instead of constantly focusing on the future. To perform a mindfulness exercise, one needs to close ones eyes and focus on breathing. If thoughts enter your mind, then allow them to come and go gently without being judgemental or critical. How good does meditation help in such a scary situation? Meditation has been scientifically proven to be effective in managing anxiety and stress. Breathing exercises are commonly used to help a person develop mindfulness and deal with worry. Do soft skills and activities work equally well for adults and children? Mindful activities work very well with children. YouTube has guided mindful and meditation activities for children which can be practised regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maintaining-psychological-safety-is-more-important/articleshow/74921084.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 1, 2020||Agra||54 who took part in Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat meet quarantined in Mathura, Agra||Agra: The Mathura administration on Tuesday quarantined 51 persons, including 30 who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where 24 participants tested positive for novel coronavirus. Health officials said that the 30 quarantined people hail from Shamli and Yamunanagar and were part of the same meet and had moved to the mosques in Mathura and Farah on March 19. They added that none of them has showed any symptoms so far. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra, said their samples have been taken and sent to Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College for tests. All of them have been put up in quarantine centre for 14 days, he said. He told TOI that 21 others, including 14 from Agra and 7 from Shamli, were also home quarantined for 14 days. Though they had not attended Delhi’s congregation, they were in a ‘jamaat’ and hail from other states. Meanwhile, the Agra administration also quarantined 89 people, including 24 who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Others were from outside the state and were staying in mosques. Similarly, in Aligarh, 18 persons who had come from Aligarh in February and were staying in a mosque were put in quarantine as a precaution. They were also booked under IPC’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for staying in a mosque, which is a public place. In Agra, all these people were shifted to an institutional quarantine facility developed at a resort in Sikandra by the evening. Agra chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Vats said, “On the orders of the district administration, the health department teams along with police has identified 89 people staying in different mosques of the city. These people had recently come from outside UP. Some of them attended the religious congregation in Delhi. All these people have been shifted to a quarantine facility. The number of such people can further increase. Doctors have started screening them. We will keep them in a 14-day quarantine. Samples of all those having symptoms of Covid-19 will be sent for tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/54-who-took-part-in-delhis-tablighi-jamaat-meet-quarantined-in-mathura-agra/articleshow/74919330.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur readies over 4,000 beds to face surge in cases||THANJAVUR: As the number of Covid-19 patients and their close contacts is steadily increasing across the country, the Thanjavur district administration has geared up to tackle the situation by preparing 4,168 hospital beds to handle an emergency. Various private hospitals, engineering colleges, schools and community halls have been converted into temporary wards. Collector M Govinda Rao said that 2,400 beds including 1,200 at Government Medical College Hospital, 300 at government hospitals and 900 in private hospitals are available. By making use of available space in various buildings including private educational institutions, the authorities managed to get an additional 1,548 beds. That apart, 1,100 beds have been arranged at a private engineering college in Sengipatti, 200 beds in a building on Raja Mirasdar Government Hospital premises, 80 beds in Kumbakonam and 140 beds in Pattukottai. Revenue and health officials have earmarked a slum clearance board building to quarantine people coming from overseas and neighbouring states. 100 ambulances including 78 private and two bike ambulances are stationed readily for service, he added. The district administration has provided a pass to 396 trucks to transport essentials like vegetables. Following the intensive check at 25 public places, eight check posts and 26 government offices, 39,361 people have been examined. Of the 4,600 who arrived from various countries and neighbouring states, 447 have been quarantined in their homes and all of them are being monitored by both health officials and police. It may be noted that 1,185 action committee have already been formed to create awareness and monitoring purposes. To avert congregation of people and maintain social distance, the district administration has commenced door delivery of groceries, he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-readies-over-4000-beds-to-face-surge-in-cases/articleshow/74921072.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Nabanna gets frantic calls from patients’ kin stuck in Vellore||Kolkata: The control room at Nabanna has received several SOS calls from patients and their kin who had been to hospitals in south India and are now unable to return to Bengal. Amit Biswas, a Barrackpore resident, had gone to Vellore in mid-March for the treatment of his two-year-old son who has a cardiac problem. Biswas said that he gone to Vellore with his son in mid-March. “My son was discharged on March 22. We are staying at a guesthouse close to CMC, Vellore. I do not how long we have to stay here. There are over a hundred patients and their relatives from Bengal stuck here like us. The situation of patients from Bangladesh is even worse.” Biswas said. He added, “We do not know how long will the food be available, as cost is escalating. Potato is being sold at Rs 50 a kilogram,” Moreover, he claimed that markets were overcrowded.” Similarly, Abhijit Mondal of Durgapur had gone to Vellore for his father’s knee surgery a septuagenarian. However, after the operation, they are stuck there with their savings fast depleting. Several patients are stranded in Tamil Nadu as well. Bhaskar Das of Burdwan said he had gone for a laparoscopy of his wife. But due to the lockdown, the surgery has been postponed. He is now stranded there with his wife and mother-in-law with the hotels unwilling to accommodate them for too long. An official said the Bengal government is trying to alert the respective states as desperate calls are reaching Nabanna for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nabanna-gets-frantic-calls-from-patients-kin-stuck-in-vellore/articleshow/74921070.cms||Ashis Poddar
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Students get more time to prepare for Neet||MADURAI: Although the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) has been postponed till further notice, students are more than happy with the extra time offered by the lockdown to prepare for the test using online coaching classes and video calls. Neet aspirant Sowmiya said she feels the current lockdown will impact Neet exam and medical admissions as well. “We can still continue to study using books, online apps and videos to prepare best for exam. But, we are anxious about how the admission process will be this time. Even college opening could be delayed,” she said. However, students are asserting that the extra time to prepare is encouraging them. Meenakshisundaram, a government school teacher, is coaching Neet aspirants through video calls. “It will not be the same as a classroom as you need interactive classes, which available online won’t work. I coach my students one-on-one through video call. It is time-consuming but still students are able to learn better this way since they can ask questions and clear doubts,” he said. Many teachers from both government and private schools have shared their phone numbers with Neet aspirants from their respective schools so that they can ask and clear doubts whenever they need to. However, coaching centres have been hit hard. “It is a unique situation for us since it feels like students get additional time but they can’t go for classes. We have also had to postpone indefinitely our crash courses which we conduct post board exams,” said Tamilselvam, coordinator at a private coaching centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-get-more-time-to-prepare-for-neet/articleshow/74921073.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR converts two non-AC cabins into isolation wards||HYDERABAD: As advised by the Ministry of Railways and to combat Covid-19, two non-air-conditioned coaches have been converted into isolation wards by the Lallaguda carriage workshop. “In these two cabins, both middle and upper berths and also side lower and upper berths are removed. In both the cabins, the width of the lower berth earmarked for the patient has been widened by 90 mm for sleeping comfort,” reads an official statement from South Central Railway (SCR). The toilet pans available at both the ends of the coach have been removed and converted into a bathing facility for the occupants. “While converting railway coaches into isolation wards, we are aiming to take isolation health facilities to remote locations across the SCR zone. These facilities are in addition to isolation beds provided by the zone at railway hospitals, health units, and training Institutes spread over 30 locations in the zone,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-converts-two-non-ac-cabins-into-isolation-wards/articleshow/74921079.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Action against group admins for April fool messages: Nashik police||NASHIK: The city police on Tuesday said that they will be taking strict action against the admins of Whatsapp groups if April fool messages related to Covid 19 are circulated in the group. The police said they want to avoid any panic or misunderstanding among citizens related to the pandemic. The police said that a large number of people would be sending April fool messages on Wednesday to their friends and families for fun's sake. However, currently, the entire country and the world is going through difficult times, so it is best to avoid any panic among the masses. A country-wide curfew has been imposed all over the country till April 14. Senior PI Sunil Rohakale of the Upnagar police station said, “We are appealing people to not circulate any message on Whatsapp that has the potential of creating misunderstanding among people related to Covid 19.” They said that this is a precautionary measure to avoid any more pressure on the district administration and the police. He said that group admins should take note that if anyone from his/her group is sending such messages that could become viral. “The concerned admin would be booked under Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and other sections of the Bombay Police Act and Disaster Management Act,” said Rohakale. If the case is sent to the court, the notice issued by the police can be used as evidence. Admins are advised to inform the same to the group members and set the message settings to ‘only admins’ for a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-against-group-admins-for-april-fool-msgs-police/articleshow/74920392.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Fishing community left in lurch||When the state and Union governments have announced special financial packages for the working class in the unorganized sector during the 21-day lockdown, the fishing community has been left in the lurch. Though fishing has been banned during the period, both the governments have not announced any relief for them. In this backdrop, National Fish Worker’s Forum (NFF) has appealed to the governments to extend financial assistance to the fishing community on a par with daily wagers during the curfew period. Next only to agriculture, the sector engages more than 10 lakh from the fishing community. Tamil Nadu has a 1,076 km-long coastline contributing 4.97 lakh tonnes of marine fish production. About 5,893 mechanised and 38,779 traditional boats are engaged in fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishing-community-left-in-lurch/articleshow/74921074.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara blood donors get free rides||VADODARA: To ensure there is no shortage of blood in the city and that hospitals receive stable supply of blood, the Vadodara district administration on Tuesday launched a unique initiative. All the six blood banks in the city have been provided two vehicles each so that they reach to the doorsteps of the donors, take them to the banks, collect their blood and drop them back at their homes. “We have assigned two wards each to every blood bank. The blood banks already have a list of donors with them. Two donors can be picked up and dropped using one vehicle,” said Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal, who flagged off the vehicles on Tuesday. She said such a system had become a necessity to ensure continuous supply of blood to the hospitals. The blood banks are not being able to organize mass donation camps because of COVID-19 scare coupled with 21-day lockdown. “The blood banks in turn will coordinate with SSG Hospital and GMERS Gotri Hospital to ensure that there is no shortage of blood,” she said. As a futuristic step, Indian Red Cross Society will also put up a link on its website through which people can register their names as donors. “This link will be provided within the next couple of days so that there is a proper database in place and everybody can contribute in their own way towards betterment of society,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-blood-donors-get-free-rides/articleshow/74919259.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Five of a family linked to Noida firm test positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly||Bareilly: Two days after a 34-year-old man, employee of a Noida firm where several cases of Covid-19 have emerged, was found to be infected by novel coronavirus, five of his family members, including his wife, mother, father, brother and sister, also tested positive on Tuesday. However, the man’s two-year-old son tested negative. Meanwhile, the health department has admitted another man, who works in the same Noida firm, to isolation ward and his sample for Covid-19 test has been collected.The man had returned to Bareilly from Noida on March 22 and stayed with his family in their house in Subhash Nagar locality. Health officials said the man claimed that he learnt through WhatsApp on March 26 that his colleagues have been tested positive and he went to the district hospital on March 27 to get himself tested. After the sample of the man was collected, he was admitted to the district hospital’s isolation ward. His six family members, including his two-year-old son, were shifted to the quarantine ward.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “Covid-19 cases in Bareilly increased to six on Tuesday and all of them are linked to the Noida firm. Besides, all positive cases belong to one family which resides in Subhash Nagar locality.”He added, “After the first case was reported on Sunday, we began active case surveillance and sanitization exercise in one-kilometre radius of the patients’ house. However, with cluster of cases being reported here, we will increase the radius up to three kilometres of the patients’ house.” District epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas said, “We have collected sample of one more man who too works in same Noida firm and his report for Covid-19 test is awaited. This man who lives in Bareilly’s Durga Nagar locality returned to the city on March 18 and he is suspected to have come in contact with a positive case. Besides, the family of six persons who tested positive came in contact with 11 persons in Bareilly. We are tracing more contacts of the family.”Health officials said a medical store owner and his son tested negative for novel coronavirus. The 34-year-old man had purchased a cough syrup from the medical store on March 23 and was under self-medication for cough for four days, said officials.Meanwhile, the doctors and staff involved in the treatment of positive patients will be quarantined at Hotel Uberoi Anand after their shifts get over. The district administration acquired the hotel for quarantine of the health staff.“Doctors, nurses, ward boys and sweepers who are in contact with the positive cases will live in quarantine at this hotel. After their shifts get over daily, they will go to hotel instead of their homes,” said the CMO. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-of-a-family-linked-to-noida-firm-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/74920410.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Five teams to cover 80 city wards to screen sick people||Bareilly: The health department has formed five teams to cover 80 wards in the city to track people who have returned from outside Bareilly for possible Covid-19 infection. Officials said on receiving complaints that a person who has returned from another district or state is sick, a team led by two medical officers will visit his home to check if they have Covid-19 symptoms. Each team will cover 16 wards of the city from Wednesday.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have been receiving complaints that a few people who have returned to Bareilly from other districts or states are unwell. On receiving a specific complaint, a team will go to check if the person has any symptoms. People who have returned from outside will be advised home quarantine. They should stay in a separate room and maintain minimum contact with family members. Samples of suspected cases will be collected if they fulfill the government’s guidelines.”According to sources, with scores of people returning to Bareilly from across the country, the health department has been receiving complaints from locals alleging their neighbour might have contracted the infection. “We have been informing people that people who arrived from outside Bareilly, and even locals, should strictly follow home quarantine,” said a senior official. Officials said as Bareilly city has 80 wards, each team will cater to 16 wards. “We are getting support of the district administration, and teams will start working from Wednesday,” said the CMO.Apart from the city, the health department had asked block-level teams to screen patients in rural areas of the district. Most people who have returned to villages were labourers or migrant workers who claimed they were forced to return after they lost jobs. Meanwhile, to avoid crowds at district hospital where Covid-19 positive cases are being treated, on Tuesday the flu clinic was shifted to a building of the 300-bed hospital in Khurram Gotiya locality, which is almost ready but still vacant. People with seasonal fever and cough visit the flu clinic. Sources said of the total patients who have been coming to the clinic of late, many were migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-teams-to-cover-80-city-wards-to-screen-sick-people/articleshow/74920429.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||11 Satara samples test negative||KOLHAPUR: Satara district civil surgeon Amod Gadikar on Tuesday said that 11 throat swab samples they had sent to NIV in Pune on March 30 have all tested negative. Gadikar said the throat swab samples of all senior citizens with foreign travel history after March 15 are being collected as a precautionary measure. Seven such samples were sent to the NIV, and they were all negative. The two patients, who had come in contact with the Islampur family, also tested negative. Further, two other suspected cases too turned out to be negative for the virus. According to Gadikar, the first two positive patients, who are currently in the isolation ward in the Satara district hospital, are responding well to the treatment and are stable. He added that on Tuesday, nine new suspects have been admitted across hospitals in the district. Meanwhile, Satara collector Shekhar Singh said that the section 144 imposed until March 31, has been extended until April 14 midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11-satara-samples-test-negative/articleshow/74921745.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tellapur residents raise Rs 5.5L||Hyderabad: The Tellapur Neighbourhood Association collected Rs 5.5 lakh in two days to help migrant workers. Ramana Eshwargiri, president of the association, said: “It is our responsibility to give back to the nation during a time of crisis. The government can’t do everything.” Till now, more than 300 people from different communities in the neighbourhood contributed towards the fund. On Wednesday, the association members plan to give grocery packs to 500 families. Also, Rs 3.5 lakh was transferred to a vendor in presence of Miyapur and Lingampally police to supply grocery packs containing 15kg rice, 2 litre oil, dal, tamarind and other essentials. The rest of the money will be used by community volunteers to carry out distribution work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tellapur-residents-raise-rs-5-5l/articleshow/74921086.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to run 3 special buses for civil hospital staff||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), owing to the lack of public transport system due to the lockdown, would be plying three buses for the staff of Nashik civil hospital. These buses will ply from Nashik civil hospital to Panchavati, Adgaon, Gangapur Road, Nashik Road and Deolali Camp. Around 70 employees of the hospital will benefit from this service. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said, “Due to the lockdown there are no buses and autorickshaws. Hence, we had approached senior officials of the MSRTC, who came to the hospital, gauged the situation and decided to run three city buses for the hospital staff.” Other precautionary measures like ensuring that only one person sits on one seat of the bus and sanitisation of the bus will be taken care by the Nashik civil hospital. These buses will run in the morning, afternoon and evening sessions. The nurses and class IV employees of the Nashik civil hospital were demanding that a bus facility should be arranged for them as they do not have any vehicle to reach the hospital from different parts of the city. “The staff has been informed about the timetable and the routes on which these buses will ply,” a senior official of the civil hospital said. “The staff has also been told to ensure that they take all the precautionary measures like using face mask, gloves, while travelling in the bus and also keep safe distance between the fellow passengers from their hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-run-3-special-buses-for-civil-hospital-staff/articleshow/74920421.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||N Maha’s first Covid testing lab becomes functional||NASHIK: The Dhule-based Shri Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College and Hospital (SBHGMCH) on Tuesday started testing throat swab samples of patients showing coronavirus-like symptoms. The institute has established a viral research and diagnostic lab on its premises to carry out real-time (RT) PCR tests for Covid-19 on a war-footing. The new facility, the first one in North Maharashtra, would be a boon for the districts in the region as they no longer need to send the samples to the Pune-based National Institute Of Virology. Hospital superintendent Dr Rajkumar Suryavanshi said several sophisticated pieces of equipment have been installed at the lab to carry out the tests. “We have collected the throat swab samples of the three suspected patients admitted in our hospital. The tests are being carried out,” he said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state government had directed the management of the institute to establish the lab to reduce the burden on NIV. “State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, medical education secretary Sanjay Mukherjee and director of state directorate of medical education and research (DMER) T P Lahane had been following up with the institute authorities on the issue,” the hospital officials said. Recently, ICMR, which had provided the funds, had directed SBHGMCH to hasten the process to set up the lab. SBHGMCH dean Nagsen Ramraje and hospital superintendent Rajkumar Suryavanshi prepared the blueprint for the project. Mrudula Dravid, the HoD of the microbiology department, would be in charge of the lab. “The lab has the capacity of testing 96 samples in one go. The tests take about four hours,” said Suryavanshi. NIV and SBHGMCH authorities were in touch online while the facility was being established. NIV has given its nod to start testing the samples. The officials at the institute said that the districts in the region would be informed about sending their samples to the institute rather than the Pune-based NIV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/n-mahas-first-covid-testing-lab-becomes-functional/articleshow/74920438.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Around 170 shelter homes to accomodate 50,000 people||Kolhapur: Around 170 shelter homes have been identified by the Pune divisional commissioner’s office in Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Kolhapur districts that will accommodate around 50,000 migrants and homeless people. “These shelter homes will provide all the necessary facilities, including food and medicines,” Dipak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner, said. A media brief from Mhaisekar said that in Kolhapur district 11 shelter homes can accommodate 46,410 people while 143 shelter homes in Satara has a capacity to serve 4,688 people. There are 16 shelter homes in Sangli that will house 1,306 people while 2 shelter homes in Solapur will provide all the necessary facilities to 62 people. The shelter homes have been started in association with the district administrations and non-governmental organisations. “In the wake of the current lockdown, many workers and homeless people have been left stranded. The state government has instructed the officials to arrange shelter homes and meal facility for such people,” Mhaisekar said. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “We have assigned responsibilities of taking care of these temporary residents and their basic needs, including safety, to respective nodal officers. In rural area, village-level committees will look after the shelter home inmates, while in urban area corporation officers have been assigned this task.” On reports of migrants fleeing shelter homes, state minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said such it is the emotions that are weighing higher at this point. “However, safety comes first and I would appeal to the migrants to stay at the shelter homes where all arrangements for their meal and safety have been made,” he said. Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar added that the officials have been asked to strictly monitor the food quality and ensure that everything remains in order at these shelter homes. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has asked the industries and sugar mills to provide shelter and food facilities to their workers. “Non-compliant industries and mills will face criminal action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/around-170-shelter-homes-to-accomodate-50000-people/articleshow/74921756.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC to feed strays in city from today||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start feeding stray bulls, cows and dogs from Wednesday. The Fisheries and Animal Resources Development (FARD) department has provided funds to BMC for the purpose. The capital city has 20,000 stray dogs. The dogs, which were largely dependent on leftover food of hotels and restaurants, are facing a tough time with all the hotels being closed. They are more aggressive when they are hungry and this may lead to rise in incidence of dog bites at this juncture, an expert said. BMC deputy commissioner Shyam Sundar Sethi said the existing supplier of dog food under Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme will supply food at the rate approved by the government for 18 days starting from April 1. “We will supply food to stray animals at more than 200 identified locations in the city. Three vans have been requisitioned from BMC mechanical section to transport the animal food,” said Sethi. A BMC official said four personnel will be deployed for each vehicle, of which two each will be from cattle drive squad and dog catching squad. The food will be supplied twice daily by the teams between 7am and 10am and between 4pm and 7pm. The cattle feed will be bought from local markets. The BMC has also appealed to people through different media, including social media, to provide food to the distressed animals during lockdown period. Earlier the People for Animals had written to the FARD department to alleviate the distress of the animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-to-feed-strays-in-city-from-today/articleshow/74919391.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Arumbakkam: Diabetics queue up at Siddha hospital for medicines||CHENNAI: With Siddha Central Research Institute (SCRI) in Arumbakkam closed for quarantine, patients who get their diabetes medicines from there were forced to go to the state-run Tamil Nadu Government Siddha Medical College next door leading to long queues. SCRI, a pioneer in Siddha research, has at least 500 to 600 diabetic patients visiting everyday. Patients are issued ID cards and medicines are distributed only for the next 14 days based on their prescription. Diabetic drug distribution happens only on Mondays and Tuesday to avoid confusion. So those, who arrived at the premises on Monday, were disappointed to see the pharmacy shut. Usually, most diabetic patients from SCRI are provided with ‘Triphala Kashayam’ and D5. Patients would mix them together at appropriate portions and have it twice a day. “They could have either sent a message, announcing the closure, to our registered mobile numbers, emails or in newspapers. We wouldn’t have taken so much risk, convincing police and others and travelled all the way to see locked doors,” said Jaya Kumar, a patient from Avadi. Also, most of the diabetic medicines prescribed by SCRI was not available in private pharmacies and even if one or two sell them , the quality is very poor, he added. “So we don’t know how we are going to keep our sugar levels under control for the next 14 days”. SCRI Director (in-charge) Sathiya Rajeswaran said they had to close because one of their doctors (a 27-year-old male) and two others from the campus were detected Covid-19 positive. Also, many staff were from MMDA Colony in Aarumbakkam, which has several people in home quarantine. At the Tamil Nadu government Siddha Medical College Hospital, there were long queues of people to buy ‘Kabasura Kudineer’, which is considered an effective medicine for diabetes. And there were curbs on how much you could buy. “Usually we buy three packets each but on Tuesday, only one packet was sold per person,” said Guru Prasanth, a patient from Anna Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/diabetics-queue-up-at-siddha-hospital-for-meds/articleshow/74921578.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Liquor worth over Rs 1 lakh stolen from wine shops||TRICHY: Liquor worth more than Rs 1 lakh were stolen from two locked Tasmac-run wine shops in separate break-ins reported from the city on Monday. The incident happened at a time when all the Tasmac outlets were closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. In the first incident, the miscreants broke into the wine shop at Konakarai in Woraiyur and decamped with 507 bottles of liquor including 180 ml, 375 ml, 650 ml and 750 ml liquor worth Rs 97,330. The robbery came to light when a worker in the bar found the main door of the shop broken on Monday afternoon. Shop supervisor M Sivaji, 50, a resident of Mannachanallur, lodged a complaint with the police. The Woraiyur police visited the shop and registered a case. A few hours later, the Gandhi market police in Trichy received another case of break-in at a wine shop in Varaganeri. The incident was first found by supervisor K Dinesh Kumar, of Tharanallur while he was inspecting the shop. On information, supervisor L Selvaraj, 52 a native of Kulithalai in Karur visited the spot and later filed a complaint with Gandhi Market police. The police visited the spot and found 134 bottles of liquor including 180 ml and 375 ml liquor worth Rs 26,100 from the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/liquor-worth-over-rs-1-lakh-stolen-from-wine-shops/articleshow/74921088.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In Covid times, cops shoot film||AHMEDABAD: When the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the world, city police cops seem to be busy capturing how they deal with people to show to cops of all the other police stations of Ahmedabad city. Some 50 cops, including a PSI, a PI and two ACPs were stationed in Laldarwaja in front of the Sidi Saiyyad Mosque with four cameras set up. Constables were stopping people, most of whom were involved in providing essential services, and interrogated them about why they were on the road. The cops also did not miss the chance to issue memos for traffic violation and put people in a queue to question them. When a police officer was asked about this, a person with a DSLR camera intervened and said, “We are shooting for Saheb”. At this, a crime branch ACP, who was present at the spot, cut off the person with the camera and said, “This is a routine procedure.” An official of Karanj police said they were shooting for a film to demonstrate to cops how they should work during the coronavirus lockdown. On why a crime branch ACP was present, the official said he also wanted to understand how to work in this situation. “We will show this film to every police station to teach cops on how to work during the coronavirus outbreak,” said the official. The official said as the coronavirus situation is unprecedented, they are filming the standard operating procedure for future reference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-covid-times-cops-shoot-film/articleshow/74921331.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin focus on contact tracing in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The health departments of Satara, Sangli, and Kolhapur are working round the clock to trace individuals, who might have come in contact with those testing positive for Covid19 infection. Satara civil surgeon Amod Gadikar said they check for all those who have come in contact with the Covid19 positive patient in the 15 days prior to the detection. “We check for the contacts from last 15 days. These contacts are then categorised into major and minor. Major contacts are the immediate family members, close friends, relatives, while minor contacts are co-passengers, driver, student,” he said. According to Gadikar, the major contacts are generally admitted in the institutional quarantine and their swab samples are also sent for testing for Covid19 infection. While the minor contacts are home quarantined and monitored by the health officials for 14 days. Aniruddha Athalye, district health officer, Satara, said that the first positive case for them was a woman with travel history. “We found that she had 11 major contacts and around 90 minor. Thankfully all the major contacts test reports came out negative,” he said. In the second case too, the positive patient had travel history. The health officials were able to identify two major contacts and 40 minor ones. His two major contacts also tested negative. Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetty said that after getting the details from the city’s first COVID 19 positive patient, they had quarantined as many as 35 close contacts and their swab sample was sent to the NIV. Only one patient was found to be positive, while all the remaining tested negative. “The patient had traveled in Mahalaxmi Express from Pune to Kolhapur in the general coach. He had used handkerchief to cover his face. However, we would like to appeal any co-passengers to voluntarily test themselves in nearby hospital or city’s civil hospital,” he said. In Sangli, after four positive patients were identified, around 30 plus of their close contacts were put under institutional quarantine and later the number of cases rose said an official from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-focus-on-contact-tracing-in-satara-sangli-kolhapur/articleshow/74921763.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai hospitals take to teleconsultation||MADURAI: With the outbreak of Covid-19 and the ensuing national lockdown, most hospitals in the city have temporarily halted outpatient consultations and are only attending to emergency cases. To help patients at this juncture, many private hospitals have introduced teleconsultation services. A multi-speciality private hospital in the city, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), has introduced ‘MMRHC Consult’, a video consultation and advisory service to help patients avail expert medical help within the comfort of their homes. The teleconsultation service can be accessed through the website www.mmhrc.com. It is also available as a mobile app on android and iOS platforms. Experienced doctors will be available between 8 am to 8 pm for consultation and providing medical advice. This service will be useful for those suffering from common illnesses. The doctors can diagnose the ailments by listening to the symptoms and prescribe medications or suggest different modalities of treatment. Dr Gurushankar, chairman, MMHRC said, “Telemedicine services can help identify serious health issues and provide advice for further treatments. This service also aids patients have a quick consultation with healthcare experts within the convenience of their homes.” Aravind Eye Hospitals (AEH), a private hospital catering exclusively to eye care, recently stopped all its general consultations and routine eye check-ups for the public andhas introduced e-consultations. E-consultation will facilitate an interactive eye care consultation via computer or smartphone through teleconference with an ophthalmologist. It is available through the website www.aravind.org. “The teleconsultation is being done for free now but we are a little worried that we might get flooded with calls, to clear even general doubts. So, additionally, we have asked our doctors to follow-up on all patients, who underwent emergency procedures recently, over phone instead of asking them to come in person,” said Dr N Venkatesh Prajna, Chief, Cornea and Refractive Surgery Services, AEH. Aravind Eye Hospitals (AEH), a private hospital catering exclusively to eye care, recently stopped all its general consultations and routine eye check-ups for the public and has introduced e-consultations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-hospitals-take-to-teleconsultation/articleshow/74921093.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Aala Hazrat Trust demands ban on Tablighi Jamaat||Bareilly: In a letter addressed to the offices of the Prime Minister, Union ministers for home and external affairs, as well as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, NGO Aala Hazrat Trust on Tuesday demanded immediate ban on Tablighi Jamaat for continuing with its Markaz congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi after the state ordered a lockdown. It also demanded legal action against the Markaz organisers. Aala Hazrat Trust president Mohtashim Raza Khan said, “The irresponsible organisers of the Tablighi Jamaat held their conference with neither security nor healthcare professionals, even as WHO declared the novel coronavirus as a pandemic. Thus they critically endangered our country and people. Many of the attendees were unwell, but didn’t inform the government and endangered us all. We condemn their irresponsible behavior, demand that the central government should ban the organisation and take strict action against its organizers. They have broken a fundamental rule of Islam, which says we are responsible for every single life in this universe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aala-hazrat-trust-demands-ban-on-tablighi-jamaat/articleshow/74920441.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Villagers opt for complete shutdown amid lockdown||Kolhapur: Rampant violations of the lockdown have prompted villagers to adopt new measures to keep visitors away and prevent people from roaming around. As many as 15 villages from Kolhapur district have decided to observe complete lockdown in their respective villages for three to five days. All the services will be suspended during these days, except medical emergency services, said villagers. Most of these villages conducted meetings of the sarpanch and other seniors and decided to implement the complete lockdown. The shutdown came into effect from Tuesday in some villages, while it would be implemented from April 1 in others. Kagal town, one of the important marketplaces in the district, has decided to follow 48-hour complete shutdown for two days from March 31. The Kagal Municipal Council has issued notification in this regard to the residents on March 30. Saravade village from Radhanagari taluka decided to observe complete shutdown for four days from March 31 to April 3. Sachin Jathar, retail shop owner from Sarawade village, said that despite the lockdown, people were roaming the village for purchasing grocery and crowding at vegetable vendors. We support the decision of our grampanchayat and expect people will support it by staying at home.” Rukadi village will follow complete lockdown for three days from April 1 and the villagers have been asked to support this to make a success. The other villages and towns that have decided to observe complete lockdown include Nandani in Shirol taluka, Ajara, Uttur in Ajara taluka, Mhakave in Kagal taluka and Kurundwad in Jaysingpur taluka. Satej Patil, guardian minister, has stated that if villagers are coming forward and putting restrictions on the movement of the villagers on their own, it is a welcome step and will help in preventing the spread of novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/villagers-opt-for-complete-shutdown-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74921767.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 1, 2020||Kochi||Kasaragod grapples with health infra||Kochi: Kasaragod is the ‘epicentre’ of the Covid-19 outbreak in Kerala, with 99 of the state’s 215 active cases, and is also the district with the highest number of positive cases across India. Unlike other districts in Kerala that boast excellent health facilities, Kasaragod’s medical infrastructure is proving to be woefully inadequate as the pandemic cuts a wide swathe across the state’s northern-most district that traditionally depends on Manguluru across the border in Karnataka for its medical emergencies. To begin with, there is no tertiary hospital in Kasaragod district to cater to the 13- lakh population here. Also, while in rest of Kerala, the doctor-population ratio is 1:300, in Kasaragod district it is 1: 1,925. The WHO prescribes a doctor-population ratio of 1:1,000. To meet the sudden surge in patients, the 275 government doctors and 300-odd nurses are now working 15 to 18 hours without any leave or weekly off. Read the entire story on TOI+  How India's Covid hotspot is coping with the crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kasaragod-grapples-with-health-infra/articleshow/74919422.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: IAS officer’s mother stitches 300 masks||HYDERABAD: Greater Warangal municipal commissioner and IAS officer Pamela Sathpathy’s mother Prabha has stitched masks for hundreds of municipal sanitation workers. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao and TRS leader K Kavitha recognised the municipal commissioner for her mother’s work on Twitter in response to the tweet of the commissioner. Pamela Satpathy told TOI, “While we were working to improve the supply of masks due to their shortage, my mother pitched in. She has a hobby of stitching. She stitched around 300 cotton masks for municipal sanitation workers.” Pamela said, “In tandem with the district collector and police commissioner, we are enforcing social distancing and home quarantine. We ensured three lakh households received delivery of essential commodities. Around 9,000 migrant workers have been identified and are being taken care of. Foreign returnees will be kept under home quarantine until April 7.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ias-officers-mother-stitches-300-masks/articleshow/74921100.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||MV docus’ validity extended||Bhubaneswar: Offering relief to vehicle users amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the state transport department on Tuesday notified validity extension of several motor vehicle-related documents. After receiving an advisory from the ministry of road transport and highways, the state transport department on Tuesday extended the validity of fitness certificate, driving licence, registration of non-transport vehicles and learners’ licence, among others, to June 30. These documents expiring between February and June will be treated as valid till June 30, 2020, state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. In a related development, the transport department said road accident-related deaths had come down due to restriction on movement of vehicles during the lockdown. However, the department could not give the relevant data. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mv-docus-validity-extended/articleshow/74919408.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Virus takes a toll on hospitality sector||Bhubaneswar: With the coronavirus pandemic rattling the global economy and disrupting supply chains, the future of the Indian tourism and hospitality industry looks grim. Worried over financial losses and the volatile markets, the Hotel Association of India (HAI) has sought help from the Centre and the state government, urging them to grant tax holidays and waive some taxes and bills so that the industry can revive from the deep downturn in earnings. In a letter to chief minister Naveen Patnaik, HAI president Puneet Chhatwal said the hotel occupancies were nearly zero owing to the wave of cancellations and suspension of airline services. “The revenue is at an all-time low and is on the verge of drying out,” the letter further said. “In this unprecedented time, the industry is in dire need of support from the government for its survival and subsequent revival,” the letter said. HAI’s honorary secretary J K Mohanty said, “Following the lockdown in the state, hotels across Odisha became empty as the guests were asked to vacate their rooms. Even the hotels that are being used as paid quarantine facilities are not yielding good response. However, we have to pay the staff and maintain the properties.” The HAI has urged the government to provide GST, licence fee and excise and other licences’ holidays for six months. They have also requested the government to defer utility bills and waive electricity duty for one year and property and municipal taxes and miscellaneous charges for six months. “The hospitality sector contributes significantly to the state’s revenue and is among the top foreign exchange earners and employment generators. We are confident of your support,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/virus-takes-a-toll-on-hospitality-sector/articleshow/74919417.cms||Minati Singha
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Store at Chennai mall in Covid eye||CHENNAI: Employees of an apparel store in a Chennai mall were asked to quarantine themselves and report to health authorities if they faced any health problems after a second staffer tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Last week a woman employee from Ariyalur had tested positive. The management has been told to contact all customers who visited the store between March 10 and 17 and ask them to remain in home quarantine and approach health officials if they need assistance, said Greater Chennai Corporation deputy commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy. “We have collected the list of customers and staff. Our teams will be visiting them,” Reddy said.  The shop has the list of customers who made purchases, but not details of people who merely visited the mall. Corporation officials were debating whether they should release an advertisement to warn people who visited the mall and the store. On Tuesday, the civic body also put out a notice that a man who visited the visa application centre in Good Shepherd Building on Kodambakkam High Road on March 15 afternoon turned out to be Covid-19 positive. In a red corner notice, the Greater Chennai Corporation said people who visited the centre on the same day should remain in home quarantine and isolate themselves. It also asked them to report to the civic agency immediately or call control room at 044 2538 4520. On Tuesday, officials from the civic agency visited homes of people with travel history to urge them to isolate themselves from the rest of the family within their homes. “We are seeing many families of Covid-19 cases also testing positive,” said a senior city health official. For instance on Tuesday, the 43-year son of a 73-year-old woman also tested positive for the virus. He works for in a pharma company and has a travel history to Thiruvananthapuram, officials said. He has been admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. In the Covid-19 control room, officials said the list of people in Chennai testing positive for the disease without contact or travel history was getting bigger. Four patients from Chennai admitted to government and private hospitals did not have contact or travel history. “This is more because younger people in the house with domestic travel history remain asymptomatic. They infect the elderly first. When we later test them they turn out to be positive,” he said. The state health department has advised the elderly to wear masks inside houses if people is they are living with people who have a travel history." Health minister C Vijayabaskar said while the state has initiated containment plans, it has not dropped it guard. “We are preparing ourselves for any surge in infections,” he said. From human resources to infrastructure and medicines, we are stocking up supplies, he told reporters after WHO members visited the 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 ward at the Omandurar Multispeciality Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/store-at-city-mall-in-covid-eye/articleshow/74921585.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Police tweet videos of those breaking quarantine rule||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur police have started making videos of people breaking quarantine and tweeting their videos to spread awareness about importance of staying indoors. Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh has shared two videos that show people breaking quarantine rules and roaming freely in the city. One video captured by the police on the duty shows two people, who had been advised home quarantine, to be sitting on benches near a joggers’ park in the city. Another video shared by the police shows a group of five people, out on the road, cycling. When questioned about it, they told the police that cycling was a part of their routine exercise. Police have also warned that action will be taken against those spreading rumours through social media on April 1, which is celebrated worldwide as April Fool’s Day. Senior police officers said that strict action will be taken against those found indulging in such activities. Police have warned that cases will be registered through the cybercrime department against those spreading false information on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-tweet-videos-of-those-breaking-quarantine-rule/articleshow/74921775.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai folk flock to buy native medicines||MADURAI: Traditional medicine stores in the city are witnessing large crowds in the morning hours, as people want to replenish their stock of medicines which they believe will help them ward off the deadly Covid-19 disease and other fevers this season. Kannadiyar Naatu Marundhu Kadai was established over a century ago and is the much sought after by people throughout the year. “They usually have all the siddha medicines, I came to buy ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ which is claimed to have medicinal properties to ward off coronavirus,” said T Ganesh of Anna Nagar. D Jeyakumar, a third generation owner of this shop said there has been a high demand for this concoction after it made rounds on social media as a prevention for Covid-19. “We ensure that people maintain social distancing while standing in front of the shop that is open from 6am to 9am. We prepare the medicines as per demand,” he said. But, some of the ingredients of this concoction come from other states. Jeyakumar said that he would be able to produce it till stocks of raw materials like ‘thippili’ and ‘agarakaram’ last. A 50g pack is given for Rs 80. Many other shops are also selling this product which is much sought after at varied prices. Many shops near the Madurai Meenakshi temple selling siddha medicines witnessed people coming there asking for similar concoctions. “It is a slow selling product for which the demand has suddenly gone up, but more stocks would be available only after the travel restrictions are lifted,” said Kumaran, one of the owners. Meanwhile, siddha practitioners like C Sudhanthiram of Chinthamani said ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ can be distributed like “nilavambu kudineer” which is given during dengue outbreak, if the district authorities give them permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-folk-flock-to-buy-native-medicines/articleshow/74921101.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mangaluru||This team distributes 150 food packets every day in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Hope Foundation is distributing about 150 food packets every day in and around Mangaluru. Saif Sultan, a management trainer and founder of Hope Foundation, told TOI, “With the lockdown, several people especially labourers are stranded in the city. Many have started walking towards their homes. We are also reaching out to essential service providers like police constables and Mescom workers, who have to struggle hard for a meal while on duty. With Suhail Sayed and Abdul Rishan and two cooks, we decided to set up a kitchen and distribute 150 food packets everyday. Several lorry drivers are stranded near the Baikampady industrial area and since we have obtained passes from the district administration, we will go around distributing food packets till the lockdown period is in force,” he said. Dal, rice and pulao packets are served thrice a week and veg biryani once. “We have enough funds for the time being,” said Saif, asking donors not to contribute funds. Earlier, Saif Sultan and Safwan Sayed donated 120 bottles of hand sanitizers to police stations and traffic police in and around Mangaluru. Neil Zackaria from St Georges Homeopathy gave these bottles at a discounted rate to Hope Foundation. “We wanted to distribute masks, but due to their shortage in the market, we could not take it forward,” he added. On Sunday, Snackies India donated 500 buns to the team and Patrao Caterers handed over 100 food packets. “We reached out to 40 stranded labourers from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal at Bunder. We will provide them with necessary ration items on Monday, “ said Saif. Meanwhile, the team has identified 500 needy families and will distribute necessary ration for 15 days. “As per the list compiled by our volunteers, the indent for 2,000 families has been finalised. However, in the first phase, Hope Foundation will reach out to 500 families. The bag will include 10kg boiled rice, 5kg sugar and other items like tea powder, oil, salt, wheat flour, garam masala, ragi, milk powder, chilli powder and other essentials, together worth Rs 1,000,” said Saif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/this-team-distributes-150-food-packets-every-day/articleshow/74918553.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Manpower shortage affects goods supply in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Thanks to bulk purchases made by consumers due to the nationwide lockdown, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) are flying off the shelves of wholesale and retail shops in the city. With more people staying indoors and most restaurants shut, consumption of staples has already gone up. Traders say there is a huge demand for milk and dairy products, grains and pulses, vegetables, processed food, bread, liquid hand wash, sanitisers, antiseptic liquids, infant food, diapers, sanitary napkins, tissues and disposables. In fact, many shopkeepers have restricted their shop timings mainly due to staff shortage and low supply from distributors. Many shopkeepers have marked social-distancing lines, mandated customers to wear masks and use sanitiser before entering the shops. Some even put up tapes and ropes in the shop to block entry of buyers. “These shelves are probably empty for the first time in recent years. Though there is demand but supply from distributors is low. My staff is also worried about safety as people are coming from different places. I don’t have a thermal scanner either. I don’t want to close it fully so I open only for a few hours to sell essential items like flour, oil and biscuits. I don’t want to put the safety of my workers at risk. I have also stopped distribution of drinking water cans to households,” said a shopkeeper on Lakshmi Road in Shantinagar. R Jayant Ganig, president of Karnataka FMCG Distributors Welfare Association, said: “Most FMCG manufacturers have stocks for more than two months. But we are facing manpower shortage to deliver these products. Many workers who went to their native places for Ugadi have not returned. They are finding it difficult to return to Bengaluru due to limited transport options. There is a demand for essential items like sugar, grains and pulses.” He said the government should provide transport facility to ferry workers from nearby places, including Tumakuru, Mandya, Hoskote and Chikkaballapur. GR Shanmugappa, president, Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents Association, said there should be at least one dhaba opens (roadside eateries) every 50km for the convenience of drivers. “We are now carrying only essential commodities due to the lockdown but, unfortunately, some traders are resorting to black-marketing to create artificial shortage and also jacking up prices.” There is also panic among drivers. B Chennareddy, leader of another lorry association, said: “The situation has improved in the last two days but still many drivers are hesitant to report to work due to Covid-19 fear. So they are still at their native places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-scarcity-of-goods-but-manpower-shortage-hits-distribution/articleshow/74920810.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court commutes life sentence of rape convict to 10 years||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday commuted the life sentence of a man who was convicted of raping a 14-year-old girl from Maripeda mandal in Warangal district. The sentence was reduced to a 10-year term by a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy after hearing an appeal filed by the convict. He had been sentenced to a life term by a trial court in Warangal. The HC bench upheld the conviction but disagreed with the trial court’s finding that this was a “rarest of rare” case. In October 2014, the 30-year-old who was a neighbour to the minor, had initially approached the girl with a proposal of love which the latter rejected. Angered by rejection, the man took the minor to his relative’s house where he sexually assaulted her for three days. The girl managed to escape from his captivity, reach her parents and lodged a complaint with police. The man was then arrested and sent to jail. A trial court sentenced him to a life term in prison following which the man filed an appeal against the court’s judgment. The high court bench examined the material and concluded that the man deserved punishment as he had outraged the minor’s modesty by force. At one stage, the convict claimed that he had the consent of the minor to which the court said that a minor’s consent could not be considered. The convict also argued that he had not raped the girl at all saying that medical reports did not find any such marks on the minor’s body. However, the court said that inflicting injuries on the minor’s body and threatening her with dire consequences were sufficient grounds to convict him. “Moreover, he (the convict) did not take this total denial stand before the trial court and he is not free to take such a stand before an appellate court. But this case cannot be treated as a rare case,” the high court bench said while modifying the trial court’s order. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-commutes-life-sentence-of-rape-convict-to-10-years/articleshow/74920852.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two youths held for hurling petrol bombs into place of worship||HYDERABAD: A fortnight after Molotov cocktails (bottles filled with flammable liquid and with a means of ignition) were hurled into a place of worship in Old City, two youths were arrested on Monday night. According to police, the accused duo had taken part in CAA/NRC protests, damaged an ATM centre and an RTC bus before targeting the place of worship. Task Force team nabbed the offenders from their houses in Chandrayangutta and handed them over to Madannapet police for judicial remand. “The accused have confessed to committing the offences. They will be produced before the magistrate,” Madannapet police said. A case was registered under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of IPC against the duo. The secretary of a worship place in Madannapet had lodged a complaint with police on March 14, alleging that some unidentified persons had hurled a petrol bomb into the worship place premises. “Broken pieces of the bottle were found in front of the worship place’s door at 4.30 am when one of the workers went there to open it. When the premises was searched, two more petrol bombs were found atop the worship place,” the complainant said. Taskforce Additional DCP G Chakravarthi said during the interrogation, the duo confessed that during protests against CAA and NRC, they had resorted to acts of arson by setting fire to a private bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-youths-held-for-hurling-petrol-bombs-into-place-of-worship/articleshow/74920868.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Amid corona constraints, Bengaluru couple hosts virtual naming ceremony for twins||BENGALURU: Picture this. A priest chanting mantras on a TV screen and well-wishers from across the country participating in online polling to pick the names of two newborns. This was the scene at Sachin Sethi and Amita Jain’s Whitefield home, which witnessed a virtual naming ceremony on Sunday. The couple was blessed with twin boys on February 1 and had planned a naming ceremony in March with their entire family, some of whom would fly in from Rajasthan, Arunachal Pradesh and even Assam. However, amid the Covid-19 scare, a large family gathering looked unlikely. “I didn’t want a small ceremony with just two of us and my parents. Neither did I want to put anyone’s health at risk by inviting them here. I had to do something to make sure the ceremony involved all our family members,” Sethi told TOI. The India head of channel services at a major IT company then took a leaf out of his new work-from-home schedule. The video conferences he took part in inspired him to conduct a virtual naming ceremony for his boys. “If we can work in that manner, why not organise a family function?” he wondered. Sethi planned it a few days ago and connected with his relatives via a video calling app on Saturday as part of a trial run. The call lasted almost four hours. “Most of them are not very comfortable with this technology and I had to make sure we were on the same page during the ceremony. From ensuring that the internet connections were functioning to showing them how to go about the proces, it was all worth it,” he said. Almost 30-35 people joined the ceremony through 12-15 phone lines. Among them was Amita’s father, who has been stranded in Arunachal Pradesh due to the lockdown. Her mother joined from Jaipur while other relatives participated from Kishangarh in Rajasthan, Guwahati and even Imphal. The couple also ensured the ceremony was not bereft of any traditional ritual. They had purchased all the items required for the puja a day earlier under their priest’s guidance. “Digambar Jain Guru Muni Shri Punya Sagar Maharaj guided the ceremony online from Sri Sammed Shikharji (Bihar), a sacred place for Jains, along with Didi Veena. Pandit Praveen Kumar Jain also joined the ceremony online from Shri Shantinath Digambar Jain Temple in Wilson Garden,” Sethi explained. Though separated by physical barriers, the elders gushed over the newborns and participated in the puja attentively. After an online poll, two names were picked from a list of eight — Avyukt and Avyaan. “Normally, the names would have been decided through picking of lots. But conducting the online poll was a wonderful experience,” recalled Sethi. The new parents are taking all precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “It all comes down to planning. I feel the country is moving in the right direction to arrest spread of the virus. What’s most important is making the most of every situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amid-corona-constraints-couple-hosts-virtual-naming-ceremony-for-twins/articleshow/74920623.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur villages unite, bring home natives||VADODARA: Thousands of labourers started their strenuous padyatras to reach their villages from different parts of the country after the lockdown came into effect. But around 6,000 labourers of Chhota Udepur were spared from the ordeal of this foot march. Reason? Their villages came to their rescue. Upon learning about the labourers’ trauma, sarpanches of a cluster of 45 villages of Chhota Udepur got together and created a list of all its residents who have gone out to Saurashtra and other parts of the state in search of work, along with details of the places where they have migrated to. “We contacted every migrant worker asking about their exact location and assuring them that we will bring them back,” said Narsinh Rathwa, sarpanch of Tejgadh, who heads the union of sarpanches in Chhota Udepur taluka. The village chieftains got in touch with the taluka development officer seeking permission to ferry their own vehicles and rented trucks to bring home these native labourers. “Before the government put a complete stop on bringing back the labourers, we had already brought back around 6,000 of our villagers in Chhota Udepur and several labourers from Dahod, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan too,” said Rathwa, adding that 20% of migrant population remains to be brought back. Not only that, the sarpanches have also contacted the employers of these labourers and have taken assurance from them that proper facilities and food will be made available to them until the lockdown period stays. “It was a huge task, but we got support from all the villagers to create the database and contact each of these 6,000 labourers,” Rathwa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-villages-unite-bring-home-natives/articleshow/74919280.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Malindo Air to operate three flights to lift stranded people in Trichy||TRICHY: Malindo Air will operate three flights to rescue the Malaysian national stranded in Trichy and other parts of the country after international flight services were cancelled due to Covid-19 lockdown. The flights will be operational on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. The first flight is scheduled to arrive at the Trichy airport at 10.23 pm on April 1, and will depart from here at 11.25 carrying the stranded passengers. The second flight will land at 9.45 am on April 2 and will take off at 10.35 am while the third is scheduled to arrive at 9.45 am on April 4 and fly back at 10.35 am. Earlier around 550 passengers of the country were airlifted in three rescue flights. However, around 100 Malaysian nationals are still stranded in Trichy and many more in other parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/malindo-air-to-operate-three-flights-to-lift-stranded-fliers/articleshow/74921108.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Ration shops open, says Tamil Nadu government, residents find them closed||CHENNAI: The ration shop at Periyapanicherry in Chennai’s western suburbs has been distributing household items to card holders, says the government. In reality, the shop has been shut for almost a week. Currently, more than six crore people benefit from 33,000 ration shops across the state. “With most supermarkets in our area and grocery stores out of stock, the ration shop [at Periyapanicherry ] was the only option to buy rice, dal, oil or sugar,” said K Anbalagan, one of the affected residents. On Monday, he contacted the state civil supplies Department and was told to check the status by contacting 1967 -- designated helpline number for Public Distribution System (PDS). He did that and went to the shop which was closed. At the very moment, he got a reply from 1967 saying the shop was open. Anbalagan immediately approached the local Village Administrative Officer (VAO) who assured him the problem would be rectified the next morning. On Tuesday, Anbalagan returned to the shop, found it shut and contacted the VAO who maintained it had been opened in the morning. He stuck to the stand when Anbalagan told him he was standing in front of the locked store. When contacted, the District Supply Officer (DSO) said Tuesday was billing day and the shop may have run out of stocks. It will be reopened on Wednesday, he promised, but refused to explain why it was shut for a week. “As a result of this, we are forced to buy rice and sugar at a much higher rate,” Anbalagan added. This has been the case with many more ration shops in the suburbs despite chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s earlier assurance to the people that ration shops will function regardless of the prohibitory orders during the lockdown. Similar problems were reported in Maharashtra with many shops in Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad not distributing essentials last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ration-shops-open-says-govt-residents-find-them-closed/articleshow/74921588.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Staff crunch may hit LPG distribution in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Supply of cooking gas is likely to be disrupted in the city because of shortage of delivery staff following the Covid-19 lockdown. Industry sources say consumption of domestic LPG cylinders has gone up with more people working from home, most restaurants closed and online food deliveries disrupted. On the other hand, sale of commercial cylinders has reduced due to shutdown of eateries. Distribution of gas cylinders may be disrupted due to panic booking and staff shortage. Oil companies and distributors clarified that they will deliver cylinders at houses. Ramesh Kumar, secretary, All India LPG Distributors Federation (Karnataka Circle), said they are catering to 80% of the demand. “There is no shortage of LPG cylinders as of now. But our delivery boys are finding it difficult to reach the agencies due to transport restrictions. Customers should not come to distributors to collect cylinders.” Kumar said some boys are reluctant to deliver cylinders. “In Mysuru, a quarantined person directly handed over cash to a delivery person. Such people should avoid direct contact with delivery persons since LPG distribution is a large network. These boys visit multiple houses, install cylinders, give receipts and collect cash from customers,” he said, adding the delivery boys have been provided with masks and gloves. “The number of trucks operated from LPG bottling plants to distributors has also reduced. The booking has been increased by 30-40% due to panic buying but we are doing our best to ensure that supply is not affected. The Centre should provide an insurance cover to all our staff” said Kumar. The state run oil marketing companies- Indian Oil, BPC and HPC – says they are ensuring the supply of LPG across the state. “Delivery operations including distribution of cooking gas cylinders are functioning and the supplies are maintained normally. Gas agencies have also stocked sufficient filled LPG cylinders to cater to public demand” said an IOC spokesperson in a statement. “The state government is also giving special provision for LPG refill supplies treating it as essential commodity. Public need not resort to panic booking as people in genuine need may not get their supplies on time. All customers may book refills as per regular requirement and supplies will be ensured”, it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/staff-shortage-may-hit-lpg-distribution/articleshow/74920613.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Apartments in Bengaluru report 8-10% jump in water usage||BENGALURU: With a large number of people staying home and with an added focus on washing hands through the day, several apartments in the city have reported an 8 to 10% jump in water consumption over the past week when Bengaluru remained under lockdown. According to Beautiful Bengaluru, a citizen intervention movement, each individual wastes around a litre of water while washing hands (for a 20-second period) as the tap is not closed. This wastage happens 10 times a day for each resident, said members of the group. “Water requirement for cooking and drinking has gone up. Consumption is also more because everyone is now very careful about washing hands several times a day. One should ensure the tap is turned off while soaping hands and reuse RO waste water for other purposes such as watering plant and mopping the floor,” said Odette Katrak, co-founder of Beautiful Bengaluru. “Overall, water consumption has gone up. A lot more people are staying home right now as a majority of residents are working professionals. The amount of water used for cooking at home and washing hands has also gone up,” said Vishnu Gattupalli, Secretary of Bangalore Apartments Federation’s Whitefield cluster. The BWSSB is now diverting water away from industries, commercial establishments and towards residential consumers. “We have decided to stop water supply to industries and commercial establishments during the lockdown. They account for 7-8% of the total water supply. We have been instead diverting 100 MLD water to residential areas over the past week,” said Tushar Girinath, managing director of BWSSB. “Not only has there been increase in consumption, usage patterns have also changed with people staying indoors now. Larger apartments with more than 50 units have seen an 8 to 10% increase in consumption, while smaller apartments’ consumption has gone up by 10% and above,” said Mirza Anwar, BWSSB assistant executive engineer for Mahadevapura zone. Some report dip in consumptionA few apartments have, however, said their water usage has gone down ever since the lockdown was imposed in the city. “While we used to get 19 to 20 tankers of water every day, this number is now down to 13 or 14 tankers a day — the main reason being that in all our households, the househelps are on leave. They consume a lot of water while washing dishes or mopping the floor. Now that we are doing the work ourselves, people are becoming more conscious about water usage,” said a member of the management committee of Sobha Hillview apartment in Uttarahalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/apartments-report-8-10-jump-in-water-usage/articleshow/74920680.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 fallout: Karnataka misses revenue target by Rs 4,536 crore||BENGALURU: The financial year ended on Tuesday and Karnataka missed its overall revenue target by a whopping Rs 4,536 crore, thanks to multiple factors, including the Centre’s failure to pay GST compensation and impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. For the first time in the state’s history, the shortfall in commercial tax collection is about 3,908 crore. Other two revenue heads — motor vehicle tax and stamps and registration duty — have also missed the target by Rs 628 crore and Rs 450 crore, respectively. Registration of vehicles and properties is normally expected to peak in March, but the activities nosedived this year due to the lockdown, said official sources. The only silver lining is revenue collection by the excise department, which has exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. The department has collected Rs 21,400 crore through liquor sales as against the target of Rs 20,950 crore. The biggest setback has come from commercial tax revenue collection, which includes GST, sales tax on motor fuels and professional tax. The target was fixed at Rs 76,046 crore in the budget for 2019-20. However, the collection stands at Rs 72,138 crore as on March 31. Officials in the commercial tax department said the shortfall is mainly because of the economic slowdown and the Centre’s failure to pay GST compensation to the tune of Rs 4,500 crore. However, sources said the worst is yet to come. Revenue collections are expected to dip further as the impact of Covid-19 will be felt more in the coming months because of the 21-day lockdown. “As commercial activities came to a grinding halt in March, the revenue figures in April are obviously expected be much below the monthly target,” said BT Manohar, member of consultative committee on GST, Government of Karnataka. On an average, the monthly collection of commercial taxes stands at Rs 4,500 crore. It includes sales tax of Rs 1,200 crore from the sale of petrol and diesel. This is expected to come down by Rs 1,500 crore. “Fuel consumption has taken a major hit although petrol pumps are not closed. We can only hope the virus spread is curbed and the lockdown is not extended beyond April 15,” said KM Basave Gowda, president of Akhila Karnataka Federation of Petroleum Dealers. Another reason why GST collection would be low in the next three months, say experts, is Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement extending the last date for filing of GST returns to June 30. “Most traders would like to avail the benefit of the moratorium on filing GST returns and would defer tax payment. Because of this, there will be a sharp dip in collection,” said S Prakash, former president of Karnataka State GST Practitioners Association. Could have collected Rs 1k cr more We could have collected Rs 1,000 crore more without the lockdown. As it continues in the first half of next month, there will be a sharp fall in April revenue SL Rajendra Prasad, joint excise commissioner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-fallout-state-misses-revenue-target-by-rs-4536-cr/articleshow/74920628.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||25 booked for gathering for prayers in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Ichalkaranji police on Monday booked as many as 25 people in two separate incidents for gathering at religious places for mass prayers in the city. Police have invoked section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against them. Cracking whip against those violating lockdown rules and stepping out of their homes without any valid reason, police have taken action against as many as 446 people in the district and have seized their motorcycles. These include 78 cases from Kolhapur city alone and the remaining from various parts of the district. Police have also registered cases against 212 people under section 188 of the IPC for violating lockdown rules either by keeping their shops open or gathering in public places despite strict instructions not to do so. Police have, however, not arrested anyone so far. Police have said that strict action will be continued further if they notice anyone stepping out their homes unnecessarily. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has appealed to all people to follow orders issued by the district collector regarding home quarantine or institutional quarantine, adding that strict action will be taken against those violating the rules. Strict vigilance is being maintained on major roads connecting Kolhapur with other districts to ensure that people from other districts do not enter the jurisdiction of Kolhapur. Heavy police force has been stationed at the Kini and Kognoli toll plazas on Pune-Bangalore national highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-booked-for-gathering-for-prayers/articleshow/74921782.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Now, residents complain against NMC for using plain water as disinfectant||Nagpur: After police registered an our offence against Congress city secretary Rohit Yadav on Monday, residents of Kasturba Nagar slum, Jaripatka, lodged complaint with Jaripatka police station against the staffers of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday. The complaint has been lodged by Rohit Binkar, Om Yadav, Lalita Yadav, Mangala Shahu, Rajesh Shahu and others. “NMC staffers are spraying normal water instead of disinfectant in our area. The people residing in our society have seen NMC staffers filling water from borewell situated in the city and spraying it. Critical situation about Covid-19 is prevailing in the country. Therefore, stringent action should be taken against them,” they said. On Monday, Yadav was spraying disinfectant in Kasturba Nagar. He claimed NMC staffers spraying normal water. In a video clip that went viral on social media, he showed a milky white compound spraying from his machine while normal water in the machine of NMC staffer. He also emptied entire tank one of NMC staffer to show it. BJP corporators Virendra Kukreja and Mahendra Dhanvijay followed by NMC health department lodged complaints against Yadav with Jaripatka police who registered an offence against Yadav. A chemical trader Pavan Vij said, “One litre of 15% sodium hypochlorite solution is to be mixed with 14 litres water to obtain 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. The solution looks like normal water only.” On Monday, NMC deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradeep Dasarwar also issued a clarification that the civic body was spraying disinfectant and people should not suspect anything wrong. Kukreja had condemned Yadav’s act and alleged he was unnecessarily doing politics at such crucial time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-residents-complain-against-nmc-for-using-plain-water-as-disinfectant/articleshow/74921121.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Panic-stricken people look up to siddha to fend off Covid-19||TRICHY: Scores of people looking for protection from Covid-19 have been making a beeline for the government siddha hospital in Trichy to catch hold of the scarcely available Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam. This comes in the wake of an advisory from the Union Ayush ministry, suggestions from siddha doctors through media as well as anonymous WhatsApp forwards prescribing it as a shield to boost one’s immunity level. The government siddha hospital has been functioning on the campus of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). “Nearly 800 people collected the mixture of Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam and Nilavembu Chooranam from us in a single day today,” district siddha medical officer (DSMO) Dr S Kamaraj told TOI. Since the supply of Kabasura Kudineer from Tamil Nadu Medicinal Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation Limited (Tampcol) is limited, government siddha doctors have prescribed the combination of 25 grams of Kabasura powder and Nilavembu powder. DSMO Kamaraj said the quantity will be enough for five days of medication to a person. “The concept of siddha medication is mixture of herbals. So, we mix Nilavembu with Kabasura chooranam and prescribe it,” he said. While Nilavembu Kudineer is an anti-viral available every day at the government health centres to tackle dengue, Kabasura Kudineer Chooram is an anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory prescribed regularly for treatment of fever, cold, cough, sneezing and sore throat — symptoms of Covid-19 also. Another siddha medicine, Aadathodai Manapagu for 10 ml, along with Kabasura Kudineer and Nilavembu mixture has also been suggested by the Ayush ministry. “Kabasura Kudineer Chooram acts as an immunomodulator because of the ingredients in the medicine. It will boost the immunity level of those taking the extract as a prophylactic measure as advised by the physician,” said government assistant siddha medical officer Dr M Vathsala. “Not everyone is required to take Kabasura Kudineer. Those with the exposure to the disease can take as a preventive measure. People are under the wrong impression that taking medicine and roaming around the town will keep them immunized against the virus. Stay at home is the medicine they should follow mandatorily,” said Dr Vathsala. The homeopathy wing at the government siddha block has seen a steady increase of crowd to get Arsenicum Album 30 medicine for Covid-19 prevention, as suggested by Ayush ministry .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panic-stricken-people-look-up-to-siddha-to-fend-off-covid-19/articleshow/74921113.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||35 shops closed for flouting social distancing norms in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has closed 35 stores in the city for not following social distancing norms and allowing customers to gather in large numbers throwing the curfew rules to the wind. On Monday, the corporation had closed around 50 shops. Corporation commissioner S Visakan, who inspected various places instructed officials to close down the stores in East Marret Street, Yaanaikkal, Munichalai, Vilakkuthoon and Vengalakadai Street on Tuesday. He instructed officials to make an announcement urging people to maintain social distancing through public address system at Yaanaikkal Kalpalam, 120 Feet road in Surveyor Colony, Race Course Road, Aavin junction, New Jail Road and Karimedu Market. Corporation officials said that home delivery of grocery items from 30 stores is being made available at present. They urged people to make use of the facility and restrict themselves to their houses. In order to spread the crowd, retails shops in Mattuthavani central vegetable market were closed and instead were allowed to open in 14 places identified by the corporation. It was also decided to sell vegetables at 100 places, one each in 100 wards of the city, through vehicles arranged by the corporation. The sale of vegetables has already started at 30 places. Efforts are under way to start in the remaining places, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/35-shops-closed-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/74921111.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Labourers return to Dharwad from Goa after 140kms walk||DHARWAD: As many as 30 labourers from Goa, who arrived in Dharwad district on Monday were provided first aid, food and staying facility. These labourers who are natives of Gadag and Koppal had gone to Goa for work. However, after the lockdown was clamped in Goa, they were rendered jobless. The Goa labour department, which had promised to protect their interests and provide them taxi facility to reach their home towns failed to keep its word. With no other choice, these labourers walked 140kms from Panaji to reach Alnavar on Monday. The staff at the check-post subjected them to thermal screening and health check-up. Many people complained of swollen legs and they are being treated at PHC. All the labourers were provided food and staying facility at the post-matric boys’ hostel in Alnavar. 145 vehicles seized Seizure of vehicles moving around violating the lockdown norms in Dharwad district continued on Tuesday and Dharwad Rural police seized 145 vehicles and imposed a fine of Rs 52,000 till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/labourers-return-from-goa-after-140kms-walk/articleshow/74920465.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Ambulance services go on strike, injured man dies due to lack of treatment||Bareilly: A 45-year-old man succumbed to his injuries sustained in a brawl after he could not get medical attention as 108 and 102 ambulance services went on a strike in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday afternoon, demanding pending salary and safety kits for Covid-19. Police said a few days ago, Mohammed Irshad (70) of Baida village had stopped Shahnawaj and his friends from snatching ‘pakodas’ (fritters) from a local shop. Shahnawaj took it as an insult. On Tuesday, Shahnawaj and his friends Aneesh, Illiyas, Qasim, Shareef, Raunak and Amjad allegedly barged into Irshad’s house and thrashed him. When Irshad’s son Musheem tried to rescue his father, he was thrashed too, said police. The accused fled the spot, leaving both father and son critically injured. When the family called the ambulance service, they received no response; and, by the time police could help the injured, Musheem succumbed to his injuries, said police. Mohammadi police station SHO Sanjay Tyagi said, “The body was sent for autopsy and an FIR will be registered soon. The victim died due to critical head injuries. Ambulance drivers and associated staff have gone on strike, so he could not be taken to a hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ambulance-services-go-on-strike-injured-man-dies-due-to-lack-of-treatment/articleshow/74920476.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSFC to restart some plants next week||AHMEDABAD: State-run Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) has decided to restart some plants at its Vadodara unit from next week. “The ammonia Plant IV will begin start-up activities from April 6 (Monday). The plant will run at 55% load,” GSFC on Tuesday said in a filing to the BSE. The Urea-II plant will start on April 10 and production of urea will begin on April 11 at partial load. “The plant will be loaded up gradually to 100%. The ammonium sulphate Plant-1 will start its operations on April 11,” the company added. The decision to restart these plants was taken after the company management according to directives of the central government recently reviewed the starting up of fertilizer manufacturing plants at the Vadodara and Sikka (Jamnagar) facilities. “All precautions are being taken with respect to hygiene and safeguarding employees against Covid-19,” the company added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gsfc-to-restart-some-plants-next-week/articleshow/74921115.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Institutional quarantine for those entering Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Police have initiated strict action against people who are found entering Kolhapur district from various parts of the state. “As many as 79 such people were found at Kini toll plaza and in Shahuwadi taluka on Tuesday. They have been sent to institutional quarantine. The drive will continue further,” a police officer said. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said strict action will be taken against those travelling from Pune and Mumbai to Kolhapur, and will be kept in institutional quarantine. Instructions have been issued to police officer for taking action against those who are found travelling on NH4 and violating rules. Acting on the orders, Peth Vadgaon police with the help of revenue officials detained as many as 61 migrant workers at Kini toll plaza. They were travelling to their homes in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. As per orders, screening of all these workers was done and as a precautionary measure they have been kept in institutional quarantine at two buildings acquired by the civic administration – at Wathar and Peth Vadgaon. They will be released only after the lockdown ends given medical officials confirm they are fit to travel. Shahuwadi police on Monday detained 18 people who were found entering Kolhapur district through various borders connecting Shahuwadi. They have been sent to the institutional quarantine at a building identified in the same taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/institutional-quarantine-for-those-entering-kolhapur/articleshow/74921784.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Truck stuffed with 130 labourers detained||Ahmedabad: The city police on Tuesday evening detained a truck carrying 130 persons, including a large number of women and children, from Sardar Patel Ring Road near Ramol. The truck carrying migrant labourers had passed through Karnataka and Maharashtra before entering Gujarat. It was supposed to reach Rajasthan to drop the people. Inspector V D Vala of Shaherkotada police said that the truck was stopped by Ramol police and all the persons have been sent to night shelters in the Saraspur area. “The truck had departed from Bangalore,” said Vala. “All labourers and the children will be given food.” A city police official said that the question remains how the truck driver moved freely in two states with a large number of migrants.Police have detained the truck and have begun an investigation. All people in the truck will undergo medical examination. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/truck-stuffed-with-130-labourers-detained/articleshow/74921125.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Jaslok Hospital halts admissions after 2 cases||MUMBAI: A day after one of the nurses and a patient tested positive for Covid-19 at Jaslok Hospital, sources said OPD services were suspended and new admissions cancelled for a few days. A source said around 150 swab samples have been collected from the hospital. “Depending on how many new cases come positive over the next two to three days, a decision would be taken,” said a doctor. “These are steps to contain any further spread of infection,” said a doctor. TOI had reported on Tuesday a patient who had come for treating bladder cancer and needed dialysis, tested positive. The hospital said in a statement, “Our nurse who came in contact with the Covid-19 patient has tested positive. All the medical staff who came in direct or indirect contact of the affected nurse and the connected patient have been identified and quarantined as per the protocol. We have conducted direct and indirect contact tracing and swab testing is in process. We are taking all safety and precautionary measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jaslok-halts-admissions-after-2-cases/articleshow/74920497.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Dindigul administration reaches out to tribal villages in Kodai||MADURAI: The Dindigul district administration reached out to three tribal villages in Kodaiakanal on Tuesday with relief materials worth Rs 25,000. Residents of three villages-Valagiri, Valangulam and Moolaiyaru-have been reeling under shortage of essential commodities since the national lockdown was announced. Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the villagers have been out of work and with their access to the outside world has been cut off. Around 120 families living in these villages have been suffering from food shortage and their children plagued by malnutrition. When these issues came to light on Monday, social workers and organisations like Childline stepped in to pool in relief materials. The collected relief materials including rice, pulses, milk powder, health mix and biscuits were distributed to the villages by a team led by Kodaikanal revenue divisional officer, Sivakumar on Tuesday. There are more than 60 tribal villages in the hilly terrains of Kodaikanal and activists say the living conditions in these villages are abysmal. They have urged officials to make sure that people residing in these villages have access to food and drinking water. The movement of elephants has cut off their access to forest areas as well, from where they could have gathered some food. S Thanaraj, a tribal activist, said that the lockdown has disrupted the normal life of many villagers while a few of them have ventured into interior forests for their livelihood. Revenue officials said that all efforts are underway to provide medical access to the villagers. The tribal population will be the first batch of people in Kodaikanal revenue division to get Rs 1000 dole announced by the state government, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dist-admin-reaches-out-to-tribal-villages-in-kodai/articleshow/74921120.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Role of Ahmednagar adm in exposing the congregation in Delhi||Nashik: The Ahmednagar district administration apparently played a crucial role in bringing to the fore about the huge religious congregation that had taken part at the Delhi-based headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Highly placed official sources told TOI that the Ahmednagar district administration immediately shared details about the congregation to the state government on Sunday itself after it picked up 14 people that same day from Jamkhed taluka of the district who were part of that congregation. “Our feedback is that the state government shared our feedback with Union government on the issue after which things about that congregation came into public domain,” claimed district officials. After picking up 14 group members, the administration on Monday again discovered the presence of another 21 people in the district who too were part of the Nizamuddin event. They were also picked up and put into quarantine at Ahmednagar civil hospital. Insiders of the administration said that they were ‘taken aback’ when the 14 members of the group picked up from Jamkhed told the officials about the large gathering of people, including foreign nationals, at Nizamuddin. “Our question to them was whether they are aware of the need to have social distancing when Covid 19 cases are swelling across the globe,” recalled a local official. What has perplexed the local administration at Ahmednagar more that that group members who were picked up did not deem necessary the need to share details with the local authorities about their visit to the district and get tested for the infection. “We had feeling that all of them were too casual in their approach about entire Covid-19 issue and their grave consequences related to health. We had quizzed some of their local contacts in the district. They told us that they did not inform the authorities about the visit to these group members since they feared that the administration would quarantine them in hospital preventing them from meeting people,” said a police official. eom  e ����\u0012\u0018\u0007||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/role-of-ahmednagar-adm-in-exposing-the-congregation-in-delhi/articleshow/74920494.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Families shifted from Mangalwar peth to other places after first case reported, covid19 prevention staff steps up efforts to find them||KOLHAPUR: Many families from the Mangalwar Peth area, where the first confirmed case of coronavirus was reported, have temporarily shifted to other places. The city’s first Covid-19 case was reported from here last Thursday. On Sunday, a family member of the confirmed patient was also found infected. Meanwhile, many families, mostly affluent ones, temporarily shifted base to other areas in the city between Thursday and Sunday. The area has been completely cordoned off and search is going on to find the people who have come in contact with the positive Covid-19 patients. Officials who have been given the responsibility of tracing persons said that several houses in the locality were locked since the last few days. A senior official said, “We have learnt that both the positive patients have come in contact with several people from the locality. The first patient is not a native of Kolhapur, he lives in Pune. Therefore, many people don’t recognise him. We have received information that he roamed around in the locality, visited relatives and their friends.” “The man’s sister, who is a local, also tested positive for the contagion. Keeping her as the source, we are tracing the people who have come in direct contact with her,” said the official. The officials said that though they did not find any other suspect in the locality, they have still screened over 80 people from the area as a precautionary measure. The teams have collected the details of the families who have left the locality. These families will be requested not to hide information if anyone from among them has come in contact with the positive patients. They will also be told to undergo screening. Locals here said that the families who have left the area were living in Mangalwar Peth for the last 20 years. The officials are consulting with the locals to find out about the families who have left the area after the news of the two positive cases came to the fore. All the roads upto 500 metre from the containment zone have been barricaded. Locals living in the area surrounding Mangalwar Peth have expressed the troubles they are facing. The local committee is providing the essentials to them and looking after their health concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/families-shifted-from-mangalwar-peth-to-other-places-after-first-case-reported-covid19-prevention-staff-steps-up-efforts-to-find-them/articleshow/74921785.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Spl officer in K’god to contain Covid||Kannur: Alkesh Sharma, principal secretary of department of industries, who has been appointed special officer to oversee the coronavirus containment activities in Kasaragod, has said that the state government is equipped to prevent the spread of Covid-19, and there is no threat of a community spread in the present condition. “As of now, there is no fear of a community spread as we have put under quarantine all the primary and secondary contacts of the people who tested positive, and also they are responding positively, as they have understood the gravity of the situation,” he told TOI. No secondary contact has tested positive so far though the number of positive cases is high in the district, he said. The district, which is deficient in hospital facilities, need more healthcare professionals and technicians, and efforts are on to get their services from the private sector, he said. Since the hospitals in Mangaluru are denying entry to patients from the district, the health of other critically-ill patients also has to be taken care of and the district administration is giving importance to them as well,” he said. The issues pertaining to the elderly people, guest labourers, as also the old-age homes and orphanages would be taken care of and it would be ensured that nobody is starving, said the special officer. If anyone faces any issue due to the lockdown, they can get in touch with the control room but they should not violate the quarantine rules, said Sharma, urging people to remain indoors and break the chain to prevent the spread. The health facility in Kasaragod is poor and the work of the medical college is still going on. However, now the medical college building, which has been partially complete, is being developed as a Corona Care Centre. Nodal officers in Palakkad The Ottapalam sub-collector Arjun Pandian (Mob: 8921593496) was appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the Covid-19 pandemic management in Palakkad. The additional divisional magistrate T Vijayan (Mob: 9446336357) is appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the district level coordination of Covid-19 prevention activities. District collector D Balamurali said that 18 other district-level officers are also given charges to coordinate various activities to fight the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/spl-officer-in-kgod-to-contain-covid/articleshow/74919493.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||17 from Kyrgyzstan home quarantined in Patna||PATNA: The state health department on Tuesday collected samples of 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals, who were spotted at a mosque in Digha locality of Patna recently, and sent them for test. The move was necessitated following rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation which was held at Nizamuddin markaz (centre) in New Delhi. Patna district epidemiologist Prashant Kumar said the 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals were screened earlier and found asymptomatic. “We have taken the sample for final confirmation,” Kumar added. These foreigners, who were on a religious tour, had been staying in two mosques in Kurji and Phulwarishrif. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said they were staying in two different groups in two mosques. He said locals got apprehensive after spotting them and informed the police. Sharma said 10 Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying in Kurji mosque and seven in Phulwarisharif mosque. He said they were taken to AIIMS-Patna on March 23 and screened. “They are here on tourist visa and with valid passport. For precaution, they have been home quarantined. One group is staying at a mosque in Phulwarisharif and another group in a flat at Samanpura. Local police stations have kept their passports so that they do not move during the quarantine period,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-from-kyrgyzstan-home-quarantined/articleshow/74919480.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: No increase in power bills as GERC decides to keep tariffs unchanged||AHMEDABAD: In a measure of relief for electricity consumers in the state, Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) has kept power tariffs unchanged for the 2020-21 fiscal. The commission has also given relief to Below Poverty Line (BPL) customers and agricultural consumers using power for lift irrigation. “There will be no increase in power tariffs for consumers of state-owned discoms and Torrent Power Ltd,” the state power regulator said on Tuesday.The private sector Torrent Power had sought a 21 paise per unit increase in tariffs for 2020-21 to make up for its earlier dues. TPL supplies electricity to Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat.  On the other hand, state-owned power distribution companies (discoms) did not demand an increase in tariffs in their petitions filed with GERC in December 2019. These four discoms are Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (UGVCL), Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL), Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) and Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL). In what could reduce monthly electricity bills of Below Poverty Line (BPL) consumers by more than 30%, GERC raised the applicability of Rs 1.50 per unit concessional tariff to 50 units per month from 30 units. Energy charges for agriculture consumers using electricity for lift irrigation has been reduced from Rs 1.50 per unit to Rs 0.80 per unit. “With this modification, electricity bills of this category of consumers will reduce by more than 43%,” GERC added. Night time consumption concession for HT consumers of state-owned discoms has also been increased from 40 paise per unit to 43 paise per unit. The commission also noted that all distribution companies achieved noticeable reduction in power distribution losses. “During FY 2018-19, all distribution companies except PGVCL and UGVCL in the state exceeded the target of distribution losses reduction set by the commission,” GERC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-increase-in-power-bills-as-gerc-decides-to-keep-tariffs-unchanged/articleshow/74921146.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai police personnel on duty undergo check-up for Covid-19||MADURAI: More than 2,000 police personnel and ministerial staff working with Madurai city police underwent medical checkup in the past one week to check for Covid-19 symptoms. Two people were found symptomatic, but there were tested negative for the disease. A medical team from government Rajaji hospital arranged by Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham visited the spots where policemen have been deployed. The team led by Dr C Geetha checked for temperature, pressure and symptoms for covid-19. Those, who had temperature were asked for medical history and were provided with medicines. “We visited more than 15 picketing points in a day and covered more than 200 personnel in a day. Only two were found with symptoms and both of them were tested negative. Many of them are aware of the symptoms of covid-19. However, they were sensitized since they may tend to be get carried away in the line of duty and neglect the symptoms,” Dr Geetha said. Police officials said that on Tuesday, all the ministerial staff in commissionerate buildings were checked for temperature. All of them were told about the importance of washing hands frequently. Hand sanitizers and masks were distributed to the policemen. A similar checkup will be carried out in regular intervals until the pandemic comes to an end. Those with medical conditions were asked to take rest to avoid infecting others, they said. Davidson Devasirvatham said that policemen get exposed to diseases as they come in contact with a large number of people on day to day basis. Medical checkup was organized to ensure that they stay health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-police-personnel-on-duty-undergo-check-up-for-covid-19/articleshow/74921149.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||3-tier telemedicine service starts, receives over 100 calls||KOLHAPUR: The district health administration has started a telemedicine service to guide the citizens on coronavirus-related concerns. A dedicated helpline has been activated and is being attended by medical undergraduate students. An online service has also been launched with the help of local information technology services providing firm. The callers have to provide details of their symptoms if any and, accordingly, the consultants guide them. “We ask for symptoms such as fever, cough, travel history and the details of the persons came in their contact. After gathering al details, we provide the locations of the nearby centre where they get the screening done from doctors through text messages. Also, we inform the doctors about such persons. It helps us to track the persons and thereby stop the spread,” said one of the consultants appointed to monitor the telemedicine services. Varun Jain, project co-ordinator, said that there are three levels of consultation. At the first level, the interns of medical colleges speak to the callers and if the symptoms are registered, the doctors speak to them through video conference. “We have consultants and doctors operating from their homes. It ensures social distancing. As per the new guidelines, doctors at the third stage can prescribe the medicines or further tests to be done. So far, we have received around 100 calls and none has been found with the grave symptoms. We are co-ordinating with other wings of administration. If a person requests for any other service, we transfer his/her call to the Kolhapur disaster management group. We are all doing this voluntarily under the guidance of the health administration,” said Jain. People with travel history can also approach for health service through the helpline. There are more than 500 people who are under home quarantine. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) staff visits them regularly. They are immediately taken to institutional quarantine if they show any symptoms. The online portal helps common people to get more details of the disease. To facilitate the movement of the patients in Sangli, especially from rural areas to the city or the town, the patients can put up the details on a digital tool, the link of which is made open for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-tier-telemedicine-service-starts-receives-over-100-calls/articleshow/74921787.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Water, sewer linemen keep Hyderabad afloat in hard times||HYDERABAD: In spite of the city being locked down, families across the city have not faced a dearth of potable water, thanks to the over 3,000 water and sewer linemen who are working on a war-footing to keep the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad afloat. “We use ‘key rods’ to open the valve of the water supply source to release potable water,” Mohammed Sharfuddin, a senior lineman working in Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) told TOI. Sharfuddin, who joined HMWS&SB as a daily wager in the Water Board under ‘nominal muster roll’ (NMR) category for a salary of Rs 350 per month, has been working with the Erragadda section for the past 35 years as a lineman. “I deal with 20,000 consumers in my jurisdiction. Complaints such as low pressure and shortage or delayed water supply are common. I’ve never been angry or upset over a complaint. It’s my job to sort such issues out. Like they say, work is worship,” he said with a smile. Sewer linemen make sure that our roads are not inundated with sewer water. Despite police implementing the lockdown strictly, G Laxmaiah, senior sewer linemen working at SR Nagar operation and maintenance (O&M) Division, rushed to Hajimasthan Lane in Borabanda along with other six sewer workers and unclogged a clogged manhole within half an hour of receiving the complaint. “For me, all days are working days,” Laxmaiah, who is an illiterate, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-sewer-linemen-keep-city-afloat-in-hard-times/articleshow/74921182.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Shortage of veggies in coming days||KOLHAPUR: Lack of labour in the rural areas have seen farming activities coming to a complete standstill with no harvesting of vegetables, fruits or sugarcane. According to the data from the Kolhapur agriculture market committee, the supply of farm produce has dipped by 30-35 percent. The small farmers are bringing vegetables to the city markets, however, the lockdown has led to an acute shortage of labour which in return has led to a shortage of farm produce. “We have reported that many labourers are not ready to work in the fields during the lockdown. They too fear coronavirus infection. Also, we have found that the restrictions on transport have created hurdles in bringing labour to farms. Currently, there is less demand as compared to normal times since the hotels and roadside eateries are also closed. Therefore the supply shortage is not felt currently in the city," said an office-bearer of APMC requesting anonymity. The sugar mills have put up a notice asking the cane farmers to make arrangements on their own to cut and transport sugarcane to the mills as many cutters have started to leave to their villages owing to the lockdown. The mills are assuring the farmers that the farmers will be paid the transportation cost, however, the farmers are not in a position to make such arrangements. According to primary estimates around 25% of sugarcane is still on farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shortage-of-veggies-in-coming-days/articleshow/74921789.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Elderly couple in Madurai gift 10 kg rice each to 840 dailywagers||MADURAI: An octogenarian couple in Madurai turned saviour for nearly 800 families in their village in Sivaganga when they came forward to distribute free rice to the families of mostly daily wagers so that they did not go without food during the lockdown period. R Sekkappan, a businessman of Anna Nagar, and his wife S Nagammai, both 80, told TOI that they were disturbed when the lockdown happened and wanted to do something for the families in their native Okkur village. “We know that many families in our village are daily wagers who buy their day’s rice after they get their wages. The sudden lockdown would mean they would go hungry without jobs,’’ said Sekkappan. Relatives in his village told him that the free rice and groceries for ration card holders were to be distributed only on April 2. The staple for all these families was rice and so the couple decided to provide it to them and help tide over the next 20 days. He made a few phone calls to Okkur panchayat president Raja, village committee member Andiappan and a group of volunteers to find out how many were in dire need of rice. They identified 800 families for him. With his own funds, he purchased 8 tonnes of rice so that each family could get 10 kilograms. “Then someone told us that there were another 40 families that did not have family ration cards but were elders without support. So we purchased another 400 kg of rice,” he said. They purchased ponni delux rice from a mill in Madurai at Rs 45 a kilogram. However, they needed permission for inter-district transport of the large quantity of rice to Sivaganga district. This was obtained as it was an essential commodity. A family friend came forward to provide three vans for transport. The rice was transported from Sunday and distributed to all 840 families by Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-couple-gift-10-kg-rice-each-to-840-dailywagers/articleshow/74921142.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC cautions private hospitals, begins to get information of patients||Nagpur: Taking serious cognisance of recent instances, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday issued directions to all private hospitals, radiology centres and pathology laboratories to give information of patients of pneumonia, severe acute respiratory illnesses and high-risk patients immediately after admission, and to ensure their treatment with all safety guidelines. The civic body has reportedly started to get information from private medical services. NMC additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “The directives were necessary to control Covid-19. Two patients were tested at two centres and one of them was admitted at Janata Hospital. Later, these patients tested positive. We had to seal Janata Hospital, Dhande’s Panorama MRI Centre and Rainbow Medinova Diagnostic Centre.” Gantawar added, “We also had to quarantine large number of doctors and related staff. Such instances and spreading of Covid-19 can be avoided if we get information in advance. We will send our team of doctors and get such patients tested in earlier stages.” Private hospitals and centres had started to give the information, he added. A North Nagpur doctor informed NMC that a group of eight persons from Minimata Nagar slum had returned from Lucknow the previous day and one of them contacted him, complaining of dry cough. “Despite sealing of borders, the group managed to enter the city, misusing a vegetable-laden truck. One of them visited my clinic complaining of cough on Tuesday. I alerted the NMC to check him,” the doctor said. The NMC team immediately attended to the person and directed all eight persons to observe home quarantine. The NMC is yet to decide on giving approval for restarting Janata Hospital and the two diagnostic centres. Gantawar said, “30 staffers of Janata Hospital — doctors, nurses, pathologist etc — are shifted to MLA Hostel for quarantine. Around seven staffers of the two diagnostic centres were also sent to MLA Hostel. One of the two patients was also admitted in GMCH after Janata Hospital.” “Therefore, GMCH has started quarantining its doctors who examined and treated him. GMCH sent nurses and ward boys for quarantine at MLA Hostel. All are doing well and have no symptoms,” he said. Mayo Hospital and GMCH informed that all patients, excluding two from Buldana were negative. The NMC continued its door-to-door containment drive across the city. The drive is also being carried out in the housing society situated in front of Gandhisagar in Central Nagpur, from where one of the flat owners tested positive a day ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-cautions-private-hospitals-begins-to-get-information-of-patients/articleshow/74921147.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||India||Govt taps 92,000 NGOs to help feed and shelter lockdown-hit migrants||NEW DELHI: The Centre has roped in civil society organisations to assist state governments and district administration in taking care of food, shelter and other needs of migrant workers who have been affected by the 21-day lockdown announced by the government to combat the spread of Covid-19 virus. In a letter to over 92,000 NGOs on the NGO darpan portal, the government has asked them to work with district administration in setting up community kitchens and provide shelter for migrants and the homeless in the cities. As the country ramps up its efforts to mount greater awareness, the government urged civil society organisations to join efforts in raising awareness about prevention, hygiene, social distancing, isolation and combating stigma. The government also sought their support for distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and items such as sanitisers, soaps, masks and gloves among community workers and volunteers. “The government has taken several measures so that their livelihoods are protected. At this juncture, I request you to coordinate your efforts and work closely with district administration and state governments so that measures of care, shelter, food and social distancing go hand in hand and they are fully taken care of in their present location. It is our responsibility that no one goes without shelter and food,” NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said in a letter to civil society entities. Kant also heads the empowered group set up by the government to coordinate with private sectors, NGOs and international organisations for response-related activities to check spread of Covid-19. The NGOs have also been urged to assist the local administration in identifying hotspots and deputing volunteers and care-givers to delivers services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons and other vulnerable groups. They have been tasked to partner with state and local governments in enlisting volunteers from among individuals and communities and develop communication strategies in different languages to create awareness at the community level so that Covid-19 spread is tightly checked and false information fully countered. The government wants civil society organisations to work with state and local governments in promoting behavioural change to ensure that there is no stigma and discrimination against Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-taps-92000-ngos-to-help-feed-and-shelter-lockdown-hit-migrants/articleshow/74921947.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Curfew curbs go for a toss as public become callous||MADURAI: Residents are finding ways to defeat the very purpose of curfew restrictions, even as police are taking stricter measures to keep them confined to their houses. With several bridges having been brought under police control and only essential movement allowed through select bridges between north and south Madurai, two-wheelers were seen buzzing past across the dry river at will and at a few other places. Out of the nine bridges in the city, essentials were allowed through only four. An alternative road connecting the south and north banks of Vaigai river next to the Kuruvikkaran bridge was closed. But, bikers were found crossing the dry river at Thathaneri and Iravathanallur with help from locals, who pushed the vehicles. The city police have been registering cases against shop owners for opening in violation of the curfew restrictions. Cases were also registered against those loitering on streets without any need. However, life in interior areas is normal for residents and shops opened as usual and people roam around like any normal day. “All the shops are open in the interior areas of Yagappa Nagar and there is no restriction in people’s movement. Only shops at Yaanakuzhai have been closed,” said Syed Ahamed Basha, a resident. For the second day, a large number of people thronged the market at Yaanaikkal Puthupalam. The fear of vegetables getting sold off made the public forget the social distancing norms. A health official from the corporation said, “We have been making frequent rounds and asking people to follow a minimum one metre distance, but they observe only till the time we are there.” City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham said that stringent action is being taken against the violators. So far, more than 1,000 vehicles have been seized and more than 500 cases have been registered against violators of curfew restrictions. Crowds can be better managed once the proposed 100 markets at 100 places begin fucntioning, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/curfew-curbs-go-for-a-toss-as-public-become-callous/articleshow/74921153.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Daughter of India’s first fatality discharged||KALABURAGI: The 45-year-old daughter of India’s first Covid-19 victim was discharged from hospital on Monday night as she has recovered fully and tested negative. The 76-year-old person (P6) from Kalaburagi died on March 11. A day later, tests showed he had died of Covid-19, forcing the district administration to take stringent measures like isolation of primary and secondary contacts. He was the first fatality in India. On Tuesday, a fresh case was reported — the 60-year-old wife of a doctor who treated P6 was confirmed positive, taking the tally in the district to 4. So far, there’s been no community outbreak. Four of P6’s family members were quarantined in the hospital after they developed symptoms and kept at ESI Hospital. On March 15, the 45-year-old daughter of the deceased, identified as P6, tested positive pushing the administration to lock down the district. On March 17, the 63-year-old doctor who treated P6 on March 6 in the patient’s house too tested postive. Now, the daughter has recovered fully. The test conducted after the 14-day in hospital isolation came back negative. For confirmation immediately after 24 hours, her samples were tested again and that was negative too. Health officials declared her safe. Along with the 45-year-old woman, three more were isolate and all three tested negative during the first test. Deputy commissioner Sharath B said: “The woman is safe to return home and she has overcame theCovid infection.” The 63-year-old doctor who is in hospital quarantine has almost recovered. The DC said he has been recovering fast and is in good health. The swab and blood samples were sent for testing and once the results arrive, a decision about discharging him will be taken, he said. Another worry is that his wife tested positive. According to the health bulletin, she has been isolated in the hospital and is under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/daughter-of-indias-first-fatality-discharged/articleshow/74920513.cms||Shreyas HS
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mehta to oversee fight against virus||Thiruvananthapuram: With the nationwide lockdown throwing life out of gear and multiple government departments forced to act on a war-footing in an effort to restore normalcy, the government has appointed additional chief secretary (home, vigilance and water resources) Vishwas Mehta in charge of overall coordination for fighting the outbreak. The government entrusted him with the responsibility under section 24 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He will coordinate with various department secretaries and line department heads and would give instructions from time to time regarding various steps needed to fight the pandemic. He will be assisted by secretary (ports) Sanjay M Kaul and would submit a daily report to the government regarding steps taken and progress being made. The government has appointed various officials in charge of the war room functioning round the clock. While overall charge of the war room is with principal secretary (transport and general administration) K R Jyothilal, he is being assisted by Sanjay Kaul. KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma has been deputed to Kasaragod to supervise containment activities with the district administration. While local self-government department special secretary K Biju, also being former labour commissioner, will assist incumbent labour commissioner Pranab Jyothinath with the welfare and accommodation of guest workers, MNREGS mission director Divya S Iyer will assist secretary (food and civil supplies) P Venugopal in provisioning and procurement of vegetables and essential food items. Meanwhile, the police have appointed IG (crimes) S Sreejith as assistant nodal officer for the welfare of guest labourers. He visited the labour camps in Paippad on Tuesday. He said that the camps he visited did not have any shortage of food and they also agreed to cook food for a group instead of cooking individually, so as to reduce wastage. State police chief Loknath Behera has come up with video clippings featuring himself, in Bengali, Odiya and Hindi, explaining the situation and the steps taken by the state government for the welfare of guest labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mehta-to-oversee-fight-against-virus/articleshow/74919527.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun DM puts upper cap on prices of essential commodities||DEHRADUN: In order to keep a check on the complaints of overcharging and hoarding of necessary commodities, Dehradun district administration has put an upper cap on prices of food grains for both wholesale and retail shops. District magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has ordered traders to sell goods at the prescribed prices or face legal action. The food grains included in the rate list include — rice at Rs 30-38 per kilogram, pulses at Rs 100-105 per/kg, wheat flour at Rs 30 per/kg, and sugar at Rs 40/kg among others. On Tuesday, six shop owners were penalised for overcharging during an inspection by the officials of Doon district administration in Sadar area. Meanwhile, district officials have been directed to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed when city residents or social organisations distribute food packets to those in need. On Tues day, around 8,400 food packets were distributed to daily wagers, students, and others in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-puts-upper-cap-on-prices-of-essential-commodities/articleshow/74920537.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: These drones can spray medicines, check temperature||AHMEDABAD: As India remains under lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has stepped up efforts to provide technical and financial assistance to the state government. Recently, researchers at GTU Innovation Council Nikhil Methiya and Kewal Kelawala have designed an ultra-modern drone, according to a media statement. While 32 drones are already being used by the government authorities to battle coronavirus pandemic, 300 more will be deployed shortly, it said. Presently, the drones are deployed in Surat, Ahmedabad, Morbi and Rajkot.  In densely populated areas, the drones can check if people are keeping the ‘social distance’ required for precautions against Covid-19. The drones are also equipped to measure thermal temperature of people. At a time, live monitoring of 10 districts can be done using the drones. Methiya, who is founder of Drone Labs, a startup, along with Kelawala, has created a drone that is used for information gathering, social monitoring, medical delivery and for spraying medicines. A drone squad has been set up in the state where data of more than 300 drone pilots have been gathered. As much as 10 litres of medicines can be sprayed per drone. Also, they are used for making announcement using microphones. Medicines weighing 500 gram to 1kg are also delivered to those in need, it said. “GTU always believes in promoting innovations that are useful to people and the country,” said GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/these-drones-can-spray-medicines-check-temperature/articleshow/74921195.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||109 from MP attended meet, 107 quarantined||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government has identified and quarantined 107 people from the state — and at least 20 foreigners — who attended Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat Markiz in the past month. The authorities are looking for two more MP residents. Thirty-one of them are from Bhopal. They and the 20 foreigners — apparently from Myanmar, Malaysia and Indonesia — have been identified and screened in the city for Covid-19, say officials. Swab samples have been collected for tests, said Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed officials to track and quarantine those who may have come in contact with them. “We have learnt that more than 100 people from Madhya Pradesh had participated in the religious gathering. We need to be alert and vigilant. All these people should be identified, screened and quarantined,” Chouhan said at a review meeting on Covid-19 on Tuesday. “This action is in everyone's interest. All superintendents of police (SPs) have been instructed to take quick action in the regard,” the CM said. Names, addresses and phone numbers of the 31 Bhopalis have been handed over to DIG by the state’s intelligence unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/109-from-mp-attended-meet-107-quarantined/articleshow/74921173.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Eleven on ‘leisure tour’ arrested by Vadodara DCB||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Tuesday swooped down on 11 persons found roaming aimlessly on the streets without any valid reason and arrested them from different areas of the city. Crime branch sleuths said that the accused were nabbed from Harni, Tandalja, Alkapuri, Gotri and Vasna Road areas based on complaints they received on their WhatsApp number and pictures from the drone cameras. “We had urged people to capture images of people who are moving around without any reason in their vicinity. We got a few photos following which we acted against those who flouted the lockdown rules,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Over the past two days, the cops have begun flying drone cameras in different areas to capture images of those who were moving out in public or gathering in groups. Also, the cops have been getting many photos of people venturing out. Cops said they first question the citizens found on the roads and if they fail to give satisfactory reasons, they are either arrested or their vehicles are detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eleven-on-leisure-tour-arrested-by-vadodara-dcb/articleshow/74919293.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation to sell bags of assorted vegetables to help check crowds||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has organized vegetable vendors and social activists to sell assorted vegetables’ bag in order to bring down crowds thronging various markets. Each bag containing 19 varieties of vegetables will be sold at Rs 250. Each bag will have shallots, onion, cabbage, carrot, brinjal, tomato, green chili, ladies finger, chow-chow, beetroot, potato, lemon, coconut, drumstick, ginger, snake gourd, curry leaves, mint and coriander leaves. To start with, 10 vehicles will be allotted to sell the bags between 6am and 10am in various parts of the city. Some advocates, youths from Vaa Nanba organization and Bedcroft organization have come forward to help the corporation joining hands with the Vilangudi wholesale vegetable vendors association. Corporation officials said that people will get vegetables at a lesser price compared to the markets, and at the same time the society will also get benefited as people gathering at markets will come down. People have to spend more time at markets since they have wait at each shop, which will sell two to three vegetable items. When people get all required vegetables, which are already packed to carry, they can leave in no time, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corporation-to-sell-bags-of-assorted-vegetables-to-help-check-crowds/articleshow/74921180.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Disinfection drive begins across slums||AHMEDABAD: From upscale areas and highrises, the Covid-19 war has now travelled to the slum pockets of Ahmedabad and poses a huge challenge for health authorities. In fact, in the case of Gajanand ni Chali in Gomtipur, where a Covid-19 patient died, municipal authorities have sought police help to ensure that home quarantine measures are followed by 45 families who came in contact with the victim. Since Tuesday night, disinfection drives began involving 34 fire tenders which are spraying sodium hypochlorite solution across all chawls and densely populated areas in all municipal zones. Running water is a huge challenge for slum-dwellers in most zones, which is a critical hygiene requirement in the war against Covid-19. “We will have to carry out disinfection drives using bleach solution almost every day across 691 slum clusters in which the city’s 16% population resides,” says a senior municipal official. He adds, “At many places, sanitation is an issue. Some sites have common toilets and common water collection points. This is a completely different ball game.” On priority basis, major slum clusters in Behrampura and Danilimda have been picked up by the AMC for disinfection. The south zone and the west zone of the city consist of 26% and 25% slum populations respectively, while in the rest of the zones — north, central, and new west — the slum population is between 10% to 14%, according to the AMC’s own 2014 slum atlas. A senior AMC official says, “The overcrowding of slums makes it difficult to follow recommended measures such as social distancing and self-isolation.” The disinfection drive will cover slum areas like Abhuji ka Chapra, 13 slum clusters of Gomtipur, and other slum clusters like Bhudarpura ka Chapra, Dhor Vada, Jiva Dosa na Chapra, Marwadi n Chali, Govindbhai ni Chali, Ramapir no Tekro, Chandrabhaga, and Gopal Nagar. “We are talking about a concentrated 1.86 lakh households which need to be monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disinfection-drive-begins-across-slums/articleshow/74921371.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||As 30 more test positive in south Tamil Nadu, areas isolated||MADURAI: The district administrations of Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have isolated areas from where fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported en masse on Tuesday. As many as 30 new people tested positive from the southern districts on Tuesday, taking the total number to 36 from the 10 districts. The fresh cases included 22 from Tirunelveli, five from Kanyakumari, two from Madurai and one from Tuticorin. In fact, 29 of the 30 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi while more people from the region who attended the conference have been isolated in the respective districts and samples sent for testing. “All 22 patients admitted to Tirunelveli medical college hospital are stable. All of their family members are kept under home quarantine. We are working to identify all their primary and secondary contacts and keep them under quarantine,” Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish told TOI. She added that they will come up with a containment plan for each area. She also wrote to the city police commissioner seeking police support to isolate Melapalayam area from where most of these people hailed. She said many from the locality who had travelled abroad have returned and there was a chance of the virus spreading. “All roads leading to Melapalayam should be disconnected for traffic,” she said. The police were requested to ensure that people of the locality stay indoors. Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere said four of the infected had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and returned on March 23. “The other person works in the Chennai airport,” he said. He announced Dennison Street and Velladichivilai in Nagercoil and Manikattipottal and Thengapattanam Thoppu in rural Kanyakumari district – where the five positive cases hail from – as containment zones. The collector said that disinfection has been carried out at the above areas which have been isolated. “We have deployed 270 field workers under 40 supervisory officials and five doctors for door-to-door verification to check if the people are showing influenza symptoms,” he added. In Madurai city, a 40-year-old man from Narimedu and a 45-year-old man from Thabaal Thanthi Nagar who attended the Delhi conference tested positive. They are currently undergoing treatment at the isolation ward in GRH and are stable. A total of 42 Tablighi members, including eight Thai nationals in Madurai, had attended the conference. “Currently, 12 Tablighi members are under observation in the isolation ward at GRH. Nine persons have meanwhile been isolated at a local quarantine facility, all of whom have tested negative for Covid-19,” said district collector T G Vinay. Tension prevailed near a lodge at Melagaram on the Tenkasi - Courtallam Road in Tenkasi district as six people from there who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi had returned and were kept under isolation. Following protests from the local villagers, they were about to be shifted to Courtallam amidst police protection in the presence of health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-30-more-test-positive-in-south-tn-areas-isolated/articleshow/74921202.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prescribing alcohol: Unrest brewing among doctors||Thiruvananthapuram: The government doctors who have decided to boycott the decision of the state government to prescribe alcohol for those showing withdrawal symptoms have decided to observe Wednesday as “protest day”. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government has never demanded that doctors should prescribe alcohol. “We are not going to run behind doctors urging them to prescribe. We will not take any action against doctors who are not willing to prescribe,” he said. The order issued in this regard says that doctors need to confirm that a person is showing alcohol withdrawal symptom. The diagnosis will help him seek speial allotment of liquor from excise department. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) has urged all the doctors to wear black badges while on duty on Wednesday. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also urged its doctors not to prescribe alcohol since it is against medical ethics. The state branch of Indian Psychiatric Society, Kerala Government Specialist Doctors Association, KCBC and other associations working in the healthcare sector have come out against the government order. Meanwhile, health minister K K Shailaja said that the government has not insisted doctors to prescribe alcohol. Since suicides are increasing in the state due to the lockdown and non-availability of alcohol, the government explored a possibility on how to solve this issue. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who came down heavily on the government order said such a decision would have severe consequences. Hence the government should immediately withdraw this controversial order, he said. Former KPCC president V M Sudheeran also came out against the government decision. He said the government was compelling doctors into unethical practices which should not be encouraged. He urged the government to immediately withdraw the order and alleged that the government is again showing the world that they are with the liquor mafia. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prescribing-alcohol-unrest-brewing-among-doctors/articleshow/74919545.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||We will collectively defeat the coronavirus chain, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: With a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Indore, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said a total lockdown would be imposed in the district to prevent spread of the deadly virus.  “Indore is the city of dreams and due to awareness of the residents, it has consistently been ranked the cleanest city in the country thrice. But, now it is fighting the Covid-19 outbreak. We have to defeat it at any cost. Follow the Laxman Rekha advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to break the chain,” said Chouhan in a video circulated through his Twitter on Tuesday.  Chouhan further said, “I know you are festival lovers but, can't you stay at home or in isolation for the sake of your family. I urge you, we will be strict and impose a total lockdown. Those who are detected positive they will be treated and their family members be quarantined. I apologize for the inconvenience but, we are taking strict action for your good, for Indore. Please cooperate. If you face any problem, forgive us. We will collectively defeat coronavirus.”  Chouhan in his appeal said, “When the entire country is fighting Covid-19, some people are not taking the lockdown seriously and are still flouting the rules. Going outside could be dangerous for oneself and the family too so, stay at home. Break the chain of social contact. The administration is trying to provide essential commodities to residents at home. Yes, there are positive cases, but this doesn’t mean it can’t be treated. Some people got cured in Jabalpur.”  The CM also called on Governor Lalji Tandon at Raj Bhavan and briefed him about measures taken by the state government to control the outbreak. Earlier, during the day, he also spoke to social workers and government staff engaged in emergency service and thanked them for their service during these testing times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/we-will-collectively-defeat-the-corona-chain-says-cm/articleshow/74921201.cms||Rajendra Sharma
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No 5-km cordon as promised||AHMEDABAD:“A person died here due to the coronavirus,” says a resident of the Gajanandnagar chawl in Gomtipur, while patting the wall of a green house, which belonged to a 47-year-old scrap dealer, who had died of Covid-19 on March 27. The Gajanandnagar chawl has 82 dwellings, mainly those of daily wage labourers of the Muslim and Scheduled Caste communities. The state and civic authorities had earlier claimed a 5km radius would be cordoned off, to thwart the spread of the infection, but in reality anyone can easily access the house of the deceased, which the authorities claimed was sanitized after the 47-year-old man’s death. Jayanti Vaghela, a daily wage labourer and resident of Gajanandnagar chawl, said that civic body personnel had disinfected the deceased’s house and 15 other houses in the same row. “They (civic workers) come regularly and spray some powder around his house to disinfect the area,” said Vaghela showing patches of gammaxene powder on the ground near the house. On whether anyone else in the neighbourhood had been checked by the health department personnel, Vaghela replied, “No.” Another resident of the chawl, Dinesh Parmar, stated that they were not examined by health department personnel. “Some members of the deceased’s family and his immediate neighbours may have been examined. We live just behind his house, so we placed our scooters and cycles around it so that no one goes close and get infected,” said Parmar, a daily wage labourer. An official of Gomtipur police said that they had cordoned off the area when the death occurred. “We were also told by health officials of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) that a 5-km radius would be closed but it was not done,” said the official. Gomtipur councillor Iqbal Shaikh said all residents of Gajanand chawl should have had medical check-ups but the authorities did not do this. “This is a very congested area where the likelihood of the virus spreading are much greater. The civic body should consider this and sanitize the entire area,” said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-5-km-cordon-as-promised/articleshow/74921344.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Helpline offers psychological salve||GANDHINAGAR: With over 19,000 persons in home quarantine and many more suffering from anxiety because of the lockdown, the psychological counselling helpline of the government drew 250 callers within 15 hours of becoming operational. Among the common problems the callers have been reporting on the helpline are the urge to go out of the house or quarantine facility, feeling of loneliness, gynaecological problems, lack of sleep, feeling uneasy and even the feeling of fear. The CM has announced the launch of the ‘1100 psychological counselling helpline’ after receiving feedback that citizens have been experiencing trauma because of the lockdown or quarantine. State health commissioner Jayprakash Shivhare said the helpline provides 24X7 counselling to callers. “Considering the rush of callers, we are expecting more calls in the coming days,” Shivhare said. To begin with, the state government has made arrangements to handle about 1,000 calls a day, but this capacity will have to be increased, said Shivhare. The helpline first takes primary details of the caller such as gender, age, factors that are causing the person stress or trauma. On the basis of these inputs, the caller is then connected to an expert. “Unlike the 104 helpline, which guides people on COVI-19 symptoms and thus calls are short, in case of the 1100 helpline, the calls last much longer and workflow has been designed accordingly,” Shivhare said. One of the 1100 helpline workers, Surendra, said that people call in to report that they are feeling lonely and want to go out of the quarantine. “In such cases, we divert the calls to psychologists who counsel them.” He added that calls related to physical health are diverted to the 104 helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/helpline-offers-psychological-salve/articleshow/74921230.cms||Kapil Dave
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK worker spreads misinformation, held in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A DMK functionary was arrested on charges of spreading misinformation about Covid-19 in the city on Monday night. The functionary, N J Murugesan, a ward secretary of DMK was produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded to Coimbatore central prison. The DMK cried hoarse alleging that Murugesan was booked because he pulled up corporation authorities for not spraying disinfectants properly. It was to cover up the shortcomings on the part of the administration that the authorities filed a false complaint and got him arrested, DMK MLA N Karthik said. Murugesan was booked four counts of the IPC under section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by civil servant), section 353 (assault of criminal force to deter civil servant from discharging duty), section 270 (doing an act likely to spread an infection dangerous to life) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) based on a complaint from a corporation official. Police said Murugesan told vegetable sellers there was no need to maintain social distancing. He also picked up an argument with the corporation authorities who were involved in anti–Covid activities in the city and threatened them, police said. However, Karthik refuted the allegations and said that Murugesan was questioning the officials for not carrying out the works properly. “Public in his locality had complained about disinfectants not sprayed properly. He raised the issue with the officials and demanded better prevention measures in their locality,’’ Karthik said. He said they would face the issue legally in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-worker-spreads-misinformation-held/articleshow/74921222.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Shut since March 22, OPDs at private facilities now open||In a big relief for city residents, OPD services of several private hospitals, nursing homes, and private clinics were made operational on Tuesday. Several private doctors in the city had shut their OPDs partially or were only running emergency services since March 22 as they didn’t have Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. In view of this, the Indian Medical Association had sought government’s help in providing private doctors with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, which are not available in market. Dr DD Choudhury, state secretary IMA, who attended to around 20 patients at his OPD on Tuesday, told TOI that no private hospital or doctor wanted to shut OPD and that too when the country is grappling with a pandemic but they were concerned abolut their safety as well. “ The chief minister has now assured us that PPE kits would be made available at city shops for private doctors as soon as possible,” he added. According to IMA officials, the clinics and OPDs saw less rush as compared to normal days as people are not coming out of their homes unless there is an emergency situation. Meanwhile, Anoop Nautiyal of city-based NGO Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation, which is documenting Covid-19 cases in Hoimalayan region, said that Uttarakhand is doing better than other Himalayan states in combating Covid-19. “The state has reported seven positive cases so far and two among them have already recovered. Except for Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), which has reported 55 Covid-19 positive cases.the other Himalayan states have relatively lesser number of positive cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shut-since-mar-22-opds-at-private-facilities-now-open/articleshow/74920552.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Meerut||Medical college in Meerut files FIR against suspected Covid-19 patient||MEERUT: A private medical college hospital in Meerut on Monday registered a criminal case against a man suspected to be suffering from novel coronavirus infection, alleging that he posted “misleading” videos on social media platforms to get a separate ward and early discharge. In the video, the patient has alleged that poor quality food was being served to him in the quarantine ward. The medical college authorities said that he was making misleading videos only to get discharged early and get a separate ward, which they said was not possible. The videos show the suspected patient being served chapati and daal in a polythene bag. The patient also alleged that a coronavirus positive patient was accommodated with the suspected ones in the hospital. Dr GP Singh, chief medical superintendent of Subharti Medical College said, “An FIR has been registered against the patient at Jani police station here for misleading people with incorrect claims and for hindering the work of the medical staff here. He is a suspected patient and is being kept under 14-day quarantine. However, he has been asking for a special ward for him and his family. He has also been requesting for an early discharge, which is not possible according to the norms and hence he has adopted this measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/medical-college-files-fir-against-suspected-covid-19-patient/articleshow/74920549.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Avoid panic booking of LPG cylinders: Govt||Jaipur: The government has appealed to the citizens to not go for panic bookings of LPG cylinders during the time of lockdown. In an advisory issued on Tuesday, the authorities have assured that there are enough cylinders to fulfil the requirement of everyone. Rajesh Meena, district nodal officer, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), Jaipur, on Tuesday issued the orders that citizens are advised against going to LPG distributors’ showroom or godowns unnecessarily to book cylinders without any need. If anyone needs to book a cylinder, they can drop a message IVRS/SMS (97852-24365), WhatsApp (7588888824) or book online (IndianOilOne mobile app or log in to http://cx.indianoil.in). Moreover, the citizens have been advised not to use paper currency and go for online transactions. The order specifically mentions that beneficiaries of PMUY will get free LPG cylinders for three months starting from April 1 to June 30, 2020. Under the scheme, every beneficiary will be eligible for one cylinder every month and will not be able to book a new one within 15 days after the delivery of the last cylinder. Thousands of drivers, godown keepers, LGP mechanics and cylinder delivery boys have been working tirelessly on the field. Looking to the risk these people undertake while delivering essential services at homes, the government has decided to give them an insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh if anyone dies after getting infected by Covid-19. In case the spouse is not there, the amount has to be paid to the next of kin of the deceased. This is a goodwill gesture in recognition of the services rendered by the oil marketing companies (OMC) personnel in these trying times to serve the fellow citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/avoid-panic-booking-of-lpg-cylinders-govt/articleshow/74921236.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nurses ask govt to exempt them from salary challenge||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Government Nurses Union has requested the government to exempt health sector workers from the proposed salary challenge for the government employees. Meanwhile all the ministers have decided to donate their one month salary to the CMDRF. The chief minister himself contributed Rs 1lakh. The Kerala Government Nurses Union has urged the chief minister that healthcare workers, including nurses, should be exempted from this salary challenge. Most of the nurses have been involved in the Covid-19 prevention and treatment activities and hence many are under high-risk categories. Several of the nurses are facing isolation in their residential areas and there are also reports that a few of them were asked to vacate their houses since they are involved in Covid-19 care activities. Apart from this, the lockdown has totally disrupted their life and many of them could not stock up essential commodities since they are working for 10 to 12 hours a day in this emergency situation, said K S Santosh, general secretary of the union. Donations from several ministers’ office Most of the staff working at the ministers’ offices have decided to donate their one month salary to the CMDRF. The office of the chief minister, devaswom minister, health minister, excise minister and among others have decided to contribute for the Covid-19 fund. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, on Tuesday alone, the government received contributions to the tune of Rs 5.9 crore to the CMDRF. This included the Rs 1 crore from government secretariat employees cooperative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nurses-ask-govt-to-exempt-them-from-salary-challenge/articleshow/74919559.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Risk of local transmission sends residents panicking||COIMBATORE: Public health department officials on Tuesday said the chances of local transmission of Covid-19 were very high as the virus was contagious. They have also sent resamples of throat swabs and blood from 28 people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi from Mettupalayam and Anamalai, to the Covid-19 testing lab in Theni as the test results obtained from Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) were inconclusive. While seven of them, who are from Anamalai, are admitted to the ESI Hospital, the remaining 21 from Mettupalayam are undergoing treatment at the government hospital in their locality. The officials are also in the process of tracing the people with who the 28 might have had come into contact with after their return to the district a week ago. The officials have started visiting their houses to check if anyone has symptoms of Covid-19. A health department official said, “All the 28 and their family members haven’t shown any symptoms so far. If any of the 28 tests positive, we will test the vulnerable members of their family, especially those above 60 years or with comorbidities.” While health officials in Pollachi and Annamalai have begun contact tracing of the seven patients, who are admitted to the ESI Hospital, they are awaiting reconfirmation of test results for further action. The news about the people, who attended Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, have sent jitters through the district, with many people trying to identify neighbours and others in their area who are likely to have attended the meet or friends who live near them. People who flew back from New Delhi to the city on April 23 and 24, are also a nervous lot. “I think I saw a few people, who belonged to the delegation, on my flight,” said a 25-year-old software developer from Singanallur. “Flights are closed spaces where the virus could spread easily. I am very scared now,” he said while disclosing his plans to room quarantine himself, away from his family. Doctors at the ESI Hospital, meanwhile, have taken throat swabs and blood samples from another 17 city residents, who had attended the meet, on Tuesday. Four others from the city limits also approached the hospital, stating they had also attended the meet. A doctor attached to the ESI Hospital said, “We have sent 21 samples to the CMCH Covid-19 testing centre today (Tuesday). We are also awaiting the test results of the 28 others from the Theni lab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/risk-of-local-transmission-sends-residents-panicking/articleshow/74921239.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Two held with liquor bottles for illegal sale in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: In two separate incidents, the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the city police arrested two men on Monday for possessing more than 470 liquor bottles for illegal sales. Police identified the accused as K Elango, 57, of Vellandavalasu near Edappadi in Salem district and K Perumal alias Kaliyaperumal, 45, of Eluppur in Pudukkottai district. Elango was arrested after a senior regional Tasmac manager, Coimbatore, Parameswari lodged a complaint with the PEW. In her complaint, she stated that while all the tasmac outlets were closed during the lockdown, she came to know that a man was possessing Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) for illegal sales. Immediately, a team led by sub-inspector Kandasamy reached a place on Chinnavedampatti -Athipalayam Pirivu Road at Saravanampatti, where Elango hid the bottles, and arrested him. They also seized 12 beer bottles (650 ml each), 48 bottles of brandy (375 ml each) and 296 bottles of brandy bottles (180 ml each). Meanwhile, the team also arrested K Perumal for possession of liquor bottles for illegal sales at Bharathi Nagar in Saravanampatti on Monday. Police seized 120 bottles of brandy. Both were let off on conditional bail later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-with-liquor-bottles-for-illegal-sale/articleshow/74921231.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: People with disabilities appeal for more government aid||MADURAI: People with disabilities in Madurai has called for better financial assistance from the state government and slammed the Centre’s announcement of issuing mere Rs 1,000 as additional allowance during the lockdown. “It is inhuman to announce such a meagre amount as additional allowance. The government says that it will be split for three months, which would make it around Rs 300 a month. This is extremely depressing,” said S Raja, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Crawling Differently Abled Persons Federation. He further pointed out that most people in the community don’t even have jobs and depend on the special monthly allowance of Rs 1,500. An official at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office, Madurai, said that there is a plan to provide a special allowance of Rs 1,500 for the months of April and May in advance. “This would be helpful for the community. However, so far the state government is yet to announce any additional allowance,” he said. Raja alleged that there were always delays in providing special allowance every month and that all the members from the community are not able to avail it. “We are also eligible for the extra allowance such as the daily wage workers or migrant workers. Only around 6,000 out of the more than 50,000 people with disabilities in Madurai have all necessary documents and can avail the special allowance. The government must bring in some measure to ensure that help is provided to all members of the community,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-with-disabilities-appeal-for-more-govt-aid/articleshow/74921232.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||India||NREGS wages go up, thanks to inflation||NEW DELHI: Thanks to inflation, the Centre has managed to stub the controversy of zero increase in employment wages under the flagship rural job guarantee programme, a source of raging row for last few years. As new rates come into force from Wednesday, the national average wage stands at Rs 202 per day, which is Rs 20 higher than 2019-20. None of the states has registered zero increase while the lowest hike is Rs 13 and the highest Rs 34. The welcome change from past years, ironically, has been possible because of a spike in retail inflation for agriculture labourers -- Consumer Price Index (Agriculture Labour) —on which MGNREGA wages are indexed for annual revision. As inflation remained low in past years, the wage revision resulted in negligible hikes, with certain states even clocking zero. In 2019-20, Karnataka, Goa, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and West Bengal saw no rise in wages. This has been touching off intense criticism from experts and social activists alike for last few years. Given the anomalous situation, the rural development ministry in 2018 urged the finance ministry to shift the index of wage revision from CPI (AL) to CPI (Rural). An internal committee of the RD ministry had recommended the course, arguing that CPI (AL) was an old basket while CPI (R) better reflected the consumption pattern. Crucially, food items account for considerable weightage under CPI (AL) and their prices have registered a sharp decline in recent times, especially because of the Food Security Act. This has kept wage revision under a check. However, the finance ministry has been averse to heed the request of the RD ministry, possibly concerned about the burden on exchequer it will entail. “As the formula for wage revision remained the same, not much was expected in 2020-21 in terms of shift from past years of minuscule or zero hikes. But then rise in inflation came into play,” a top official explained to TOI. As economic activity has ground to a halt owing to coronavirus crisis, the MGNREGA too remains shut for work. However, there may be a spurt in demand once the lockdown lifts and the desperate poor run to seek employment. This week, the RD ministry released Rs 4431 crore to states as part of wage and material arrears for this financial year. The low or zero hikes have been a problem since 2015. In 2018-19, Uttarakhand, Arunachal, Jharkhand and Bihar registered no increase while MP, Gujarat and Maharashtra got a wage hike of Rs 2. In 2017-18, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, UP and Uttarakhand got a hike of Rs 01. This year, Dadra and Nagar Haveli has notched the highest increase of Rs 34, followed by Maharashtra (Rs 32), UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Odisha (Rs 19), Kerala and Assam (Rs 20), Rajasthan (Rs 21) and Punjab (Rs 22). Bihar and Jharkhand have an increase of Rs 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nregs-wages-go-up-thanks-to-inflation/articleshow/74921977.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Lockdown a double challenge for disabled||MADURAI: Many among those with disabilities in Madurai, especially from the financial backgrounds, have been struggling for survival since the beginning of the lockdown. Despite being a vulnerable group, the community has little help from the government during the difficult times, said people with disabilities in the city. “It is very difficult for us. Both my husband and I are disabled and we have a school-going daughter. My aged mother who stays with us is only getting us groceries. Financially, we don’t know how long we can continue and manage our food,” said Mangayarthilagam M, who resides with her family at Kamarajarpuram. Her husband Muthukumar does repair work for electronic gadgets and earns a salary of Rs 6,000 a month. But, now there is no other means for them to eke out a living. For Jeyaraman M from Nagamalai-Pudukottai area, his physical disability is hurting him and his family far more than ever during the lockdown period. Unable to procure essentials, he is forced to seek the mercy of others to help him and his wife, who is also a disabled person. “We have to beg to our neighbours for getting groceries and are unable to go to the town. I eke out a living by writing petitions for Rs 10-20 in front of the district collectorate. Now, even that is not possible. How can I support my wife and two children?” asked Jeyaraman. For female with disabilities, it is doubly difficult to stay safe during lockdown, said Mariammal R, a disabled woman who is part of a welfare association. “Many of the disabled people, especially women, are staying in rented houses. They are unable to pay rent. They are unable to even get loans and cannot afford to pay them later too with interest. Their future has become uncertain as most of them don’t have regular income and survive on government allowances or pensions,” she said. Though the most recommended preventive measure for Covid-19 is washing hands, people with disabilities ask how they can protect themselves when they use their hands to move around on roads. Meanwhile, an official at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office, Madurai said that a state-wide toll free helpline for people with disabilities (18004250111) is currently functional. “We have two teams of volunteers working with our office. We follow up on the calls we get and provide assistance. As of now, people with disabilities are mainly requesting help for buying essentials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-a-double-challenge-for-disabled/articleshow/74921235.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand allows farmers to work on fields||NAINITAL: Days after TOI reported the crisis faced by farmers across the state due to the country-wide lockdown, the state government has issued a series of guidelines allowing farmers and farm labourers to work on their fields. The guidelines issued by agricultural secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram state, "For agricultural purposes, both farmers and farm labourers will be allowed to go to the fields. However, they will ensure that all precautions are taken to stop the spread of the virus." The month of April is the peak harvesting season for Rabi crops such as wheat in plains while in hills, this marks the beginning of the sowing season. Therefore, several farmers were worried about the availability of farm labourers, machines and the breakdown of supply chain for both fertilizers and seeds. Sundaram added that the farm machinery as well as seeds, fertilisers and pesticides will be made available across all the district. "The shops selling seeds, fertilisers, pesticides will remain open as per the timings decided by the government. Social distancing, however, will be maintained at all these shops and sanitisers will also be kept there," Sundaram said in the letter which has been marked to all the district magistrates as well as SSPs.Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, farmers, who are already facing losses due to untimely rains and hailstorms in February and March, said that they are relieved that the government has allowed the movement of machinery and even opened shops where they can buy seeds. “We don't know how long the lockdown will continue. Therefore, it was necessary that crops like wheat are harvested before they start to fall in fields. Once the harvesting is done, the sowing season will start and we are thinking of buying seeds as soon as possible because there is grave uncertainty over their availability as well,” said Ramzani, a farmer from Kichha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-allows-farmers-to-work-on-fields/articleshow/74920582.cms||Prashant Jha
April 1, 2020||Meerut||8 Indonesians who participated in Delhi’s Jamaat event quarantined in UP’s Bijnor||BIJNOR: Eight Indonesian nationals who attended an event organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin between March 13 and 15 were found staying at a mosque in UP’s Bijnor on Monday. They were quarantined at a government hospital after medical examination, officials said. Later, police booked two clerics of the mosque and three others for not keeping the local authorities in the loop over the foreign nationals’ stay, who had come on tourist visa but were involved in religious activities. According to police, the foreigners were staying at Nagina town’s Jamunwali mosque. They came to India on a 6-month tourist visa and visited Odisha and Delhi, where they participated in the religious event. They came to Bijnor on March 21 and had plans to leave for Delhi on March 25, before the lockdown was imposed. Superintendent of police (rural) Sanjay Kumar said, “The foreigners were taken to district hospital for medical check-up. They all are in isolation ward of the hospital for 14 days. “The Indonesians have admitted that they had taken part in Delhi’s religious event. Police have asked all the people coming in their contact to quarantine themselves.” The SP added, “We have registered a case against five persons, including two clerics and three members of the mosque.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/8-indonesians-who-participated-in-delhis-jamaat-event-quarantined-in-ups-bijnor/articleshow/74920568.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 25,000 migrants are stuck in 103 camps at 65 locations across districts in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With no income over the last fortnight, migrant workers are stuck between a rock and a hard place — they neither have shelter nor can they return to their homes in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. On Tuesday, the government identified 65 locations across 30 districts in the state where such workers are stuck. More than a 100 camps have been set up at these locations to accommodate more than 25,000 workers (see graphic), but the exercise of identifying more such workers is a work in progress. Officials in the know said the number could even cross one lakh. N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary (revenue) and the nodal officer for migrants, has instructed all DCs to “register each migrant who requires board and lodging and also collect data on number of family members, name and destination where they intend to go”. This data was used to group them in the same location. All camps have been provided with medical assistance. So far, 25,433 migrants have been identified. Of these, more than 14,000 are in Bengaluru’s Mahadevapura zone. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said there could be more than 60,000 migrant workers in BBMP limits and Bengaluru rural. “...According to the labour department, there are at least 67,000 in BBMP and rural limits. But we are trying to do an on-ground assessment and we should have the accurate number soon. We’ve already identified 200 choultries for this,” he said. BBMP special commissioner D Randeep said five community halls in Mahadevapura have been requested, but so far no worker has been placed there. “As of today, we have identified people and are supplying food packets to them. So far there appears to be no problem with shelter for them as they are living in their respective labour quarters or makeshift places they already use,” he said. 22L construction workersAlthough the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has said all migrant workers must remain in their present locations and the state government must provide food and shelter, there could be lakhs of people who are outside the ambit. While there is no requirement for states to register inter-state migrant workers, identification of such people during a crisis is a difficult task. Labour secretary P Manivannan told TOI: “There are about 22 lakh construction workers registered with us (across Karnataka), most of who are migrants. About five lakh of them have provided details of their work so as to avail benefits from us.” While construction workers register with the government, most other migrants — such as those employed in the hospitality sector or working as security guards, do not register with the government. One estimate suggests Bengaluru alone has nearly 80,000 security guards from other states, while 40% of the 1.4 lakh people working in the 7,000-odd licenced hotels and restaurants are also from other states. Census data suggests at least four out of 10 people in Bengaluru have registered their mother tongues as other than Kannada. It’s about 18% across Karnataka. However, a majority of non-Kannada speakers are those who’ve settled here many years ago, which makes it difficult to ascertain if they are migrants or settlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-25k-migrants-are-stuck-in-103-camps-at-65-locations-across-dists/articleshow/74922977.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Over 25,000 migrants are stuck in 103 camps at 65 locations across districts in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With no income over the last fortnight, migrant workers are stuck between a rock and a hard place — they neither have shelter nor can they return to their homes in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. On Tuesday, the government identified 65 locations across 30 districts in the state where such workers are stuck. More than a 100 camps have been set up at these locations to accommodate more than 25,000 workers (see graphic), but the exercise of identifying more such workers is a work in progress. Officials in the know said the number could even cross one lakh. N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary (revenue) and the nodal officer for migrants, has instructed all DCs to “register each migrant who requires board and lodging and also collect data on number of family members, name and destination where they intend to go”. This data was used to group them in the same location. All camps have been provided with medical assistance. So far, 25,433 migrants have been identified. Of these, more than 14,000 are in Bengaluru’s Mahadevapura zone. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said there could be more than 60,000 migrant workers in BBMP limits and Bengaluru rural. “...According to the labour department, there are at least 67,000 in BBMP and rural limits. But we are trying to do an on-ground assessment and we should have the accurate number soon. We’ve already identified 200 choultries for this,” he said. BBMP special commissioner D Randeep said five community halls in Mahadevapura have been requested, but so far no worker has been placed there. “As of today, we have identified people and are supplying food packets to them. So far there appears to be no problem with shelter for them as they are living in their respective labour quarters or makeshift places they already use,” he said. 22L construction workersAlthough the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has said all migrant workers must remain in their present locations and the state government must provide food and shelter, there could be lakhs of people who are outside the ambit. While there is no requirement for states to register inter-state migrant workers, identification of such people during a crisis is a difficult task. Labour secretary P Manivannan told TOI: “There are about 22 lakh construction workers registered with us (across Karnataka), most of who are migrants. About five lakh of them have provided details of their work so as to avail benefits from us.” While construction workers register with the government, most other migrants — such as those employed in the hospitality sector or working as security guards, do not register with the government. One estimate suggests Bengaluru alone has nearly 80,000 security guards from other states, while 40% of the 1.4 lakh people working in the 7,000-odd licenced hotels and restaurants are also from other states. Census data suggests at least four out of 10 people in Bengaluru have registered their mother tongues as other than Kannada. It’s about 18% across Karnataka. However, a majority of non-Kannada speakers are those who’ve settled here many years ago, which makes it difficult to ascertain if they are migrants or settlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/over-25k-migrants-are-stuck-in-103-camps-at-65-locations-across-dists/articleshow/74920577.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||To fight Covid-19, 201 doctors hired for government hospitals||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Medical Service Selection Board recruited 201 doctors for several government hospitals across the state on Tuesday. The recruitment is meant to strengthen healthcare services of the state in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Confirming the hiring of doctors, National Health Mission director Yugal Kishore Pant told TOI that all the new appointees have been allotted nearest centres so that they can join their service immediately. “These new doctors will surely help in strengthening the healthcare system in government sector. We are also planning more appointments in the days to come,” said Pant. The recruitments come a week after CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced that doctors can be hired for government medical institutions through walk-in interviews. Incidentally, the newly recruited doctors were working on an ad-hoc basis in different facilities till now. The state, at present, has around 3000 sanctioned posts for doctors but only 1600 doctors are permanent appointees. In a response to an RTI query filed by Haldwani-based activist Hemant Guaniya in August 2019, the state government had stated that Uttarakhand has just 48 gynaecologists against 171 sanctioned posts, 60 child specialists against 140 sanctioned posts, 53 pathologists against 146 sanctioned posts, 37 eye surgeons against 137 sanctioned posts, five skin specialists against five sanctioned posts, 33 general surgeons against 134 sanctioned posts, 40 orthopaedic surgeons against 101 sanctioned posts, and 37 radiologists against 137 sanctioned posts. Meanwhile, the health department on Tuesday received Covid-19 test reports of 63 patients and all were found negative. On the day, 35 new samples were sent for test. The state has quarantined 9,650 people in the last 15 days and has tested 513 suspected patients for the disease so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-fight-covid-19-201-docs-hired-for-govt-hosps/articleshow/74920559.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Distribution of free ration from April 1||Thiruvananthapuram: Food and civil supplies minister P Thilothanan on Monday said that the state had foodgrain reserve for three months. Distribution of free foodgrain, announced as part of the fight against Covid-19, would begin on April 1, he said. Special arrangement is being put in place in ration shops for hassle-free distribution of grains. As per plans announced by the government, all ration card holders would get a minimum 15kg foodgrains, irrespective of their being among the priority category or otherwise. For priority sector cardholders, ration would be distributed in the forenoon hours and for non-priority categories in the afternoon. Distribution of the special free ration would be completed by April 20 and after that, the free ration announced by the central government would begin, the minister told reporters here on Monday. Distribution of food grains would be carried out in conformity with the social distancing norms. There can’t be a queue of more than five people in front of the ration shop at any time. The shopowner can introduce a token system. Service of people’s representatives and health volunteers can be availed for the purpose. If someone has been unable to visit the shop to collect their allocation, ration shops may send it through volunteers. Those who don’t have ration cards would also be eligible for free ration. To avail this, such persons would have to submit an affidavit mentioning their Aadhaar number and phone number. If such persons are later found to have conned the government, they would be fined. Distribution of food kits to 87 lakh families would also begin this week. SupplyCo has started preparing the kits at 56 depots. Pulses for the kit would be collected from central government agency Nafed. The estimated cost for the free distribution of provision kits is Rs 756 crore. Those who give up the benefit on their own and families with high income earning members would be removed from this beneficiary list.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/distribution-of-free-ration-from-april-1/articleshow/74900434.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ajmer||Cancer patient walking from AIIMS Delhi to Ajmer rescued||JAIPUR: Vishakha from Pushkar in Ajmer district, who had gone to Delhi for cancer treatment, was suddenly discharged from hospital due to corona scare. She was left with no option as all modes of travel had been stopped. Left with no option, the family decided to walk all the way to Ajmer from the national capital, a distance of more than 500km. This came to the notice of the administration and the chief minister immediately ordered for the stay and transportation of the woman. Officials said Vishakha was admitted to AIIMS and was discharged from the hospital during treatment as the OPD was closed due to the outbreak of corona. Since there were no vehicles available due to the countrywide lockdown, she left for Pushkar along with her family members on foot. The matter came to chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s notice and he immediately gave instructions to officials based in Ajmer and Delhi to take action. On the directions of chief minister, commissioner of Delhi-based Rajasthan Foundation Dheeraj Srivastava established contact with Vishakha and her family. He arranged for their night’s rest and meals. After talking to Delhi police commissioner and AIIMS director, he ensured complete arrangement for treatment of the woman. He ensured of further follow up treatment on consultation with the doctors and officials of AIIMS administration. Dheeraj Srivastava, after talking to the Ajmer District Collector, immediately arranged for an ambulance and sent medicines to Vishakha in Ajmer by arranging medicines etc. with the cooperation of the State Government. Vishakha is again called to Delhi after two months by AIIMS physicians for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-rescues-cancer-patient-walking-to-pushkar-on-being-discharged-from-aiims-delhi/articleshow/74921268.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Family attacks ASHA worker for Corona survey; 4 held||MEERUT: At a time when all-out efforts are being made to stop the coronavirus from spreading, city residents here allegedly attacked a health team that had gone for a coronavirus survey in Kankerkhera area’s Dayampur village on Tuesday. Four people have been arrested. The incident took place after an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker of the two-member team - who also belongs to the same village - inquired about two members of a family who had returned from Noida and Ghaziabad a few days ago. Protesting why they should reveal the whereabouts of the two, the family allegedly slapped the ASHA worker. They also allegedly attacked her husband and brother-in-law when they intervened. Four people have been booked and sent to jail. Anita Verma, the ASHA worker, claimed, “I had gone for coronavirus survey at the home of one Daata Ram. According to norms, we were asked to note down names and phone numbers of those who had returned from any other district to Meerut in the past few days and get them to undergo a routine check-up from a doctor. However, when I asked for details of the two youngsters who had returned from Noida and Ghaziabad, their slapped me and abused me." Anita said Daata Ram's family allegedly also attacked her husband and brother-in-law, injuring them on the head. Vijender Rana, station house officer, Kankerkhera police station, said, “Anita's husband and brother-in-law sustained major injuries on the head after which they were sent for a medical. A case has been filed against Daata Ram, Rohit, Saurabh and Gaurav under various IPC sections, including attempt to murder. All four of them have been arrested and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-attacks-asha-worker-for-corona-survey-4-held/articleshow/74920599.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 1, 2020||Kozhikode||M’luru hosp provides 5 dialysis machines||Kannur: With the Karnataka government remaining mulish on denying entry to patients from Kerala to the state even if they are in critical condition — which has led to the death of at least five patients — Kasaragod MLA N A Nellikkunnu has procured five dialysis machines from a hospital in Mangaluru, which would be installed in a private hospital in Kasaragod for those who need regular dialysis. The machines are given by Yenepoya Medical College and it would be installed in Kasaragod till the Covid-19 fear is over, said the MLA, who received the machines in Thalapady on the border on Tuesday. “I intervened because the travails and wailings of those who are undergoing dialysis are beyond anybody’s imagination, but the apathy on the part of Karnataka government has affected their medical thus putting their lives at stake,” he said. Since the treatment of Covid-19 patients and those under surveillance has taken the centre stage, the regular treatment of other patients, including those in critical condition, has been affected, he said. Though the dialysis patients require continuous treatment, and many from Kasaragod depend on the hospitals in Mangaluru for that, the Karnataka government has refused them permission to cross the borders, said the MLA. Though the hospitals in Mangaluru are willing to admit such patients, they are helpless and hence this hospital offered five machines, he said. Though he had contacted the officials here to get the facility arranged in some government hospital, he hasn’t got any response so far, and he decided to install it in a private hospital. Only those who undergo regular treatment in Mangaluru hospitals would be provided the service, which would be free, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mluru-hosp-provides-5-dialysis-machines/articleshow/74919577.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||No positive case for third day in a row||VADODARA: Medical teams and district administration in Vadodara received some more relief as Vadodara city and district did not witness any fresh COVID-19 positive case for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. With a 49-year-old patient getting discharged from the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital, the number of COVID-19 positive patients currently under treatment at the ward has come down to six from seven. Condition of two out of the remaining six patients is improving as their samples have tested negative twice. Two other infected persons are currently under treatment at GMERS Gotri Hospital. Tuesday did witness a 35-year-old female from Savli being admitted to SSG Hospital as a suspect patient of the virus. Reports of her samples are being awaited. But the hospital did not witness inflow of more such patients even as it screened 43 individuals. District health officials informed that by Tuesday evening, a total of 108 samples were tested in Vadodara city and district of which 97 tested negative, nine positive while samples of two persons were rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-positive-case-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/74919316.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Shortage of personal protection equipment kits worries doctors||COIMBATORE: Many private hospital doctors on Tuesday said they were facing acute shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. This is when district collector K Rajamani has asked them to start admitting Covid-19 patients. Some hospitals said sourcing of PPE kits has been becoming difficult and more expensive, with distributors charging massive premiums as demand has overshot supply. Many doctors, who have been consulting fever patients in private hospitals, said they were provided with just three-ply masks, and some plastic aprons and gloves. The picture isn’t much different in some government hospitals, which are also facing shortage of PPE kits. However, ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital said they were not facing any shortage. A young general medicine doctor, who works with a private hospital in Gandhipuram, said she hadn’t told her family that she was asked to handle the fever ward once every four days for a period of eight hours. “This is because they will become paranoid. They know that my hospital has given us no personal protective equipment, except a plastic apron, a three-ply mask that ensures no protection from infectious droplets and gloves. Our hands from wrists to elbows are exposed, so are parts of our face, eyes and neck. A proper PPE kit is a hazmat suite that covers us from foot to hair, including shoes and socks.” Another private hospital near Neelambur that has created an isolation ward to handle Covid-19 patients said they were facing an 80% shortage of PPE kits. The hospital administrator said, “Including the supplies that we expect in the near future, we have very few PPE kits. So, we have allocated hardly 25 to 30 staff, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, to handle fever patients and Covid-19 patients that too in three shifts. We have requested them to use the PPE kits sparingly.” He said their suppliers were overcharging them owing to the high demand for kits. “Due to lockdown, we are also facing difficulties in getting supplies from vendors in other parts of the country.” Another hospital on Avinashi Road has, meanwhile, turned down the request to provide PPE kits to some health workers, citing shortage. It has, however, offered to connect them to its distributor. The government hospital in Mettupalayam is also facing shortage of PPE kits. The hospital that houses nearly 21 patients whose Covid-19 tests were inconclusive has only 15 PPE kits. They have a doctor and four nurses handling the ward. Hospital dean Dr Seralathan said, “The government has placed an order for more kits. Anyway, the patients will either be shifted to ESI Hospital or discharged once their results come. So, we are not panicked.” Meanwhile, a group of youngsters in Chennai are raising funds to procure N95 masks and coverall protective suits for doctors and nurses. They have managed to find someone who could procure a suit at Rs 175 and masks at Rs 60.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shortage-of-personal-protection-equipment-kits-worries-doctors/articleshow/74921273.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Udaipur||Despite permits, cops strip, thrash 3 travellers in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Three men travelling from Surat to Punjab via Udaipur were stripped and thrashed by the police. They had to spend a night in the lock-up in spite of having valid travel permissions from two states and a pass issued by local SDM. Aggrieved by humiliation, the victims have complained to the SDM who further reported the incident to police authorities. Vikas Mod and Shashikant Agarwal of Sikar and Anuj Gupta, a resident of Punjab, had gone to a chemical factory in Surat. They were returning to Sikar via Udaipur and had e-permissions from both Punjab and Gujarat governments. When they reached Udaipur on Sunday night, they met Anil Kumar, SDM of Kherwada block, who issued them permit to travel to Sikar. When the trio reached Parsad check-post, police stopped them and misbehaved with them. Despite repeated requests and showing their permits, the cops took them to police station where they allegedly thrashed them. They were stripped and put in the lock-up. A case was lodged against them under Section 151 of CrPC, the men told media. Vikas had requested SHO Subash Parmar to speak to the SDM to verify their permit but he paid no heed. “One of the three men called me over phone past midnight and said that the police was thrashing them. However, the SHO didn’t speak to me. I could hear the police hurling abuses and hitting the men. Police shouldn’t misbehave with people who have valid pass,” SDM Anil Kumar said. Meanwhile, ASP Attur Rehman said that the three men had fled the check-post at Rishabdeo. Hence, the police caught them at Parsad. They misbehaved with the cops and tried to make calls despite warnings. So, a case was lodged against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/despite-permits-cops-strip-thrash-3-travellers-in-udaipur/articleshow/74921275.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Police say all movements are being watched||AHMEDABAD: Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha on Tuesday appealed to the people of the state to behave responsibly and stay at home, saying this pandemic represents a difficult time for us, and police are watching lockdown violations. Jha reiterated that cops cannot should not be insensitive and called on his subordinates to behave properly so the khaki uniform earns respect. He was reacting to a video showing police constables upturning handcarts full of vegetables in Nikol. He said that the cops responsible including the police inspector have been suspended. He also said that if possible, those responsible for damaging the carts and ruining the vegetables would be made to pay for the damage. While appealing to people to stay indoors, Jha said police are watching those venturing out and violating lockdown rules through various means. He gave out details of complaints lodged by cops after watching footage of people gathering obtained from drones and CCTV cameras. He said three complaints have been lodged for spreading rumours on social media. “Police is watching social media too,” he said at a press conference. Jha called on people to be sensitive towards and also warned of strict action for misbehaviour especially towards people in the medical profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-say-all-movements-are-being-watched/articleshow/74921336.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||5 Chinese tourists kept in home quarantine||Edited Jaipur: Five Chinese tourists, who were found staying in a house in the Walled City area, have been kept in home quarantine after the health authorities conducted their screening for Covid-19. In the curfew-bound Walled City area, the health department, while conducting door-to-door survey, discovered that some Chinese tourists are staying in a house in Chandi Ki Taxal area. The neighbours told the health department team that they have been staying in the house for the past one month. The health department teams kept asking them to come out of the house, but they did not open the door, a neighbour told TOI. The neighbour said there was one Nepal national, who is accompanying them. However, the health department team called Manak Chowk police, who rushed to the spot and persuaded the Chinese tourists to come out of the house and cooperate with the health authorities. “They reached India on January 29 and landed at Delhi airport. They are Chinese tourists and first they stayed in Delhi and they went to Udaipur and reached Jaipur, one month ago,” said Jitendra Singh, station house officer, Manak Chowk. Police and the health department teams called an ambulance and they were taken to SMS Hospital where the doctors conducted their screening for Covid-19. “In the screening, the doctors did not find anything to worry about. Since they have come from China, the health department have kept them in home quarantine,” Singh said. Police said that they are residents of Henan province, which is 500km away from Wuhan, the epicenter of Covid-19 outbreak. After medical checkup, the health department dropped them at the house, where they will be kept in home quarantine for at least 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-chinese-tourists-kept-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/74921279.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Gudalur government hospital gets new ICU ward||UDHAGAMANDALAM: In the wake of Covid-19 scare, an ICU ward was inaugurated at the Gudalur Government Hospital in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. The ward was set up at a cost of Rs 14 lakh using funds given by Gudalur MLA M Thiravidamani. “Gudalur GH lacked an ICU ward. If any serious case arises, it has to be referred to the Ooty GH. To overcome it, I allocated the money from MLA funds,” Thiravidamani said. Set up in a record time, the ward was opened by collector J Innocent Divya. The MLA also handed over Rs 25 lakh to the district health department for setting up other infrastructure and buying necessary items at Gudalur GH and Pandalur GH to fight the virus spread. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gudalur-govt-hospital-gets-new-icu-ward/articleshow/74921276.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus treatment made free in Maharashtra; Rs 1.5 lakh cover for each family member||MUMBAI: Treatment for Covid-19 will be free in the state from Wednesday under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). The state will bear the cost of treatment of even those who don’t have the MJPJAY card or fall under the BPL category, TOI has learnt. Additionally, the state has extended the insurance cover of Rs 1.5 lakh per family to each member of the household. “As long as a coronavirus patient is admitted to one of the empanelled hospitals, his/her treatment cost will be fully covered by the state. Essentially, we have insured all 12 crore citizens of the state,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. Under the scheme, the state has doubled the number of empanelled hospitals—to 1,000 hospitals up from 492. “We now have over one lakh beds and about 4,000 ventilators,” Tope added. There are around 60 hospitals from Mumbai, though the big trust-run hospitals continue to avoid the scheme. “If people get themselves admitted to Mumbai’s five-star hospitals, we may not be able to support as those hospitals have not joined us. But in empanelled hospitals, we will cover everyone. Even people who don’t have relevant documents or ID proof will be covered,” said Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of MJPJAY. “By Covid patients, we don’t mean those who have tested positive, but the scheme will broadly cover everyone who land in acute respiratory distress syndrome and those who need a ventilator,” he added. Explaining the increased cover for families, Shinde said Covid is extremely contagious that has affected more than one member in many families. In a first, the scheme has also empanelled hospitals outside the state that cater to people in bordering districts such as Sindhudurg and Palghar. “People from Sindhudurg often travel to Goa or those from Palghar to Daman-Diu. We have included such hospitals in the scheme,” he said. The premium the state government will be paying too has doubled. “From Rs 640 per family, we will be paying a premium of Rs 797 per family this year. This will cost the exchequer an additional Rs 330 crore,” said Shinde. He added that at least 230 talukas have been covered under the scheme from the previous 120. The scheme has also done away with 130 less popular packages and included around 170 news ones, including knee and hip replacement and psychiatric illnesses. The rates for certain surgeries, such as fractures, have been increased from Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000. It also said rates for 12 dialysis sessions have been revised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 13,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-treatment-made-free-in-state-rs-1-5l-cover-for-each-family-member/articleshow/74921619.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Naroda doctor’s khichdi treatment||AHMEDABAD: In the times of lockdown, Dr Mohil Patel, who runs a maternity home in Naroda, received a call from a migrant labourer that his wife was to deliver a baby. The doctor rushed to the clinic and immediately made arrangements for the Caesarean operation. After a successful delivery, when the doctor realized that the patient, Arti Thakore, is a migrant labourer and has no money to pay the bill, he decided to do something for her. “In the lockdown situation, Arti and her husband Mahesh are struggling to make ends meet,” said Dr Patel. “I called up the anaesthetist and the pharmacy shop and ensured that they don’t have to pay any amount for the delivery. Patel said that ever since the lockdown was announced, he and a group of his friends have been ensuring that the poor get food. “With the help of a shop owner, we have been making khichdi and distributing food among the needy,” he said. Since March 23, the group has regularly been going to slums to distribute khichdi. Arti Thakore said that the doctor from whom she was regularly taking treatment, refused to conduct the delivery because of the novel coronavirus. “We went to some other hospitals but they too refused to do anything. Finally, we contacted Dr Patel who agreed and to our surprise did not even charge us for the medicines,” said an overwhelmed Mahesh Thakore. Dr Patel said that after some days of the lockdown, other residents too joined them in making khichdi. The group now feeds nearly 12,000 people daily. “People from nearby areas come with their utensils and take khichdi for distribution in slums,” said Dr Patel. He says that the group is becoming bigger and bigger and the activity which began with four people now involves 30-odd people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naroda-doctors-khichdi-treatment/articleshow/74921329.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Traffic ban on city roads till April 14; essential service vehicles exempted||Aurangabad: Police, in order to ensure effective lockdown implementation, have now restricted the movement of all private vehicles and bicycles on city roads from April 1 to 14. The prohibitory orders were issued by Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad on Monday evening under section 144 of the CrPC. For the effective implementation of these orders, new checkposts have been set up on all the important roads of the city. According to sources, the decision was taken after the earlier imposed restrictions failed to keep people indoors. Only vehicles associated essential services defined by the district administration, state and central governments have been exempted from this rule. “We have been compelled to impose fresh set of restrictions after it came to fore that our repeated request to the citizens fell on deaf ears,” Prasad said According to him, those flouting the new orders will not only be booked, but their vehicles will also be seized for the entire lockdown period. Different districts of Marathwada region have already imposed restrictions on movement of vehicles. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya said in the past three days they have already seized around 200 vehicles of which 180 are two-wheelers. “To keep a check on unwanted movement of vehicles, we have installed barricades at all the important crossroads and chowks in Jalna,” he said. Beed police have also imposed similar restrictions and have asked petrol pumps to not sell fuel to private vehicles. “We have seized around 80 vehicles and the process of seizing more vehicles is under way,” superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said. Latur as well as Osmanabad police have also seized hundreds of vehicles in the past couple of days for violating lockdown orders. Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan said police administration has decided to implement lockdown orders in letter and in spirit so that a check on the spread of Covid-19 can be brought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traffic-ban-on-city-roads-till-april-14-essential-service-vehicles-exempted/articleshow/74920612.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||This sanitary supervisor feeds his team members who keep Ooty clean||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A sanitary supervisor, 49-year-old S Manoharan is well aware times are such that sanitation can’t be taken a back seat now. He is equally aware of the woes of his team members, who have to walk long distances that too in the early hours of the day to report for duty that would go up until late in the evening. To ease some burden off them, he has taken the responsibility of serving them lunch on his shoulders. “I can’t bear to see some of the team members starving, while others are having food. So, I decided to arrange a cook and prepare lunch for my team members,” said Manoharan, one of the two sanitary supervisors with the Ooty municipality. He said the workload of sanitary workers has almost doubled with the Ooty municipality stepping up efforts to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “While we report for duty by anywhere between 6.30am and 7am, we call it a day only late in the evening. Of the 42 sanitary workers in my team, 22 are women. Many could not bring lunch, as they have to leave home for work early in the morning. Almost all the women workers have to walk at least 3km to 4km to reach the workplace, as no transportation is available,” Manoharan said. He has been providing lunch for all the 42 sanitary workers under him since the first day of lockdown. While some money is pooled in by workers, a lion’s share is met by Manohar. He also takes the trouble of distributing them lunch at their workplace. “I know the pain of workers. Making arrangements and providing them food give me immense satisfaction, that too in this time of crisis,” he said. He also ensures to drop the workers, who are coming from long distances, at their places in municipal vehicles. The wards he takes care of comprise Garden Road area, Kotagiri Road area, Coonoor Road area and Kozhipannai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-sanitary-supervisor-feeds-his-team-members-who-keep-ooty-clean/articleshow/74921278.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Autorickshaw driver unions demand aid||Aurangabad: The autorickshaw drivers’ unions have asked the state government to provide relief for their members amid restrictions on movement of their vehicles due to Covid-19. Stating that even construction workers have been considered for relief measures, the unions have stressed on the need for similar arrangement for autorickshaw drivers citing financial crunch. Nisar Ahmed Khan, an union leader, said families of autorickshaw drivers are struggling to make ends meet. “The daily income of the majority of autorickshaw drivers has reduced to zero. On the other hand, there is no escape from daily expenses and other liabilities. The government must extend a helping hand to the families of autorickshaw drivers during the current crisis,” he said. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the autorickshaw unions have said that they do not oppose the lockdown, but the government must pay attention to the deteriorating financial condition of auto drivers. Several auto drivers said they were facing unnecessary action even if they ferry passengers as per rules. “The government has imposed a ban on sharing of auto rickshaw by passengers, but couple of passengers can easily travel in case of any urgency. The police standing on streets, however, are deterring our members against such trips as well,” Khan said. An auto-rickshaw driver said he had borrowed money for his daughter’s marriage and now he is no position to repay it. “While banks have been told to delay recovery of EMIs for three months, private lenders are not willing to wait. As earnings have taken a dip, I do not know how to repay the money,” he said. As per official data, Aurangabad city has over 27,000 autorickshaws. State Congress delegate Jitendra Dehade said issues faced by auto rickshaw drivers would be brought to the notice of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/autorickshaw-driver-unions-demand-aid/articleshow/74920618.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC staff to donate to PM CARES Fund||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has decided that all judicial officers in the HC registry and related departments and other officers and staff will contribute to the PM CARES Fund to ‘strengthen’ the government in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Responding to the government’s appeal, in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s functioning style of public participation, the HC’s chief justice decided that judicial officers deputed to HC and its registry may contribute salary of a day’s or two to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund. In a circular, the HC registrar stated, “Extraordinary crisis requires extraordinary measures… this is the time for us to offer something to the state to strengthen its hands.” It further said that many officers and staff of HC the registry expressed wishes before the chief justice that they wanted to donate to the fund for the government to fight the epidemic. Therefore, the chief justice decided that judicial officers on deputation to HC, the judicial academy and legal aid authority as well as Class 1 officers in HC registry will donate two days’ salary, and other staff and officers will contribute their one day’s salary to the fund. Those who wish to donate more are free to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-staff-to-donate-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/74921327.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Salem||Case filed against three for violating home quarantine norms in Salem||SALEM: Police registered a case against three people who were under home quarantine but found roaming in the city on Tuesday. Police also warned them that they would be put behind bars if they repeat the offence in future. As many as 820 people are under home quarantine in the district while 23 people have been admitted to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in the city with symptoms of Covid-19. “Of them, six people have tested positive,” collector S A Raman said. The health department officials have affixed stickers on the houses to identity home quarantined people. They are also keeping a check on those houses twice a day. On Monday evening, the health department officials went to three houses at Shevapet and Kitchipalayam areas in the city. “During our checking, one person from Kitchipalayam and two from Shevapet were missing from their houses,” a senior official from the district health department said, adding that they had gone for a walk and grocery shopping. The Kitchipalayam and Shevapet police registered cases under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous life) of the IPC against them. Police warned that they would take severe action and register cases against those defying norms in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/case-filed-against-three-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms/articleshow/74921282.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown impact: Distressed farmers destroy watermelons, leave them to rot||HUBBALLI: Driven to despair by the consequences of coronavirus outbreak, watermelon growers in Hesaruru and surrounding villages in Mundargi taluk of Gadag district have destroyed their crops to save themselves from incurring further losses. With no takers for their produce in the market due to lockdown, farmers on Sunday ploughed their watermelon fields with tractors uprooting the plants. Speaking to TOI, Vishwanth Gaddad, a farmer in Hesaruru village said, “I had grown watermelon on four acres of land, investing Rs 88,000. A few days before the lockdown, some traders visited my field and agreed to buy watermelons for Rs 10,000 to 12,000 per tonne. We were expecting to get good returns this time as temperature is soaring high. But all our hopes have been dashed after the announcement for lockdown,” he said. “Soon after the announcement, traders called to say that they won’t buy watermelons as markets have been shut down. We waited for a couple more days, but no one came to buy the melons. Finally, we had no option but to destroy the crops. Before doing that we allowed people to take as many melons as they could. Some farmers in the neighbouring villages too destroyed their crops in the same way,” he added. “Only 20% of farmers who had done harvesting before the lockdown managed to sell their produce, while rest of us are now in great loss,” said another farmer. In a neighbouring village, where watermelons grown on about 30 acres of land have been left to rot or destroyed by distressed farmers, said villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-impact-distressed-farmers-destroy-watermelons-leave-them-to-rot/articleshow/74920619.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Let migrant workers go, they will return: Traders||Ludhiana: Amid the Covid-19 crisis and exodus of migrant labourers and workers from Punjab and the neighbouring states back to their home on foot, a large number of Ludhiana businessmen doesn’t seem to be unnerved as according to them factory workers in Ludhiana are still staying in the city, and even if they leave they will return to the city. They said there were several reasons like high earnings and prosperity as compared to their home states and therefore they will return after the situation turns normal. In an unusual request, businessmen are urging the state and the central governments to not stop people who want to leave Punjab and the neighbouring states as they are in panic and stress. If stopped, they would take to more desperate ways to reach their homes. The governments should instead systematically send them to their native places by adopting all the precautionary measures. Giving more information, Harish Kairpal, a leading garment exporter and finance secretary of the Knitwear Club, said, “Panic has gripped the migrants living in Punjab ever since the lockdown started and in a bid to be together with their families at their native places, they set upon journey on foot to their home states. It is a sad situation indeed, but as far as factory workers are concerned, there is a very small percentage of who have left Ludhiana as of now. This is because businessmen are doing their best to help these workers with money, ration and other facilities. Moreover, almost all the factory workers have mobile phones and use social media and they are aware that at this time of the crisis, it is better they stay where they are.” Kairpal also added, “On behalf of our association, we request the central, Punjab and other state governments that instead of stopping the migrants send them to their native states systematically. If this is not done, then consequences will be dangerous as these people can go to any extent to reach their home state.” According to Bobby Jindal, president of the Ludhiana dyers’ association, “There is no harm if migrant labourers and factory workers who want to go back to their native places are sent back by adopting all the precautionary measures. This will reduce their tension and will also do away with the risk of spread of coronavirus among them. The governments should help them in reaching their native states. If we stop them now, it will be a futile exercise as they are in panic. Moreover, these people know that their earnings and chances of prosperity are high in states like Punjab as compared to their home states, and when Covid-19 crisis is over, they will certainly come back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/let-migrant-workers-go-they-will-return-traders/articleshow/74918754.cms||Mohit Behl
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Exodus, transport woes hit food processing sector||AHMEDABAD: As the 21-day lockdown entered the seventh day on Tuesday, manufacturers of edible oils and spices and flour, among other food products, raised concerns over production problems and the consequent shortage of essential commodities. They cite the exodus of migrant labourers as a factor. Left without work in the lockdown, thousands of migrant labourers — a large part of the workforce in factories and in transport and distribution sectors — have returned to their villages in Gujarat and in neighbouring states. Without the workers, manufacturers say they are neither able to operate at full capacity nor keep the supply chain of essential commodities and FMCG running smoothly. Industry estimates suggest that factories are either shut or are operating at 50-60% production capacity against the pre-lockdown period. “Several labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. “Despite automation, one needs manpower for several processes,” Mallick said. “However, with the labour shortage, these processes get slower.” Mallick also spoke of shortage of packaging material faced by manufacturing units. “Cartons used for packaging are in limited stock and are unavailable due to transport constraints,” he said. Samir Shah, president, Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA), said, “Production at factories is getting impacted at units where the raw material stocks are diminishing.” Shah said: “Due to transport constraints, raw materials which are not essential commodities are not getting transported. This is hitting production.” Even as the government has facilitated the transport of non-essential items, transporters are also plagued by a severe manpower shortage with the migrant labourer exodus, thus causing supply-chain problems. “At least 90% of my workforce of drivers as well as labourers is absent and the ones working are unable to reach the transport hub due to the stoppage of public transport,” said Mukesh Dave, president, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exodus-transport-woes-hit-food-processing-sector/articleshow/74921325.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Virus jokes to invite strict action: Cops||Aurangabad: The city police have warned to take strict action against those who are found playing a prank or cracking jokes related to coronavirus on April 1 on social media or even otherwise on account of April Fool’s Day. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We want citizens to abstain from playing any kind of prank related to Covid-19. Those who do so will face legal consequences.” Deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) Meena Makwana issued a public notice under section 68 of Maharashtra Police Act on Monday citing that she was convinced that people may crack jokes related to Covid-19,which may snowball into a law and order situation. She even warned that if any person was found playing a prank, an offence would be registered against him under section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities) of the IPC. Police authorities have even asked administrators of Whatsapp groups to change the settings and restrict posting of any messages related to Covid-19 on April 1. “If need be, police will not hesitate to slap sections of the Information Technology Act, making the offence cognizable and non-bailable,” said a senior police officer. State home minister Anil Deshmukh too has released a video appealing to people to abstain from cracking jokes or playing a prank on friends, acquaintances or relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/virus-jokes-to-invite-strict-action-cops/articleshow/74920627.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen term PPCB’s move a futile exercise||Ludhiana: In a big step taken by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday evening, the department has decided to extend the validity period of various permissions, including consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration and other mandatory regulatory clearances for industry till June 30. This is another booster for businessmen who are desirous of operating their factories under the lockdown. In his order issued on Monday, Karunesh Garg, member secretary of PPCB, said, “In view of the lockdown due to outbreak of the pandemic novel coronavirus, it has been decided that the validity period of the consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration or any kind of mandatory regulatory clearances which comes under the domain of the Punjab Pollution Control Board and having expiry on and after March 15 shall be extended up to June 30, 2020.” However, businessmen are divided over the decision of the PPCB. Garg also added, “This initiative of the state government will help those businessmen immensely who want to operate their factories in the wake of the present lockdown. On behalf of the PPCB, I request the industrialists who meet the eligibility criteria for operating their units laid down by the Punjab government that they should come out in large numbers and make use of this opportunity.” However, it is yet unclear whether this initiative of the PPCB will be able to encourage businessmen to open their units as already a majority of business associations of Ludhiana have refused to avail the offer. Meanwhile, commenting on the decision of the PPCB, Sanjeev Goyal, a manufacturer of auto parts, said, “The PPCB’s decision to extend the existing permissions automatically and auto approval of new permissions till June 30 is commendable and it will prove to be of great help.” According to Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), “The decision of the PPCB to extend the already given necessary permissions is of no use and is a futile exercise. Rather than asking its departments to indulge in wasteful exercises of issuing such orders, the Punjab government should come out with a relief package for us which will be of great help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-term-ppcbs-move-a-futile-exercise/articleshow/74918749.cms||Mohit Behl
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Sale of petrol, diesel goes down from 6,000-litre daily to 1,000-litre||Ludhiana: Due to coronavirus, only essential things are going to be in service for the people. Petrol is an essential thing, but somehow, petrol pumps are not even making their daily sales properly. While talking to Kamal, an employee at a petrol pump near Bharat Nagar Chowk, said, “It is a tensed situation. I used to come to the petrol pump at 9 am daily and I used to fill 100 vehicles per day, but now not even a single vehicle comes to the station because of the curfew.” Deepak, another employee working at a petrol pump on Pakhowal road, said, “The sale is zero, but what to do, we have to be there for people. When there was no curfew, we used to sell around 5,000 litre of petrol and diesel, but now it has come to only 500 litre, including diesel and petrol, which is problematic. We know how we are taking salaries from our employer.” “There are at least 20 persons working at our petrol pump, but due to this problematic time, we just allow 5 persons to work and we change the shift after one day. Earlier it was changing two to three times daily so the employees could take rest, but now the daily service is too low that we don’t need to change fillers as they are not tired. I guess, nearly 1,000 litre of petrol and diesel is being sold daily which was around 6,000 to 7,000 litre earlier,” said Rajesh Sood, manager of a petrol pump near Fountain Chowk. While talking to Palak, a student who was at a petrol pump to get her vehicle filled, said, “The lockdown has left a great impact on people and their earnings. Being from a business-class family, I know how it feels if the sale decreases. Petrol pumps used to sell 6,000 to 7,000 liter petrol and diesel per day, but the lockdown has reduced their sales. The government should take a step towards the petrol pumps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sale-of-petrol-diesel-goes-down-from-6000-litre-daily-to-1000-litre/articleshow/74918758.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Elderly man cycles 110km to bail out nephew in Vadodara||VADODARA: Three days back 66-year-old Rama Panchal received a call from Vadodara Central Jail to inform him that his nephew Sanjay Panchal has been given bail and that the elderly man should reach the jail to pay bail amount of Rs 500. After the call, Panchal was ecstatic that his nephew whom he had brought up like his own son will be back home. At the same time he was worried thinking how he will raise Rs500. On Tuesday, Panchal decided to mortgage his television to his neighbour at Hirapur village in Daskroi taluka of Ahmedabad for Rs1,000 and set off on 110 kilometre journey on his bicycle around 8am. Around 4pm, Panchal, exhausted without food and water reached Chhani octroi post. On seeing his condition, members of NGO Team Revolution stopped him. “We were distributing food packets and on learning that he had cycled all the way from Ahmedabad without food and water, we were left shocked. Our volunteers gave him tea and snacks so that he could get some energy and took him to jail in our vehicle,” said Swejal Vyas of the NGO. Panchal’s problem did not end there. The elderly man suffered a setback on reaching the jail to know that the three-day-old bail order had been cancelled and Sanjay cannot be released anymore. “The man has been left broken as he managed to reach here after so many hardships and will not be able to take his nephew back. We will be taking him to the district collector as the jail officials didn’t even care to inform him again that the bail order has been cancelled,” Vyas said. Panchal said Sanjay, who owns a bicycle repair shop, was arrested three months ago for unknowingly buying stolen tyres from a gang of thieves. Asked why he decided to cycle, Panchal said he could not any vehicle. "There was a car driver who offered to drive me to Vadodara, but he demanded Rs500. But since the money was for bail, I had to cycle down," Panchal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/elderly-man-cycles-110km-to-bail-out-nephew-in-vadodara/articleshow/74919328.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||After brief snag, GMC’s virology lab back on track||Panaji: After a minor snag, the newly set up virology laboratory of Goa Medical College was made functional and 14 swab samples were tested on Tuesday reports of which are awaited. Earlier in the day, four samples that were tested were all negative for Covid-19. The virology laboratory was made functional on Sunday after a trial late Saturday evening. “Earlier in the day four samples were tested and the 14 samples tested in the evening will be ready by 12pm,” health minister Vishwajit Rane said. Rane said head of microbiology department at GMC Dr Savio Rodrigues has informed him that the entire set up of the laboratory is ready. “The laboratory testing facility has been streamlined. Tomorrow (Wednesday), we expect to test 20 to 25 samples,” he said. After the new laboratory developed a problem early Tuesday, 62 samples were sent for testing to the National Institute of Technology (NIV) at Pune. The state government fast-tracked the setting of virology laboratory as it was compelled to rely on facilities outside Goa. It also meant a waiting period of two to three days to receive results. With its own facility now, test reports will be received within a shorter span. Rane said they will get results within a day. Of six samples sent to the GMC laboratory on Monday, four tested negative for Covid-19 while two reports are awaited. As many as 16 suspects were admitted to the isolation ward of GMC and 17 persons were quarantined on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-brief-snag-gmcs-virology-lab-back-on-track/articleshow/74921294.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 may cause lung ailments even after patient recovers||Intishab.Ali@timesgroup.com JAIPUR: Those recovering from Covid-19 have a long battle to win. Chances are high that they will develop pulmonary fibrosis, a group of disorders that cause progressive scarring of lung tissues. Health minister Raghu Sharma announced that 14 persons have already been tested negative for Covid-19 after undergoing treatment in government hospital. Health experts claimed that virus infiltrates into lungs and damages it. Recently, a 69-year-old Italian tourist, who tested positive for Covid-19, recovered from the disease but he died of cardiac arrest. The doctors who treated him told that since he was already suffering from pre-existing lung diseases, Covid-19 further damaged it. Pulmonary fibrosis, is also known as fibrotic scarring, occurs when the lung tissues become damaged and scarred. “Even after a patient recovers from Covid-19, there are chances of developing interstitial lung disease, which will remain throughout his life,” Dr CL Nawal, senior professor (medicine), Sawai Man Singh Hospital, who was treating two Covid-19 patients who were brought from Jhunjhunu after being diagnosed with the disease, said. Both the patients later tested negative for the virus. However, doctors also claimed that the ILD due to Covid-19 is not progressive. “There are western literature available which shows that 80% of patients recover from the disease. However, in 15% of the cases, it damages the lungs and in 5% cases it damages lungs severely,” said Dr Virendra Singh, national coordinator, ILD India Registry, who is based in Jaipur said. Singh said fibrosis was present in swine flu cases too, who required ventilator support. “It is not that kind of ILD, which is progressive in nature. Since it is caused by virus, fibrosis is non-progressive. Once the patient tests negative, the virus will not damage the lungs further,” he said. However, Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor (respiratory disease) SMS Medical College, who is helping Bhilwara doctors in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients said, “People who have comorbidities or underlying diseases such as diabetes, chronic kidney disease or having pre-existing lung diseases should remain careful. Once they are infected with Covid-19, there are high chances of them getting scarring on the lungs due to virus. Among these patients, the CT scan of lungs shows the presence of hazy lung opacity. However, among other patients who do not have comorbidities and underlying diseases, there are very less chances of fibrosis. Those five patients, tested negative in Bhilwara, we did not find any hazy lung opacity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-may-cause-lung-ailments-even-after-patient-recovers/articleshow/74921293.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Focus on Markaz Nizamuddin after rise in Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: With a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the two states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of the disease when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train while a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from Telangana and AP have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to lockdown. As the congregation was held with people sitting and offering prayers close to one another for over three days with infected foreign nationals in an enclosed atmosphere, it led to easy spread of the virus among the delegates. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform on helpline No. 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. While some people on social media are blaming the Markaz event, Moulana Yusuf, a senior official of the Jamaat, issued a clarification that of the 2,500 people who attended the event, 1,500 managed to leave for their home. The lockdown by Delhi government and later by the Centre had forced the remaining 1,000 people to stay back. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic. Throughout its 100-year existence, Markaz Nizamuddin has an unblemished history of cooperating with administration an upholding the rule of law in letter and spirit,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. A majority of people in quarantine in Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts in Telangana had attended the event. Many are yet to be traced in both states. Muslim religious leaders stepped in and and urged people, who attended the Markaz meet, to undergo Covid-19 tests and cooperate with the government officials. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said all those with Covid-19 symptoms have been quarantined. Even relatives and close contacts were kept in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/focus-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/74930869.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on Markaz Nizamuddin after rise in Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: With a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the two states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of the disease when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train while a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from Telangana and AP have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to lockdown. As the congregation was held with people sitting and offering prayers close to one another for over three days with infected foreign nationals in an enclosed atmosphere, it led to easy spread of the virus among the delegates. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform on helpline No. 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. While some people on social media are blaming the Markaz event, Moulana Yusuf, a senior official of the Jamaat, issued a clarification that of the 2,500 people who attended the event, 1,500 managed to leave for their home. The lockdown by Delhi government and later by the Centre had forced the remaining 1,000 people to stay back. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic. Throughout its 100-year existence, Markaz Nizamuddin has an unblemished history of cooperating with administration an upholding the rule of law in letter and spirit,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. A majority of people in quarantine in Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts in Telangana had attended the event. Many are yet to be traced in both states. Muslim religious leaders stepped in and and urged people, who attended the Markaz meet, to undergo Covid-19 tests and cooperate with the government officials. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said all those with Covid-19 symptoms have been quarantined. Even relatives and close contacts were kept in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/74920663.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Appeal made for waiver of tanker water supply fee||Aurangabad: Party functionaries and civic activists have sought a waiver in the charges taken by the civic administration to supply water through tankers to the areas which don’t have a pipeline connection. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) charges Rs 1,100 in advance for supplying 200 litre water every alternate day to areas like Misarwadi, Jai Bhawani Nagar, Mukundwadi, Bharat Nagar, Vishranti Nagar, Chikalthana, Harsul, Jatwada and Padegaon which do not have tap water supply. In a letter directed to municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, Congress group leader in AMC Bhausahab Jagtap said that many people living in the areas, which have no pipeline connection, were jobless due to the imposition of the lockdown. “The AMC should consider giving them free water supply at least till the lockdown ends,” Jagtap said. A similar demand has also been raised by Aurangabad East MLA Atul Save. A large part of Save’s assembly constituency comprises of gunthewari areas which are dependent on the AMC for water supply. The residents have been pursuing the legislator for piped water supply for long. Civic activist Rahul Ingle has been raising the demand for free water supply in the no-pipeline areas for more than two years. “The tap water users are charged Rs 4,050. The residents using tanker supply pay a whopping Rs 4400 that too for limited supply,” he said. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey told TOI, “The AMC is already low on funds and the tax recovery has also tanked. We can continue to provide essential services when we have some money with us otherwise the existing system will also collapse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/appeal-made-for-waiver-of-tanker-water-supply-fee/articleshow/74920629.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Met issues ‘yellow’ weather warning for rain, hail in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre has issued a fresh yellow-colour weather warning for rain and hailstorm in Uttarakhand, especially in the hills, during the next 36 hours starting from Tuesday evening. The Met centre in Dehradun issued the warning of hail accompanied by lightning and gusty winds in the hills of Uttarakhand and light to moderate rainfall in the plains and foothills on April 1. “The weather has already started changing at several places in the hills, under the influence of western disturbance, on Tuesday itself. Even Dehradun witnessed cloudy weather throughout the day,” said regional meteorological centre director Bikram Singh. Singh added that the wet spell is likely to get fully over by April 2 and dry weather is going to prevail across Uttarakhand from April 3 onwards. Meanwhile, the mercury has increased across Uttarakhand with maximum temperature in Dehradun on Tuesday recorded at 30.1 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, while the minimum temperature remained at 13.5 degrees Celsius. Highest maximum temperature at 32.6 degrees Celsius was recorded at Roorkee, while Mukteshwar remained the coldest place with mercury settling at 9.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issues-yellow-weather-warning-for-rain-hail-in-ukhand/articleshow/74920636.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 10 evacuees from Iran among 14 test positive for Covid-19||JAIPUR: Fourteen people, including 10 evacuees from Iran, were diagnosed with Covid-19 till Tuesday afternoon, taking the total number of cases to 93 in the state. One each case has been reported from Jhunjhunu, Dungarpur, Jaipur and Ajmer. Among the 93, there are 17 who were airlifted and quarantined at Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. In Ajmer, 17-year-old sister of the 23-year-old salesman, who had toured several districts of Punjab before reaching Ajmer, where he was diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 28, has also been tested positive. His other family members, including 57-year-old father, 40-year-old mother and 20-year-old brother, were already found infected with the virus on March 29. His 17-year-old sister was tested negative on March 29, but now she has been found infected with the virus, said hospital sources. In Dungarpur, two persons — a 48-year-old man and his 14-year-old son, were diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 27. They had covered long distance from Indore to Dungarpur by motorbike. Now, the 48-year-old person’s father might have contracted the virus from his son and grandson. Besides, in Jhunjhunu, a 44-year-old person who had recently returned from Dubai has been found infected with the virus. A case has also been reported from Jagannathji Ki Gali in the Walled City area, where a 60-year-old man was found suffering from influenza-like illness. Since his condition was serious, the doctors at SMS Hospital admitted him to the medical ICU. Health department officials said the 60-year-old man came in contact with a Covid-19 patient, who lives in Phhuta Khurra. So far, 13 people have been found infected with the virus in the Walled City area, which is now turning into a Covid-19 hotbed. Besides, 10 more people who were airlifted from Iran and kept in a quarantine facility in Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, tested positive. On Monday, seven evacuees were found infected with the virus. Eight of them are undergoing treatment at SN Medical College, Jodhpur, while nine have been admitted to AIIMS, Jodhpur. “Out of 26 Covid-19 positive cases in Bhilwara, 13 have recovered and tested negative for the disease,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-evacuees-from-iran-among-14-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74921295.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restaurants allowed takeaway orders||AHMEDABAD: Tired of cooking in lockdown days? Well, you may now be able to order food from nearby restaurants. In a major relief to restaurants across the city, the civic authorities have now permitted restaurants to operate, albeit for takeaways only. Industry stakeholders believe the move will benefit restaurant business which was already reeling through a tough time. According to the new provision, restaurants can operate their kitchens and offer home delivery of food; however, special permissions need to be obtained from the civic body’s health department, for facilitating movement of delivery personnel during the time of lockdown. Special passes will be issued by the health department, said industry sources. “The move will indeed benefit restaurants because they will be able to get back in business. In the initial days, orders are less because people are still reluctant of consuming food not prepared at home. However, we are repeatedly reassuring our customers of maintaining due quality and hygiene and therefore, we expect orders to grow as the days pass,” said Rohit Khanna, a city-based restaurateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurants-allowed-takeaway-orders/articleshow/74921320.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Shobhayatra cancelled||Nagpur: After the shobhayatra scheduled on April 2 at the Ram Mandir in Ram Nagar was cancelled, the Poddareshwar Ram Mandir off Central Avenue Road, too, decided to follow suit due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. According to the trustees, a lot of time, money and effort went into making plans and preparations for the annual mega event. “Many people worked hard to make the event a grand success,” said Puneet Poddar. After keeping all precautionary measures in mind, it has been decided to take out the procession ‘tentatively’ on Janki Navami, which comes in April. Though chances of it taking place are remote, the organizers are hoping for the best. The puja and aarti during Ram Navami will be performed in the temple and will be streamed live on Facebook and on UCN between 12.30-1.30pm. “No procession will be taken out until the coronavirus situation is under control. We will positively take out the shobhayatra 15 days after the approval of the government stating that everything has been normalized now,” said Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shobhayatra-cancelled/articleshow/74921639.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government to appoint doctors on contract basis||GANDHINAGAR: The state health & family welfare department for the first time decided to appoint senior doctors as teaching staff in government medical colleges on an 11-month contract basis. This decision has been taken due to non-availability of permanent medical teaching staff in government-run medical colleges across the state. V G Vanzara, additional secretary, health & family welfare department, through a government resolution on Tuesday, said that, “Non-availability of qualified teaching staff at government and allied medical colleges for a long period has an impact on necessary approvals apart from hampering medical education. Government will appoint senior doctors on 11-months contract basis who can either work full-time or work in government colleges even while carrying on with their practice. The government resolution said that the class I grade professors will be paid Rs 1.84 lakh per month for non-practicing full time service while practicing doctors will be given Rs 1.60 lakh per month fixed amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-appoint-docs-on-contract-basis/articleshow/74921299.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||NGOs, volunteers reach out to feed Bengaluru's hungry||BENGALURU: As fear of hunger and starvation sets in among the economically underprivileged because of Covid-19, good Samaritans in the city are rising to the occasion. Several not-for-profits have started delivering rations and cooked meals to the needy — daily wage earners, migrant labourers and old age home inmates, among others. Mercy Mission, a conglomerate of 17 NGOs in the city formed on March 19, has delivered around 9,000 food packets made in its five kitchens and 900 ration kits. It has a team of doctors and nurses that can help people in quarantine and stranded conditions. They have also kept a team ready to help with funerals in case the need arises. The group has also formed a team of volunteers to help the elderly procure daily essentials and another one to raise awareness. From its kitchen at Palace Grounds, the Jain International Trade Organisation has sent out two sets of meals to 14,000 needy people. The group received the list of people from the labour department, police and BBMP and has divided the city into six zones for delivery. With a current budget of Rs 1.5 crore, the group hopes to continue the service till April 14. Apart from giving groceries, the archdiocese of Bangalore of the Roman Catholic church has made arrangements to house the migrants and homeless in different places, including St. Philomena’s School, Railway Colony; St. Joseph’s School, Briand Square and St. Xavier’s School, Shivajinagar. Procurement tough for NGOs tooHowever, some volunteers are finding it difficult to procure goods. “People were extremely generous in contributing money. But to procure items in bulk quantity—like 4,000kg of rice—was difficult as everyone is running out of stock. After we completed procurement and due police procedures, we started distribution, only to face utter chaos. While we were planning to distribute food to 150 families in a community behind Sakra World Hospital, around 600 people thronged us. The levels of desperation were so high. We could not complete the distribution there and had to leave,” said Rizwan Ahmed, community leader, Gubbachi Learning Centre. The centre caters to students of migrant daily-wage workers. Abhyudaya that runs free learning centres in slums distributed 170 grocery kits and plans to give away 200 more. “It was difficult find groceries as big shops remained either closed or ran out of stock,” said a volunteer. Nalini Shekhar, co-founder of Hasiru Dala, which has distributed ration kits to 500 families, says she has never seen such levels of desperation. “I have worked during various calamities. But I have never experienced this level of desperation before. The uncertainty that is looming over us has resulted in a lot of despair, especially among the daily wage earners, whose livelihood is affected,” she said. Hasiru Dala will distribute another 1,400 ration kits on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngos-volunteers-reach-out-to-feed-citys-hungry/articleshow/74920891.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Indore under total lockdown till Monday||Indore: The Indore administration is preparing for a surge in Covid-19 cases, possibly as high as 150 in the city itself, and the first step was to extend the total lockdown to a week. Till next Monday, everything in the commercial hub of Central India stays shut — medicines, milk supply and print and electronic media being the only things open. “We are anticipating a rise in number of Covid-19 patients up to 100 or 150. We all should be mentally prepared for this. Areas like Ranipura, Nayapura, Daulatganj and Hatipala will need to be contained. We have started a survey in these areas to identify primary and secondary contacts of the Covid-positive cases and they are being shifted to quarantine facilities,” said Indore collector Manish Singh. All 17 coronavirus patients, identified in Indore on Tuesday, were in the quarantine facility in Asrawadkhurd area as they were in close contact of those who had earlier tested positive for the virus, the collector said . The administration is gearing up for the challenge. The required number of quarantine facilities, including those set up in marriage gardens and hotels, have been arranged while hospitals have been classified into different categories for treatment of patients, he added. “Dedicated teams of administrative officials and doctors have been formed to survey suspected cases and for sampling, treatment and inventory management,” Singh said. The collector appealed to Indoreans to stay at home for the duration of the complete lockdown and assured them that arrangements have been made for home delivery of milk, medicines and ration. “Safety of government employees and others involved in battling the Covid-19 outbreak has been ensured,” said collector, adding that all health employees will be insured under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package — Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting for Covid-19 — and are being provided with personal protection equipment. Covid-19 may have spread fast, but it is not as deadly as swine flu as maximum coronavirus patients get cured, he assured. “Indians have resistance power to combat the virus but there are densely populated areas, where we are working to check its spread,” said Singh, adding that Aanganwadi, Asha and ANM workers have been roped in to distribute ‘immunity-boosting medicines’ in different areas. IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said a control room has been set up in AICTSL’s building, where calls are received on suspected Coronavirus patients and information is passed on to rapid response teams for checks. On an average, 100 calls come in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-under-total-lockdown-till-monday/articleshow/74920651.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Two sons of deceased woman run from isolation ward, nabbed later||Ludhiana: Panic gripped the civil hospital on Tuesday afternoon when the medical staff and police authorities came to known that both the sons of the deceased woman ran away from the isolation ward of the civil hospital after breaking the glass of window. The medical staff of the hospital informed the police after they did not find them in the isolation ward. Within a few minutes, the local police initiated action against the two and pitched in a team of the local police for tracking them and bring them back to the civil hospital. As both of them were going towards their locality in Amrapura, people residing in the nearby areas identified them and called the police. The police then reached the spot and nabbed the two brothers and brought them back to the isolation ward of the civil hospital for treatment. Sources in the health department said, “Lack of security arrangements of the hospital authorities has been exposed. The local health authorities admitted the two brothers to the isolation ward of the hospital for conducting sample test, but they escaped from the ward.” A sense of fear has aroused among the medical staff of the civil hospital after they got information about the two brothers running from the isolating ward. The medical staff has demanded to increase the safety of the hospital authorities. Giving information, in charge of the civil aviation police station, Rajinder Singh, said, “After being informed, the local police caught the two within no time as they were roaming in Field Ganj. They were brought back to the isolation ward of the hospital.” Confirming the whole incident, one of doctors in the emergency ward of the civil hospital, on condition of anonymity, said, “There are total four medical staff who were treating the deceased woman infected with Covid-19 when she reached the isolation ward of the civil hospital, but higher authorities are yet to give us exemption from tough duty hours.” He said they made several requests before the higher authorities for placing them under home quarantine for the next five days, but to no avail as they were still in the hospital and getting prepared for another 12 hours tough job.” Family members of all the four medical staff are in fear and have also raised the demand to place them under observation. Sources in the health department said, “Due to shortage of medical staff, the health authorities have refused to home quarantine them for the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-sons-of-deceased-woman-run-from-isolation-ward-nabbed-later/articleshow/74918806.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 1, 2020||Goa||PWD issues IDs for pump operators to ensure supply||Panaji: To ensure continued water supply to the state, the public works department (PWD) has issued identity cards to the department’s pump operators, who are responsible for supplying drinking water. Some areas in the state had experienced shortage of water supply after the nationwide lockdown became effective. PWD officials said that some of the pump operators were afraid to step out or that there may be have been delay in releasing water as some operators had to depend on public transport. “Some of the operators feared action against them if they stepped out. Now operations have been streamlined after the operators were issued cards. We have ensured that supply is not affected to any area during these times,” said an official. With access rainfall during the last monsoon season and additionally with the new 27MLD plant at Opa operational, the state can expect better water supply during this summer, after acute drinking water shortage last year. For residents of Kadamba plateau, however, the struggle for access to water continues. They were expected to get water supply connections for the first time after the treatment plant at Opa was commissioned. But the work of getting the connections is now at a standstill. Residents continue to receive supply by water tankers, whose movement has reduced since the lockdown. It means that Kadamba plateau residents have to ration their use of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-issues-ids-for-pump-operators-to-ensure-supply/articleshow/74921297.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Four booked for assaulting cops, health worker in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police on Monday booked four people, including one who violated home quarantine orders, for allegedly assaulting police and a health worker at Nyatarpu village in Belthangady. Police said that two constables attached to Belthangady police station and a health worker visited the house of a person ordered home quarantine, but noticed him roaming outside without any safety measure. When asked about the violation, the person ordered home quarantine and three others – Masood Ali, Batish Ali and Akbar Ali – abused and assaulted the constables and health worker. A case has been registered under IPC sections 269, 270, 353 504 506 and 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/4-booked-for-assaulting-cops-health-worker/articleshow/74920649.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Identify those in need and then help: Activists||Aurangabad: Social activists and non-government organisations (NGO) have requested people to organise and plan in order to help the needy. The 21-day lockdown amid the outbreak of coronavirus has led to the shutting down of many businesses and industries. This has caused hardship for many daily wage workers, among many others. As a result, many people have come forward to help those in need, despite this many families are unable to take benefit of this. City-based Annamrita foundation is cooking meals for around 1,600 people every day with support many corporate and individual donations. The foundation has a capacity to cook around 2,000 meals per day. The cooked meal is being supplied based on schedule requests and distress calls. Branch manager Sudarshan Potbhare said, "We are able to meet all the requests coming to us. We do not know for how long the lockdown will continue so it is important that the resources are used wisely. We should be able to zero in on persons who are incapable of cooking food or those who depend on eateries for distributing food packets,” he said. Sameer Rajurkar, former corporator, has identified marginalized families in Samarth Nagar area and is providing groceries to them. “Instead of going pan city, it is better to stick to one's own ward, identify those who are poor and cannot get grain from public distribution system shops. This way each of the poor families can be covered," he said, adding that civic administration can also help in the process. When asked, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said it is a good suggestion and the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) can help in coordination. “A meeting of all NGOs willing to help has been called. We have decided that their areas will be divided so that they can focus on their efforts," he said. Pandey has also appealed to all the corporators to adopt 20 families in their respective wards and take care of their grocery needs as a moral responsibility towards the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/identify-those-in-need-and-then-help-activists/articleshow/74920642.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Civil hosp wakes up from slumber after woman, 42, dies of Covid-19||Ludhiana: Panic gripped in Amarpura Mohalla and Shimlapuri, a day after the death of a 42-year-old woman who died of coronavirus. As many as 30 throat swab samples have been taken of the close relatives of the woman and the staff members of the civil hospital. They have also been quarantined. Ever since the first death due to coronavirus, the department has woken up and have divided to separate departments to avoid the scare. Five members have been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital, including two sons of the deceased woman who initially ran away from the isolation ward and were later nabbed, one staff nurse and a class IV employee and person from Afghanistan. The ambulance driver too visited the civil hospital to give his sample. The old building and the OPD block registrations have been divided and the registrations will be done at the mother and child hospital. The doors will be closed from gate no 1 and the entry will be done gate no 2. The infant and the trauma ward and emergency ward have been separated and the blocks in the OPDs have been reserved for isolation ward. Those with flu-like symptoms will be checked at the flu corner and then assisted accordingly. Officials of the health department have asked for the medical records of the deceased woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civil-hosp-wakes-up-from-slumber-after-woman-42-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/74918813.cms||Mehak Jain
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Panic-gripped senior citizens stick to norms||Ludhiana: After a woman passed away in the city due to coronavirus, scare has gripped the residents, but the situation has turned complicated for senior citizens and ex-servicemen, who are bound to sit back at home as they are said to be more vulnerable to this disease. Senior citizens are sticking to the norms of the lockdown and are spending time with their grandchildren. They are also ensuring to take care of their friends and asking about their wellbeing through video calls or a normal phone call. Colonel D S Grewal (retd), president of the Basant Avenue senior citizens welfare association, said, “I am in touch with my other senior citizens in the locality and we have divided the members who call all others and ask them about their wellbeing.” He said they are trying to cheer up the members by calling them and advising them to sit back at home. He said this exercise has helped in keeping the spirit of the old people high at this time. He said they are ensuring that senior citizens should get required supply in time. Meanwhile, Brig H S Arora (retd), president of the Urban Estate Phase III army flats, said he was looking after a complex of 170 families of ex-servicemen by keeping in touch with them personally. “Anybody who comes for delivery of goods is stopped at the main gate of the complex and people are informed,” he said. He said even for walk or sitting in the lawn inside the complex, people get time turn-by-turn. Col Harbaksh Singh (retd), president of the Rajguru Nagar Welfare association, said, “I am keeping myself busy by taking doing some pending works one-by-one. I cleaned my house on the first day of the curfew and sorted my files. I am keeping myself busy this way.” He said he is living with his wife so he helps her in the day chores, whether it is cooking or doing some other work. He said he remains in touch with his friends, children and relatives living abroad through phone calls. Meanwhile, retired professor Gurcharan Singh from Rajguru Nagar said, “I am staying at home with my wife while both my sons are settled abroad. My elder one is in England and younger is in Poland.” He said they were spending time in their home while they remain worried about their sons and they stay connected with them through video calls. He said he had kept stock of groceries and other essential items. Col R S Sohi, president of the ex-servicemen welfare society, said they have collected Rs 10,000 each to help the needy and in case more funds are required, they are ready to pay. He said they use mobile phones and WhatsApp to remain in contact with each other and have conveyed senior citizens not to go out to buy anything as the association will ensure that all the essential items are delivered at their homes. He said he is also staying with his family, especially his grandchildren at home, as it is not advisable to move out. Harbhajan Singh Walia, from BRS Nagar senior citizens welfare association, said, “At the age of 72, not many things are requires, but essential items should be provided. The administration had claimed to provide everything at our doorstep, but the supply is short.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panic-gripped-senior-citizens-stick-to-norms/articleshow/74918824.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Onion growers struggle to sell produce||DAVANAGERE: Many onion growers in Challakere taluk of Chitradurga district are finding it difficult to sell their produce, as all the markets are closed due to the lockdown. The harvested onion has been heaped on their fields, or they have packed them in gunny bags and kept them in stacks, in wait for a purchaser. However, there are no buyers for their produce, as all the markets are closed. Onion growers fear that their produce may decay, if they are not stored in the warehouses of government agencies. There are no transportation facilities available in the region due to the lockdown, and they are hence helpless, said Puttamma, a farmer from Gopanahalli in Challakere taluk. “We have spent over Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 per acre for cultivating onions,” she added. “Even muskmelon and watermelon growers in Challakere and Hiriyur taluks of Chitradurga district are facing the same situation, and their produce is lying in the fields. If the government does not provide storage facilities or purchase the produce immediately, the farmers will sustain heavy losses,” Puttamma observed. A senior official from the Chitradurga horticulture department said that they have issued over 75 passes to farmers through tahsildars, for transporting their produce. “We are buying the produce from farmers through Hopcoms. Onion is being sent to Yeshwantpur Market in Bengaluru, and tomato is being sent to Kolar and Bananan, and is being sold locally there. Tomatoes are also being sent to the Yeshwantpur Market,” the official added. PC: A farmer stores onions in bags on his field in Challakere taluk of Chitradurga district A flowering onion, an indication of approaching decay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/onion-growers-struggle-to-sell-produce/articleshow/74919698.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vismay Shah gets more time to surrender||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday granted more time to Vismay Shah to surrender to prison authorities in connection with the 2013 BMW hit-and-run case in which two youths were killed. Shah has been convicted to five years in jail for the same. After the HC on February 17 upheld the trial court’s order of convicting Shah in 2015, it gave six weeks to the convict to surrender to prison authorities and he could approach the Supreme Court by then for any relief against the HC’s order upholding his conviction. Shah’s advocate Maunish Pathak submitted that because of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, Shah’s case could not be heard in March and he did not have any other remedy against the HC order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vismay-gets-more-time-to-surrender/articleshow/74921319.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||PharmD pupils offer help for non-Covid cases||Aurangabad: The students and graduates of the six-year Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) course have sent a letter to the state and the central health ministries seeking permission to provide healthcare to those patients suffering from ailments other than Covid-19. The health machinery of the country is under immense pressure, compelling the doctors and physicians to work day in and day out for the prevention and management of the pandemic. In letters emailed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and state public health minister Rajesh Tope on March 28, National Doctor of Pharmacy Association’s president Ramprasad Nagare has stated that while all health machinery is focussed on Covid-19, questions arise on the care given to patients suffering from other ailments. “In the rural and underdeveloped communities and in areas plagued by shortage of physicians, pharmacists may be the only healthcare provider who is immediately accessible to patients. Empowering clinical pharmacists to play a bigger role in ambulatory care and emergency triage could allow physicians to focus on the more acutely ill,” stated Nagare in the letters. “There are 42,700 students in different states enrolled in the programme and 29,700 PharmD qualified persons across India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pharmd-pupils-offer-help-for-non-covid-cases/articleshow/74920654.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||He doesn’t cheat customers, offers fruits to kids||JAIPUR: While lockdown has slowed down the daily life of many, it is a completely different story for 24-year-old Sahil Qureshi. He used to sell fruits at Johari Bazaar which is under curfew. Now, Qureshi with his push cart covers around 20 kilometre in residential areas like Adarsh Nagar, Jawahar Nagar and Raja Park to earn his daily bread. Life has been difficult for him since the lockdown as business is affected and procuring fruits too is a major task. Previously, fruits would arrive at Mohana Mandi around 6 am. But now, he has to arrive much earlier to pick the produce. “I have to wake up at 3am to procure oranges and grapes from Mohana Mandi. I get a couple of hours to catch up on sleep and by 7 am I am back on the streets,” said Qureshi, who has a family who is the sole bread winner of eight-member family. His father is a gem polisher who has been out of work since the lockdown. “I have four brothers and a sister. None of them work as yet and with a reduction of daily earnings, a decent meal is now a dream,” he said. Despite the challenges, Qureshi has vowed not to overcharge his customers. He said he was shocked to see exorbitant rates that some vendors were charging. “I charge according to the day’s rate and not a penny more. So many people, mostly strangers, have shown concern for me. Many handed me masks, gloves and sanitizers, while some women in colonies provided me with food and water. Everybody is trying to help one another, so how can I be selfish at such times?” he added. He said he has also been provided food packets by the police and civil groups. “It is a very big help for people like me. Earlier, I use to have chai and kachori when hungry but because of lockdown nothing is available,” said Qureshi, who himself also makes it a point to distribute a little fruit among street children. Not charging extra and distributing fruit to needy has made him quite popular among the locals. Qureshi takes all necessary precautions to keep himself and his family safe. “I wash my hands, legs and face with a soap before entering my house every day after finishing the work. Moreover, I take a bath soon after. When out, I wear my masks and keep washing my hands as many times at possible,” he says. All the walking and disturbed sleep has left him tired but he admits he does not have much choice but to continue. “I do wish I can manage an uninterrupted sleeps of 8 hours. But that would be possible only after the lockdown is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/he-doesnt-cheat-customers-offers-fruits-to-kids/articleshow/74921310.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot police resort to garba gait for COVID awareness||RAJKOT: Gujaratis don’t just swoon to garba beats, but also give out social messages.In order to encourage people to follow government’s guidelines to curb the novel Coronavirus spread, the Rajkot police are foot tapping to the rhythm divine. Putting their best feet forward, 21 women cops of city police are seen in graceful garba gait, grooving to a garbi number in a special video made to to spread awareness. Beginning with the troopers riding out on symmetric vehicles, the performers in dapper uniform immediately catch one’s attention enacting the lyrics choreographed to garba steps. The simplicity of the vernacular language further helps in setting the scene and the understanding of the purpose of the parody. Simply penned lyrics that give out the message of thoroughly washing hands, wearing a mask, social distancing, staying at home, strike an immediate chord with the listeners and watchers on Whatsapp where the video is going viral. The garba is sung by local singer Nidhi Dholakiya and lyrics penned by Dt Utpal Jivrajani, a musician from Rajkot. Police inspector Sejal Patel of Mahila police station said, "We completed the shooting of this video song in just one in the police headquarter. In all, 21 women cops who are working in Durga Shakti teams of all police station participated in this garba.” Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), north, SR Tandel told TOI: "Our police commissioner Manoj Agarwal knows the importance of garba in our society, so he floated the idea of garba song to spread awareness about COVID-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-police-resort-to-garba-gait-for-covid-awareness/articleshow/74919708.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Elderly beat lockdown blues, experts advise discipline||Ludhiana: Covid-19 has disrupted everybody’s life, but senior citizens are the most affected. They are prone to infections as their immunity level dips after a certain age. Loneliness is another prominent factor among the senior citizens. The circumstances are not favourable, but some residents have decided to see the brighter side of life. Satish Mahajan, 72, and Chanchal Mahajan, 70, an elderly couple residing in Sector 32, Chandigarh road, are an example of the same. “We understand that the situation is not easy, but we are trying to see things in a positive way. We have worked hard and now we see our children doing the same. It is not daily that the whole family sits together and spends time. Everyone is busy with their life. Meditation and taking care of our diet is another thing that we are focusing on.” There are others too who are braving the adverse conditions on their own. Daljit Kaur, a resident of model town extension, shares her ordeal, “We are managing on our own. Wellbeing of our children in Toronto, Canada, is always on are mind. Our children call us regularly in a day to check on us. My husband is diabetic and he has to go out sometimes for getting essential items. I own a boutique and I miss my work a lot. We are taking care of our health. I practice yoga and meditation every day. Also, we are eating home cooked meals.” Rajinder Mahajan Tony, 62, owner of the M D Mahajan Englineering Works, and a resident of south city, said, “Taking care of ourselves is the only option. Regular exercise, meditation and taking nutritious diet along with precaution is the need of the hour. There is nothing to get scared of.” Experts meanwhile point out that the mortality rate in Italy has been high due to the fact that 23% of the population is above the age of 65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-beat-lockdown-blues-experts-advise-discipline/articleshow/74918818.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Traders apply for permission to run units||Ludhiana: Despite resistance shown by majority of business associations to the decision of the Punjab government to allow factories making non-essential goods to operate in the state, several businessmen have applied for permissions to operate their factories. According to information, two dozen applicants applied for the same on Tuesday. But fearing backlash from the business associations, no one is willing to take chance and let anyone know that they have applied for permission. However, repeated attempts to contact district industries centre where the applications are being filed via email, were made, but to no avail. Meanwhile, several businessmen who have applied for permission are of the view that if they get approval it will prove to be a win-win situation for their workers and them since the workers will get to live with total security, safety and arrangement of food and businessmen will be able to run their factories. Requesting anonymity, a businessman who has filed his application for grant of permission for running his engineering goods manufacturing unit, said, “I have applied for permission on the email id of the DIC and awaiting response. I applied for the permission as I have sufficient arrangements to house workers inside the factory and if I get approval my workers will be able to live inside the factory premise and I will start production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/traders-apply-for-permission-to-run-units/articleshow/74918839.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||How Tumakuru victim spread viral fear among family and mohalla||BENGALURU: The 65-year old man, who died of Covid-19 on March 27 in Tumakuru, had direct contact with 82 people which includes 45 family members comprising 18 children, two wives and others. P60 (patient 60) was a preacher from Sira taluk. Official sources said he had no travel history to any Covid-affected countries but had travelled to Delhi on March 5 by the Sampark Kranti Express. In Delhi, he attended religious activities at Nizamuddin Masjid between March 7 and 11 and stayed at a lodge. He returned to Bengaluru by Kongu Express (S9 coach) on March 14 and took a bus to Sira. He came in contact with 27 relatives and 26 children studying in his madrasa, apart from local followers of his masjid and people in two mohallas in Maraluru Dinne and Sira. Authorities now fear the state will pay a steep price for his negligence. He didn’t disclose his participation at the major event where over 1700 persons were present. His 13-year-old son tested positive on Monday and has been admitted to a Bengaluru hospital. “He moved around till the day before his death and met scores of people in Maralaur Dinne and Sira,” said district in-charge minister J C Madhuswamy. “Only after his death did we realise that he had two more children he had met. He didn’t tell us about them and we heard about it when P60’s son-in-law was speaking over the phone, alleging the government was trying to blame his father-in-law for quarantining the entire mohalla,” Madhuswamy said. Worse, P60 had visited Sira and prayed at the masjid with six others.“We had to pull out CTV footage of the masjid which showed that P60 had a meal with another man from the same plate. This was not disclosed to district authorities,” said Madhuswamy. The Tumakuru district administration announced a red alert in Sira. The district authorities have traced two associates of P60 -- from Tiptur and Hebbur-- and quarantined them. Seven others are from Maralur Dinne and have been quarantined. “While these are only two cases, his other children tested negative in the first round, there is a possibility of the virus affecting people in the mohallas,” said the minister. The government has forcibly home quarantined 2,000 people in Sira Mohalla and 12,000 people in Maraluru Dinne. According to the district health officer, 82 primary contacts and 162 secondary contacts are in isolation in Tumakuru. “We’re tracing tertiary contacts to minimise the damage” he said. 350 outreach workers quarantined Karnataka police on Tuesday said around 300 local Tablighi Jamaat outreach workers and 50 foreign nationals (19 from Kyrghistan, 20 from Indonesia, 4 from South Africa, 3 from Gambia and one each from USA, UK, France and Kenya) have been quarantined in the state. Police said all have been subjected to stringent medical tests. Meanwhile, the 50 foreign nationals who have come to Karnataka have been ascertained as being those who had come to the Markaz in Nizamuddin and later arrived in various parts of Karnataka. According to Tablighi community leaders, the foreign nationals made their way to Karnataka after the lockdown in Delhi and their flights were cancelled. (Inputs from Kiran Parashar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-tumakuru-victim-spread-viral-fear-among-family-and-mohalla/articleshow/74920697.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Amid bias and apathy, show of hospitality to labourers||Kolkata/Behrampore/Bu-rdwan: Two labourers from Bihar were allegedly thrown out of their rented room in New Town by their landlord on Tuesday morning on suspicion of being in close contact with Covid-19 patients from their state. The duo sought help from Techno City police station, whose personnel convinced the landlord to let the workers stay. “Our officers cleared the air that they had neither been to Bihar nor been in contact with anyone from their district recently,” said an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Also on Tuesday, 42 migrant workers — 19 from Jharkhand and 23 from Murshidabad — were found on highways in East Burdwan’s Katwa and Murshidabad’s Beldanga. The 19 from Jharkhand, who lost jobs in two Kolkata units in the lockdown aftermath, were seen resting at Bhabta in Beldanga. Locals served them food after finding them exhausted. The 19 continued their journey on foot. Police in Murshidabad feigned ignorance about the workers. Incidentally, CM Mamata Banerjee had only on Monday reprimanded police for not stopping migrant workers who entered Bengal via the Gazole border during lockdown. Meanwhile, 13 masons who worked in Howrah’s Domjur were abandoned in Katwa while on their way home to Lalgola on board a pick-up van. The pick-up driver apparently feared police action for driving during lockdown. Katwa MLA Rabi Chatterjee arranged for their stay and meals at a local school. He arranged for another 10 migrant workers, returning to Sagardighi from Odisha, to stay in the same school. Their bikes were seized by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-bias-and-apathy-show-of-hospitality-to-labourers/articleshow/74921641.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Haryana gets highest cases in a day||CHANDIGARH/HISAR/SIRSA: Haryana recorded the highest rise in Covid-19 positive cases in a day on Tuesday, with the figure rising by seven, from 22 to 29. Of the seven persons who tested positive, two are children. The state health department’s bulletin confirmed this in the evening. The new cases included a Sirsa woman and her two children, a Hisar woman, two from Faridabad and a nurse from Panchkula. One of the cases from Faridabad is of the husband of a woman from Surajkund, who tested positive on Monday. So far, Gurugram has the highest number of cases, 10, among districts. It is followed by Faridabad (6), Panipat (4), Sirsa (3), Panchkula (2), and Hisar, Palwal, Ambala and Sonipat, from where a case each has been reported. Seven of the 29 patients have been discharged as they tested negative after treatment. Besides, a patient has been shifted to Punjab. In Sirsa, the woman and her two children, aged 6 and 8, who have tested positive do not have any travel or contact history. Sirsa civil surgeon Viresh Bhushan said 13 other members of the family had tested negative. Both children have been shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, for treatment, he said. The district administration has declared Bansal Colony, where the trio lives, as a containment area and nearby areas as buffer zone. The woman had organised a kitty party, and 28 women who attended the event and their families have been quarantined. The 59-year-old woman of Hisar, who tested positive, had returned from the US on March 17, after meeting her son and daughter-in-law. Hisar civil surgeon Yogesh Sharma said the resident of Sector 16-17 tested positive on Monday night. “The woman was kept in quarantine on her return. She has been admitted to Agroha medical college. Her husband, a retired army officer, has been kept in isolation at Hisar general hospital. His sample has also been sent and the report is awaited,” Dr Sharma said. In Panchkula, the nurse had been deployed in isolation ward and she had acquired infection from a woman from Kharak Mangoli village. Her case was confirmed on Tuesday morning, said the Panchkula civil surgeon. A government official said the Surjkund woman’s husband worked for an MNC in Noida. His colleagues had tested positive for Covid-19. Since then, the office had been closed down and employees and families quarantined. The other Fardabad resident who tested positive had returned from abroad and had been quarantined at a hospital in New Delhi. “We have put the contacts of those testing positive under observation. Health of all patients is fine. The first woman who tested positive has been discharged,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-gets-highest-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/74921312.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Unseasonal rain continues to lash parts of Marathwada||AURANGABAD: One person lost his life while another sustained injuries in lightning-related incidents as unseasonal rainfall and strong winds lashed many parts of Marathwada, including Aurangabad, Beed, Nanded and Parbhani, in the 24-hours that ended on Tuesday morning. Rupesh Kale (30), a resident of Pimpalgaon-Nawale village in Majalgaon taluka of Beed district, died on Monday evening after being struck by lightning. Narendra Kulkarni, tehsildar associated with the disaster management department, said, “Jinat Kale, a resident of Beed, also sustained injury in lightning-related mishap. One cattle from Nanded district also died due to lightning.” Ganesh Lokhande, divisional disaster management officer, said the family of deceased would get relief from the government as per rules after panchanama. “The local authorities have been asked to assess the damage, if any, in the region,” he said. As per official data, among all the districts, Parbhani and Hingoli reported the highest 6 mm rainfall. The latest showers, which was third such spell of untimely rainfall in the region, has taken the tally of rainfall received in March to 15 mm – over 200% of the average expected rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which had predicted untimely showers till around April 3, has forecast clear skies ahead over Aurangabad and many parts of the region. The maximum temperature in the city, which has dipped to 35.7 degrees celsius, is likely to increase gradually further over a period of the next few days. Aurangabad reported a minimum of temperature of 19.4 degrees celsius. The minimum temperature is also likely to go up in the next few days. Meanwhile, farmer activists have accused the government of not taking any serious steps for farmers who have incurred crop damage due to the unseasonal rainfall. “The standing rabi crops, including chick pea, wheat and maize, witnessed damage due to unseasonal showers. The orchard cultivating sweet lime, papaya and bananas have also faced the wrath of the nature. The government is not paying any heed to the agricultural crisis amid the outbreak of Covid-19,” farmer activist Deepak Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unseasonal-rain-continues-to-lash-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/74920666.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Sahab, hame ghar jane dijiye, say homesick migrants from other states at Agrasen shelter home||Nagpur: A pale looking Nirmalabai is sitting quietly at one corner. When anyone comes inside the temporary shelter home at Agrasen Bhavan near Ravi Nagar Square, where she has been lodged along with 195 others, she has only one question to ask when she would be able to go home and when would this lockdown end. A resident of Gwalior, Nirmalabai has four children, all of them staying with her husband in a village there. She came to the city as a labourer to work at Gorewada Zoo. After the lockdown, she has been stuck in the city with no money. This is the common fate of all 196 homesick inmates who hail from various states like Rajasthan, Haryana, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Though no one complains about food and facilities, the feeling of being kept behind bars has crept in. While a majority of them had attempted traversing on foot to their native place, some were caught sitting in cramped spaces in trucks and other vehicles which were intercepted by the cops. “We were going back home when the authorities caught us and brought us here. They are not telling how long we will be kept here. We don’t even have mobiles to get in touch with our kids and relatives. We’re using mobile of a man from our village who was working with us,” says Padmabai, who hails from a village in Rajnandgaon in Madhya Pradesh, pleading “Sahab, hame ghar jane dijiye.” Mother of two, Padmabai was working with Nirmalabai at Gorewada Zoo. Another woman from Gondia also has same tale to tell. According to her, both her kids have become upset over their mother’s absence. Like these three, there are 12 other women from various states who have been kept separately on the first floor of the building, which is being guarded by cops outside. Some of the labourers from Rajasthan had started their journey from Telangana where they were working as daily wagers. They were caught by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), police and other agencies and brought to this shelter home. “After walking some distance, we were helped by a truck owner, who brought us till Nagpur. But the cops intercepted and took us here. We badly want to go home as our families are waiting for us,” says Sukharam. Echoing the same sentiments, another inmate Shakti Singh said, “Around 600 labourers from Nagaur in Rajasthan and working in Telangana had to leave immediately after the lockdown was imposed.” “While most of them have reached home, we’re stranded here for the last couple of days. For no reason, they’ve detained us,” he says. Many of the inmates were working as daily wagers in some factories in MIDC in Hingna and Butibori and were returning after the lockdown was announced. “We were working with a rolling steel plant. Our contractor has fled, leaving us with no money. He’s not picking up the calls,” said Vikram and Nitish Dahiriya, who hail from Chhindwara. The younger siblings badly want to go home to meet their ailing parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sahab-hame-ghar-jane-dijiye-say-homesick-migrants-from-other-states-at-agrasen-shelter-home/articleshow/74920661.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 1, 2020||Goa||Agri dept ask farmers to follow safety norms||Margao: The agriculture department has started issuing travel permits to farmers as well as those involved in procuring and supplying farm produce. The state’s agriculture officers have, however, drawn farmers’ attention to central guidelines for the sector during lockdown period. Veterinary hospitals, agencies engaged in procurement of agriculture products, ‘mandis’ operated by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee or as notified by the state government, farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field, custom hiring centres related to farm machinery, manufacturing and packaging units of fertilisers, pesticides and seeds, intra and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing-related machines, like combined harvester and other agriculture/horticulture implements, are exempted from the lockdown as per the circular issued by the Centre. Department officials expressed concern over the safety of the farmers in view of the ongoing harvesting season and advised farmers to adopt simple measures that include social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene by washing hands with soap, wearing face masks and protective clothing, and cleaning implements and machinery. All transport vehicles, gunny bags or other packaging material should also be sanitised, too, farmers have been told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-ask-farmers-to-follow-safety-norms/articleshow/74921317.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab units want to make low-cost ventilators||CHANDIGARH: As the number of coronavirus cases mount in the state and increase the demand for ventilators, industrial units in Punjab are working to help the state government by developing low-cost ventilators. As Covid-19 patients in critical condition develop respiratory distress, ventilators are vital for their treatment. The virus has so far claimed four lives in Punjab, all elderly patients, and infected 41 people. The Punjab government has been approached by four units, three in Mohali and one in Chandigarh, for permission to develop prototype of low-cost ventilators. The government has granted permission to Mohali-based Andel India and the process for giving permission to other two Mohali units is underway. The Chandigarh administration has been approached to give permission to the city-based unit for starting work on the prototype. Hi-tech ventilators are available in the range of Rs 2-5 lakh per unit in market, Andel India, which has been manufacturing medical equipment from past 22 years, claims its ventilator will cost about Rs 5,000 per unit, and its prototype is expected to be ready in the next couple of days. Explaining the functionality, Anu Bhutani, managing director of Andel India, said their mechanical bag valve mask ventilator will have all required clinical functionality. “The ventilators available are imported and have fancy features which are not required. Whereas our ventilator meets all the basic necessary requirements,” said Bhutani, who urged the state and central governments to launch a financial scheme to help small-scale industries in manufacturing indigenous medical equipment to fight coronavirus. Once complete, the prototype will be tested by a team of doctors of state health department. For getting a nod, the prototype must meet the specifications issued by All India Institute for Medical Sciences for ventilators in wake of outbreak of coronavirus. If the prototype get the approval, the company will start producing 10,000 units per month. Sibin C, director industries and commerce, Punjab, said it is heartening to see Punjab industrial units coming forward to help the state government. “The industrial department is providing them all the required support. They are being helped in providing necessary approvals and passes for their teams to work during lockdown,” said Sibin C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-units-want-to-make-low-cost-ventilators/articleshow/74921318.cms||Vinod Kumar
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 death: Samples of 40 persons to be collected||Thiruvananthapuram: The capital district is caught in a strange transmission scenario at Pothencode where source of infection remains a mystery even after three days of confirmation of Covid-19. The investigation team of health department prepared a list of around 40 persons who had arrived from Middle East and had attended the marriage ceremony at Pothencode in which Abdul Azeez , who died of Covid-19, also took part on March 2. Sample collection of these persons is expected to begin on Wednesday which will kick off a massive screening exercise. This is again based on assumption that one of them could be a source. The police will also lend a helping hand in cases where there have been resistance to co-operate. It is learnt that police will directly pick persons suspected as sources of infection from their homes. However this again is a small part of the picture; as there are persons with travel history who attended the marriage and reside in other districts and it needs to be verified whether they have flown back or not. A call made from the control room to one person in the district went unanswered forcing health authorities to seek police help. The team had to source wedding videos and collect information on invitation list of families of bride and groom to make a list of probable persons with travel history. Besides a chain of contacts was established to probe further, however the results are still considered premature. Till now, the district has dealt with sporadic cases alone; one or more cases imported or locally acquired as per WHO guidelines. However the case at Pothencode can't be categorised as a sporadic case, because source of infection remains unknown. Th next possibility is clusters of cases which means most cases of local transmission linked by chains of transmission. If at least 10 out of 40 samples being collected on Wednesday turn positive, this would create a condition of community transmission which are outbreaks with the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases. While minister Kadakampally Surendran keep repeating that all contacts have been traced and everybody has been quarantined, the need to go for a blindshot by shutting down an entire panchayat for 21 days is enough indication that clues are nil regarding probable sources that could be linked to the patient. More details keep emerging which add to the task. The route map mentioned about funeral, wedding, prayer, visit to sub-treasury office, however local bodies had to chip in with additional data that the person had attended PTA general body meeting at Government LPS, Thachappaly on March 5 and visited KSEB office on March 10. If everybody had been quarantined going by minister's words, the missing links in the route map would tell a different story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-death-samples-of-40-persons-to-be-collected/articleshow/74919734.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Teacher gets police pass, hires taxi to send MP labourer family home||Nagpur: Amid heart-wrenching tales of people stranded on the Maharashtra border after the lockdown, a schoolteacher’s efforts helped an ailing 50-year-old labourer woman and her family return home to Rewa in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. They even got a taxi, unlike many others walking hundreds of kilometres to reach home. The ailing woman, Dhanrajawa Patel (50), accompanied by four family members, had come to Nagpur on March 18, days before the lockdown. Having complaints of chronic headache, she was prescribed EEG and MRI tests on the same day. She was also advised to stay back in Nagpur as doctors wanted to monitor her condition after she took the prescribed medicines. As the family is of poor economic background, they went to a relative’s place in Mankapur slums. Their stay increased after she complained of drowsiness and again went to see the doctor at a private hospital in Dhantoli. Her medicines were changed and her condition improved. By the time she was allowed to leave the city, the family had ended up spending all its money here. Meanwhile, the countrywide lockdown was announced, leading to closing of all borders on both sides. The family, mostly labourers, went back to the relative’s place at Mankapur slums, but after two days they too asked them to make alternate arrangements. The relatives too was labourers and didn’t have enough to feed their own family. The Rewa family too had no money left, and almost lost hopes of returning home. It was then that teacher Sapan Nehrotra, who is also divisional secretary of Shiksha Bharati organization, came to know o their plight. “One of my ex-students, Biresh Kumar Patel, sought my help. They are his distant relatives. I asked the purpose of their visit to Nagpur. When I came to know it was a medical emergency, I decided to help them,” he said. Nehrotra had to convince the private hospital to issue a certificate. “Their relatives here too were unable to host them because of financial crisis. I went to the hospital where she was treated. Initially, they were not willing to give a certificate. I reminded them that the prime minister has asked to help our poor citizens. I took the letter and went to Dhantoli police station to get them a pass,” he said. On Sunday, the family finally reached Rewa in a taxi hired by Nehrotra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teacher-gets-police-pass-hires-taxi-to-send-mp-labourer-family-home/articleshow/74920700.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||More equipment, kits to help fight Covid-19: Eatala||With a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus positive cases and six deaths in the state, Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the district administrations and health department have already started identifying the people who participated in the religious meet at Nizamuddin, in Delhi. The process would be completed by Tuesday evening. Here are some excerpts from the interview with Koride Mahesh. n During lockdown, aren’t new cases a cause of concern to the government? Though new cases are a cause of concern, there is no need to panic. Our chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that plans are in place and arrangements were made to treat as many as 12,000 people in various hospitals. A three-pronged approach of home quarantine, isolation and treatment is being implemented, depending upon the situation and requirement. They have yielded good results also. n How many persons had gone to Delhi for the religious programme?  People from almost all the districts went to Delhi and final figures are yet to come. District collectors, health department officials and other departments are in the process of identifying them, their family members and primary contacts. Once all the persons are identified, they would be shifted to isolation wards in the respective district hospitals and tests would be conducted. Positive cases would be referred to Hyderabad for treatment. Family members of those who test positive will be put under home quarantine as per the protocols. n There were reports that many who went to Delhi have not come forward to inform the government? Though people have not reported that they are symptomatic, the government has begun identifying them and their primary contacts. Government will provide free treatment to those who test positive. I appeal to them to cooperate with us and not risk their and their families’ lives. n Do we have sufficient beds and wards, if the number of cases surge?  Over 4,000 beds are ready in 12 hospitals in the city, including 1,000 beds in Gandhi hospital alone. As of now, treatment would be given only in Gandhi hospital. New cases will be referred to Gandhi. Later other hospitals such as King Koti hospital, ESI hospital at SR Nagar and Gachibowli stadium will be utilized, if required. n What is the status of Covid-19 testing facilities and medical kits?  The Centre has permitted six coronavirus testing laboratories such as Gandhi hospital, Fever hospital, NIMS, IPM and MGM at Warangal. Though the central government has permitted Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) where 800 to 1,000 people can be tested a day we are not utilizing their services immediately. n What about the availability of healthcare equipment?  The state government had indented 500 ventilators and 45 have already arrived. We are expecting more in a week’s time. There is no dearth of medicines and other equipment. The health department has already begun the process of identifying and preparing a pool of retired doctors and other supporting staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-equipment-kits-to-help-fight-covid-19-eatala/articleshow/74920687.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Experts launch drive to boost morale of sanitation staff||AURANGABAD: With sanitation and hygiene assuming significance against the backdrop of the outbreak of coronavirus, the sanitation workers, whose services fall under the “essential” category, have the responsibility of collecting waste and keeping the city clean even during the lockdown. This makes the sanitation workers more susceptible to infection. At such a time, the Centre for Applied Research and People’s Engagement (CARPE) and Civic Response Team (CRT), in association with a host of industry partners and experts, have come up with a special adoption movement for the affected families called ‘Aurangabad Corona Relief Initiative’ “Given the current scenario, the adoption initiative aims at checking with the sanitation staffers every couple of days, sending them motivational messages and supporting them and their family in whatever way we can,” stated a release issued by the organisers. A special Google form https://forms.gle/zg1F9G3L7vyfzLZN8 has been created for registration as part of the adoption drive. According to Carpe, around 2,500 sanitation staffers are stepping out every day to keep the city clean and hygienic even during the lockdown. “It is our responsibility to support, acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of the sanitation workers and make their lives safer. All we need is your time and empathy during the proposed adoption initiative,” said the organisers. The experts have also appealed to citizens not to litter or throw waste in the open as it only increases manual labour. Citizens are requested to segregate garbage into dry, wet and hazardous waste in order to reduce the burden on the sanitation workers. “Greet the sanitation workers with a smile and thank them for being on the frontline in this fight against coronavirus. Citizens are also encouraged to take a photo with sanitation workers and post it on social media. Citizens can tag us at @CRTAURANGABAD with the hashtag #MAJHICITYSWACHHCITY and #CARPE,” said the organisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/experts-launch-drive-to-boost-morale-of-sanitation-staff/articleshow/74920684.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Fish graces South Goa plates once again||MARGAO: Six days after having had to make do without fish, the favourite component of Goans’ staple diet was available aplenty at several parts of South Goa. Though fish markets remained closed, enterprising youths did brisk business by purchasing fish in bulk from trawler owners at the Cutbona jetty and selling it in cities and villages. Many fishing vessels, which were out at sea when the lockdown was announced, have begun returning to the jetties to unload their catch. As Tuesday was the last day for them to do this, bumper sale of fish was witnessed at the Cutbona jetty on Tuesday. Sources said that mackerels and kingfish as well as assorted varieties of small fish (korbott) was sold at reasonable prices at various places in South Goa. However, as people rushed to buy fish, social distancing norms were observed largely in the breach. In some places, as the stock soon exhausted, it had to be replenished by making another trip to the Cutbona jetty, which was also soon sold off. The department of fisheries has directed that the fishing activities will be completely stopped from Thursday until further intimation, and this explained the rush of people to stock on supplies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-graces-s-goan-plates-once-again/articleshow/74921322.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Adequate supply stabilises prices of vegetables||PUNE: The prices of all vegetables would be stable at least for the next two days with adequate produce reaching the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard on Tuesday. “There was surplus supply of vegetables on Tuesday. So, their prices came down within the budget of common people,” said Dttatray Kalamkar, the head of the vegetable division of the market. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard on Tuesday received 13,700 quintals of vegetables, higher by 1,300 quintals when compared to the last bazaar day on Sunday. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) officials stated that the five sub-markets in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad also received more vegetables than expected at 6,290 quintals. Thus, prices of all vegetables, including leafy vegetables, and staples like tomato, cabbage, cauliflower and ladies finger stabilised. Tomato was sold in the range of Rs8-12 per kg, ladies finger for Rs10-20 per kg and green chilli for Rs20-35 per kg. Garlic was sold for Rs80-140 per kg in the wholesale market. “The vendors will sell these vegetables at a little higher rates, but people don’t need to panic and stock vegetables. They would not have to pay very high prices as there is adequate supply of all vegetables,” Kalamkar said, adding that holding market on alternate days was one of the reasons behind the increased supply. Last week, some retail vegetable shops in Shivajinagar sold tomatoes at Rs80 per kg, while people had to shell out Rs350 for a kilo of chilli. The wholesale prices of leafy vegetables, too, crashed to as low as Re1 per bunch of coriander. “A bunch of coriander, fenugreek and spinach was sold in the range of Re 1 to Rs6. The retail vendors are selling these leafy vegetables in the range of Rs5-10 per bunch,” said Kalamkar. About 190 quintals of vegetables were not sold in the open auction at the Market Yard. “The quality of some produce was substandard and there were selected traders in the market. Eventually, this produce was also sold at low prices,” said an APMC official. “This would again maintain the prices at reasonable level in the retail market,” Kalamkar said. An APMC official said more supplies would come to the market on Wednesday onwards as the commission agents would open their shops from April 1. “Farmers are worried that their produce will get damaged because of the rain in the district. Since there is no market every day, they are bringing their produce in large quantity. But it may have an adverse impact on the supply in the coming days,” Kalamkar cautioned. Chief administrator Balasaheb Deshmukh said the Market Yard would not allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables from Wednesday onwards. “We have taken the decision to maintain the required social distance and avoid mass gathering,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adequate-supply-stabilises-prices-of-vegetables/articleshow/74921334.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||20 farm owners booked for lockdown violation||RAJKOT: As many as 20 farmers were booked for allowing labourers to leave their farms amid the coronavirus lockdown order in Amreli district on Tuesday. “We detained 100-odd labourers who were walking on the roads. The labourers were from farms in Amreli, Rajula, Damnagar and Vadia talukas of Amreli district,” said an official from the Amreli police. The labourers were asked to return to their farms and owners of the farms were booked under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Apart from farm owners, Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai has instructed all the hotels, roadside restaurants, ginning mills and units in the GIDC of Amreli district to keep their labourers confined to their respective places till the lockdown period is over. “The owners of the establishments and farms have been instructed to provide food, lodging and boarding to their labourers during the lockdown,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-farm-owners-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/74919732.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot’s first COVID-19 patient on recovery path||RAJKOT: The first COVID-19 positive case of Rajkot seems to have recovered. The 32-year-old man from Jangleshwar, after being under treatment since March 19, tested negative on Tuesday. He was under treatment at Rajkot civil hospital. Dr. Pankaj Rathod municipal health officer said, “The first coronavirus positive case of Rajkot has tested negative. His second test will be conducted on Wednesday. If two consecutive samples are negative then the person is termed asymptomatic and discharged.” There were total 14 COVID-19 suspects from Rajkot, including three children, but all the of them tested negative, Rathod said on Tuesday evening. The four suspects from Jamnagar, two of Morbi, one from Devbhoomi Dwarka and 12 from Bhavnagar have also tested negative on Tuesday. Till date 10 have tested positive in Rajkot city in last 12 days and 54 people are under observation in quarantine facilities created by district administration. There are a total of 1,211 people in home quarantine out of that 896 have completed the two-week incubation period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkots-first-covid-19-patient-on-recovery-path/articleshow/74919767.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘My responsibility is to ensure items reach people, I won’t go out for photo shoot’||Ludhiana: After drawing flak from city residents over his ‘disappearance’ amid the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, Ludiana MP Ravneet Bittu on Tuesday took a dig at those who were trying to hog limelight by pretending to provide essential commodities to residents. City residents have been raising queries about Bittu and many had also taken to the social media asking about his whereabouts. When TOI reached out to him, Bittu said his job was to ensure that essential supplies reached city residents and for this there wasn’t need for him to be seen on roads. “I am not interested in getting some bags of grocery along and gather people in large numbers for clicking pictures. My job at this moment is to see whether the administration is performing its duty,” said Bittu. He said he had already given authority to deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal to utilise Rs 5 crore of his MPLAD funds. He also claimed that a fund of Rs one crore too would be released shortly. Bittu claimed that he was sitting at home, but refused to disclose his location saying his disclosure at this moment may prompt people to visit him, which he wanted to avoid at this moment. “If being an MP I do not follow the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and advisory on coronavirus lockdown, then how he will ask others to comply?,” he asked. “The situation is becoming serious now, so all the residents should follow the instructions and sit back at home. I had already conveyed the deputy commissioner and the commissioner of police to take strict action against violators so that we can control the outbreak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/my-responsibility-is-to-ensure-items-reach-people-i-wont-go-out-for-photo-shoot/articleshow/74918789.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur collector gets pat from Union minister||The Tirupur district administration is winning appreciations from various quarters for promptly delivering essential commodities to people left stranded due to lockdown. On Tuesday, collector K VIjayakarthikeyan came for praise from Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan. The BJP leader tweeted appreciating the district administration’s gesture to provide provisions to a group of Odisha guest workers who were stuck in the textile town without essential supplies. A day ago, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had tweeted appreciating Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan for responding to an online request for providing essential commodities to a group of people. Apparently, the teams constituted by Vijayakarthikeyan had reached out to the group of stranded guest workers within 60 minutes after the issue was highlighted on Twitter. When he was informed about a group of 16 disabled people in Palladam unable to go out and purchase provisions, VIjayakarthikeyan ensured that the teams formed by the district administration supply vegetables and provisions at the doorsteps of their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-collector-gets-pat-from-union-minister/articleshow/74920701.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Two clerics booked for violating lockdown orders||AURANGABAD: Two clerics have been booked by police in Aurangabad and Beed after more than four people were found gathered at the mosques. The first offence was registered on Sunday in Aurangabad, while the second came to be registered in Ambejogai on Monday. In the offence registered with the City Chowk police station, 64-year-old Maulana Habib Khan has been booked after he allegedly led prayers for a group of about two dozen people on Sunday evening. The congregation was noticed by special branch sleuths following which a complaint was lodged by head constable Azimuddin Inamdar. In Ambejogai of Beed district, 10 people had gathered for offering prayers at Fareed Madrassa Masjid Pensionpura following which the policemen belonging to the special branch alerted the area police station. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said the police action is aimed at ensuring social distancing and effective implementation of the lockdown. “Stepping out of your house, without any valid reason, is itself a violation of the lockdown orders. There are specific instructions to people from across all communities to abstain from gathering for any kind of social or religious events,” he said. The suspects have been booked under section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by government authorities), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the IPC along with section 51-B of National Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, around 58 people were booked by city police on Tuesday for violating lockdown orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-clerics-booked-for-violating-lockdown-orders/articleshow/74920695.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Attendees say no curbs at meeting||HYDERABAD: Participants at the Tablighi Jamaat from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said there was no ban on mass gathering when a meeting of Telugu states took place. Jamaat held a state-wise discussion in which representatives of the two Telugu states, at the rate of two per mandal attended Isthema/Mushara to discuss religious aspects between March 14 and 17. Sources in the Intelligence Bureau said the delegates were supposed to elect a new amir as the previous amir had died on February 26. After the delegates of Telugu states met at the Nizamuddin Jamaat, meetings of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu took place. Participants said there were delegates from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands too. Moulana Saleem alias Nepal Saleem of Bilal Masjid at Seethammadhara in Visakhapatnam, told TOI that they were quarantined in TB Hospital. “Fourteen from Visakhapatnam went to Nizamuddin. The authorities have taken samples from us,” he said. Saleem’s father migrated from Nepal long ago and since then, has made Vizag his home. “On March 12, most of us left by train to Delhi and I returned on an Indigo flight. We have given the information about our stay to the authorities,” he said. Anil (25), a resident of Kurnool, who also visited Nizamuddin, said he was quarantined at Rayalaseema University. “I went to Delhi on March 13 and returned on March 18. I travelled by AP Sampark Express. I have provided all details to the authorities,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attendees-say-no-curbs-at-meeting/articleshow/74920716.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Norms violation by do-gooders worries officials||Nagpur: The private NGOs, groups and individuals rushing with cooked and uncooked food to help the people in distress during the national lockdown have raised the eyebrows of the government agencies. With the threat of community transmission looming large, many citizens and NGOs are going berserk in their zeal to serve and distribute food to the needy. This often sends social distancing, hygiene and cleanliness norms for a toss at several places. Around 65 organizations from different communities and groups have come forward to distribute food following an appeal of the police department. Even a social media group, a call-centre for food and other facilities have been started by the police with the initiative of Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and others. Through the group, police have managed to reach out to more than one-lakh population across the city and in the outskirts. The group members also coordinate with each other to locate the needy and reach out to them with prepared food, ration kit and other materials. Bharne, who attributed the success of the group to the top brass including CP BK Upadhyay and Joint CP Ravindra Kadam, said every community had come forward and joined hands with each other to distribute food to the needy. “We have made every one aware of the need of social distancing and hygiene and are trying to improve upon the practices,” he said. TOI has pointed out aberrations in the functioning of the groups who on many occasions were found flouting the social distancing norms and hygiene while preparing food, packing and distributing it. A group member left many cops red-faced after she admitted using banned plastic to distribute water in social media. There were also images of people packing food packets on the floor close to walls stained with tobacco spitting. District collector Ravindra Thakare said the agencies, police, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and his district administration, had brainstormed over the enthusiasm of private groups distributing food compromising with cleanliness and hygiene. “We have issued directions to all to maintain hygiene and follow social distancing,” he said. “We have prepared Google spreadsheet among us with the lists of the NGOs, groups and individuals distributing food. This would help in better coordination and avoid duplication,” said Thakare. He also extolled the police department for channelizing and roping in groups to distribute food in such numbers. “We have also instructed the NGOs or individuals not keeping well to refrain from offering services,” he said. NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe has also appealed to the groups and individuals to avoid coming together in a large number at one place and follow the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/norms-violation-by-do-gooders-worries-officials/articleshow/74920713.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka government to launch portable PDS to ease migrant crisis||MYSURU: In a bid to prevent thousands of workers fleeing cities, facing hunger and distress in the aftermath of the coronavirus lockdown, the state government has decided to introduce portable public distribution system (PDS) across all districts. Launched last year by the Centre, portable public distribution system (PDS) was to be a boon for beneficiaries who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate. According to the state government’s plan, migrants will receive two months’ quota of food grains — both April and May — together at the local fair price shops in the state for the cards issued in their native states. The move, the authorities hope will prevent families from returning to their native villages due to food shortage. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said these migrant families have been divided into two categories — families with PDS cards of their native states/ districts and those without any cards. “For those families which have cards issued in any district of the state or any state of the country, two months’ quota of food grains will be distributed at the local fair price shops. Those who don’t have card will receive food kit containing all essential items,” he said. According to sources in the department of food and civil supplies, the biggest hurdle to successful implementation of the scheme is poor publicity among the migrants. Publicise the initiative widely, say activists Several activists backed the move and said the need of the hour is popularising the scheme among the migrants. “This is a good initiative. But most migrant families travelling back home on foot are not aware of this. The government agencies must ensure that all the families gets this message,” said Kannan G Sukumar, a consumer activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-to-launch-portable-pds-to-ease-migrant-crisis/articleshow/74920705.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Ferrying people is God’s work, says driver-conductor duo||BENGALURU: The lockdown has halted Bengaluru in its tracks. But a few Bengalureans are on the move, providing the city and its denizens with essential services. Meet BMTC driver Muthyala Raghavendra, 43, and conductor Ramesh RP, 39, who have been ferrying hospital staff and employees involved in other essential services for the last three days between their workplace and home. Both Raghavendra and Ramesh are from the Koramangala BMTC bus depot. While the former is a resident of Koramangala, the latter lives in Ejipura. Every day, they complete at least 7-8 trips between Koramangala depot and Shivajinagar bus stand and their route covers important spots like St John’s Hospital, MG Road and St Philomena’s Hospital, among others. Raghavendra, who earlier worked as a truck driver, told TOI when his department asked him if he’d be willing to work for the special hospital BMTC services, he did not think twice before saying yes. “I had observed hospital staff trying to get to their workplace on foot and I felt terrible about it. When this chance came, it was like a calling from God and whatever we are doing is God’s work,” says Raghavendra. Though their families are scared as they have to step out of home every day, Raghavendra and Ramesh say they are armed with gloves, sanitisers and masks. “We also make sure to take all necessary precautions while on duty and even later,” says Ramesh. “There is no question of fear. I comfort my family saying we are doing a job that will help hundreds of people. I feel fortunate to have this chance to serve my country at this time of need,” adds Raghavendra. The duo is also greeted with some heart-warming gestures from people they meet while on duty. “Several of our passengers have thanked us for continuing to work and helping them travel across the city. Some were even teary-eyed on seeing us stop for them,” Raghavendra says, adding that they only allow passengers with passes and on average have 30-35 people travel the whole day in their bus. ‘Duty lot less stressful’Even with the Covid-19 scare, they says their duty is a lot less stressful and even fun. “My mood has improved on watching the empty roads. I can feel the dip in pollution level when I breathe, I can see trees. Generally, there is a certain calm in the surroundings,” says Ramesh, adding that it’s a welcome change from spending the entire day within the four walls of his home. Raghavendra adds that driving on empty roads is a joy. “However, we have been directed to drive slowly and make sure we don’t miss out on passengers on the way. Even though the roads are empty, I drive between 30-40 km/hr,” he says. Just as they leave for their third trip of the day from Shivajinagar to Koramangala at 11am, the two say that everyone has a role to play in the fight against Covid-19 and they are happy to be a part of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ferrying-people-is-gods-work-says-driver-conductor-duo/articleshow/74920721.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Family sticks to quarantine norms, stays at home||Thiruvananthapuram: She chose responsibility over emotion on a day she lost her husband to a pandemic. In the early morning hours of Tuesday, when the death of Abdul Azeez from Pothencode was confirmed, the medical college authorities rang up his family and gave an option to come to the hospital and have one final look at him. There was also a reminder that they were under home quarantine and sample results were being awaited and usual advice is to stay isolated. The family replied that they would stick with home isolation and wouldn't want to see his lifeless intubated body through the window. The hospital authorities then shot a video and sent it to the family. That was their way of parting, watching him lying motionless on a screen. At the mosque, medical college principal, superintendent and head of forensics accompanied the body. There was no one to receive the body and jamaat secretary Nujum signed on the papers and received the body for burial. A few minutes later, one of the relatives of the deceased arrived at the mosque. He was not under quarantine and he watched the burial from the top of the mosque building. ``We are shattered, this is too much to take in. We are not even able to give him a proper farewell, but we have to be responsible,'' the relative said. Jamaat president Hasheem said that the family was very co-operative when they were briefed about the protocol to be maintained for burial. ``They didn't raise any objection, understood the protocol,'' he said. A four member team made the burial pit and jamaat had no trouble summoning people to dig the pit and to handle the body. `` I have been doing this all these years, why would I not do it now?'' asked Jaleel, who made the burial pit as per the instructions. Unlike the six feet pit, the burial pit was dug at 10 feet. It was made in two levels with first level for placing wooden planks. ``We have been taking all precautions right from the time we started hearing news about the outbreak. The Friday prayer was stopped weeks back. There is a scare among our residents and it is understandable, we never thought we would have to face a day like this when we lost one among us to this disease,'' said Nujum. The prayer prior to burial usually held inside mosque was cancelled and it was done near the burial pit. The entire rites was over in 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/family-sticks-to-quarantine-norms-stays-at-home/articleshow/74919779.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 1, 2020||Goa||After goofup, Goa Medical College sets up policy for discharge of Covid-19 cases||PANAJI: After last week’s blunder, in which Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital discharged a patient who turned out to be positive for coronavirus, the hospital has now drafted a discharge policy. The document says all coronavirus suspects will be kept in isolation at the medical facility until their laboratory results are declared, and will be treated symptomatically in accordance with the guidelines. Patients who test negative for coronavirus will be discharged vis-à-vis a provisional or confirmed diagnosis. His discharge from hospital will be decided by the physician treating him, guided by the patient’s clinical condition. Even after discharge, the patient will be monitored for 14 days from the date of arrival in India or last exposure, whichever is later. However, if the patient tests positive for Covid-19, he will be treated according to protocol, states the policy. Such a patient would only be discharged after evidence of chest radiographic clearance and viral clearance in respiratory samples after two negative Covid-19 tests within a period of 24 hours. A GMC doctor said that the hospital would treat any case as suspect if the patient suffers from acute respiratory illness and has a history of travel to a country or area detected with local transmission of coronavirus, 14 days prior to the onset of symptoms. Also, the hospital will consider healthcare workers as Covid-19 suspects if they suffer from any acute respiratory illness and came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients 14 days prior to the first evidence of their symptoms. The GMC doctor also said that any patient with severe acute respiratory infection who requires hospitalisation (with no explanation for this serious condition) will be automatically treated as a coronavirus suspect. He said that policy was required in black and white to avoid any kind of confusion while treating suspects. “Even a small mistake can prove costly if utmost care is not taken at this critical juncture,” he said. Similarly, the policy defines contact, high-risk contact and low-risk contacts. The doctor said that even vehicles used to transport essential supplies and services to GMC will be disinfected. “Procedure has also been laid down to be followed if any Covid-19 patient dies. In such an event, the state will conduct the last rites of the deceased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-goofup-gmc-sets-up-policy-for-discharge-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/74921340.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 1, 2020||India||Act on EMI reprieve, Congress urges govt||NEW DELHI: Saying that banks have not yet issued orders to defer the EMIs, Congress Tuesday urged the government to look into the issue and ensure a notification at the earliest even as it demanded interest subvention for those paying EMIs. It also questioned the controversial bleaching powder bath to displaced persons in places like Bareilly and sought an immediate bar on the inhuman practice that underscores the difference between “Bharat and India”. Speaking to reporters, AICC spokesman Manish Tewari said the Centre needs to seriously increase the number of tests to arrive at a realistic picture about the state of coronavirus spread in the country. He said India was conducting only 32 tests per 10 lakh persons while the number stands at 2,600 in the US. He said the Centre should give more contracts for manufacturing of coronavirus testing kits, underlining that it recently gave a green signal to four companies while turning down 13 others for want of procedural approvals. Tewari said while the finance minister should nudge the banks to immediately extend the facility of EMI deferral to account holders, he argued that interest on accumulated EMIs of three months would be a big burden on people. “The government should look at giving an interest subvention,” he added. The spokesman refused to take questions on the government’s decision to import safety equipments from China or on its “slow” response to the corona threat. “This is not the time to ask questions. Nothing should distract from the fight against coronavirus. There will be a time in future to ask questions and like in any democracy, we will go through the issues with our 6/6 vision,” he said. Tewari rubbished a query on “government’s intent” in the wake of discovery of corona positive persons in Nizamuddin and claims of organisers of the concerned Muslim congregation that they had necessary approvals from authorities. “The government’s intent should not be questioned … even if some government department had given an approval, the organisers should have exercised caution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/act-on-emi-reprieve-congress-urges-govt/articleshow/74922027.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Addicts to get door-delivery of medicines||Panaji: With addicts unable to travel to the Drug Treatment Centre (DTC) due to police action during the lockdown, the facility, located at Mapusa district hospital, has started dispensing medicine at the patients’ doorsteps every two days. The methadone is handed over to the patient’s family, in order to prevent abuse of the replacement therapy. Patients under treatment for opioid addiction have had trouble travelling to the facility , despite the centre issuing them letters stating that they need to visit DTC everyday between 9am and 12pm to take their medication, and that the police should not stop them. Some patients were beaten up and sent back home by police . A few were taken to the police station and their bikes were damaged, said nodal officer at DTC , Dr Rajesh Dhume. “This is an essential service to them,”Dhume said in his social media post appealing to Goa police to allow their clients to visit the rehablitation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/addicts-to-get-door-delivery-of-medicines/articleshow/74921346.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘All residents will have to remain at home’||Thiruvananthapuram: A panchayat with just about 40,000 population will go entirely into home quarantine for 21 days. With the death of Abdul Azeez, who was infected with Covid-19, minister Kadakampally Surendran said that everybody in the panchayat will have to remain at homes for 21 days with strict home isolation for 2 weeks followed by another week.  It means that residents in all the 18 wards in the panchayat and those residing on the borders of Mudakkal, Manikkal, Vembayam, Andoorkonam, Mangalapuram, Kattaikonam corporation area, Mohanapuram,Koythurkonam, Aryottukonam will have to remain at homes for 21 days.  At present Pothencode panchayat has 185 persons under home surveillance of which 140 came from foreign countries and 45 came from other states and their districts. Ensuring 21-day home quarantine in 18 wards along with borders of nearly 10 other local bodies will be a joint task for police and respective local bodies. Even though people have been asked to stay at homes, there have been requests for relaxation like going to banks, going to ration shops and vegetable shops. Pothencode panchayat president K Venugopalan Nair said that vegetable shops would be open for one hour. A volunteer team of 200 members would deliver supplies at home. Police will conduct a route march announcing strict restrictions against leaving houses on Wednesday. `` We are taking all measures to ensure that people remain at homes. Mild relaxations will be allowed,'' said Nair. The panchayat undertook an extensive cleaning exercise on all the places the deceased had gone during the last few weeks. The path leading to his house and surroundings were also cleaned. The primary health centre where the patient had visited was disinfected on Tuesday and the staff were advised to go under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-residents-will-have-to-remain-at-home/articleshow/74919810.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||124 arrested for flouting lockdown order||RAJKOT: A total of 124 people were arrested for allegedly flouting the coronavirus lockdown order in Rajkot city and Jamnagar district on Tuesday. According to police sources, in Rajkot city, 34 people were caught venturing out of their homes and in Jamnagar district, 84 people were arrested for the same offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/124-arrested-for-flouting-lockdown-order/articleshow/74919804.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Home-grown crops to the rescue of rural Goa||KERI/QUEPEM: In these times of food shortage due to the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, it is the villages of Goa that still continue their agrarian traditions that are least affected as they turn to their home-grown produce. Farmers from these villages are sustaining their neighbours by either providing them with fruits and vegetables freshly sourced from their fields or bartering produce like in ancient times. In mining-ravaged Cavrem-Pirla, a village nestling in the foothills of the Sahyadris, locals said they can manage their resources and sustain themselves for long periods. “Since the lockdown, things have been going on as usual and not a single package of essentials has been supplied here by authorities,” deputy sarpanch of Cavrem-Pirla panchayat, Tolyo Gaonkar said. Mining was a major activity here, but villagers sustained their agricultural practices and some are bulk suppliers of vegetables to the Quepem Sunday bazaar and surrounding areas of Sanguem and Salcete talukas. In Pirla in Quepem, Vitthal Khandeparkar has been growing coconuts, betel nuts, various spices and bananas among other horticulture and agriculture crops on the banks of the Kushavati since his retirement. He also has Gir cows. All of this means he has ensured his day-to-day food needs even as in parts of the state, especially the urbanised sectors, people are struggling to meet their needs for essential commodities. “I follow the practice of organic cultivation and it is helping me to live happily. People come to my farm to buy vegetables, fruits and other crop. I receive good demand for milk and cow urine, too,” Khandeparkar said. Another village also on the banks of a river, Sal, grows a variety of seasonal crops — vegetables, onions, chillies and cowpeas. Dilip Desai from this village on the banks of the Colvale says, “Our village is blessed by Bhumka-Mahadev. We have traditionally been growing seasonal vegetables like amaranthus, radish and brinjal among others. In this food crisis, we are helping each other by exchanging various commodities.” Explaining that villagers believe in community over individualism, local activist Ravindra Velip from Cavrem-Pirla said, “Villagers provide a helping hand to their co-villagers, mostly during such crisis, which is characteristic of their unbreakable community bond.” In Keri, situated at the foothills of Western Ghats, Prashant Rane has begun growing vegetables. “People in our vicinity are aware that we grow organic vegetables and buy from us,” he said. “This is the season for jackfruit and mango among other fruits. Raw mango pickle and vegetables cooked with jackfruit provide us with sustenance,” wildlifer Vitthal Shelke from Keri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-grown-crops-to-the-rescue-of-rural-goa/articleshow/74921348.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Viral video: Man from Pithoragarh arrested for telling Covid-19 ‘treatment’||PITHORAGARH: A 28-year-old man was held by city police on Tuesday for uploading a video on social media in which he is explaining the “treatment” for coronavirus. In the video uploaded on Facebook, the accused Santosh Kumar suggests people to dig a hole on the left side of the door of their home. He asks people to keep digging till they find a “coal-type thing” and then rub that material on their forehead. “Kumar claims that rubbing that coal thing will protect people and their families from the deadly coronavirus,” Priti Priyadarshni, SP Pithoragarh, told TOI. The official added that the cyber cell traced Kumar, a resident of Jhulaghat’s Kanadi village, after the matter came to the fore. A case under sections 188, 269 of the IPC and 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act has been lodged against Kumar at Jhulaghat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/viral-video-man-tells-covid-19-treatment-held/articleshow/74920719.cms||Prem Punetha
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Disinfection drive may trigger water scarcity||Kolkata: It is a catch-22 situation for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) brass. While the demand for disinfection drive is forcing KMC’s solid waste management to roll out more vehicles to reach more localities, ‘wastage’ of nearly 2 lakh litre precious filtered water in the clean-up activity is forcing civic authorities to do a rethink. According to a department official, the civic body began the disinfection drive 10 days ago as advised by a section of public health experts after a couple of Covid-19 cases. Initially, five vehicles loaded with filtered water mixed with sodium hypochlorite (the disinfecting agent) did the rounds of south and central Kolkata. Demand for the drive escalated after it was applauded by residents of localities where it had been carried out. Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan’s tweet praising KMC’s initiative fuelled pressure on the civic body to not only continue the drive but also extend the coverage. Now, KMC has deployed 20 vehicles for the disinfection drive. But there is demand for more. “We are flooded with requests from councillors, MLAs and even celebrities to disinfect their localities. We are also getting calls from housing complexes,” the civic official said. However, civic bosses are worried over shortage of filtered water as the temperature soars and demand for drinking water shoots up. According to a KMC official, each vehicle that is being used for disinfection drive carries 9,000 litres of filtered water. “Every day, we need to fill up all the vehicles at booster pumping stations. At this rate, it will not be possible to meet the demand for drinking water. We have to then curtail this disinfection drive as providing adequate drinking water is priority,” he explained. The civic brass is assessing whether to continue washing major thoroughfares with disinfectants or concentrate only on specific localities from where positive cases have been reported. “It makes sense to actually carry out the drive in slums where density of population makes social distancing difficult, and hence, vulnerable to the virus,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/disinfection-drive-may-trigger-water-scarcity/articleshow/74921349.cms||Saikat Ray
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ikya Vedika: Move Will Hit Staff Badly||Hyderabad: The state government’s decision to cut the salaries of its employees and pensioners has irked the employees’ associations. The Telangana State employees, teachers, pensioners, public sector and contract employees Ikya Vedika on Tuesday strongly condemned the decision to impose salary cuts and demanded that the GO on deferments be withdrawn immediately. They said that it is hard to believe that the state is facing a financial crunch and added that even if there is an issue, the government should first seek assistance from the Centre or focus on other sources of revenue generation. “The state went into lockdown only nine days ago. It is hard to believe that we are already facing a financial crunch. This move of the government will have an adverse effect on the morale of employees, who are working hard to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation. Telangana Joint Action Committee (JAC) chairman Karam Ravinder Reddy and secretary general V Mamata urged the state government to reconsider its decision to cut salary of employees in view of dwindling revenues. The JAC leaders met chief secretary Somesh Kumar and said the government should pay complete salaries of employees. “There is a huge variation between gross pay and net pay. If they deduct 50% from gross salary, we will be left with nothing. How are we going to survive with a few thousand rupees?” questioned Ch Sampath Kumar Swamy, state president, Telangana Employees Association. Pensioners said that they hardly get any money as pension and said most of them are worried that the amount would not even be sufficient for medical expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ikya-vedika-move-will-hit-staff-badly/articleshow/74920720.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Phone battery dead but not their spirit as migrants march home||Nagpur: The smartphone that Shyam Singh, a painter, purchased by saving his two months’ wages has paid off. As part of the lockdown exodus, Shyam and two others-- Hiren Kumar and Arjun Singh— set off from Hyderabad for their village in Hamirpur district of Uttar Pradesh, over 1200 kms away. Clueless about the route, the tech savvy migrant workers started GPS on their phones and reached till Nagpur. The last phone’s battery died just as they reached Nagpur. TOI spotted them around 12 km from Mansar on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway. Wanting to reach Sagar and Madhya Pradesh, they planned to enter Jhansi from there and then to Hamirpur. From Nagpur, however, they taken a wrong road. They were on the Nagpur Jabalpur road while the Nagpur-Chhindwara road leads to Sagar and then to Jhansi. “When we got the job, we went by train to Hyderabad, and did not know the how to get back by road on foot. We got rides only for short distances throughout Telangana, so the GPS came in handy and we could reach Napgur,” said Shyam. In Hyderabad, for four months, they could not understand Telugu language. They got a ride a little away from the city and were on foot again. As the trio waited on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway, waving at trucks, none stopped. In their 20s, the three have studied till high school and said conditions back in the village forced them to quit studies. “We keep looking for work and this time we got it in Hyderabad. The contractor gave us Rs 12,000 a month but no salary was paid for the month of March. The contractor was also not traceable. Finally three of us moved out,” said Hiren Kumar. “A little can be saved, money has to be sent home too. We do it through internet at the nearby shop. Staying back would have left us starved,” he said, the stock reason every migrant gave for moving out. Shyam said he had bought the phone for Rs 11,000 saving from his wages for two months. But his phone lasted only till Nagpur. “Mine went off long ago,” said Hiren Kumar, “I sent Rs 20,000 home,” said Arjun when asked if he had a smartphone too. Asked if they knew that the Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had annouonced all migrant workers will be fed, Shyam quipped, “they are giving rice, we can’t eat that.” Soon another trio that had started from Hyderabad came there searching for the road to Bhopal. “Nobody is ready to take us,” said Ashok, showing his blistered feet. This was the third group of long distance hikers TOI found. On March 31, TOI reported about a group that had set off from Visakhapatnam to Karuaili in Rajasthan, a distance of 1600 km. They were stopped and put in a shelter home here. On Tuesday, TOI continued to find groups of labourers walking back to their native villages. On Amravati road, a group of Korku tribals including four women was heading towards their village in Melghat hills, more than 300 kms away. Another group engaged in constructing Samruddhi Expressway walked from Pulgaon towards Lakhnadon, also over 300 kms away in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/phone-battery-dead-but-not-their-spirit-as-migrants-march-home/articleshow/74920729.cms||Shishir Arya
April 1, 2020||Goa||Citizens throng supermarkets for supplies on Day-7||Panaji/Margao: With many retail grocery shops finally opening following the government’s directions to that effect, Day-7 of the 21-day lockdown was marked by a sense of reassurance among people. In Panaji, ever since the lockdown, only medical stores across the city were kept open in addition to a few vegetable stores. On Tuesday, however, milk booths and vegetable vendors opened from 6am onwards. Each of the grocery stores that were open had a long queue outside the shop, wherein people maintained social distance on their own. Even Modern Bakery had a queue, with people lining up to purchase bread and snacks. Over the past week, a serious shortage of eggs and chicken had driven most locals to a vegetarian and pulses diet. Royal Foods opened in the Panaji market and drew a crowd of eager shoppers who purchased two to four chickens at a time. Even the superstores kept their doors open for people to purchase basic commodities while the police kept vigil to ensure there was no crowding. These were Vishal megamart in Panaji, Magsons supercenter at Taleigao and Shenaz supermarket in St Inez. The Panaji municipal market however remained shut. In Margao, home delivery service offered by a couple of stores has been getting encouraging response. Fair price shops in various parts of South Goa began distributing ration to card-holders for April. Sugar and oil have also been made available to ration card holders in addition to rice and wheat. Though vegetables were sold at horticulture outlets at many places across South Goa, the stock failed to reach several outlets, sources said. Coconuts were also seen being sold in vehicles at many places in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-throng-supermarkets-for-supplies-on-day-7/articleshow/74921343.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||High time fund-starved corporation increased its revenue sources||COIMBATORE: At a time when the wait to avail the central government’s fund continues for the civic body due to the absence of council and a final decision pertaining to the property tax hike is yet to be taken, the city corporation’s financial backbone does not seem to be strong this year. It is high time the corporation should take steps to increase its revenue sources, say activists. The corporation has proposed budget for the financial year 2020-21 with meagre Rs 1.14 crore as surplus revenue on Monday. Its estimated revenue for the upcoming year is Rs 2,156 crore and expenditure Rs 2,155 crore. If only the corporation had not proposed to obtain a loan worth Rs 223 crore – Rs 158 crore from the state government and Rs 64.58 crore from Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO), the budget would have gone deficit this year. It has been four years since the corporation had presented a deficit budget. Last year, excited by the state government’s move to hike the property tax, the corporation had eyed to increase the tax revenue by 73%. But, a few months ago, the state government had withheld its decision and directed the local bodies not to collect revised tax until further notice. The revised tax revenue for the financial year 2019-20 has come down as Rs 308 crore against the projected estimate of Rs 501 crore. As per the revised estimates, the corporation’s surplus revenue has come down from Rs 4.75 crore to Rs 82,000 for the financial year 2019-20. This year, the corporation aims to earn as much as Rs 326 crore as tax revenue. “We could not say that the corporation is financially strong. But there are avenues to increase their revenue and it is high time they take necessary measures to increase their revenue,” said K Kathirmathiyon, a city-based activist. The corporation should revise the rent of its shopping complex to increase its revenue and should slap penalty against the defaulters, he added. The pending tax amount that the corporation projects to collect this year stands close to Rs 96 crore. He said the corporation should take steps to renovate and modernize its community halls so that people from different social sectors would also come forward to use it and it in turn would increase the revenue for the civic body. The budget shows nothing but how weak the corporation is financially, said DMK MLA N Karthik. Pointing out how the corporation has been struggling even to settle bills to the contractors, he said that it is high time corporation ensures transparency in its work. Ever since the council was dissolved, the civic body is neither uploading its resolutions in its website nor ensuring transparency in its work, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/high-time-fund-starved-corpn-increased-its-revenue-sources/articleshow/74920717.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Sale of coffee allowed, but border will remain closed: Minister||MADIKERI: The sale of coffee will be allowed during exemption hours in Kodagu, district incharge minister V Somanna said on Tuesday. However, the border with Kerala will remain sealed, he said. He was speaking at a press meet in Madikeri after conducting a meeting of district-level officers and public representatives at zilla panchayat hall to review the measures taken in Kodagu for containing Covid-19. The minister announced that coffee growers are allowed to sell their own coffee between 6am and 12 noon on Monday, Wednesday and Friday during the exemption time provided for people to purchase essential commodities like groceries and vegetables. All growers have to sell their products as per pre-fixed price. The pre-fixed price is Rs 1,000 per 50 kg bag of Robusta Cherry, Rs 2,000 for Arabica Cherry, Rs 3,000 for Robusta Parchment and Rs 5,000 for Arabica Parchment. Further, ginger and pepper grown by the farmers in Kodagu can be marketed and the farmers will be permitted to sell their products in other states also crossing the border areas. However, the Kodagu-Kerala border will not be opened by the administration. Other routes can be used for transporting the products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sale-of-coffee-allowed-but-border-will-remain-closed-minister/articleshow/74919798.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Officials check godowns for hoarding||Panaji: Teams of inspectors from the department of civil supplies and consumer affairs, commercial tax and legal metrology began inspecting godowns of suppliers and wholesalers on Tuesday to ensure that there was no hoarding and to ascertain reasons for many keeping their shutters down. The teams of three for each taluka led by the inspectors from the civil supplies department visited several wholesalers and advised them to keep their business running and avoid hoarding. “We inspected the stock together with the police and asked them about difficulties they are facing to keep their godowns open. Wherever necessary the official from civil supplies provided them with curfew passes for their staff. Once they have the passes, it is the owner’s lookout to ensure that they report to work and keep the supply chain running,” an inspector from legal metrology told TOI. After inspections of wholesalers are completed, the teams will begin inspecting retail shops. “Once wholesalers begin functioning, the retailers will automatically keep their shops open,” the inspector from the team said. “Those who insist on being closed can face suspension of licence,” he said. The directorate of civil supplies and consumer affairs on Monday constituted the special teams after it received complaints that retail stores and suppliers purposely kept their businesses closed to create hoarding and escalate prices. “Retail stores, andstockists and wholesalers must to keep their premises open, failing which stringent action will be initiated,” director civil supplies Siddhivinayak Naik stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-check-godowns-for-hoarding/articleshow/74921354.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Workers building Quepem mkt complex left in lurch||QUEPEM: Around 39 migrant labourers working at the under-construction Quepem municipal fish market complex have been left to fend for themselves for nearly ten days since the janata curfew was announced, in view of the Covid-19 threat. All the men have been living in the building’s underground basement since construction commenced. Of these, 15 hail from Odisha, nine from Jharkhand, six from Kolkata, five from Bihar and four from Madhya Pradesh. “We were without food for the last three days. We do not have money to buy essential items. After one lady approached us and heard our plight, we received one bag of rice and dal,” Monoj Gopal, a native of Odisha, said on Tuesday. The Rs 7.8 crore four-storey market complex is coming up at the existing place, and the contract was bagged by Shivam Infratech. Quepem resident Patricia Fernandes told TOI that when she apprised Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam of the issue on Monday, he replied that it is the contractor’s responsibility to look after the well being of the labourers. Later in the evening, the deputy collector directed Quepem municipality to supply rice and dal on priority for the migrant workers. “Two days after the lockdown was imposed, we called the engineer up and sought his help to provide us food and money, but he told us the situation would normalise after four days. Now it has been 10 days since the lockdown, neither the engineer nor the contractor has come here to check on us,” said Anil Singh, who is a native of Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/workers-building-quepem-mkt-complex-left-in-lurch/articleshow/74921351.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stay shave, stay home: No barber? Go bald||AHMEDABAD: With barber shops remaining shut as a result of the lockdown, an Old City-based businessman found a remedy for unkempt and overgrown hair. Getting hold of a razor, he shaved off the hair of his head along with those of his two sons. Rajesh Patel, 39, who has a business of making aluminium frameworks for offices and homes, says he resorted to this method as hair of his sons – Heet (10) and Jaksh (4) had grown very long and needed a haircut urgently. Besides, with schools not expected to re-open before June, their hair will grow back in three months. “I was considering giving them a haircut when the lockdown was announced and all barber shops were closed down. Cutting their hair at home would require some expertise and the better option was to shave their heads and mine bald,” said Patel, who spent over an hour carefully tonsuring the head of himself, along with those of Heet and Jaksh. Patel, who stays at Rabari Colony area of Ahmedabad, says that there is a fair chance that the lockdown period getting extended.  “Even if it is not, there is going to be a huge rush at barber shops after the lockdown ends. So this was the most viable option,” Patel said. He added that it is the first time that he used a razor to shave off the hair of one’s head and he did it with caution and patience, as he did not want to injure his sons or himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stay-shave-stay-home-no-barber-go-bald/articleshow/74921368.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt staffer among virus suspects||Hyderabad: Among those who attended religious prayers in Delhi and did not inform officials is an employee working in the Secretariat. The section officer working in the animal husbandry department at Telangana secretariat attended the religious congregation in Delhi and came back to Hyderabad last week. He has been attending office for the past few days. Officials got to know about his travel to Delhi on Tuesday during their identification exercise and informed police. The police took him to Gandhi Hospital. He was in Delhi from March 13 to 16. The department secretary has asked the officials to conduct all medical investigation of the section officer. Similarly, a couple of persons, who had gone to Delhi, have been found resuming work at Singareni Colleiries in Mancherial. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-staffer-among-virus-suspects/articleshow/74920724.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lifeline in lockdown: Milk train leaves Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A special train with 396 tonnes of milk products loaded in 16 wagons bound for Kolkata and three wagons bound for Raipur left Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Pradeep Sharma, the railway PRO, said that the train will halt at Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Paldi, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Nagpur, Raipur, Bilaspur, Tatanagar and Kharagpur. Those wanting to send parcels or goods can book in advance. Deepak Kumar Jha, the divisional railway manager, said that this is the first such train from Ahmedabad and more trains will be flagged off from Bandra terminus on April 1, April 3, April 6, April 8, April 11, and April 13. These trains will leave Bandra at 8pm and reach Ludhiana on the third day at 11.30am. Jha said that the parcel trains from Bandra will cover 1,705km and halt at Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad, Ajmer, Jaipur, Delhi, and Ambala. The parcel service can be booked from any of these stations, he said. To ensure that the supply of essentials is not affected during the lockdown, the Western Railway has introduced parcel express facilities to transport milk products, edible oil, spices, groceries, and biscuits from the Kankaria terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lifeline-in-lockdown-milk-train-leaves-ahmedabad/articleshow/74921375.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: People throng corporation school to avail aid tokens given by government||COIMBATORE: Defying the social distancing norms, people thronged the corporation higher secondary school at Ratinapuri in the city on Tuesday to get aid tokens to avail the state government’s cash support and essential commodities free of cost. The aid tokens are supposed to be distributed at the doorstep of every ration cardholder. However, at some places in the city, including at Ratinapuri, beneficiaries were asked to collect their tokens at the respective corporation schools in their locality. Raja Mohammed, a social worker who has been working along with government officials at Ratinapuri, said, “There are five ration shops in the locality. Whenever officials from a particular shop reach a street, almost all of them living in that street surround the officials. It is to avoid such a situation that we have asked the public to collect the tokens from the officials at school.” The school premise is spacious enough to accommodate cardholders of five shops and we have ensured that people follow the social distancing norms while collecting the tokens, he said. But, people were seen moving in closer contact at the entrance of the school premises and the crowd was dispersed only after the intervention of police. Ration shop authorities said that they would take necessary steps to ensure that people don’t crowd in front of the school. The district administration is to distribute Rs 1,000 along with essential commodities to 9.76 lakh rice cardholders in the district. Officials from the office of district supply officer (DSO) have already started to distribute token to the beneficiaries. A senior official said that they had deployed salesmen of the ration shops to distribute tokens at doorstep of the beneficiaries to avoid thronging the shop during distribution. Considering that it would take at least 10 minutes to distribute the commodities to a beneficiary, we have decided to distribute around 100 tokens per day, the official said. The date and time a beneficiary should visit the ration shop will printed on the token itself. The aids would be distributed from April 2 to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-throng-corpn-school-to-avail-aid-tokens-given-by-govt/articleshow/74920734.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Facing losses, vendors throw away 2,000 litre milk||BELAGAVI: Facing huge losses, vendors from Raybag taluk flushed over 2,000 litres of milk into a water channel on Tuesday. The lockdown clamped to fight the Covid-19 pandemic has sent milk prices crashing in the unorganised sector, for those who sell raw milk to larger dairy traders. According to vendors who supply milk to Pune, Mumbai and many areas of Belagavi, agents of big dairy traders are demanding milk for a pittance of Rs 10/l. In normal days, buffalo milk is sold at Rs 32/l and cow’s milk at Rs 22. This is the situation since a week On Tuesday morning, around three to four vendors gathered near Ghataprabha irrigation channel at Palabavi village at Raybag in Belagavi, and threw away 2,000l of milk from over 40 cans. Hazrat Ali, a milk vendor, said that he and his colleagues had no option in this regard. “We sell milk to agents in Pune, Mumbai, Kuduchi, Terdal and Bagalkot. Now the supply of milk has taken a blow due to borders being closed, although the government has relaxed norms for the trading of milk.” Ali said that cashing in on the crisis, the agents of large dairy traders are refusing to buy milk at the market price. Another vendor said that citing trouble faced during transportation, these agents are asking for milk at Rs 10/l. He said that selling milk at Rs 10 /l will result in a huge loss, and milk, which is a perishable item, cannot be stored. Hence, we were forced to throw the milk away. The police have tightened security at the Maharashtra border, and travelling between districts is also restricted. Karnataka Milk Federation(KMF) manager Jayaprakash Manneri said earlier 2 lakh litres milk was being sold, and now it has come down to 50,000 litres. KMF supplies milk to Goa and Pune. He also said that police action on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border has reduced trade in milk drastically. He said that the Goa government has ordered not to supply milk to them. The KMF was supplying 35,000 litres milk to Goa and 45,000 litres milk to Maharashtra. PC: A vendor throws away milk in Rayabag||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/facing-losses-vendors-throw-away-2000l-milk/articleshow/74920732.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Two more positive as Nanjangud town slips off grid||MYSURU: Temple town Nanjangud, the centre of a cluster outbreak of Covid-19, resembled a ghost town on Tuesday, a day when two more employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, tested positive, increasing pressure on the authorities. So far, a dozen from the pharmaceutical company have been infected. Even owners of medical shops were afraid to conduct business, but eventually opened after much persuasion by authorities. Stocks of medicines and groceries though were fast depleting. Given that the town is a containment zone, supplies are not easy to come by. District officials are making efforts to ensure a steady supply of essential goods. Fuel bunks too are running dry while clinics and secondary hospitals are wary of treating fever cases as doctors allege some of those advised quarantine have rubbed off the seal. While plans are afoot to shift family members of positive cases to government hostels as a precautionary measure, it is being opposed by locals, who fear infection. While the 12 positive patients have been moved to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Mysuru, 753 other employees of Jubilant Life Sciences have been ordered to stay indoors. They are being tracked by the police to ensure they don’t jump quarantine. Industries in both Nanjangud and Tandavapura industrial stayed closed. Meanwhile, authorities are still trying to achieve a breakthrough in finding the source of the infection. Police are scanning CCTV footage to check primary and secondary contacts of employees, while employees are also being questioned. None of the patients have travelled abroad recently or met a person who tested positive. Sources say the 35-year-old youth who first showed Covid-19 symptoms (P52) isn’t disclosing details, which has put authorities in a fix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-more-positive-as-nanjangud-town-slips-off-grid/articleshow/74920750.cms||HM Aravind
April 1, 2020||Pune||65 education officials to monitor quarantine facilities in Pune district||PUNE: Altogether 65 officials from the primary education department will administer and monitor quarantine facilities in Pune district. The state education commissioner has been appointed the nodal officer by the Pune divisional commissioner to oversee these facilities with the help of the department employees. Commissioner of education, Vishal Solanki, the nodal officer for quarantine facilities, said that considering the future requirement to fight Covid-19, groups of three employees have been formed. They will coordinate with the civic bodies, taluka-level officials and other departments to manage, supervise and administer quarantine facilities. As many as 65 education department staffers have been divided into 21 squads and given important responsibilities. The officers will monitor the requirements at the current quarantine facilities, compile all the information related to patients from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and other talukas and submit it to the health department. They will also coordinate with the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/65-education-officials-to-monitor-quarantine-facilities-in-pune-district/articleshow/74921360.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||No functions to deck up, flower markets wear a sombre look||PUNE: The coronavirus lockdown has hampered flower trade at wholesale and retail markets. The city’s wholesale flower market will continue to remain shut for trade until the next 15 days. The traders said there has been a sharp drop in demand for flowers due to absence of public functions, wedding and other celebrations as well as temporary closure of all places of religion. A lull in the market has prompted authorities to suspend trade during the lockdown. The wholesale trade of flowers is held in the Gultekdi Market Yard area. “The space marked for flower trade is very congested and overcrowding in the area would defy social distancing norms. The trade can’t be held at another location or in open market since flowers are delicate produce,” a trader explained. Retailers in the city market said that most flower shops have been closed since the past week. “March onwards, we usually get enquiries for decorations for marriage functions but with the shut down all functions have been postponed and there is absolutely no demand for flowers, said Sachin Shinde, a flower trader. Sanjay Satav, who supplies marigold and other flowers to the city market, said that he hadn’t been able to supply flowers to the city for the first time in years. “The market was shut and there were no buyers for marigold. Like me, many faced financial losses because of the drop in demand and the ongoing restrictions over trade,” Satav said. Ramesh Wachal, who runs a flower shop near Mandai, said that flower markets usually witness a lot of trade around Gudi Padwa, followed by Ram Navami and other religious festivals. “The flower trade during Gudi Padwa was almost nil. At the moment, revival looks difficult for at least the next couple of weeks,” Wachal said. The officials from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee said that the trade of flowers was expected to resume after April 15. “We will take stock of the situation before taking a call on resumption of trade,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-functions-to-deck-up-flower-markets-wear-a-sombre-look/articleshow/74921358.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 1, 2020||Goa||Posters circulated to tarnish our reputation: MLAs||Panaji: The three MLAs who were reported to be ‘missing’ on social media said the posters were terribly out of place and circulated only to tarnish their reputation. Thivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, Mapusa MLA Joshua D’ Souza and Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida all said they have been doing enough during the coronavirus pandemic. “This message has been circulated on social media by opposition and those who are drunk. If I am not doing any service for the people then I am ready to resign as MLA”, said Halarnkar, adding that he started distribution of essential commodities as soon as the Janata Curfew was announced. Almeida, the Vasco legislator, said he was in constant touch with government officials and booth-level officers to ensure that the food chain in his constituency is not disturbed. “Whatever post is circulated on social media needs to be verified. A lot of things get circulated but that needs to be verified,” Almeida said. In Mapusa, Joshua may not be seen out in the open, but the legislator said whenever there is an emergency, he’s not one to stay locked indoors. “I am monitoring and ensuring that food supply is maintained. This is a political trick (to show him missing). We should not play politics over this issue,” he said. Son of former deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, Joshua said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message was for everyone to stay indoors, so that the spread of the deadly virus that has brought the world to a standstill, is contained. “We are not fighting a food crisis. Our battle is against Covid-19. As appealed, we must stay indoors and must maintain social distancing. “We have supplied essentials not only to our voters but also migrants, stranded foreigners and others. We have completed one week (of the lockdown) and there are two more weeks to stay inside. If all of us stay indoors, then only we will be able to step out of our houses at the earliest,” said the Mapusa MLA, who took to social media to say they are doing the best to “reach out to everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/posters-circulated-to-tarnish-our-reputation-mlas/articleshow/74921361.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||115 Europeans stranded in Kolkata return home by special AI flight||KOLKATA: An Air India Dreamliner aircraft carrying Europeans took off from Kolkata airport at 10.10am on Tuesday. The flight was part of nine sorties that AI will run between Tuesday and Thursday to repatriate Germans, British, French, Italian, Dutch, Danes and other citizens of EU nations stranded in India. On Monday evening, an Atlantis Armenian Airways flight had airlifted 68 Armenian students from the city. The flight made a technical halt at Ahmedabad airport to refuel and then headed for the Gulf en route to Armenia. The 115 flyers that departed on Tuesday morning included many British citizens of Indian origin who had come to India to visit their extended families and then got stranded. The German government inked an agreement with AI to operate nine chartered flights, including the one from Kolkata, to enable them to travel back to their homes. The flyers began arriving at the airport in buses since early Tuesday morning after spending the night at a hotel in New Town. British deputy high commission Nicholas Low, whose office was coordinating with the flyers, was at the airport to see off passengers. After clearing mandatory check, they waited for the flight. The aircraft touched down at 8.30am. When the 236-seater plane pulled out, there were only 115 passengers on board. Though there were more than 250 applications from people stranded all over eastern India and desperate to board a flight home, the passenger count was deliberately kept low to ensure social distancing between passengers. Among the passengers were four persons from Denmark. “They were asked to submit necessary documents with the German consulate office. They will fly to Frankfurt and then catch another flight to Copenhagen,” said Smita Bajoria, honorary consul general of Denmark in Kolkata. The Germany embassy in India has thus far arranged two flights by Lufthansa from Delhi to Frankfurt to evacuate 750 Germans and 250 nationals of other EU countries. Other countries that have sought help to repatriate their nationals include Malaysia, Ukraine, Peru and Afghanistan. The government had last week extended the visa period — till April 15 — of all foreign visitors who are unable to leave the country due to travel restrictions in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/115-stranded-europeans-return-home-by-special-ai-flight/articleshow/74921362.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation closes temporary market at new bus stand||COIMBATORE: After Ukkadam fish market, the city corporation has sealed the temporary market that was set up at the new bus stand on Mettupalayam Road here on Tuesday. The decision was taken after people failed to adhere to the physical distancing norms. A senior city corporation official, meanwhile, made it clear the temporary market at Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School on Alagesan Road in the city would continue to function. The civic body also appealed the residents to ensure that only one of the family members was sent to the markets to facilitate physical distancing. Earlier, the city corporation had shifted some of the shops from Anna market to the new bus stand and the school four days ago to ensure strict adherence to physical distancing norms at the farmers’ market by decongesting that. Of the 300 shops at the market, 40 were shifted to the bus stand and another 160 to the school premises. The city corporation had also equipped the two premises with water and lighting facilities, besides marking slots for customers at every 1m gap to ensure physical distancing. However, most of the shopkeepers, who were allotted space at the school, have been selling vegetables at the bus stand, congesting the premises, the official said. “On Tuesday morning, they closed the shops before 7.30am, forcing many customers to look for other options. And they eventually crowded other shops.” Following the directions of corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar, the temporary market at the bus stand was subsequently sealed. The city corporation is also planning to merge meat shops that are functioning in its limits after people crowded them on Sunday, throwing physical distancing norms to the wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-closes-temporary-market-at-new-bus-stand/articleshow/74920746.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: A day not enough, say boat owners on March 31 deadline||PANAJI: With the fisheries department giving them only until Tuesday to unload their catch at jetties, boat owners are worried about the fate of the vessels that are still at sea. Fishing activities will stop from April 2 onwards till further intimation as per the government order. “Unloading was done after all boats arrived and anchored. Any leftover vessels may arrive late in the night, but they will be stuck within the jetty since the gates are locked,” boat owner from Malim jetty Francisco Fernandes said. These are big boats that had left before the lockdown was announced and out at deep sea it is difficult to communicate with them even by wireless. The North Goa collector’s office sealed the jetty on Tuesday morning, Fernandes said. “Some trawlers have therefore started throwing their fish out because fish like tuna, horse mackerel, catfish, etc, are not eaten by Goans and the fishmeal plant is closed,” he said. General secretary of the All Goa Purseiners’ Association Sebastiao Cardozo said that unloading cannot stop for at least the next three to four days since some boats are still at sea. “Locking the jetty entirely is very bad for boat owners. The boats that have gone earlier must be allowed to unload because fish is a perishable item. The natural resource will be wasted,” he said. The latest order signed by fisheries director Shamila Monteiro reads, “All the vessel owners are hereby informed that after unloading their catch from the fishing vessels, shall leave jetty with crew members to safe zones offshore and vessel should remain anchored. They will not be allowed to return on the jetty till lockdown period is lifted by government.” However, at Cutbona jetty, boats unloaded their catch, but fishing activities do not seem to have come to a halt. “There is a ban on fishing activities from April 2 onwards, but some trawlers are preparing to venture back into the seas. The fisheries department must take action against these violations,” president of the Cutbona boat owners co-operative union Savio D'silva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-day-not-enough-say-boat-owners-on-mar-31-deadline/articleshow/74921364.cms||Nida Sayed
April 1, 2020||India||‘Stranded in India’: New govt portal to help foreign tourists||NEW DELHI: Union tourism ministry on Tuesday launched a ‘Stranded in India’ web portal that can also be accessed through the Incredible India website, to reach out to foreign nationals stranded in India owing to the 21-day country-wide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The effort, the government said, will help disseminate factually correct information to stranded persons and help allay fears and confusion. It will also help contain the spike in fake news and enable smooth evacuation of stranded tourists in coordination with their respective governments. The information portal, the ministry said, has been built in order to disseminate information to foreign tourists about how to stay safe and is targeted at those who are here for long durations, or who were unable to return to their countries of residence. It is aimed, ministry officials said, to be a single window solution that grants foreign tourists access to all the information they may need and the services that they can avail in order to continue to live in India, safely. In a statement assuring all possible assistance and support to foreign tourists stuck in India, the ministry said, “The world is facing an unprecedented situation. The ministry of tourism is with you in these difficult times....If you are a foreign traveller stranded anywhere in India due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we can help you get in touch with the concerned authorities.” The website contains numbers for the COVID-19 helpline, the Bureau of Immigration, as well as information about the control centres set up by state and Union Territory administrations, which tourists can contact for assistance. Separately, the website also allows the tourists to submit details of where they have travelled from and where they are currently stranded, for the ministry to reach out to them. In a tweet, the ministry also said it will provide information related to the tourists’ safe travel back home. The website also furnishes the details of officers assigned to help tourists from specific countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stranded-in-india-new-govt-portal-to-help-foreign-tourists/articleshow/74922029.cms||Swati Mathur
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||He just hung his boots, not the zeal to serve mankind||Rajkot: The adversities seem to be bringing out the true colours of men in khaki, with yet another policemen, that too, a retired ASI volunteering to do honorary services, merely to help his brethren in times of crisis.Our lockdown warrior, Hamir Lunasia (58), had retired as an assistant sub-inspector from Upleta police station in Rajkot district on January 31, this year. “With the entire Saurashtra under the grip of Coronavirus, I felt that sitting idle at my home would be shirking away from my responsibility. Therefore, I offered my honorary services to Upleta police station inspector, V M Lagaria. He asked me to don my uniform and resume duty from March 25,” Lunasia said, while talking to TOI. Lunasia has been provided with a police van, which he drives through the streets of Upleta, enforcing lockdown orders strictly. “I have got three persons arrested and five vehicles seized for allegedly violating lockdown orders,” said the man, who is also a firm believer in humanity. Lusania on Sunday also caught 35 labourers from Madhya Pradesh walking to their native after abandoning their worksite for lack of necessary resources and amenities. After he came to know that they were hungry, Lusania provided them meals at his own expenses before dropping them back at their working sites asking them to stay put for the time being. He also shows leniency. “I don’t misbehave with people. I request them to stay indoors and take precautions prescribed by the government to stop the further spread of Coronavirus,” he explained, adding that firm handling is needed as Upleta so far does not have a single COVID-19 positive case recorded, but nobody should be lax. Lunasia had joined the police force in 1986. In his 33 years of services, he had served in Dhoraji, Padadhari, Gondal, Vichhiya, Patanvav and Jamkandorana of Rajkot district and Maliya-Miyana of Morbi district. For the past five years before his retirement, Lunasia had been serving at Upleta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/he-just-hung-his-boots-not-the-zeal-to-serve-mankind/articleshow/74919887.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Kalyani Group pledges Rs 25 crore to PM relief fund||PUNE: City-based Kalyani Group on Tuesday pledged Rs 25 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund to fight the Covid-19 spread. Besides, a host of industrialists and individuals, including Indian cricket test team’s vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane, have partnered with the Mahratta Chambers of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) to help local administration meet the shortfall of ventilators, masks and personal protection equipments. Rahane has made an undisclosed amount of contribution to the MCCIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kalyani-group-pledges-rs-25cr-to-pm-relief-fund/articleshow/74921369.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Stigmatising of patients hampers contact tracing||HYDERABAD: Even as number of coronavirus-positive cases is rising in Telangana, finding the first contact persons for the patients has become a herculean task for officials thanks to the uncalled for stigma people are attaching to coronavirus patients. Till Monday afternoon, the health department had traced 1,030 first contact persons, including the immediate family members, with the 70-odd coronavirus cases. According to highly-placed sources, the number of highest first contact cases was 130 for one patient, who was discharged on Monday. “This explains the extent we need to go and take care that the virus does not spread. We apply various methods — right from taking their travel history to finding the list of people who had contact with the patient within one-metre distance,” said a top source in the government. Among the 1,030 first contact people, nearly 600 completed quarantine period. “About 100 of them have been tested to see if they were infected with the virus,” sources said. As soon as the test comes positive for any person, the surveillance team gets in touch with the family and seeks their details. “Since the patients are sent to isolation wards, it becomes tough to track the first contact persons. Some times, they refuse to share details. Most people do not understand the importance of first contact persons,” sources said. The most common reason for many not willing to share the details is the stigma these days with the families, friends and first contact persons. Reportedly, a highly educated couple who tested positive also did not reveal their family details initially. In the official statement, it was mentioned that they had travelled to Delhi and had contacted the virus from there, but later it was found that one of them met a friend from the UK and had visited several areas in Hyderabad. In the case of a three-year-old boy who tested positive, officials could not get first contact details of the boy despite trying for one whole day. After collecting the journey details, officials are also seeking the details of other passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stigmatising-of-patients-hampers-contact-tracing/articleshow/74920805.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Class X boy writes to PM, asks him to seek temple donations||DEHRADUN: Making a passionate appeal, a Class X student of a city school wrote to PM Narendra Modi urging him to get 80% of “god money” from religious institutions to fight Covid-19 across the country in times of the inevitable economic slowdown. The student, identified as Abhinav Kumar Sharma, wrote a mail to the PM on March 26 asking him to request all religious institutions to donate 80% of their wealth to the PM relief fund. The student added that religious institutes get tax exemption under 80G and must donate now to save people’s lives and make the country’s financial condition stable at a time when this health emergency will lead to economic instability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/class-x-boy-writes-to-pm-asks-him-to-seek-temple-donations/articleshow/74920748.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 1, 2020||Goa||Costly veggies irks buyers in villages||Saligao: In many parts of the state, reports have emerged of vegetables being sold at highly inflated prices. In Saligao, irked locals allege that while they are being purchased at wholesale rates, the horticulture outlets in the village are selling vegetables at higher prices. Vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower, cluster beans, French beans and onion, potatoes, tomatoes and chillies were being sold at Rs 60 per kg in Parra. “In some villages, vegetables are being sold at wholesale prices, but here in Parra, they are very expensive,” one resident, Benedict D’Souza said. Prices of eggs too have risen sharply. “While the market rate is Rs 60 per kg, here eggs are being sold at Rs 105 a dozen and a tray at Rs 210,” another villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/costly-veggies-irks-buyers-in-villages/articleshow/74921372.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighi Jamaat meet alters Covid-19 combat strategies of Telugu states||HYDERABAD: The Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi has changed Covid-19 scenario in the two Telugu states, resulting in a spike in deaths and positive cases.  Of 1,030 attendees from Telangana, six have died. At least 22 attendees and 19 of their family members have tested positive. In AP, 19 attendees and two of their family members tested positive. An attendee died, but officials said the sample from the body came negative for Covid-19. A couple related to some attendees also died, however, their test results were awaited. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendra told TOI, “ Most delegates returned home by March 20. The 14-day window period for symptoms to show up would get over for 80% of them is tomorrow. Of them, 22 are severely affected, and 19 of their family members tested positive. Four deaths — two at Gandhi Hospital and one each at two private hospitals — were reported . Regarding deaths at Nizamabad and Gadwal, we didn’t collect the samples as they went to Delhi and had similar symptoms. They suspect they too died due to Covid-19.” Andhra Pradesh principal secretary health K S Jawahar Reddy told TOI the two deaths were looked into. “In the first death, the test result was negative for Covid19 and in the second case samples have been sent for confirmatory tests. Öf 17 positive cases reported in AP on Tuesday, 14 were linked to the Nizamuddin meet. AP director-general of police Gautam Sawang told TOI, “We have obtained the list of organisers. Kurnool has the highest attendees with 252 followed by Nellore 72 and Guntur and Kadapa .” “Of 20,846 foreign returnees, 18,633 are covered by an app. If they move 50 metres out, they will be caught. Around 384 are still missing. There were positive cases among those who returned from Mecca and the UK and their primary contacts. Now, with those from the meet, the numbers increased,” Sawang added. An Intelligence Bureau official said, “The couple who died was diabetic. They had respiratory issues too. It took three days to get them admitted to hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tj-meet-alters-covid-combat-strategies-of-telugu-states/articleshow/74920820.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guest workers are hosts in this kitchen||Thiruvananthapuram: A group of voluntary service activists in the city has launched an initiative showing feasible ways to help guest workers run their own community kitchen. The initiative has been launched by the members of Rights, a human rights organisation, and Oxfam India, an NGO. On Tuesday, they launched an initiative by funding a small group of guest workers residing at Poojapura in the city to set up their own community kitchen. V B Ajaykumar, executive director of Rights said even though there are many community kitchen initiatives by various government agencies and organisations to provide food to guest workers, letting the workers handle their own kitchens was the most effective way to ensure that these workers remain happy. ‘’They come from different parts of the country and their food habits are very different from ours. Their staple diet is not like ours, which is unfortunately being prepared in these kitchens,” Ajaykumar said. Hence, the easiest way to ensure that the guest workers remain happy is to let them cook their own food. Rights and Oxfam provided essential commodities to a group of 25 guest workers residing in Poojapura. Their representatives were invited to a margin-free supermarket in the locality and were told to purchase whatever commodities they needed for the next 10 days. “Surprisingly, it turned out to be very cost-effective too,” Ajaykumar said. The entire purchase cost only Rs 12,000. This means three meals of a person for a day cost us only around Rs 50. Besides this, letting these labourers run the kitchens in small groups instead of rallying them to large camps will also ensure the cause social distancing. He added that they will be launching similar initiatives in more places from Wednesday. They have already identified other similar small groups of guest workers dwelling in different parts of the district. They will also be launching similar measures in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts where they have sufficient strength of volunteers. Meanwhile, district labour office started operating a call centre where executives have been employed to speak to migrant labourers in their native languages, Hindi, Oriya, Assamese and Tamil. All queries regarding availability of food and camps will be addressed here. Phone no: 0471-2783942 854765525||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guest-workers-are-hosts-in-this-kitchen/articleshow/74919919.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Goa||Costly veggies irks buyers in villages||Saligao: In many parts of the state, reports have emerged of vegetables being sold at highly inflated prices. In Saligao, irked locals allege that while they are being purchased at wholesale rates, the horticulture outlets in the village are selling vegetables at higher prices. Vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower, cluster beans, French beans and onion, potatoes, tomatoes and chillies were being sold at Rs 60 per kg in Parra. “In some villages, vegetables are being sold at wholesale prices, but here in Parra, they are very expensive,” one resident, Benedict D’Souza said. Prices of eggs too have risen sharply. “While the market rate is Rs 60 per kg, here eggs are being sold at Rs 105 a dozen and a tray at Rs 210,” another villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/costly-veggies-irks-buyers-in-villages/articleshow/74921377.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||CM Trivendra Singh Rawat donates 5 months’ salary; police officers pledge 1 day pay||DEHRADUN: To help step up the fight against Covid-19, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced that he will donate his five months’ salary for the cause. His wife Sunita Rawat also donated Rs 1 lakh whereas his daughters collectively pledged Rs 52,000. All IPS and PPS officers of the state have also pledged to contribute one day’s salary to help in the fight against Covid-19. Earlier, on Monday, governor Baby Rani Maurya had announced she will contribute her one month salary for the PMCARES fund. The legislators in the state have also given Rs 15 lakh each from their MLALAD funds for ensuring effective health arrangements in their respective areas. The members and employees of Uttarakhand Subordinate Services Selection Commission have already announced to provide their two-day salary to CM Relief Fund. In addition, a number of government employee organisations, teachers’ associations and schools have also contributed to the CM Relief Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-donates-5-months-salary-police-officers-pledge-1-day-pay/articleshow/74919889.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s 1st coronavirus victim, 42, cremated||LUDHIANA: The city’s first coronavirus victim, a 42-year-old woman of Amarpura, was cremated in the wee hours of Tuesday. Her two sons and some cops attended the cremation ceremony. Her body reached Ludhiana from Patiala late on Monday night. After the police asked her family to cremate it without any delay, the body was taken to the nearby Gaughat cremation ground in an ambulance. Her family members were not allowed to touch the body. The ambulance assistants who were wearing personal protective equipment brought it out of the vehicle after which the last rites were performed. Earlier, as soon as the administration received information about her Covid-19-positive status, the police sealed the entire Amarpura locality. The lane to her house was barricaded. On Tuesday morning, cops sealed areas near Amarpura Mohalla, too, including Ajit Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Division 3 chowk, Gaushal Chowk and Suffian Chowk. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapur said, “Her cremation was performed with all precautionary measures. Areas near her locality have also been sealed. The samples of her contacts have been taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-1st-coronavirus-victim-42-cremated/articleshow/74918973.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Alcohol withdrawal symptoms may increase in coming days||Visakhapatnam: So far, there have been fewer cases of alcohol withdrawal cases in Vizag city and other parts of Andhra Pradesh as compared to neighbouring Telangana. There have been scores of cases of people showing alcohol withdrawal symptoms as liquor shops, bars and toddy shops have been closed in view of the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. However, experts say that the number of cases in Andhra Pradesh may increase in the coming days. In Vizag city, so far only three cases have been reported at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) in the past week. Speaking to TOI, Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent of GHMC, Vizag said that alcohol withdrawal is the changes the body goes through when a person suddenly stops consuming liquor after prolonged use of the liquor. “There are three types of symptoms (mild, moderate and severe) of alcohol withdrawal, which including trembling, insomnia, anxiety and other physical and mental symptoms. Fortunately, so far only three persons approached the GHMC with alcohol withdrawal symptoms,” she added. Sources said that over 140 cases of alcohol withdrawal symptoms have been reported at the Institute of Mental Health in Erragadda in Hyderbad, Telangana in the past week. Dr Uma Mahendra Raj of Greenvalley Foundation in Vizag, which deals with substance-addicted patients, said that she has been receiving at least two to three phone calls related to alcohol withdrawal symptoms. “Since it is difficult to run the de-addiction centres during the lockdown, I have been suggesting them to visit GHMC,” she said. Psychiatric consultants are available in all the district hospitals also in case required, she added. Hundreds of alcohol addicts may suffer in the coming days and hospitals may need to open additional de-addiction wards as the many people may approach psychiatric consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/alcohol-withdrawal-symptoms-may-increase-in-coming-days/articleshow/74919897.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Police using drone cameras to check, restrict people’s movement in Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: Police are using drone cameras to keep an eye on people’s movement, especially in the densely populated areas, during the lockdown period. In Rishikesh, multiple drone cameras are being utilised by police to keep an eye on people’s movement and to prevent any type of gathering to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, officials said. Ritesh Shah, in charge of Rishikesh police station, said, “Government has sealed district borders, so police are using the drones to keep an eye on the movement of people to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown order.” Through the drone cameras, police are also watching the movement of four-wheelers, which have been banned from running on roads. Only a two-wheeler, that too without pillion rider, is allowed to move in the morning hours. According to police, people caught strolling without any valid reason are being booked under section 188 of IPC, while vehicles are being seized under Motor Vehicle Act. Special vigil is being kept on the district border so that there is no inter-district movement into Dehradun or people going to Tehri or Pauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-using-drone-cameras-to-check-restrict-peoples-movement/articleshow/74920752.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 1, 2020||Agra||Suffering from fever & cold, man in Mathura kills self to ‘save the entire village’||Agra: A 36-year-old farmer, who was suffering from fever and cold, committed suicide in Mathura district to “save his entire village from being infected with coronavirus”. According to the relatives of Mahendra Singh, he had “assumed” that he was suffering from novel coronavirus. Singh lived in Mundesi village under Highway police jurisdiction. His body was fished out from a well on Monday morning by local policemen. His nephew Hakim Singh said, “For the last couple of days, my uncle was suffering from fever and cold. Amid the news about coronavirus, he assumed that he too was suffering from it. In order to save the entire village from the virus, he jumped into well on Monday morning at around 3am.” Circle officer of the area Varun Kumar said, “The victim committed suicide out of coronavirus fear. His post-mortem report is yet to be received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/suffering-from-fever-cold-man-in-mathura-kills-self-to-save-the-entire-village/articleshow/74919915.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MERC increases tariff more than MSEDCL sought||Nagpur: Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has increased power tariff for all categories but has claimed that it has reduced it. In fact, MERC has increased the tariff much more than that demanded by MSEDCL. For example MSEDCL had sought a reduction in wheeling charge from Rs1.28 per unit to Rs1.15 per unit. Commission has increased it to Rs1.45 per unit. The energy charge for 0-100 units domestic slab was proposed to be Rs3.30 per unit. MERC has increased it to Rs3.36 per unit. This has been done for all slabs and all categories. Consumer activist Pratap Hogade has slammed the commission for misleading consumers. “If MERC has increased the tariff it should say so. Consumers will realize that tariff has increased when they receive bills for April. The Commission has claimed a reduction by adding fuel surcharge (FAC) to the existing tariff, which is not correct,” he told TOI. According to power expert RB Goenka while there is an increase in tariff, consumers may benefit due to lower fuel surcharge. This however, depends on whether the surcharge is negative in some months. MERC has set up a FAC fund of Rs1,500 crore for 2020-21 to ensure that fuel surcharge is either zero or on the lower side. This money is to come from negative FAC. Fuel surcharge in some months is more than Rs1 per unit and hence the power bill is far higher than that according to the prevailing tariff. According to the order the FAC fund will increase by 3% for next four fiscals and hence fuel surcharge will continue to be on the lower side. Low fuel surcharge is very important for industrial consumers as they know beforehand what will be their power bill for a particular month. Fluctuations in surcharge create problems in pricing their products. Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) has wholeheartedly welcomed the tariff order stating that all its suggestions were accepted by the Commission. Goenka said that three months moratorium period has been provided for paying demand charges for commercial and industrial consumers under the circumstances of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. “As against additional requirement of Rs60,313 crores projected in petition of MSEDCL which was almost 13% increase in total ARR (annual revenue requirement), Commission has determined negative ARR i.e. minus Rs22,242 crores which ultimately resulted in reduction of tariff to the tune of 5% in residential category, 12% in commercial category, 10% in LT and EHV industries,” said the expert. While MSEDCL officials are not happy with the order, they are satisfied that MERC has finally accepted their proposal for kVAh billing. Only HT consumers will be billed in this fashion while other consumers’ billing system will remain as it is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/merc-increases-tariff-more-than-msedcl-sought/articleshow/74920760.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Free LPG cylinder a month for Ujjwala beneficiaries till June 30||PUNE: As many as 1.4 lakh liquefied petroleum gas customers in the district enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) will get a free cylinder each month from April to June, oil marketing companies said on Tuesday. The number of beneficiaries is expected to be 40 lakh-plus in Maharashtra, a senior oil marketing representative told TOI. The Union government had announced free refills for all PMUY consumers for three months, from April 1 to June 30. Eight crore beneficiaries in India will be entitled to free 14.2kg LPG cylinders. The oil companies said it has been decided to transfer the full retail selling price of the refill cost for April in advance to the linked bank accounts of Ujjwala beneficiaries with the purpose of utilising the amount to purchase free-of-cost cylinders. The free cooking gas cylinders was part of the package announced by the Union finance minister to deal with the economic impact of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. “A PMUY customer is entitled to a cylinder per month. The beneficiary can book the next refill only after 15 days of receipt of the last refill. The booking of refill must be done through Interactive Voice Response (IVRS) calls or registered mobile numbers. Refill acknowledgement can be one time password-based/undertaking, cash memo signature and blue book entry,” an oil marketing company official said. The oil companies are also encouraging the customers to make digital payments wherever possible to avoid unnecessary handling of currency notes in the time of COVID-19. Since the lockdown, there has been a surge in LPG cylinder bookings and deliveries may have been delayed. But officials said the issue was being resolved. “LPG distributorships are functioning normally under the advisory of the state government/local administrations. The LPG distributorships are well-stocked for the lockdown period and there is no shortage. Customers are advised not to panic or resort to hoarding and panic-buying,” an official said. Ex gratia to oil marketing company personnelAn ex gratia amount of Rs5 lakh each has been announced in case of death of any oil marketing company personnel, such as LPG showroom staffers, godown-keepers, mechanics and delivery boys, retail outlet customer attendants and truck drivers, who are risking their lives to ensure delivery of fuel to customers and citizens, due to COVID-19. The amount will be paid to the spouse of such personnel. In the absence of the spouse, the payment will be made to the next of kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-free-lpg-cylinder-a-month-for-ujjwala-beneficiaries-till-june-30/articleshow/74921384.cms||Neha Madaan
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Power bill payment period extended||Kolkata: There is some relief for those who are anxious about their power and cable lines being disconnected due to non-payment of bills because of the lockdown. In an order issued by the state government, multi-service operators and local cable operators have been asked not to disconnect services on account of non-payment of subscription fee. Payment of cable bills have to be made in advance to view channels. CESC that supplies electricity to Kolkata, Howrah and parts of Hoohgly has extended the deadline for payment of the bills, which had due dates between March 22 and March 31, till April 4. While people can pay bills online, the utility has also put in place drop boxes at the exit of the 26 Spencer’s stores in the city. “Since our cash offices are shut, we have put drop boxes at Spencer’s outlets that are spread across the city,” said an official. The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd (WBSEDCL) that provides electricity to Salt Lake and rest of the state has also extended the payment period of bills from April 14 to April 30. Apart from online payment, 532 cash offices are also open five days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-bill-payment-period-extended/articleshow/74921391.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Man consumes harmful chemical, dies||Eluru: Facing alcohol withdrawal symptoms owing to liquor stores remaining shut owing to the ongoing lockdown, a 22-year-old man from East Godavari consumed a harmful chemical and died on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Naveen Murthy Raju. Two others who accompanied him— Veeresh and Venkatesh— are in the hospital. Sub-inspector of Irgavam, Satish said that three friends who were addicted to alcohol opted for an alternative after failing to procure alcohol in the midst of the lockdown. Police said that Veeresh, who works in a chemical firm, suggested that they drink Isopropyl alcohol. Veeresh brought the chemical and the trio drunk the same after mixing it with a soft drink. While Naveen from Velupur village passed away, Veeresh and Venkatesh are in the hospital and are yet to regain consciousness. —Samson Raj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-consumes-harmful-chemical-dies/articleshow/74919925.cms||Samson Raj
April 1, 2020||Agra||AMU to donate a day’s salary to PM relief fund||Agra: The teaching and non-teaching staff of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has decided to donate a day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 relief fund as a contribution to the crisis that country is facing and may face in future. More than Rs one crore is likely to be donated, said officials. The decision was taken in a consultative meeting of the AMU Teachers Association representatives, elected members of the executive council and representatives of the non-teaching staff under the chairmanship of the vice-chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor. “It is our duty to stand with our country and its people in these challenging times,” VC said. Meanwhile, JNMC’s cardiology department has started a helpline number, 7599050505, for people who may face cardiac problems during the ongoing countrywide lockdown. “Patients can make brief calls or send WhatsApp messages on the helpline number. The calls will be attended by the doctors of the department and the patients will be duly attended," chairman department of cardiology Prof M U Rabbani said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-donate-a-days-salary-to-pm-relief-fund/articleshow/74919942.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Navratra rituals hit as sale of puja material disallowed||DEHRADUN: With the 21-day lockdown announced by the central government on March 24 coinciding with the week-long Chaitra Navratra (March 25 to April 2), several residents say they are unable to purchase puja samagri (items needed for rituals), as these don’t qualify as essential items. Shivani Kaushik, a resident of Lunia Mohalla, said, “My mother performs puja during the Navratra every year. But this time, due to the shops being closed, we could not get most of the material required for the puja.” Shopkeepers selling puja samagri at Paltan Bazaar said they were staring at heavy losses as goods worth several lakhs, most of which were perishable, are just gathering dust. Talking to TOI, Prashant Sundriyal, who owns a puja samagri store in Paltan Bazaar, said, “I understand the lockdown is in the interest of the country, but worship items should have been made part of essential commodities. Our phones haven’t stopped ringing since the lockdown was announced. Families ask for items to perform cremation rituals as well and we help them with whatever stock we have left. I had bought some supplies especially for Navratra worth Rs 1.5 lakh, which are just dumped inside my shop now.” Aman, a trader at Hanuman Chowk, had the same concerns. “We are not allowed to open our shops and vehicular movement inside the market is completely banned, with the only exception being vehicles meant for loading goods. I had bought items exclusively for the Navratra but managed to sell only a few pieces before the lockdown was announced. Now, material worth several lakhs is dumped in my shop, which will be of no use for the next few months,” he said. Many residents said that they were facing problems as the items needed for cremation have become scarce. Rajeev Jain, a resident of Raipur Road, said, “I lost my father on Sunday and had gone to Hanuman Chowk to buy some of the items necessary for his last rites, only to find all the shops closed. Finally we managed to get a few items with the help of a priest, who somehow performed the rituals.” Rohit, a priest at Lakhi Bagh cremation ground, said, “These days, I keep getting distress calls from families who fail to find puja samagri and request us to arrange for the items somehow. With short supplies, the costs of such items have also skyrocketed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/navratra-rituals-hit-as-sale-of-puja-material-disallowed/articleshow/74919928.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||2 assailants on bike snatch Rs 30,000 from gas agency worker||LUDHIANA: Two motorcycle-borne assailants robbed an employee of an LPG cylinder supplying agency at gunpoint on Kakowal Road on Tuesday evening amid strict security arrangements in the ongoing curfew. The accused also attempted to loot an employee of another gas agency minutes earlier. However, that employee somehow managed to flee from there. Rajesh Kumar of Rachna LPG cylinder suppling agency said he was delivering cylinders on Kakowal Road. Meanwhile, two bike-borne assailants intercepted his way. One accused pointed a gun at him, and snatched Rs30,000 from him before fleeing. Minutes earlier, the same accused tried to rob Saurav Kumar, a worker in Thaman agency. Owner of Thaman gas agency, Amit Thaman, said his worker was delivering LPG cylinders on Kakowal Road in a pick-up van, when the accused intercepted his way. They also vandalised windowpanes of the van to threaten him. They asked for money, but Saurav drove away from there. He ihmmediately rushed to the police station and lodged a complaint. Sub-inspector Arshdeep Grewal, SHO at Jodhewal police station, said, “It seems a toy pistol was used in the crime: checkposts are also established on main roads. The accused seems to be from a nearby locality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-assailants-on-bike-snatch-rs30k-from-gas-agency-worker/articleshow/74918976.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant tales: Some marching on, some sent back by the police||Nagpur: Forced to walk hundreds of kilometres just to reach their homes following sudden lockdown, it is harrowing time for migrant labourers in the country. On a trail of such groups, TOI on Tuesday moved on Nagpur-Bhandara road (NH6) only to find pathetic Madavi and Raut family walking with young kids and household goods towards Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh. These eight family members including three youths, three women and two small kids, one 4-year-old girl and 6-year-old boy, had started from Besa and were heading towards their native place at Salebardi in Balaghat district. At 1 pm, the family had reached HB Town. They were offered food by some social workers at Kharbi Chowk. Durgesh Madavi (30) said, “Two weeks ago we were brought by our contractor for civil works in Besa. Owing to lockdown, we became jobless and planned to return. We were not forced to return and contractor also paid wages for work. We will do farming in our village.” On delay about return, Shushil Raut (25) said, “We waited for the lockdown to get over till March 31, but as it was extended till April 14, there is no point in staying here.” All the men and women were determined to walk around 200km if they do not get any alternative transport to reach home. Their contractor Dharmendra Turkar from Temnhi Tumsar said, “I pleaded with all the eight people to stay put. I was also ready to make arrangement for their food but they did not listen. My other group of labourers from Gondia is still in Besa.” A kirana shop owner Surendra Dhawgale in Mahalgaon Kapsi confirmed the exodus of these labourers from Chhattisgarh and MP was going on since March 23 when the lockdown was announced. “They are taking a short-cut to Kamptee and from there reaching the MP border,” he said. Some traffic policemen at the Kapsi post too said many took lift from the outer ring road and had already left. They said three days ago one group had walked 275km from Akola to reach here and was headed to Raipur. Some also went on bicycles. Whether the Rauts and Madavis reach Balaghat or are detained will be a different story but there were others who were picked up from Kamptee a day before and left at their rented place in Minimata Nagar slums. Anil Uikey (18) and nine of his family members from Chhapra in Seoni had come to Nagpur a month ago for working as labourers. “Due to lockdown, on March 30 we decided to return and walked up to Kamptee but were stopped by police. Some Muslim community members offered food. There were over 150 people like us. By evening, the gathering turned into 1,500. However, all were sent packing by evening,” Uikey said. Uikey said, “Ten of us were left in Minimata Nagar while eight others from Lakhnadon were dropped in Manewada. We are still wanting to go and waiting for right opportunity. We will do farming on half acre land at our native place.” Then there were young labourers like Tanju Rishimunim (20) from Madhepura in Bihar and Ramsingh Tekam (24) from Pandharwani who vowed to go back walking if lockdown continued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-tales-some-marching-on-some-sent-back-by-the-police/articleshow/74920764.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Think twice before stepping out: 60 curfew violators land up in open jail||Ludhiana: The police lodged 60 curfew violators in an open jail at Guru Nanak Stadium on Tuesday. From Wednesday, the violators will be booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which will entail one-year imprisonment. The police stepped up checks after a 42-year-old coronavirus-positive woman, a resident of Amarpura, Ludhiana, succumbed.The cops not only increased their presence, but were also stricter with violators. Instead of punishing them with sit-ups, they either challaned them or lodged them in the open jail. Till afternoon, as many as 60 violators were rounded up after they failed to give a valid reason to step out. They were boarded on buses and sent to the jail. In the past two days, the city police were a little lenient and allowed residents in need to go out. People who wanted to buy medicines, vegetables and grocery were not stopped.But when the first death of a Ludhianvi due to coronavirus was reported on Monday, the cops directed the residents to stay indoors else they will be put up in jails. The message was uploaded on Ludhiana Police social media handles too. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “People were asked to stay indoors. Those in need can approach police on helpline numbers to get essential goods or order those online. But those who are roaming around without a reason will not be spared. Such violators are being put up in open jails.” There are four open jails here. The ADCP-ranked officials are deputed as those jails’ superintendents. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapur said, “I was on roads for four hours and found about 500 violators. Some of them had passes, but they were told that all passes had been canceled. A man carrying a tea kettle and six glasses had a pass to serve langar.”“Those roaming around unnecessarily have been lodged in jail. From Wednesday, we will book curfew violators under Section 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under which the accused would get one-year imprisonment.” Nine vegetable vendors arrestedSalem Tabri police on Tuesday arrested nine vendors, who had gone to the main vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass for selling vegetables. The district administration had on Monday issued directions to shut down the vegetable market to contain the spread of coronavirus.Those arrested are Kewal Singh, Iqbal Singh, Jatinder Singh, all residents of Moga, Ram Lal of Haryana, Mohammad Sarif of Sangrur, Sandeep Kumar of Bahadur Ke Road, Ludhiana, Darshan Singh of Dharamshala, and Gufan of Sagrur. A case has been registered against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Kanwaljit Singh said, “Despite the curfew orders, these nine vendors were selling vegetables outside the main market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/think-twice-before-stepping-out-60-curfew-violators-land-up-in-open-jail/articleshow/74918985.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 1, 2020||Goa||CMC begins delivering supplies||Chairperson of Canacona Municipal Council Nitu Sameer Desai said the council has allotted two volunteers for each of the 10 wards to deliver essentials. She said the items are bought from Goa Bagayatdar and sold to the locals. “If anybody is unable to pay, then we bear the cost,” she said, adding that they also deliver LPG cylinders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cmc-begins-delivering-supplies/articleshow/74921385.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Cheers greet Vadodara’s first Covid survivor’s homecoming||VADODARA: “If I would have not been in India, I would have never fully recovered.” This was Vadodara’s first Covid-19 positive patient’s reaction upon returning home victorious on Tuesday. Amid thundering cheer, clapping and banging of thalis by his eager neighbours along with residents of Makarpura area, Chirag Pandit (49) acknowledges he was frightened at first. “When I was told that I was infected by the deadly virus, I was frightened,” said Pandit, the coronavirus survivor, who walked home after 14 days in the isolation ward of the state-run SSG Hospital, where he was admitted since March 17. Pandit has his business interest in Spain and therefore was there between February 27 and March 7, and had landed at the Mumbai airport on March 8. His family is based in Spain. After staying in Mumbai for two days, Pandit had reached Vadodara on March 10. “I had fever and headache. But the doctors and the staff at SSG Hospital kept motivating me to stay positive assuring me constantly that I will return home healthy,” said Pandit, who also got a call from Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani himself who assured Pandit of getting all required support from the state government. Before he was discharged from the isolation ward, Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal too assured Pandit of all support through a video call. Pandit termed his experience at the hospital as the best medical treatment he could have thought of. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cheers-greet-vadodaras-first-covid-survivors-homecoming/articleshow/74919348.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 1, 2020||Surat||Production comes to a halt in Bharuch||Bharuch/Surat: Limited manpower has not only brought production to a halt in most industries with combined investment of more than Rs1 lakh crore in Bharuch district, but also put their safety at risk. Most of these are large chemical and pharmaceutical units, prone to accidents. Though private security personnel have been deployed, a feeling of inadequacy prevails which gets further worsened when the district authorities only issue one or two car passes even for Rs1,000 crore project, sources said. Vilayat Industries Association president Mahesh Vashi urged authorities to issue passes on case-by-case basis to industries considering their criticality in national scheme of things. Most of the units in Bharuch are closed even those permitted either due to non-availability of raw material or manpower, he said. Kamlesh Udani, executive director of J B Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, told TOI, “Many pharmaceuticals companies have been granted permission to operate as they manufacture important medicines, but lack of raw material and unavailability of manpower have made things difficult for them. There are hardly 20 per cent employees in the pharmaceutical companies. We have appealed to our workers that they should return to work as it is a service to society.” About 100 small, medium and large pharmaceutical companies are operational at Ankleshwar, Panoli, Jhagadia and Dahej.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/production-comes-to-a-halt-in-bharuch/articleshow/74919800.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||‘Don’t bank on summer, remain alert’||WHO special envoy for Covid-19 David Nabarro tells TOI testing is key to fighting coronavirus, but adds that India is doing the right thing by using the lockdown period to enhance its capacity to break the chain of transmission. Excerpts:Q: Do you think the onset of summer will slow the spread of novel coronavirus in India?A: I hope so. This is a new virus. It’s only 4 months’ old and we are learning as we go. And there has been transmission in countries like Singapore. We don’t think there will be an absolute reduction in transmission intensity. India’s heat is dry. It may be that transmission intensity will be less and interruption easier. But we can’t assume it will be easier for India. We have to make sure that alertness for Covid-19 is established across the country during this period of lockdown. Q: India is testing very few people compared to South Korea and Germany. Does this help?A: WHO’s point is that this is a fight against a virus and it’s quite hard to fight an unseen enemy…if you don’t have tests to tell you who is infected. And so WHO does say that testing is a key part of the strategy to fight Covid-19. But if you got to ramp up testing, there are three important things. First is the test…for virus and not antibodies. Second is the protocol for how the tests are going to be used. And then you got to have people ready to administer the tests in ways that are safe for them and for people coming to be tested. The point is that you could very easily attract people with Covid to a test centre and they could infect the workers and each other. We are basically saying get the system right. And I think the strategy is correct. That the lockdown period is being used to put in place all that’s necessary, including building local capacity, to ensure that those with symptoms can get a test done. This is not a simple process given the size of India and complexities involved. Q: India says ‘sporadic’ cases of Covid-infected not knowing how he/she got it but not enough to be described as community spread. Correct assessment?A: Difficult to say that but as somebody who has done this sort of work earlier, the most important thing is to detect these outbreaks early…when you have chains of transmission you can identify. From what I’m hearing, there has been early work in India to identify these chains of transmission. India is on an important cusp of still being able to find chains of transmission before widespread community spread occurs. Prevention of the emergence of widespread community transmission, and suppression of outbreaks as they begin, through a high state of alertness is the way to go about it. India seems to have learnt from European countries and I’m pleased it’s giving top priority to it Q: How long before India can think in terms of easing the lockdown?A: I saw the photographs (of people returning home). I don’t know but I’ll say the following. Locking down early when you have only a few cases and using it to become Covid-ready across the country is a very skilful strategy. If you can get it right, it will reduce the period of lockdown. If you lock down late and don’t have the capacity to interrupt transmission, then the lockdown will go on longer. I’m hopeful that this strategy will lead to the shortest possible lockdown. The protection of the vulnerable people is a very important part of the lockdown management and I am seeing signs that this thought is there in the minds of those concerned. The solidarity of Indian people that I know exists will hopefully help India demonstrate the ability to resist big outbreaks and damages that might have occurred if things had been done slowly. Q: How do you look at the criticism WHO has been facing for allegedly giving a long rope to China?A: I am an independent person asked to act as an envoy. I prefer to look forward. There are many people looking backwards but I focus on the health of individuals, economy and society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-bank-on-summer-remain-alert/articleshow/74922033.cms||Sachin Parashar
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy To Join Hands With Cops To Enforce Lockdown||Visakhapatnam: City police commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena on Tuesday said that around 1,000 personnel from Navy, forest department and RTC and would join hands with the police to maintain lockdown in the city from Wednesday. Mostly people less than 45 years would be deployed at various spots in the city and the police department would monitor them. Most of the Navy personnel would be deployed at the harbour, Malkapuram and Sriharipuram, said Meena. The senior cop said they are yet to identify 70 foreign returnees. The district collector had earlier said that around 470 persons were to be identified as per the list sent by the central government. Out of 2,507 foreign returnees, 2194 are under home quarantine, said Meena. All the 41 passengers from Delhi, including 14 from the city and three from Visakha rural who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin, were admitted in the Chest hospital and their samples sent to Kakinada. The test results are likely to come by Wednesday. People who have been stranded at various places in the city are given food at five dhabas on NH-16 stretch from Lankelapalem to Anandapuram. Around 1,600 food packets were distributed by CRPF and the police. Meena said they would increase the number of dhabas that will serve food to 21. If anyone willing to distribute food, they can distribute through cops in the city, he said. He said the situation in the city would be monitored by the higher officials from the command control center through CCTV network. The city has around 2,500 CCTV cameras at more than 600 junctions in the GVMC limits. “We are using our 3,000-strong force in the city for the duties and deployed those who are above 55 years for administrative work. Around 347 teams were formed and there were deployed at 91 static points and 19 check posts, said the senior cop. He said cops were assigned in three shifts of eight hours, apart from a reserve force. “There have been no untoward incidents. Our force is sufficient to handle the situation and people should support us,” he said. “We are only imposing traffic fines to create fear among the public not to venture out. If we apply Section 188 , then they would end up in jail. And we want to avoid it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-to-join-hands-with-cops-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74920116.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Trains to be turned into shelter homes in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: GVMC commissioner Gummalla Srijana said on Tuesday that the civic body is now taking three rakes from the Waltair railway division to convert them into shelter homes. Three rakes would mean around 45-60 bogies which would be turned into shelter homes. These will be made operational within a day or two. The GVMC commissioner who resumed duties following her maternity leave said that the city’s civic body is has been maintaining eight shelter homes. Five more have been added recently, Srijana said while adding that 630 people are taking shelter in these homes. “We are planning to set up five more shelter homes where people would be given a blanket, pillows and three meals a day. We have already requested Waltair railway division DRM for three rakes (trains). We have to accommodate more people. The rakes will be required in a day or two. The DRM has assured three trains for the purpose,” the GVMC commissioner said. Talking about rythu bazaars, the GVMC commissioner said that the civic body is monitoring and maintaining rythu bazaars. She said that at present there are 87 rythu bazaars in the city including 13 regular, 30 additional and many mobile rythu bazaars. “We are planning to increase the number of mobile rythu bazaars with not just vegetables but groceries as well from Wednesday,” she said. As part of the door-to-door surveillance, GVMC has formed 6,000 teams with 18,000 staff including volunteers, officials of the town-planning wing, GVMC revenue wing and teachers. The teams will survey across 5.97 lakh households in Greater Visakhapatnam. The GVMC commissioner added that apart from regular sanitation, the civic body is spraying disinfectants with its own machines and is also using fire engines and fogging machines from Visakhapatnam Port for spraying in roads and containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/trains-to-be-turned-into-shelter-homes-in-vizag/articleshow/74920155.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Mental care hospital to house isolation facility||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 17 new Covid-19 positive cases detected in the state in one day, doctors expect the number of cases to rise over the coming week. Consequently, the requirement for isolation and quarantine facilities will increase. Therefore, the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) has prepared a 100-bed quarantine facility in its family ward centre and has shifted family ward patients to the main hospital building. The Government Hospital for Mental Care is located only a few hundred metres away from the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), where all Covid-19 patients and suspected cases are being currently kept in the Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH) block. Dr S Radha Rani, medical superintendent of GHMC said, “Since ours is the only tertiary mental care hospital in the whole of AP, we cannot close the outpatient department. Nor can we discharge in-patients during the lockdown. Moreover, we are functioning with a limited number of doctors.” “Every day one or two schizophrenic or psychosis cases keep coming. Currently, we have around 86 close ward patients (those accused in criminal and civil certified cases) and around 30 chronic unruly cases that cannot be managed at home. In the current situation, cases are likely to go up in future too,” Dr Rani said. The medical superintendent further said, “However, our hospital’s family ward has been turned into a 100-bed quarantine centre for Covid-19. Since it is situated just beside GHCCD, patients can be easily shifted to the Government Chest Hospital when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mental-care-hosp-to-house-isolation-facility/articleshow/74920179.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Philanthropists ensure city’s destitute are not forgotten||Visakhapatnam: Several individuals and organisations in the city have come forward to extend a helping hand to migrant workers, the destitute and orphans to help them tide through the 21-day lockdown. Members of the Sikh community have come forward, with a kitchen in a dhaba in Siripuram preparing around 500 packets of lunch for distribution to the poor while organisations such as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Association are distributing breakfast to patients and their attendants in King George Hospital. On converting City Punjab Dhaba into a kitchen and food distribution point, proprietor Balwinder Singh said, “First few days, from my end I prepared around 450 packets of rice-based lunch plus water bottles, which was distributed in Railway Station area, Beach Road and upto Gajuwaka by some volunteers on two-wheelers. From Wednesday, Gurudwara Scindia and Gurudwara 104 volunteers are also going to assist us and we will be preparing over 500 packets per day,” said Balwinder. At Seethammadhara, the Gurudwara Sadh Sangat has received a request from the district administration to provie packed lunch for 500 persons every day from March 31. “The government vehicles shall pick up the food from Gurudwara Sahib,” said a member of the Sadh Sangat. V Ravi Kumar of Sai Pooja Foundation and Shree Sai Santhosh Catering are also providing food to the homeless, orphans and sanitation staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/philanthropists-ensure-citys-destitute-are-not-forgotten/articleshow/74920202.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 1, 2020||Surat||Free sanitizing is his ‘service to society’||SURAT: This is the right time when he actually could have earned maximum profit by disinfecting homes, offices and wherever that requires his services. But for Muzaffar Rangwala, 47, who is into pest control business for two decades now, lives and safety of people matter more than money. And thus, Rangwala chose to sanitize all religious places of worship, police stations, government offices and housing colonies — all for free — almost his way of performing Zakat, a Muslim religious obligation! For the last two days, he and his team of 15 workers have been scouting different parts of the city carrying their sprayer equipment, disinfectant material and hunting for places that need cleansing – be it of worship, police stations, government buildings or even private societies. Till now, they have sanitized three masjids, three police stations and a police housing colony at Lal Darwaja and work is going on in around nearly 25 other masjids located in Rander and Adajan areas. “While other pest control agencies are minting money with rising demand for sanitization due to the spread of COVID-19, I don’t want to earn money in the time of crisis. We are also flooded with sanitisation orders from the private parties, mostly residential societies and are offering free services at all the places,” said Rangwala, a resident of Begumpura area. He also is aware of the risks he is undertaking everyday as the job of sanitizing involves going to masjids located in Rander town where two positive COVID-19 cases have been detected. On Monday, when the second positive case was detected from Rander town, his team was sanitizing the Kinara Masjid, which is located a few hundred metres away from the residence of the COVID-19 positive patient. “There are more than 70 masjids located in the Rander town itself. Residents in the entire town are living under fear as two COVID-19 positive cases were detected. Even my team is afraid of walking down the lanes and locating the mosques, but we are firm in our decision. We will sanitize all the mosques and other places in the area, come what may,” he said, adding that people’s blessings will protect them. Appreciating his social responsibility of providing free sanitisation service, the head of the insecticide cell of SMC, Jaysukh Vagadia told TOI, “We appreciate the free service of sanitization provided by Rangwala’s pest control agency. To make their work smoother, we have issued authorisation letter to help them sanitize mosques, temples, and government properties unhindered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/free-sanitizing-is-his-service-to-society/articleshow/74919852.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Migrant workers trek home on railway tracks||Visakhapatnam: Just as it’s happening across the country, migrant workers from the Port City too have started hiking across to reach their homes as all transport has been shut to stem the spread of Covid-19. On Tuesday, a group of workers were seen walking near the Simhachalam North Railway station. Railway sources said that they saw a group of migrant workers walking towards the Srikakulam railway line. According to a railway employee, people are walking on the railway tracks because railway lines are usually shorter than the road network. Moreover, those walking will also find access to water at railway stations, the employee said. B Narayana from Visakhapatnam, who recently helped an old woman reach home after seeing her walking along the deserted NH-16 a few days ago said, some people like her don’t even know of the lockdown. “She was waiting for a bus,” he said. Pragada Vasu, president of the Association of Urban Tribal Development said that there are more than 5 lakh workers in the city who come from various parts of state work in Visakhapatnam. GVMC (Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation) officials said that the civic body has earmarked certain shelters for migrant workers where they can stay and will also be given food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrant-workers-trek-home-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/74920251.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 1, 2020||India||From vaccines to ventilators, India and US ramp up ties in fight against Covid-19||NEW DELHI: From vaccines to ventilators, India and the US are ramping up cooperation as both countries tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Among the development that will determine the course of the cooperation is a study on the clinical trials of Remdisivir, the anti-viral drug by Gilead Sciences, which is currently undergoing tests and a study should be out by mid-April. The findings will determine whether the drug can be used on Covid-19 patients. Given an ongoing cooperation with Gilead in India, the government hopes for a deeper relationship. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe second issue is the US FDA approval for use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine for Covid patients. The US has asked India to relax the export ban on both and New Delhi might do it for the US. Besides, officials says both countries are looking for ways to work together for vaccine development. India’s strength lies in its long experience in dealing with infectious diseases. According to official sources, the US’ National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases, headed by Anthony Fauci, is cooperating with Gurgaon-based Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, headed by Gagandeep Kang, on virus and vaccine research. The Centre for Disease Control (CDC) and Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR) have already moved an existing cooperation programme into a higher gear. On diagnostic kits and ventilator machines, India is depending on US companies for bulk supplies which, Washington has said, would be available to friends. Abbott, GM and Sanofi Pasteur are all producing equipment that India wants to procure as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the MEA is pulling out all stops to procure protective personal equipment (PPE) and ventilators from around the world. According to a statement by the ministry of health and family welfare, MEA is buying medical equipment from a number of places. “A Singapore-based online platform has been identified which can supply 10 lakh PPE kits and an order has been placed through MEA to procure them. Another supplier based in Korea, which has tie-ups with production companies in Vietnam and Turkey, has been identified with daily production capacity of over 1 lakh PPE kits. Orders are being placed on this company through MEA for supplying 20 lakh PPE kits,” it said. MEA has placed orders for ventilators with companies like Hamilton, Mindray and Draeger. India has also ordered 10,000 ventilators from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-ramp-up-ties-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/74922064.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 1, 2020||Business||ITC turns HP perfume plant into sanitiser mfg unit||Kolkata: In order to meet an unprecedented spurt in demand for hand sanitiser, ITC has changed its production line at its newly installed perfume plant in Himachal Pradesh to a sanitiser manufacturing unit. Sanitisers saw a 100% jump in demand in the last fortnight as it is being widely prescribed by medical professionals in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. “In order to serve a larger national priority during these challenging times, ITC’s state-of-the-art perfume manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh has commenced production of Savlon sanitisers to cater to the soaring demand due to the coronavirus pandemic,” the company has said. Commissioned recently in November 2019, the factory at Manpura in Himachal Pradesh is a facility designed to produce premium fine fragrances. According to industry experts, the sanitiser market in India used to be worth only Rs 114 crore. But in February 2020 itself, there was a sales surge of 50% compared to February 2019 and in March so far, the spike in demand is almost 100%. “Amid the global health crisis and the unprecedented surge in demand for hand hygiene products like sanitisers, ITC, on a war-footing, repurposed this world-class perfume facility to help produce an additional 1,25,000 litres of Savlon hand sanitisers,” the company added. It has pointed out that in line with the government order and the public interest, the FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco major has also reduced prices of Savlon sanitisers and is working overnight to reach the new stocks with the revised prices to the market. Commenting on it, Sameer Satpathy, chief executive (personal care products), ITC, said, “Addressing a larger national requirement during the coronavirus pandemic, ITC has repurposed its recently commissioned perfume manufacturing facility in Manpura, Himachal Pradesh, to manufacture Savlon hand sanitisers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-turns-hp-perfume-plant-into-sanitiser-mfg-unit/articleshow/74921567.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||2 of 5 Pak men who returned home via Attari test positive||AMRITSAR: Two of the five Pakistani men who returned home via Attari land border after a medical check-up at a private hospital in Noida, UP, tested positive for Covid-19 at Lahore, sources said. Mohammad Khalid and Yasir Mukhtar, who were part of the five-member group to cross over to Pakistan through Attari border on March 29, have been confirmed with Covid-19 and admitted to the isolation ward of Services Hospital, Lahore, sources said. Test reports of 15 people released by Services Institute of Medical Sciences on March 31 show that two suspected patients, serial number 13 and 15, were confirmed to be virus-positive, while Nighat, serial number 14, tested negative. No tests were conducted on the other two members of the group, Muhammad Ashfaq and Muhammad Asif, as they did not have any symptoms, sources said. Ashfaq and Nighat, who had liver ailments, went to a private hospital in Noida for check-up. Nighat, supposed to have a liver transplant on this visit, was advised against it by the Noida doctors owing to his poor health. Nighat’s donor, Muhammad Khalid, who accompanied him on the trip, has tested positive. Talking to TOI, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said the department had got details of the driver of the ambulance that had brought the Pakistan nationals to Attari and the two customs officers who handled their papers. “We sent the name of the driver and his vehicle number to the UP government and advised the two customs officers to self-quarantine for 14 days,” Dr Johal said, adding that the department has written to the state government about their movement so that further preventive measures may be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-of-5-pak-men-who-returned-home-via-attari-test-positive/articleshow/74922072.cms||Yudhvir Rana
April 1, 2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat Covid-19 case divides the internet||NEW DELHI: The case of Corona virus positive patients being detected from the Tablighi Jamaat international congregation at Nizamuddin divided the internet on Tuesday. The incident evoked sharp response from politicians, historians and activists. Hashtag NizamuddinMarkaz was the top trend in India on Tuesday attracting nearly 107k tweets. Several AAP leaders took to Twitter and asserted that the congregation was at fault as the lockdown in Delhi had begun before pan-India restrictions were announced. AAP MLA Atishi tweeted, "The 'iztema' happened much before the dates mentioned in this statement, from 13-15th March. On 13th, Delhi Govt issued an order banning gathering more than 200 people. Why did Markaz not stop the event? Why did @DelhiPolice not take action when police stn is next to Markaz?" The Delhi police works under the Central government. BJP’s East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir blamed the organisers and members of the congregation. "What were these people gathering at Nizamuddin thinking? Is it a joke that the entire country is under lockdown? One wrong action by anyone of us can lead to a disaster of gigantic proportions! Listen to the Government for heaven’s sake!" Several people pointed out that the congregation happened much before the nation-wide curfew was imposed. And some lamented at the communal twist being given to the incident. Around 3pm, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted, "Now the #TablighiJamat will become a convenient excuse for some to vilify Muslims everywhere as if we created & spread #COVID around the world." Historian S lrfan Habib posted, “#TablighiJamat in Nizamuddin did something stupid and criminal in organising the Ijtima. Amazing that these Jamatis failed to get the message or deliberately ignored the crises going around the world.” He later said, “It would have been advisable to postpone the Jamat ijtima to avoid the consequences. However its communalisation now is even worse. Islamophobia beats all others fears.” Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted the press note frim Tablighi Jamat, which stated that they had approached their local police station for help. "Read the actual facts about the Nizamuddin Markaz covid cases. There was an Int Conference going on there when the lockdown was suddenly announced. They kept the authorities informed at all times & kept requesting them to allow the visitors to be escorted out. Unfair to blame them," he tweeted around 12pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tablighi-jamaat-covid-19-case-divides-the-internet/articleshow/74922075.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||How Tablighi movement split into two groups two years ago||MUMBAI: Tablighi Jamaat, the Islamic revivalist missionary movement, headquartered at Nizamuddin in Delhi, split into two factions two years ago following a dispute over the running of the organization. While the bigger faction is headquartered at Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin, the breakaway faction runs from a mosque in Nerul near Mumbai. Founded by Maulana Mohammed Ilyas in 1926, the global Tablighi movement ran smoothly till Maulana Inamul Hasan was its Amir or head. Hasan, in his lifetime, set up a Shura or apex consultation body, for major decisions in the Jamaat. After Hasan’s death in 1995, his son Maulana Zubairul Hasan and another senior Tablighi member, Maulana Saad, co-led the Shura. After Maulana Zubairul Hasan died in March 2014, Maulana Saad became its sole head. “After this, there were allegations of Maulana Saad taking decision arbitrarily which angered some senior members in the organization,” said a Mumbai-based cleric who has observed the Tablighi activities for years. Two years ago, the differences led to a rift in the Tablighi movement dividing it into two factions. While Maulana Saad continued to head the main faction headquartered at Nizamuddin, the breakaway unit is being run by Maulana Ahmed Lad and Ibrahim Deola from a mosque at Nerul near Mumbai. Different cities have zonal Markaz or centres which identify mosques to facilitate the stay of visiting Jamaats or groups. Normally a visiting group stays at a mosque for three days before they leave for the next destination or mosque. Mumbai has four centres located at four different mosques (Chuna Bhatti, Khar, Jogeshwari and Kurla Pipe Road). After clashes were reported at some mosques in Mumbai two years ago, the two factions began to take greater care in keeping their members away from each other to avoid clashes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-tablighi-movement-split-into-two-groups-two-years-ago/articleshow/74922079.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Some quarantined after Centre orders are non-Muslims, have no travel history||Nagpur: While rounding up and quarantining people as per orders of the home ministry — a fallout of the Tablighi Jamaat meet — the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has found that all are not Muslims. A few have not even toured New Delhi or any other place in the last one month. The civic body, with the help of police, has quarantined 104 people in government rest houses in the last two days here. Results of swab samples taken on Wednesday are expected today. On Wednesday, the Union government blamed travellers who had attended the Jamaat at a Delhi mosque in February-March for the sudden rise in those testing and dying of Covid-19. The Centre had sent a list of names and mobile numbers to state governments which segregated it by districts and then sent it to special branches of the police. The police shared it with the civic bodies. The numbers were identified on the basis of their cell tower location in the are and the period when the Jamaat was held. The NMC received a list of 68 persons on Tuesday, a copy of which is with TOI. The government note reads: “The need is to trace and quarantine all of them as they are suspected patients. They had come in contact of positive persons of New Delhi.” The names and address, as registered while the SIMs were purchased, is also mentioned in the list. As per the list with NMC, 13 were from rural parts of Nagpur district, two from Pune and one from Yavatmal. The remaining 52 are from city. All 52 were traced. Four claimed they had never travelled either to New Delhi or any other place in the last month. Some of the remaining 48 said they had travelled with family members. The NMC quarantined all 54 (48 + 6 members) at the MLA Hostel on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe in a video release said, “54 who attended the Delhi congregation were traced and quarantined.” In the evening, Mundhe had to change his statement as some of them turned out to be non-Muslims. A scrutiny of the list of 68 reveals that 37 are non-Muslim names. However, as directed by the Centre, the NMC has quarantined all of them. TOI spoke to one of the quarantined non-Muslim who is a resident of Civil Lines, a tony locality of Nagpur. “I am a practising Supreme Court lawyer. The SIM card of mobile number mentioned in the list available with the NMC is in the name of my father. When officials came to my house I told them that I am Delhi resident and not my father. So they have quarantined me.” This lawyer’s office is at the Sunder Nagar Market and residence at Lajpat Nagar in Delhi. “I use the Nizamuddin flyover at least twice a day. I suppose that’s how my number came on the list. I returned to Nagpur on March 18 by air. I had no symptoms in the past and now. Also, its more than 14 days since I returned from New Delhi,” he said. On Wednesday evening, the NMC received another list of 207 persons from the Centre with directions to trace and quarantine all. Not all are Muslims. A 124 are city residents and the remaining from other parts of the district and state. The NMC has traced, taken swab samples and quarantined around 50 taking the total to 104. “18 people are untraceable as the numbers are switched off. NMC and police teams are trying to track others,” an NMC official said. Similarly, the Nagpur Rural Police is tracing people in their jurisdiction. As reported by TOI on Thursday, Abdul Bari Patel, the secretary of the Tablighi Markas in Nagpur, only seven members from city attended the international conference in New Delhi. One of them had taken ill and was treated for urinary tract infection and pneumonia. “He was tested for coronavirus and the result was negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-quarantined-after-centre-orders-are-non-muslims-have-no-travel-history/articleshow/74946898.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Surat||One km radius in Rander quarantined after two cases||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will quarantine an area of one km radius in Rander town from where a 67-year-old man, the second form the same area, had tested positive for Covid-19. "Besides disinfection activity in and around the area where local transmission is feared in Rander, we are quarantining one km radius as a precautionary measure and it will be a mass quarantine. Red signage will be put up in the area for public notice,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, said. The 67- year-old man has no travel history and SMC fears that he may have come in contact with many people in and around Rander. The civic body has already shifted 30 people in his contact to quarantine facility. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old male from Singanpore having travel history to Dubai tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was admitted in the SMIMER Hospital after he developed suspected symptoms of the virus on March 30. He had come in the contact with the Covid-19 positive patient from Ghod Dod Road on March 15. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city touched eight. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “About 17 close contacts of this patient have been shifted to the quarantine facility at Samras Hostel.” About seven new suspected cases were admitted in the isolation ward of the NCH and SMIMER on Tuesday. Barring one, none others have travel history. A 37-year-old male from Nanavat had travelled to South Africa and returned on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-km-radius-in-rander-quarantined-after-two-cases/articleshow/74919880.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Man posing as BSF officer nabbed in southeast Delhi||NEW DELHI: A "Border Security Force officer" reached Badarpur to take stock of the measures being taken to enforce the lockdown. He even hauled up the cops for not taking appropriate measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. However, to the local residents' surprise, the "BSF officer" turned out to be an imposter. He was later identified as Gaurav Mishra (25), a call centre employee and a resident of Faridabad. He wanted to join the force, but had failed to clear the competitive exams. According to DCP (southeast) RP Meena, ASI Bhagwan Sahai and constable Vikram were on patrolling in Molarband Extension when about 9pm, they found the suspect doing an inspection in the area. When the cops asked for his identity card, he could not show it. He could not even tell anything about his unit. "The arrested accused had even lied to his father that he had cracked the exam of asstt. commandant of BSF. He had purchased the uniform from Tigri Camp Khanpur," the DCP added. He would walk around in his and his girlfriend's colonies to impress people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-posing-as-bsf-officer-nabbed-in-southeast-delhi/articleshow/74922084.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Two held for Rs 50 lakh subpar masks, sanitisers in Mumbai||Mumbai: Crime branch unit 7 and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials on Monday raided two godowns in Nagpada and Sakinaka and seized inferior quality face masks and sanitisers worth Rs 50 lakh. Akhib Ansari was arrested for the masks in Nagpada, and Dilip Chamaria (32) for the sanitisers in Sakinaka. Both were selling the inferior quality products at inflated prices. This was the sixth such raid carried out by the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-held-for-rs-50-lakh-subpar-masks-sanitisers-in-mumbai/articleshow/74922090.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 'Rescue animals stranded in pet shops'||NEW DELHI: Days after Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) wrote to chief secretaries of states, asking them to vacate and rescue animals from pet shops across the city- Delhi Society For Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), animal husbandry department and Delhi Police have begun freeing the animals and sending them to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC) where they will be kept temporarily. The birds will be sent to Delhi zoo.  An animal husbandry department official said, no dead animals were found at 20 shops searched so far. "In most cases, the animals were hungry. They were first fed and then transported to the locations," he said.  While there were over 300 pet shops in Delhi, the animal husbandry department said it had no 'list' of registered shops as the new pet shop rules had only come into effect last year. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the department asked all district level officers to begin a crackdown in their respective districts and submit an action taken report at 5:30 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-rescue-animals-stranded-in-pet-shops/articleshow/74922092.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 1, 2020||Noida||Covid-19 beds almost full, Noida waits for new unit||NOIDA: It was good fortune that helped the Noida administration avert a crisis on Tuesday, a situation where there would be no beds in its hospitals for Covid-19 to accommodate a new patient. The city, which has emerged as UP’s hotspot with 41 cases so far, was lucky to record three positive cases on Tuesday after averaging seven a day since Saturday. Only seven free beds now remain available in its two isolation wards — five, effectively, as one of the units has to sanitise its beds for two days — and there won’t be any additional ones till at least Thursday morning when the new one at Sharda Hospital becomes functional. Noida’s coronavirus infections have predominantly come from a single contact chain of Cease Fire employees — 29 of the 38 so far. It has spread to Ghaziabad, where one more Cease Fire employee tested positive on Tuesday, and as far as Bareilly, where five new cases on Tuesday were linked to the chain. Preparations have begun on a war-footing to have a 100-bed Covid-19 unit ready on the Sharda campus but the oxygen pipeline there is still being installed. During the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s visit on Monday, Sharda University, which runs the hospital, was asked to install a separate oxygen pipeline for the isolation ward. “We are trying our best to get the facility ready as soon as possible. Everything except the oxygen pipeline is in place. Once installed, we can take in new patients from Thursday morning,” a spokesperson for Sharda University told TOI. Noida’s healthcare apparatus was overwhelmed by a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases since March 24. Asked how additional patients will be managed if there are over five patients on Wednesday, district magistrate Suhas LY, who has just taken charge, told TOI, “I’m sure we will be able to manage something.” He said the administration was trying to get the new 100-bed facility functional. “We have still not had any patient who would need an oxygen cylinder. In case we do, there are over 20 cylinders. The pipeline work is also being done at the new hospital on a war-footing and we are trying to get it ready at the earliest,” he added. For Covid-19 patients, there are two hospitals in the district with 20 beds each — Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and the child PGI (SSPHPGTI) in Sector 30 of Noida. As of now, after discharging five patients, GIMS has 18 occupied beds while child PGI has 15. However, GIMS will not be able to take in more patients for the next two days. That leaves five beds at PGI. None of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida on Tuesday was linked to Cease Fire. They included a woman and her son in Sector 37 — the son’s uncle had recently returned from Switzerland. The third case was an 81-year-old man in Sector 28 with no travel history. The Cease Fire employee who tested positive in Ghaziabad is a resident of Duhai in Muradnagar. He is the third Cease Fire employee to test positive in the district. (Additional reporting by Aditya Dev in Ghaziabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/covid-19-beds-almost-full-noida-waits-for-new-unit/articleshow/74922110.cms||Snehil Sinha
April 1, 2020||India||Jump in corona cases due to lack of community support, says govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre said on Tuesday that the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases was mainly because of lack of support from the wider community in certain areas, coupled with delay in reporting of cases, even as it responded to the Nizamuddin situation by saying that this was not the time for finding fault and the country needed to work together to find a solution. Around 227 new cases and three deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. One death each was reported from Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. India has reported a total of over 1,250 confirmed cases and 32 deaths so far. Sharing the case numbers, Agarwal reiterated that full implementation of the lockdown and social distancing measures were essential to break the chain of transmission, and urged people to follow the prescribed guidelines and protocols. “Even if one person fails to comply, we will be back to stage zero,” he said. Responding to questions on models showing a range of cases, Agarwal said none of these took into account India’s decision to enter a 21-day lockdown. “When this was a surprise decision, how can models predict numbers,” he asked. Elaborating on identification of hotspots, the ministry said that any place with even a single case was treated as a hotspot because it was dealing with an infectious disease. However, when any particular area witnessed a large number of cases, the government’s intervention and containment strategy was scaled up accordingly. Agarwal was responding to questions on how many hotspots were being monitored. He said that there might be a lag in reporting numbers but not by much. The ministry’s focus was on acting quickly to zero in on new cases and take up contact tracing, he added. The government was using cluster-containment strategies and doing rigorous contact tracing in these hotspots to check the virus from spreading, he said. “The situation is very dynamic. A success story today can become a hotspot tomorrow. Since we are dealing with infectious disease management, a single case can develop into a hotspot,” Agarwal said. The ministry maintained that prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 was being monitored at the highest level and various actions had been initiated in collaboration with states. Meanwhile, a group of ministers headed by health minister Harsh Vardhan met on Tuesday and reviewed various issues related to implementation of the lockdown, the issue of migrant labourers, containment measures in emerging hotspots and ensuring adequacy of essential items such as personal protective equipment, masks, ventilators, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jump-in-corona-cases-due-to-lack-of-community-support-says-govt/articleshow/74922102.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||India||Kids’ helpline gets 3L calls since lockdown||NEW DELHI: Since the lockdown kicked in, Childline 1098, the 24x7 helpline across 569 districts for children in distress, has seen a spike in calls. Nearly three lakh callers have reached out to the helpline for help and information on the coronavirus as against the weekly average of about two calls received by the helpline call centres. Childline India Foundation — the nodal agency of the women and child development ministry managing and operating the 1098 service has been reaching out to callers with food for the hungry and helping transport sick children to a health facility. “There have been eight to 10 such calls a day pertaining to children who needed medical assistance,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kids-helpline-gets-3l-calls-since-lockdown/articleshow/74922132.cms||Ambika Pandit
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant, ailing cops withdrawn from strenuous lockdown duty||Nagpur: City and district police have decided to send the pregnant and ailing cops on leave relieving them from the strenuous round-the-clock duty imposed to enforce Section 144 across the district. Police personnel are playing a crucial role in enforcing the lockdown and compel citizens to remain at home. City police have relieved the personnel who are undergoing chemotherapy including one traffic cop who was on duty despite suffering from blood cancer till earlier this week. Cops suffering from cancer have been also sent on leave by district police chief IG, range, KMM Prasanna in four districts of Wardha, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Nagpur rural. District police have gone a step ahead to ensure all cops aged 55 years and above are sent on leave while ones aged 50 years and more were kept on reserve duty to save them from getting infected. Dr Sandeep Shinde of police hospital at headquarters informed that a 24-hour helpline and his service were available for assistance related to Corona-like symptoms and related health issues. “We are going through the third phase of the pandemic cycle in which the community spread is the common feature. Hence every precaution is being taken to safeguard the sizeable police force,” he said. “Cops, especially the pregnant ones, elderly and ailing ones, are susceptible to infection as they are exposed to the masses all the time,” he said. Dr Shinde has also started visiting the nakabandis across the city to raise awareness among the cops deployed there. “I have told the personnel to avoid touching the barricades repeatedly and also the documents shown to them by the public. They should have meals before leaving home and clean themselves and clothes after returning,” said Shinde who was at Manewada junction on Tuesday to meet the police on duty. “I have also told them to maintain social distancing and not to go close to the people for checking. They should also stop using sanitizers from unknown persons as it may trigger allergy,” he said. City police chief BK Upadhyay too is learnt to have now allowed the in-charges of different units to send their personnel on medical leave unlike in the past when doctor’s certificate was a must. Despite the health hazards and rising outside temperature, city police showed resilience throughout the day stepping up the checking and seizing activities. City police have taken actions against 3,286 persons on Tuesday which included penalizing 3,148 vehicle owners for violations. In all 11 cases, including one for spreading rumour, were registered against violators. City police also detained 123 people for loitering on the streets. In the districts, police have so far taken action against 152 violators starting from March 24. Maximum action was taken by Chandrapur police (67) under SP Maheshwar Reddy. Police personnel were left in a shock when a message had surfaced that state government had decided to cut salaries of employees to meet corona-related expenses. However, it was short-lived as it was clarified that police, healthcare, and other workers dealing with the crisis were exempted from the cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-ailing-cops-withdrawn-from-strenuous-lockdown-duty/articleshow/74920703.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 1, 2020||India||J&K man may have infected 100s, family says not the case||SRINAGAR: The family of J&K’s first Covid-19 casualty, a 65-year-old preacher, has contested claims by health officials that the deceased may have put hundreds of people at risk by attending two religious gatherings last week and concealing his travel history in the past fortnight. Four people he was in contact with have already tested positive for Covid-19. The man attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin travelled by air, train and road to Delhi, UP and back to J&K before dying of Covid-19, PTI quoted officials as saying. He also went to Jammu, where he visited several mosques. Among his possible victims is a doctor battling for life in a Jammu hospital. After the businessman preacher from Sopore died on Thursday, officials drew up a 400-plus list of primary contacts with whom he had interacted in the days preceding his death. Officials said the Kashmiri businessman left Delhi on March 9 and took a sleeper coach of a train for Deoband, where he attended a meeting at the Darul Uloom seminary. Two days later, on March 11, he took another train to Jammu. Officials said many of his copassengers have been tracked and quarantined. “My father had no recent international travel history. Contrary to allegations that he ran away from hospital, he was advised home quarantine,” said the man’s son. However, sources said the preacher first visited Jhelum Valley Medical College and Hospital in Srinagar on Saturday after having difficulty in breathing. A preliminary screening revealed Covid-19 symptoms but he allegedly fled the hospital on being referred to SKIMS Medical College in Soura, the nodal centre for coronavirus cases in J&K. National Health Mission director Bhupinder Kumar appealed to everyone who might have come in contact with the preacher to volunteer for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-man-may-have-infected-100s-family-says-not-the-case/articleshow/74922137.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 1, 2020||Pune||Sinhagad Road woman, Pune's first critical Covid-19 patient, taken off ventilator; to go home in a week||PUNE: The first critical novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infected patient in Pune has recovered and will go home in a week's time. The 42-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, with no history of foreign travel, was put off the ventilator after 11 days of aggressive treatment at a private hospital in Pune on Tuesday. Her throat swab sample has tested negative twice in 24 hours for the contagion. "She is breathing on her own. She also had some soup in the morning. We will discharge her in a week. She is perhaps the first patient who was critically ill with acute respiratory distress syndrome and has recovered successfully. Her recovery has given us hope that seriously ill patients can come out of complications," Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati Hospital told TOI. The woman was being treated at the hospital since March 16 and her condition worsened three days later. She was then intubated and put on ventilator support on March 20. The hospital sent her throat swab sample to rule out swine flu, but it tested positive for Covid-19 and negative for swine flu. "We administered her aggressive treatment on ventilator support. We used all medication, including antiviral drugs, meant for the treatment of swine flu, malaria and HIV. Skilled intensivists and round-the-clock ICU nursing pulled her off the critical ARDS state which is a fatal complication of Covid-19 and other respiratory viruses," Lalwani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sinhagad-road-woman-punes-first-critical-covid-19-patient-taken-off-ventilator-to-go-home-in-a-week/articleshow/74922140.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 1, 2020||India||Month’s salary ‘cut’ in Maha, Telangana||MUMBAI/HYDERABAD: Maharashtra has deferred paying a part of this month’s salary to its employees while Telangana announced cuts as a temporary measure given the sharp slide in tax revenues and stalling of economic activity due to the 21-day lockdown. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar clarified that the salaries being cut this month would be paid in two installments over the next few months. Chief minister Uddhav Thakceray said, “There is no question of slashing anyone’s salary.” Maharashtra ministers and all MLAs will be paid 40% of their salaries for March. Class I and II employees will be paid half their salaries and Class III 75% of their salaries. But Class IV employees will get their full salaries. In Telangana, all ministers and legislators will see a 75% cut in their salaries, those in alll-India services will get a 60% cut while all other state government employees will see their’s cut by 50%. Class IV staff, outsourced employees and contract workers will face a 10% cut in their salary. Government pensioners will get only 50% of their pension. Class IV retired employees will get 90% their pension amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/months-salary-cut-in-maha-telangana/articleshow/74922142.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Irda relief on 3rd party premium payment likely||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Amid reports of many vehicle owners having not yet renewed their third party insurance cover due to the lockdown, the insurance regulator, Irda, is working on some relaxation. Sources said it may allow grace period of one month for premium payment for insurance renewal. Irda has already given relief to vehicle owners announcing that third party vehicle premium for next financial year starting Wednesday will remain same as 2019-20. It will later notify whether the rates would be revised or the same will continue. TOI has learnt that the Irda has taken up the issue with the department of financial services and there could be some announcement in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/irda-relief-on-3rd-party-premium-payment-likely/articleshow/74922148.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 1, 2020||India||PM shares his yoga clip; wonderful, says Ivanka||NEW DELHI: PM Modi on Tuesday shared a video of a Yoga ‘asana’ practised by him as he encouraged people to stay fit during the lockdown. “Whenever I get time, I practise Yoga Nidra once or twice a week. It furthers overall well-being, relaxes the mind, reduces stress and anxiety,” the PM tweeted, suggesting that one can find many videos of ‘Yoga Nidra’ on the net. US President Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump was the first among those to appreciate the video shared by Modi. In his latest “Mann Ki Baat” radio address, Modi had promised to share fitness videos, in response to a question how he was keeping fit during the 21-day lockdown. “This is wonderful. Thank you,” Ivanka Trump tweeted and followed it with #TogetherApart. Sharing YouTube yoga videos on Monday, Modi had said he was neither a fitness nor medical expert. “Practising Yoga has been an integral part of my life. I am sure many of you also have other ways of remaining fit, which you also must share,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-shares-his-yoga-clip-wonderful-says-ivanka/articleshow/74922152.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thane||Mobile app to track those in home quarantine in Thane||THANE: People from Thane who have been home-quarantined will be tracked through digital surveillance. For this, the Thane civic body has devised a system to keep tabs on the movement of such people and through a mobile application. This app will throw up timely updates to the municipal control room specifying a quarantined person's location when the app is installed in the person's cellphone. Given the averge size of a flat in the city, a breathing margin of 20-metre radius has been given. If the quarantined person oversteps the prescribed limit, the control room will be alerted. At least 1,800 people in Thane have been advised home quarantine currently and tracking each one's movements is impossible, said officials. A senior municipal official said that this move will indirectly help reduce the strain on the medical workforce that would otherwise have to keep vigil on those who have been advised home quarantine. "The app would help mitigate the chances of people venturing out of home as they would then face isolation," said this official. "Currently, civic staff cannot do the rounds of homes to ensure compliance." In the same vein, officials pointed out that the system has its downside. "If the person leaves the phone at home and steps out, there is no way to know this," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mobile-app-to-track-those-in-home-quarantine-in-thane/articleshow/74922161.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Noida woman stuck in city hospital after nervous breakdown||Kolkata: Efforts have beg-un to send a 32-year-old IT professional back to her home in Noida from MR Bangur Hospital, where she was admitted after a nervous br-eakdown at Kolkata airport.After her samples tested negative for Covid-19, permission was obtained from Kolkata Police for a vehicle to transport her to Jamshedpur, where her relatives stay.“My sister had travelled to Kolkata for personal work on March 20. She turned up at the airport for a return flight to Delhi on the day all domestic flights were grounded. When told there was no way she could return, she seems to have lost her cool and behaved in an abnormal manner. She was also disturbed as her phone was not working. We seek your assistance to get her back home,” her brother wrote to the UP chief secretary. The brother learnt of West Bengal Radio Club and its secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas, who have been instrumental in reuniting several lost people with their families. In his letter, he authorised Nag Biswas to have his sister sent home.“I got in touch with the woman’s brother and spoke to doctors. It seems people at the airport gave her strange looks and clicked her photos after the scrap with authorities over a return ticket to Delhi. She spent a couple of days at the airport till somebody reported her as a vagabond. There are some acquaintances in Kolkata, but they don’t wish to take charge. The only option is to send her to Jamshedpur. We are in touch with her relatives there,” Nag Biswas said. The challenge Biswas’ team will face is in crossing the inter-state border. While the woman has a certificate, the driver and his associate may not be allowed across. Efforts are on to get in touch with the Jharkhand police to work out a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noida-woman-stuck-in-city-hospital-after-nervous-breakdown/articleshow/74921636.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||3 cured, return home to a warm welcome||Kolkata: When the state’s first three Covid-19 survivors stepped out of Beliaghata ID hospital on Tuesday, they were apprehensive about the reception they would get in their localities once they returned home. But in an exemplary gesture, neighbours, friends and relatives of all three gave them a warm welcome for conquering a deadly foe, erasing the trauma of stigmatisation they had faced just a fortnight ago when they had tested positive for coronavirus. In Ballygunge, residents of an upscale condominium stood on their balconies waving and cheering a 53-year-old businessman, who had contracted the virus from his UK-returned son, as he got off his car and walked into his apartment smiling and acknowledging the waves. In Habra, neighbours of the 23-year-old survivor came out on the road, briefly breaking lockdown protocol, and blew conch shells to welcome the woman who had fallen ill after returning from Scotland. The members of the residents’ association of the EM Bypass apartment complex where the city’s first Covid-19 patient, an 18-year-old Oxford University student, lives also welcomed the family home and took steps to ensure they are not victimised or harassed. As per protocol, all three will have to stay in home isolation for the next 14 days to avoid chances of recurrence of the disease. “I am happy to be back home. The doctors were very motivating and always asked me not to panic. Back home, I am touched by the reception,” the 23-year-old Habra resident said. Members of the residents’ association of the Ballygunge condominium had sent text messages to all flatowners to ensure the 53-year-old Covid-19 survivor wasn’t victimised or bothered. The businessman had tested positive on March 22, two days after his 22-year-old London-returned son became the city’s second coronavirus patient. The businessman, his son, wife and domestic help were all undergoing treatment at the ID hospital for the last two weeks and he was the first to recover and return home. “Since the time we learnt he has been cured and is returning home, we have been sending text messages to all residents to ensure that no one harasses him. I have been constantly trying to raise awareness in the forum that those who contract the disease are victims and not criminals. Our complex is like a big family and we want to keep it that way,” said the president of the resident’s association. Another member of the association added that since the businessman now needs to stay in home isolation for 14 days, if needed, the association would take the responsibility of fetching essentials and keeping these outside his door. The city’s first Covid-19 victim and his parents are also preparing to head back to their condominium off EM Bypass after the 18-year-old was released on Tuesday evening. The parents have sent a mail to the resident’s association informing about their arrival and seeking permission to disinfect their. The teen, who tested positive on March 18, was shamed on social media along with his parents for allegedly violating the 14-day home quarantine protocol after his return from UK and visiting a number of places, including the state secretariat Nabanna. The youth had allegedly even received death threats. “None from our complex ever misbehaved with them. Now that the boy is cured and his parents have also tested negative, they are more than welcome to come back home. We will ensure no one harasses them,” said the secretary of the association. A Covid-19 patient has to test negative to the virus in two consecutive tests conducted within 24 hours during the process of treatment. “Once this is over and we are satisfied with the infection control part they are ready to be discharged. We are happy that we could send the three patients home. We are hopeful of sending many more patients home in the coming days,” said the doctor leading the core Covid-19 team at ID hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-cured-return-home-to-a-warm-welcome/articleshow/74921688.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Noida woman stuck in city hospital after nervous breakdown||Kolkata: Efforts have beg-un to send a 32-year-old IT professional back to her home in Noida from MR Bangur Hospital, where she was admitted after a nervous br-eakdown at Kolkata airport. After her samples tested negative for Covid-19, permission was obtained from Kolkata Police for a vehicle to transport her to Jamshedpur, where her relatives stay. “My sister had travelled to Kolkata for personal work on March 20. She turned up at the airport for a return flight to Delhi on the day all domestic flights were grounded. When told there was no way she could return, she seems to have lost her cool and behaved in an abnormal manner. She was also disturbed as her phone was not working. We seek your assistance to get her back home,” her brother wrote to the UP chief secretary. The brother learnt of West Bengal Radio Club and its secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas, who have been instrumental in reuniting several lost people with their families. In his letter, he authorised Nag Biswas to have his sister sent home. “I got in touch with the woman’s brother and spoke to doctors. It seems people at the airport gave her strange looks and clicked her photos after the scrap with authorities over a return ticket to Delhi. She spent a couple of days at the airport till somebody reported her as a vagabond. There are some acquaintances in Kolkata, but they don’t wish to take charge. The only option is to send her to Jamshedpur. We are in touch with her relatives there,” Nag Biswas said. The challenge Biswas’ team will face is in crossing the inter-state border. While the woman has a certificate, the driver and his associate may not be allowed across. Efforts are on to get in touch with the Jharkhand police to work out a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noida-woman-stuck-in-city-hospital-after-nervous-breakdown/articleshow/74921633.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Midnapore drags feet on Covid patient||Daspur: It has taken the West Midnapore administration four days to get its act together and begin contact tracing of a 30-year-old man from the district who has tested positive for Covid-19. The man, who works at a jewellery store in Mumbai, returned home to Nizampur in Daspur by train on March 22 and was advised to follow quarantine protocol. On Ma-rch 28, health workers found he had fever. He was taken to a primary health centre, which referred him to Ghatal Superspecialty Hospital. The man was soon shifted to Midnapore MCH and tested on March 29. After the report came positive, the hospital sent a sample to NICED, Kolkata, that day. The report that came on Monday night was also positive. The patient was shifted to Beliaghata ID Hospital on Tuesday, jolting the administration out of slumber. CMOH Girish Chandra Bera said there was standing instruction on home quarantine for anybody coming to the district . “We have asked the railways to provide us details of co-passengers who travelled with him between Mumbai and Kharagpur,” Bera added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midnapore-drags-feet-on-covid-patient/articleshow/74921635.cms||Sujay Khanra
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt traces 40 who attended Delhi meet||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Tuesday traced 40 persons, including several foreign nationals, staying in mosques in Kolkata and elsewhere in the state who had been to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters in Delhi earlier this month. All of them are being shifted to a facility near the airport where a special isolation unit is being set up; the entire band of 40 will be tested on Tuesday itself and quarantined for the next two weeks. The hectic activity in Kolkata coincided with a central input, which said 73 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi might have come to Bengal. Eight of those traced are now in a mosque near New Market and all of them are Delhi residents. Mosque secretary Mohammad Nooruddin told TOI that the group reached the mosque on March 22, the day of the janata curfew, and were supposed to leave for Bangladesh three days later. “But, then, the lockdown was declared and everyone was told to stay where they were. So they could not return. They have been staying in the mosque since then,” Nooruddin said. “They are in good health. We are getting in touch with the state government right away to help isolate them till they can return home,” Nooruddin said on Tuesday morning. State health department officials said later on Tuesday that the process of shifting these eight people had already started. “A lot of people have got in touch with us. We have already identified 40 people who are being shifted to the facility that has been earmarked for this purpose. Cops are coordinating the entire process. We will conduct the necessary tests on Tuesday and, if they they are found to be fit after the quarantine, we will help them reach home,” a Bengal Haj department spokesperson said. “All those from Bengal who participated in this event (Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi) are being identified and will be immediately tested for Covid-19 and put in the mandatory 14-day quarantine,” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay confirmed on his Twitter handle. Officials said the central inputs that came on Monday night had alerted the Bengal government about the possibility of several Thai, Indonesian and Malaysian nationals being part of the 73 who came to the state. The Bengal government then put together a core team, including a senior MP, to coordinate with the administration and sent out a message to all imams across the state to alert it immediately if they came across any such persons. “The response has been very good and we are still receiving information,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govt-traces-40-who-attended-delhi-meet/articleshow/74921713.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s worst day so far: 3 more coronavirus deaths take toll to 5; total cases jump by 15 to 37||KOLKATA: Three deaths — two in Howrah on Monday and another at NRS Hospital on Tuesday — were declared to be because of Covid-19. The three death pronouncements brought the number of fatalities over the last 48 hours to four and Bengal’s toll to five so far. Tuesday also saw as many as 15 people testing positive — the highest single-day jump in cases — taking the total count of affected people to 37. The Howrah woman’s positive report was released a day after her death, even as health workers at Howrah State General Hospital, where she was under treatment, sounded the alarm, alleging isolation protocols hadn’t been maintained. They alleged she had been admitted to a general ward before being moved into isolation at the ICU, exposing dozens of others. According to the nurses, none of them wore protective gear while attending to her. Cops have directed her family to be in home isolation. The person who died at NRS was later found to be Covid-positive. Three of Tuesday’s 15 fresh cases were relatives — the wife, daughter and son — of the Army doctor who had tested positive on Sunday. The fourth positive case is a woman who recently returned from Italy. She is being treated in isolation at a private hospital in Dum Dum. While a 51-year-old Salt Lake resident tested positive at AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, a 52-year-old NGO worker from Tollygunge was detected with the virus at AMRI, Dhakuria. A 52-year-old man from Belgharia in North 24 Parganas — under treatment at a private hospital — also tested positive, along with a 30-year-old from Daspur in West Midnapore, who is now admitted at Midnapore Medical College Hospital. No details have yet emerged about the other five people who tested positive. On the brighter side, Bengal’s first three who had tested positive — the 18-year-old student, the father of a Ballygu-nge youth and a woman student who had returned from Scotland — were declared cured and released from the Beliaghata ID Hospital. They will have to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. The Ballygunge youth is also well on the way to recovery, sources said. It was later found out that the man admitted at AMRI Salt Lake had hosted a visitor from the US at his home on March 17. He had also attended a party on March 19, in which the US visitor was present. The NGO worker admitted at AMRI Dhakuria had visited Odisha recently. The 30-year-old from Das-pur had returned to Kharagpur from Mumbai by train on March 22. He had taken a suburban train to Panskura, from where he travelled back to his Daspur home by car with his father. The 30-year-old has been admitted to Midnapore Medical College Hospital, while six members of the youth’s family have been quarantined. He was admitted to the hospital on March 28 and a swab sample tested positive. It was confirmed by NICED, whose report reached on Monday night. Three hundred have been put in isolation in West Midnapore on Tuesday. At Belgharia’s Rathtala, a 57-year-old owner of a fast food outlet tested positive. A diabetic who has been on dialysis, he developed breathing trouble on March 23 and fever the next day. Since his breathing distress did not ease, he was admitted to a nursing home on March 26. His swab sample was sent for testing on Monday. It was revealed that his brother-in-law had recently returned from Mumbai and was put in isolation. Two doctors, three nurses and two health workers of the hospital are now in quarantine. The man’s breathing distress persists and his condition was stated to be serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-worst-day-so-far-3-more-deaths-take-toll-to-5-total-cases-jump-by-15-to-37/articleshow/74921679.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: More than a lakh told to go for home isolation in 24 hours||KOLKATA: As many as 1,03,391 people have been asked to go on home isolation just on Tuesday when the home quarantine figures stood at 47,301 on Monday, a West Bengal health bulletin released by Swasthya Bhawan states. People sent on home isolation forms a major part of the total 1,03,419 people enlisted for observation on Tuesday. However, collection of swab samples from suspected Covid-19 patients decreased on Tuesday. The state health bulletin says 62 swab samples were collected on Monday while only 24 were collected on Tuesday. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the state health department has beefed up the corona management system in terms of social distancing and treatment. Swasthya Bhawan has formed a seven-member critical care committee for treatment of patients at Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata, that has thrown open its emergency ward for Covid-19 patients. The committee includes, Tamal Kanti Ghosh (special secretary), Asutosh Ghosh (CCU in charge SSKM), Bibhuti Saha ( HOD, School of Tropical Medicine), Saugata Dasgupta ( CCU in charge RG Kar), Monotosh Sutradhar (SSKM), Suparno Paul (RG Kar) and Soma Sil (technical officer). The state has also extended the tenure of house staffs in government hospitals by another month till April 30 in a bid to meet the deficit in the doctors’ pool. Swasthya Bhawan has arranged for isolation facilities with a total of 1,317 beds across 100 hospitals in Bengal. The state bulletin mentions that 27 swab samples, of the total 543 suspects sent for tests, have tested positive. CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday went to the Lalbazar to give a boost to the policemen on duty. “Have all of you got masks? You are not maintaining the minimum distance while on duty. You are at the forefront,” the CM said. She also wrote personally to all frontline healthcare staff. lauding their efforts, she urged them to take care of their family and be careful. She also provided each of these officers the CMO contact details to reach out should they need any help for them or their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-a-lakh-told-to-go-for-home-isolation-in-24-hrs/articleshow/74921402.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: LPG situation gets a bit better in some areas||MUMBAI: The LPG cylinder situation seemed to have improved in a few areas on Tuesday though people continued to stand in queues in some parts of the city. In Parel, Dharmesh Sangoi from Matoshree Pride building said the one-km queue had reduced to a 200m one on Tuesday. He said some had got messages from the local HP Gas dealer stating they were working to provide doorstep delivery. In sector 5 at Charkop in Kandivali, Ganesh Mayekar said the situation was improving and deliveries had begun in a few buildings. "It was a tough experience waiting in a queue for one to two hours and then having to lug home a heavy cylinder. Nearly 15 societies in our area are keen to switch to piped gas and we will expedite the process once the lockdown ends," he told TOI. In parts of Ghatkopar, Kurla, Bandra-Khar, Bhandup-Mulund and Goregaon, the dealers sent delivery boys with the small vans to deliver the LPG cylinders either to the doorstep or near the building gates. After TOI took up the issue of senior citizens and the disabled being left in the lurch, state government officials assured they would take up the matter. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad from D Ward on Monday met a few gas supply agencies. "Suppliers (in the ward) have assured they will make every effort to provide gas cylinders. I have also requested home delivery of cylinders to senior citizens," he later mentioned on social media. Several senior citizens in this ward stay in highrises in Napean Sea Road and Breach Candy. For a senior citizen couple, aged 74 and 69 years, residing in Madan House, Prarthna Samaj, in South Mumbai, it was a daunting task convincing the local gas dealer to deliver. Their daughter, Jaishree Mistry, who stays separately, said there should be a mechanism to address the problems of senior citizens. In a statement to TOI on Tuesday, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd chairman and managing director D Rajkumar said, "Our distributors are making all efforts to deliver Bharatgas cylinders at the doorstep of our consumers. We will ensure cylinders reach your home."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lpg-situation-gets-a-bit-better-in-some-areas/articleshow/74922178.cms||Somit Sen
April 1, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu lead spurt, 315 cases on Tuesday as total crosses 1600||NEW DELHI: In a massive surge in fresh cases led by 82 in Maharashtra and 57 in Tamil Nadu, 315 new coronavirus infections were reported in the country on Tuesday — nearly double the previous day’s number — taking the total number of cases detected in India galloping to 1,618. The number of deaths among Covid-19 cases too rose by nine to 52 so far. As many as 626 new cases have been reported in the past three days, accounting for nearly 40% of all cases so far. Delhi, which has become one of the worst affected states with at least two major hotspots, Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden area of the city, confirmed 23 new cases taking its total tally to 120. This, however, doesn’t include any fresh case of Covid-19 among the people taken out from Nizamuddin mosque as the government claimed their test reports were awaited. Read AlsoCoronavirus: State govts race to curb spread as hundreds from Tablighi meet show symptomsGovernment authorities are tackling a logistical nightmare as they try to map the movements of thousands of people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation end-February and early March in New Delhi and then dispersed, many carrying the novel coronavirus to states across the length and breadthThe Delhi government said, of the 23 new cases, eight had travel history, seven had come in contact with infected persons and the details of eight others were under investigation. Sources said the Delhi figures may shoot up exponentially in the coming days as 441 out of 1,548 followers members of Tablighi Jamaat, who were taken out from the mosque on Sunday and Monday, are highly symptomatic of Covid-19. With the rush of new cases on Tuesday, Maharashtra now has recorded 302 Covid-19 infections, the third hundred for the state coming in two days as opposed to the first hundred that took a fortnight and second that took six days. The state also reported two more deaths, one from Mumbai and the other from Palghar, taking the total toll to 12. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesWith tens of new infections linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi earlier in the month, Tamil Nadu’s count of coronavirus cases nearly doubled in a single day, going from 67 to 124 on Tuesday. Apart from Tamil Nadu, three more states — Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka — joined Maharashtra and Kerala in registering more than 100 cases so far. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn Maharashtra, of the cases reported on Tuesday, 59 were from Mumbai, 13 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region, five from Pune, three from Ahmednagar and two from Buldhana. The state attributed the sharp single-day spike to book-keeping adjustments and said that reports from private laboratories received over the last few days had been added to the count. With 151 cases, Mumbai now is on the top of the state list, followed by 48 cases in Pune rural and city and 25 cases in Sangli. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAlso, Jharkhand and Assam which had remained untouched from the Covid-19 crisis so far, reported their first cases. A Malaysian woman, 22, who was found staying at Badi Masjid at Hindipri locality in state capital Ranchi as part of Tablighi Jamaat group, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Read AlsoTablighi Jamaat meet: 250+ foreigners under watch as 20 test positive in past 10 daysOver 250 foreign nationals have been quarantined or admitted to isolation wards in various states in India following the revelation that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregations in Delhi. At least 20 of these foreigners tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 10 days, including aIn Assam, a 52-year-old man admitted to Assam’s Silchar Medical College in Assam tested positive for the disease. He is a cancer patient and had returned from Delhi recently. State authorities said the man is suspected to have attended the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat. As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus hotspot. With 19 more patient testing positive for Covid-19, Madhya Pradesh’s total cases shot up to 66 on Tuesday. Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally, officials said. Total five Covid-19 deaths have been confirmed in the states, including two deaths confirmed one Tuesday. West Bengal also reported three more deaths and 15 new novel coronavirus cases. The death toll in the state has now risen to five. In Bihar, a 35-year-old man from Gopalganj in north Bihar tested positive for Covid-19 virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 16 in the state. Gujarat reported only six new cases of Covid-19, taking the state tally to 74. Ahmedabad, its capital, has been identified as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the country with 23 cases. Noida and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Bhilwara in Rajasthan, and Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra are the other hotspots along with the Kasargod district of Kerala. UP confirmed seven new cases, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to 103 on Tuesday. Five of the new cases were reported from Bareilly, while one each from Noida and Ghaziabad. J&K Government on Tuesday said six new positive cases of Covid-19 had been recorded taking their tally to 55. Watch Cases of coronavirus cross 1600 in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-india-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-lead-spurt-315-cases-on-tuesday-as-total-crosses-1600/articleshow/74921742.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court rejects bail pleas of two accused in Elgar case||MUMBAI: A special court on Tuesday rejected the interim bail pleas of two accused in the Elgar Parishad case, P Varavara Rao (80) and Shoma Sen (61), who had sought relief citing the coronavirus pandemic and their advanced age. Special judge RR Bhosale said the directive allowing undertrials to be released on bail in light of coronavirus excluded, among others, offenders under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). "Thus, the accused are not entitled to interim bail on that ground," the court said. While Rao is in Taloja jail, Sen is lodged at Byculla jail along with another accused, Sudha Bharadwaj. Rao's defence lawyer R Satyanarayan had told the court he was suffering from multiple ailments and could contract coronavirus due to his vulnerable condition. Sen's lawyer Sharif Shaikh had submitted that she suffered from osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure. Older people and those with underlying medical conditions were more likely to develop coronavirus, Sen's defence argued. Both Rao and Sen sought their release on temporary bail for a period decided by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-two-accused-in-elgar-case/articleshow/74922186.cms||Rebecca Samervel
April 1, 2020||Noida||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922223.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922204.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922222.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||32 foreigners, 127 others quarantined in Haryana||CHANDIGARH/AMBALA: Haryana police and health officials on Tuesday raced to track people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi earlier this month at its Nizamuddin West headquarters, which has turned into a novel coronavirus hotspot. As many as 159 persons, including 32 foreigners, with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were quarantined across Haryana during the day-long drive. The search operations for people linked to the Jamaat were carried out throughout the state. Punjab has identified nine and Himachal 17 people who attended the congregation. However, Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who also holds the charge of health ministry, said the state had no definite numbers as yet but he had asked the state home secretary to compile details of persons from Haryana linked to the Jamaat. "Our teams are working and we are hopeful of getting a clear picture by Wednesday evening, The home secretary too has been directed to compile the records," said Vij.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/32-foreigners-127-others-quarantined-in-haryana/articleshow/74922208.cms||Manvir Saini
April 1, 2020||Business||Donation to PM CARES eligible for 100% tax sop||NEW DELHI: Any donation made to the PM CARES Fund shall be eligible for 100% deduction under section 80G of the I-T Act, according to the Ordinance which was promulgated on Tuesday by the government. This amended the provisions of the Income Tax Act to provide the same tax treatment to the PM CARES Fund as available to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. According to a finance ministry statement, the limit on deduction of 10% of gross income shall also not be applicable for donation made to the PM CARES Fund. This special fund — ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)’ — has been set up for providing relief to those affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The date for making various investment/payment for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of the I-T Act, which includes section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC, etc), 80D (mediclaim), 80G (donations), has been extended to June 30, 2020. Hence the investment/payment can be made up to June 30 for claiming the deduction under these sections for 2019-20, according to the provisions of the Ordinance. The government has unveiled several measures to ease the compliance and regulatory burden on common citizens and companies. It has extended the date for Aadhaar-PAN linking to June 30 from the earlier March 31 among several other steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/donation-to-pm-cares-eligible-for-100-tax-sop/articleshow/74922209.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Missing two instalments may add 10 months to loan||NEW DELHI: Hit by the lockdown and faced with uncertainty, many people are looking to avail of the repayment relief that banks are offering. Although banks are yet to announce the details of the relief package and how it will work out, we do know that this is only a grace period and they are likely to charge interest for the unpaid amount. Missing two instalments could extend your loan by 6-10 months, or increase the EMI amount by 1.5%. The borrower may be given three options by the lender: Read AlsoBanks to roll out EMI waiver options soonBanks will soon come out with the operational procedure for retail borrowers to avail a 3-month moratorium on their loans. Most lenders plan to send out text messages and emails allowing borrowers to avail the facility. The bank told customers that if an EMI was debited and they wish to avail theOption I: One-time payment in June of the interest that accrues in April and May Option II: Add the interest to the outstanding loan and increase EMI for remaining months Option III: Keep the EMI unchanged but extend the loan tenure. The number of additional EMIs will depend on the age of the loan Let us assume a borrower took a home loan of Rs 50 lakh at 9% for 20 years. The EMI comes to Rs 44,986. If he wants to skip the next two EMIs (April and May), the table given here (see graphic) shows how the moratorium will impact his repayment schedule. Clearly, the longer the remaining tenure, the bigger is the impact. This is because the interest accounts for a larger portion of the EMI in the early years and progressively comes down. Even after the first year, the interest accounts for almost 80% of the EMI. But in the 19th year, the interest portion is less than 10% in the EMI. So, people with older loans taken 10-15 years ago will not feel the burden as much as someone with a new loan taken 2-3 years ago. Ironically, people with older loans may not really need the moratorium as much as those with younger loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/missing-2-instalments-may-add-10-mths-to-loan/articleshow/74922212.cms||Babar Zaidi
April 1, 2020||Amritsar||Coronavirus: Two Pakistani men who went home via Attari land border tested positive||AMRITSAR : Two of the three Pakistani nationals who had returned home via Attari land border after a medical check-up at a private hospital in Noida, UP have tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, Mohammad Khalid and Yasir Mukhtar, who were part of the five-member group that crossed over to Pakistan via Attari international border on March 29, have been confirmed Covid-19 to have and admitted in the isolation ward of Services Hospital, Lahore. According to a medical test report of 15 persons released by Services Institute of Medical Sciences at 1 pm (Pakistan time) on March 31, two suspected patients -- serial number 13 and 15 -- were confirmed to be virus-positive, while Nighat -- serial number 14 -- tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/coronavirus-two-pakistani-men-who-went-home-via-attari-land-border-tested-positive/articleshow/74922216.cms||Yudhvir Rana
April 1, 2020||Business||Sunil, Lakshmi Mittal companies commit Rs 100 crore aid each||MUMBAI: As India continues to face the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, a fresh set of names from the world of business are stepping in to help those in need. On Tuesday, Sunil Mittal-led Bharti Enterprises committed Rs 100 crore to relief and recovery initiatives related to Covid-19. Beyond this, Bharti said it will match the amount contributed by its employees towards India’s fight against the coronavirus onslaught. On similar lines, Steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal said his Indian ventures will contribute Rs 100 crore to the ongoing relief efforts countrywide New Delhi-headquartered Jindal Steel & Power, Piramal Group, IFFCO — a fertiliser company owned by a cooperative society, and component maker Bharat Forge donated Rs 25 crore each to the PM Cares Fund, which was introduced last week by the Centre for Covid-19 relief efforts. While Mumbai-based Indiabulls gave Rs 21 crore. Companies have been closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with local authorities and NGOs to bolster disease prevention and resilience efforts. They have been providing medical kits that include surgeon gowns, hood caps, shoe covers and infrared thermometers to the hospitals. Some consumer durable makers have also been offering air purifiers, refrigerators and water purifiers to medical centres. Oil PSUs — ONGC and IOC — contributed Rs 300 crore and Rs 225 crore, respectively, to the PM Cares Fund. ONGC’s contribution makes it the biggest PSU donor to the PM’s relief fund. Other PSUs — Power Finance Corporation, NTPC and NHPC — have put in a total of Rs 1,125 crore. SBI employees pledged Rs 100 crore to the PM CaresFund. The 2.6 lakh employees will contribute their two days’ salary. This is perhaps one of the biggest commitments by employees of an organisation. Last week, the PSU bank had announced a commitment of 0.25% of its FY20 profit in support of Covid-19 control. Tata Group, which announced a commitment of Rs 1,500 crore, tweeted that it will allocate Rs 500 crore to the newly formed relief fund by the Centre. The government has allowed companies to contribute from their CSR funds to the PM Cares Fund. Rules require companies with a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore or profit of Rs 5 crore to contribute 2% of profit for CSR. A significant chunk of the pledge by companies have gone to the PM Cares Fund. Xiaomi India pledged Rs 15 crore to various Covid-19 relief initiatives, while digital solutions provider for capital market transactions CDSL, Jyothy Labs and Care Ratings contributed Rs 7 crore, Rs 5 crore and Rs 2.5 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sunil-lakshmi-mittal-cos-commit-100cr-aid-each/articleshow/74922219.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Central Railway to turn 482 coaches into isolation units||PUNE: The Central Railway will convert 482 coaches of trains into isolation facilities across its divisions, as the number of Covid-19 cases increases. "The work to make the makeshift isolation facilities has started at sheds such as Parel and Matunga. Similar work will also be carried out in various coaching depots," a Central Railway (CR) official said on Tuesday. The Pune division of the Central Railway is yet to get orders from its higher-ups on the work. "The prototypes for the initiative have been prepared by the authorities at the Northern Railway and North Frontier railway authorities. We will start the work once the official instructions reach us," an official with the Central Railway's Pune division said. The Indian Railways on Monday said plans were afoot to modify 5,000 passenger coaches into isolation facilities across the country. The aim is to meet the requirement of any possible exigency of keeping some coronavirus patients in isolation as and when required by the government. Officials privy to the development said each of the coaches can accommodate 10 patients and will have separate cabins meant for doctors and nurses. Once ready, the coaches will be stationed at various railway stations. The middle berth of the three-tier coaches will be removed to ensure keeping two patients in a way that the social distancing norms are maintained. On both ends of the coaches, there will be a washroom for the patients. Of the 125 railway hospitals across the country, 70 of them would be kept ready for any contingency with dedicated Covid-19 wards or floors. Around 6,500 hospital beds are being prepared to meet the possible needs of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-central-railway-to-turn-482-coaches-into-isolation-units/articleshow/74922226.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Chennai||450 delegates of Tablighi Jamaat from Tamil Nadu admitted in Delhi hospitals||CHENNAI: Fifty people who attended a three-day Tablighi Jamaat conference at a mosque in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday triggering alarm across the country. Tuesday saw the state’s Covid-19 count rise by 57 to 124 cases, the third highest after Maharashtra and Kerala, highlighting the threat of infection originating from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. The Centre and the governments of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are scrambling to prepare a national grid and map the footprints of at least 2,500 Tablighi Jamaat members who headed to their homes after two conferences, the last of which ended on March 23. Though most of them travelled to the southern states, these potential Covid-19 carriers have fanned out across the country, posing a nightmare for healthcare authorities. The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to trace and quarantine those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conferences. State health secretary Beela Rajesh said 300 of the 1,500 delegates from TN who went to the Delhi mosque were untraceable. She appealed to those ‘missing’ to come forward for screening. State chief secretary K Shanmugham said these people had switched off their phones and so the police were trying to trace their addresses. “We are doing all we can. About 400 people have remained in Delhi and the government there has screened and quarantined them,” he said. The Greater Chennai Corporation has sent 30 people, from various parts of the city, who took part in the conference, to hospitals for testing. District authorities all over the state too are identifying and screening those who went to the Delhi meet. At least eight of those who went to Delhi have died of the infection — six from Telangana, and one each from Tamil Nadu and New Delhi. Authorities believe they could have been infected by several missionaries from Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, who transited through the TJ headquarters in west Nizamuddin and spread out across the country, including Tamil Nadu, on a religious mission in February and March. The Telangana and AP governments have mobilized their health workers to track down 1,500 Muslims who participated in a threeday conference held earlier at the same Banglewali Masjid in west Nizamuddin from March 14. Sources in the Union government said these 1,500 delegates from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana took trains and flights back home. Mapping their journey and tracing those with whom they came in contact besides their families is a logistical nightmare. At TJ’s Nizamuddin headquarters, teams of health staff and police set about fumigating the area. “All the 450 Tamil delegates are in hospitals in Delhi,” said the TJ HQ spokesman Thamin Ansari. There were 800 others from UP, Jharkhand, Haryana and Andaman & Nicobar Island. “While some are in hospitals, others have been housed in private apartments and schools,” said Ansari. In Kashmir, 855 people (at least 167 attendees as well as people in contact with them) were being traced; only nine had been found. Nearly 300 people from across Karnataka attended the congregation, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday, creating a “dangerous situation” in the state. Only 26 of the delegates (all from Bidar) have been traced, which leaves the remaining attendees and a vast network of their contacts. A Tumakuru preacher who attended the meet is learned to have had direct contact with at least 82 people, including 45 family members. The 26 delegates who were traced all tested negative, state health minister B Sreeramulu tweeted. In UP, police in 18 districts had tracked down 128 of the 157 people from the state who had attended the congregation. While 120 were found to be quarantined in Delhi, eight were traced to their native villages and cities and have been quarantined at home. A search is on for the remaining 29. The police also traced 95 others who had attended Jamaat event and were not on the list of 157 from UP shared by the Delhi police. A total of 185 people from Maharashtra had attended the congregation, officials said. Maharashtra minority development minister Nawab Malik, however, said he had learned “from the media” that 109 people from his state had attended. “I have asked officials to find out how many actually attended it. We are also talking to members of the Tablighi Jamaat to find out,” he said. The Ahmednagar district administration later said it had found 35 returnees, mostly foreign nationals. At least 20 villages across Bandipora, Pulwama, Shopian and Budgam in J&K have been identified as red zones and the administration has prepared a 50-page list of people from the UT who either attended the event at the Tablighi Jamaat markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West or had been on contact with attendees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/450-delegates-of-tablighi-jamaat-from-tamil-nadu-admitted-in-delhi-hospitals/articleshow/74922220.cms||Jaya Menon
April 1, 2020||Business||Government eases procurement, spending guidelines||NEW DELHI: The government eased rules for procurement and spending to help a clutch of key departments and ministries engaged in the fight against the dreaded Covid-19 virus outbreak. The department of expenditure unveiled fresh guidelines and eased procurement rules, making it clear that procurement may be undertaken from more than one source if the entire quantity required is not available or is not immediately available from one source. It said such procurement may, if unavoidable, be at different rates. Guidelines said procurement may be undertaken through Indian missions overseas and prices shall be fixed by the mission in consultation with the ministry or department. It said rates for logistics shall be fixed by logistics committee that has been set up by the government. The expenditure department said the prevailing health emergency requires immediate procurement of items in quantities that may not be available with a single seller or within the time frame that they are needed. The department also relaxed spending guidelines in case of absence of sufficient budgetary allocation in the relevant budget provisions. It said in case a department or ministry has sufficient funds as per revised expenditure of 2019-20, they shall utilise the savings for expenditure arising out relief operations for Covid-19. This for expenditure on or before March 31, 2020. Post-facto approval can be received from the expenditure department for such expenditure by April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-eases-procurement-spending-guidelines/articleshow/74922233.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu orders deferment of loan dues by 3 months||As Covid-19 cases soared in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a slew of measures, including extending payment deadline of crop loan dues of cooperative societies, housing cooperative societies, TN housing board and handloom cooperative societies till June 30.  In a statement, Palaniswami said the payment of property tax, water charges, loan repayments to Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) and soft loans availed from State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (Sipcot) and payment of maintenance expenses to units operating in such industrial estates has also been deferred for three months. According to the chief minister, a special fund of 200 crore will be operated for funding the urgent needs of micro, small and medium-sized units. The period of renewal of driving licences and obtaining fitness certificates for vehicles has also been extended till June 30, 2020.  Palaniswami, who met governor Banwarilal Purohit Palaniswami along with chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy, explained to him the steps taken by the state in implementing the directives and containment plan of the Centre. P4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-orders-deferment-of-loan-dues-by-3-months/articleshow/74922238.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Leopard 'sighting' in Sector 45 sparks panic||CHANDIGARH: A search operation for a leopard allegedly spotted in Sector 45 on Tuesday triggered panic in southern sectors even though the wild cat was not traced till the filing of this report late night. The sighting comes just a day after a leopard had strayed into a house in Sector 5 and rescued after more than five hours. On Tuesday, police control room received a call at 4.45 am from Sector 45 about the presence of the leopard. The police department alerted the forest and wildlife department. UT's chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said they will continue the search operation Deputy conservator of forests Dr Abdul Qayum, said they had received calls from various sectors 45, 44, 31, 39 and 51. The department even found pugmarks of an animal on the dividing road of sectors 34 and 44, which was close to the Sector 45 location from where the first alert was received. They have taken help of forensic experts to confirm whether these pug marks were of leopard or not, he said. Qayum said police teams are also conducting checks through drone cameras. The police are also make public announcements in southern sectors. A cage was set up to trap the animal in Sector 43.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-leopard-sighting-in-sector-45-sparks-panic/articleshow/74922239.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thane||Kalina pocket sealed, death in Worli; Dombivli ups curbs||MUMBAI/KALYAN: An area in Kalina was sealed off after a man back from Italy infected others and Dombivli (east) saw restrictions imposed on public movement amid a rise in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. In Worli Koliwada, which was sealed two days earlier, a man in his 60s succumbed to Covid-19. In a video address, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi announced the restrictions in Dombivli (east). He announced the total lockdown after 14 positive cases were reported in the Kalyan-Dombivli region, with four of these being people who had gone to a wedding attended by 1,000 people on March 19. Jamblipada area in Kalina was sealed on Tuesday. Several policemen were deployed there to ensure that none of the residents entered or left the area. A 37-year-old from Kalina who had returned home on March 18 from Italy, where he had been working on a tourist ship, had tested positive for coronavirus. Later his doctor and the doctor’s son, also tested positive for Covid-19. “The area has been barricaded from all sides and the BMC licence department staff has been instructed to provide groceries to the residents,” local corporator Tulip Miranda said. “There will be no entry or exit from the area. it has been decided.” Worli Koliwada also reported three new cases, taking the positive count there to 12. A BMC official said one of the three cases was a technician who worked with a doctor in Charni Road and two others were of two nurses who also worked with a doctor who had tested positive for Covid=19. The official said the death in Worli Koliwada occurred on Monday when the man was admitted to Nair hospital. “His swab sample was collected and late on Tuesday we found that he was a Covid-19 positive patient. Accordingly, immediate contact tracing of those who he interacted with has begun,” the official said. The official said that of the 12 cases so far the had managed to trace 95 high- and lowrisk contacts. Locals said that even shops selling essentials like groceries had pulled down their shutters and medical stores in the area did not have all the medicines that were required. Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society said that he had a seven-monthold daughter and on Tuesday had stepped out to get medicines for her. “I managed to get a few medicines at a local medical store but then the store did not have all I required. Cops were not allowing us to step outside as well. The only medical store open had a queue,” he said. In an interaction with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on Twitter, several Worli residents asked him when the essential commodities shops would reopen. Singh said: “With the cordination of the health officers and the BMC we are arranging the essential goods like milk, vegetables and other grocery things for the residents.” The police said that there was no certainity about when they would open the area for the people to go and buy essential commodities. Sources said it will take two or three days to reopen stores. “Anyhow, the lockdown order is still in force and in the wake of this the joint committee of the health department of the BMC is carrying out a survey of possible spread of the virus. It will take a call. We will see that from tomorrow milk service will be available,” an official said. (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalina-pocket-sealed-death-in-worli-dombivli-ups-curbs/articleshow/74922247.cms||Richa Pinto
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Kalina pocket sealed, death in Worli; Dombivli ups curbs||MUMBAI/KALYAN: An area in Kalina was sealed off after a man back from Italy infected others and Dombivli (east) saw restrictions imposed on public movement amid a rise in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. In Worli Koliwada, which was sealed two days earlier, a man in his 60s succumbed to Covid-19. In a video address, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi announced the restrictions in Dombivli (east). He announced the total lockdown after 14 positive cases were reported in the Kalyan-Dombivli region, with four of these being people who had gone to a wedding attended by 1,000 people on March 19. Jamblipada area in Kalina was sealed on Tuesday. Several policemen were deployed there to ensure that none of the residents entered or left the area. A 37-year-old from Kalina who had returned home on March 18 from Italy, where he had been working on a tourist ship, had tested positive for coronavirus. Later his doctor and the doctor’s son, also tested positive for Covid-19. “The area has been barricaded from all sides and the BMC licence department staff has been instructed to provide groceries to the residents,” local corporator Tulip Miranda said. “There will be no entry or exit from the area. it has been decided.” Worli Koliwada also reported three new cases, taking the positive count there to 12. A BMC official said one of the three cases was a technician who worked with a doctor in Charni Road and two others were of two nurses who also worked with a doctor who had tested positive for Covid=19. The official said the death in Worli Koliwada occurred on Monday when the man was admitted to Nair hospital. “His swab sample was collected and late on Tuesday we found that he was a Covid-19 positive patient. Accordingly, immediate contact tracing of those who he interacted with has begun,” the official said. The official said that of the 12 cases so far the had managed to trace 95 high- and lowrisk contacts. Locals said that even shops selling essentials like groceries had pulled down their shutters and medical stores in the area did not have all the medicines that were required. Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society said that he had a seven-monthold daughter and on Tuesday had stepped out to get medicines for her. “I managed to get a few medicines at a local medical store but then the store did not have all I required. Cops were not allowing us to step outside as well. The only medical store open had a queue,” he said. In an interaction with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on Twitter, several Worli residents asked him when the essential commodities shops would reopen. Singh said: “With the cordination of the health officers and the BMC we are arranging the essential goods like milk, vegetables and other grocery things for the residents.” The police said that there was no certainity about when they would open the area for the people to go and buy essential commodities. Sources said it will take two or three days to reopen stores. “Anyhow, the lockdown order is still in force and in the wake of this the joint committee of the health department of the BMC is carrying out a survey of possible spread of the virus. It will take a call. We will see that from tomorrow milk service will be available,” an official said. (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kalina-pocket-sealed-death-in-worli-dombivli-ups-curbs/articleshow/74922245.cms||Richa Pinto
April 1, 2020||Business||World economy will go into recession, says report||NEW DELHI: The world economy will go into recession this year with a predicted loss of global income in trillions of dollars and this will spell serious trouble for developing countries, with the likely exception of China and the possible exception of India, a top UN agency has said. “The economic fallout from the shock is ongoing and increasingly difficult to predict, but there are clear indications that things will get much worse for developing economies before they get better,” UNCTAD secretarygeneral Mukhisa Kituyi said. The report said in two months since the virus began spreading beyond China, developing countries have taken an enormous hit in terms of capital outflows, growing bond spreads, currency depreciations and lost export earnings, including from falling commodity prices and declining tourist revenues. “On most of these measures the impact has cut deeper than in 2008. With domestic economic activity now feeling effects of the crisis, UNCTAD is not optimistic about the kind of rapid rebound witnessed in many developing countries between 2009 and 2010,” the report said. Prices of commodities, on which many developing countries heavily depend for their foreign exchange, have also dropped precipitously since the crisis began. The overall price decline has been 37% this year, according to the report. In recent days, advanced economies and China have put together massive government packages which, according to the Group of 20 leading economies (G20), will extend a $5 trillion lifeline to their economies. This represents an unprecedented response to an unprecedented crisis, which will attenuate extent of the shock physically, economically and psychologically, it said. The full details of these stimulus packages are yet to be unpacked, but an initial assessment by UNCTAD estimates that they will translate to a $1 trillion to $2 trillion injection of demand into the major G20 economies and a two percentage point turnaround in global output. UNCTAD proposed a fourpronged strategy that could begin to translate expressions of international solidarity into concrete action. This should include a $1-trillion liquidity injection, a kind of helicopter money drop for those being left behind through reallocating existing special drawing rights at IMF and adding a new allocation that will need to go considerably beyond the 2009 allocation made in response to the global financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/world-eco-will-go-into-recession-says-report/articleshow/74922249.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Driving licences expired from February 1 valid till June||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Tuesday announced that all driving licences, registration and fitness certificates and other motor vehicle documents that expired from February 1 will now be valid till June 30. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the decision was taken after the Centre's advisory due to countrywide lockdown. Accordingly, all these documents which could not be renewed due to the lockdown will be treated valid till June 30, he said. In an advisory, the ministry of road transport and highways had asked all states and union territories to consider documents like driving licences, permits and registration papers as valid till June 30. A week into the lockdown, the decision was taken to facilitate people facing difficulties in renewing the validity of these motor vehicle documents due to closure of the state-run transport offices. The documents include permits, driving licence, registration or any other document issued under the Motor Vehicle Rules, according to the advisory. The Centre had requested all states to implement the advisory in 'letter and spirit' so that people, transporters and organisations providing essential services do not get harassed. The administration has also ordered to shut the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) office in Sector 17 till further orders. Earlier, the closure orders were till March 31. The RLA authorities have already suspended regular driving test at Children Traffic Park in Sector 23. In 2019, 41,528 vehicleswere registered at the RLA. A senior RLA official said on an average they auction four series of vehicle registration numbers in a year, along with leftover number of previous years. In one series there are 10,000 numbers. So, on an average, around 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles are registered every year in Chandigarh, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-driving-licences-expired-from-february-1-valid-till-june/articleshow/74922253.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 1, 2020||Thane||First Thane patient recovers after 3 weeks in hospital||A 35-year-old man, the first Covid-19 patient from Thane, was discharged after three weeks in Kasturba Hospital on Tuesday. The Kasarvadavli resident tested positive two days after returning from France on March 8, but had taken precautions at home and so his wife, four-month-old son and five-year-old daughter were not infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/first-thane-patient-recovers-after-3-weeks-in-hospital/articleshow/74922275.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: First coronavirus death in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Tricity’s first Covid-19 death was confirmed on Tuesday. The 65-year-old Nayagaon resident, who had no history of travel or contact, tested positive at PGI on Monday and was on ventilator in the isolation ward. PGI director Jagat Ram, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, and UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida all have confirmed and doctors have certified it—Punjab’s fourth coronavirus victim, Tricity’s first suspected case of community transmission, died around 1pm. Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, had referred him to PGI. Before the institute isolated him, he was in the emergency medical OPD of PGI since March 25, with the 80-odd other serious patients. 31 contacts isolatedThirty-one contacts of the man have been placed under home quarantine. The man lived on rent in a colony of Nayagaon with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, and granddaughter. Besides, 18 other contacts, all residents of Mohali, of the eighth Covid-19 patient of Chandigarh have also been put under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-first-coronavirus-death-in-tricity/articleshow/74922287.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 1, 2020||Chennai||30 scientists find a home in deep sea on four Chennai-based ships||CHENNAI: Nearly 100 crew members, including 30 scientists, who have been on scientific missions on board ocean research vessels have decided to stay put till the 21-day lockdown in the country ends. They are on board four ships belonging to the Chennai-based National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) which set sail more than three weeks ago to map the seabed, study samples and deploy tsunami warning systems on the east and west coasts. NIOT director M A Atmanand said scientists on Sagar Nidhi, Sagar Manjusha, Sagar Anveshika and Sagar Tara have been collecting different kinds of data. "Staying there is safer than coming to land. We have instructed all our four ships to return around April 14," he said. One of the ships has two scientists from the US, who would continue with their research as they cannot fly back to their country due to the suspension of flights. Sagar Nidhi was expected arrive in the Goa coast on Tuesday, and the other three ships were to return on Thursday. Sagar Nidhi, carrying 25 scientists, had deployed the tsunami system in the Arabian Sea. D Rajasekhar, head, vessel management cell, NIOT, said. "The other ships are stocked with supplies till mid-April. Even if they are to come to land, the crew members will have to go into quarantine for 15 days. So, it's better to be there," he said. Onboard tools mapping seabedS agar Manjusha and the recently commissioned Sagar Anveshika are carrying out scientific measurements and collecting data in the Bay of Bengal as part of various projects. The onboard instruments have been mapping the seabed besides gathering and testing water samples. Sagar Tara, another new ship, is carrying out bathymetric surveys (mapping underwater features) for setting up desalination plants in the Lakshadweep Islands. “Recently, we supplied three of our ships with rations and water in the outer anchorage of ports in Chennai and Beypore in Kerala,” Rajasekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/30-scientists-find-a-home-in-deep-sea-on-four-chennai-based-ships/articleshow/74922290.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Spike in numbers bound to happen, want to minimize severity: Maharashtra minister||Public health minister Rajesh Tope was in conversation with Bhavika Jain and Sumitra DebRoy on Tuesday on Maharashtra's preparedness to tackle the coronavirus crisis. Excerpts: As on Tuesday, the state has recorded 235 cases and 10 deaths, and the numbers seem to be growing every day. Has the government drawn up any projections? We are expecting numbers to spike, it is bound to happen. We are working so that severity of cases can be minimised. There are 1,500 ventilators and nearly 7,800 beds in government hospitals kept aside for Covid-19 cases. Besides, the state can take over private hospitals and use their facilities, if such a situation arises. There have been several cases now where patients don't seem to have a travel history or a contact. Are these instances of community transmission? It's true that in some cases, we have not been able to reach the source of infection. But we can't say that community transmission has begun. I am sure these people came in contact with someone with a travel history which detailed contact tracing would have revealed. Do you think we are going the last mile to trace contacts and quarantine them? Kerala has quarantined over a lakh while the state has only 20,000 under observation. There is room for improvement. Now that we have locked down the state, our focus is on contact tracing. We have pooled in people from all health programmes to join hands with ASHA workers. We now plan to include even 4,000 volunteers who work towards malaria prevention. Unlike states like Kerala that has tested over 7,500, Maharashtra has barely tested 6,300 people despite reporting the second highest number of cases in India. Currently 21 laboratories, including 13 government and eight private, are testing 700-800 samples every day. The existing labs have not reached their optimum capacity, which is nearly 2,300 samples. Reason our numbers are less is that we are sticking to the Centre's testing protocol, where only people with travel history, primary contacts and those with symptoms are tested. The state plans to scale up testing, but how will laboratories come up overnight and where will manpower come from? We plan to start testing in all government medical colleges, for which the Indian Council of Medical Research's permission has been sought. As for manpower, we have got on board microbiologists who are being trained by the National Institute of Virology, Pune for 3-4 days. Aurangabad and Dhule, for instance, have already started labs. Nanded, Solapur and Gondia will soon follow. Doctors and nurses in many government hospitals have spoken of shortage of protective gear like PPEs, masks and gloves. Does the state have enough? We have adequate PPEs for those directly treating coronavirus patients. However, complaints of shortage are coming as doctors and nurses from other departments have started demanding PPEs. If that's the situation, we will never have enough. The medical fraternity should be assured that we are procuring more. We are also looking at airlifting them directly from a factory in China. New York has extended the lockdown by a month, even the UK Prime Minister has hinted that it may be extended. Are there talks to extend the lockdown in the country? So far there have been no talks about extending the lockdown. Even if a decision is taken, it will be from Delhi after considering the number of cases in the country on April 14. In case Prime Minister Modi takes a decision to extend the lockdown, we will have to follow his decision and may not be able to deviate from it. What's your message to doctors? It's important that non-Covid patients don't flood hospitals, especially when the flu season is around. If they don't have access to N95 masks, doctors can use three-ply masks which are recommended by the scientific community and continue to treat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spike-in-numbers-bound-to-happen-want-to-minimize-severity-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/74922297.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighis tested, jack up Covid-19 cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/ VIJAYAWADA: Coronavirus positive cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh saw a sharp spike on Tuesday with the two state governments aggressively tracking down all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in mid-March. While Andhra Pradesh reported 21 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 44, Telangana's tally jumped by 15 to 97. This is the highest number of positive cases recorded in a single day in the two states thus far and all of them had either attended the meet in Delhi or were relatives of those who had returned from the meet. According to the Jamaat sources, 746 people from Andhra Pradesh and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes after the sudden lockdown. Besides reaching out to Tablighi members, mosques in both states asked Jamaat members to voluntarily report at government hospitals if they had attended the Delhi meet. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP said, "They can also inform on helpline 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus." Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendar too appealed to the people who had gone to Delhi for prayers to get tested in government-run Gandhi Hospital. Sources said about 300 samples have so far been tested in Telangana and more clarity would emerge on the numbers after further tests on Wednesday. The two governments have also tracked down many of the contacts of those who had returned from Delhi and asked them to go into home quarantine. Disinfection drive taken up near patient’s home, localityIn Andhra Pradesh, the initial hint of the Old Delhi connection to the spread of the disease came when a 52-year-old tobacco businessman from Guntur district tested positive for the virus on March 24, followed by several other cases. Two other patients from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh are close contacts of a Karnataka man, who had returned from Mecca. One of the cases is from Peddapuram in East Godavari district. He also has a travel history to Mecca, before the Saudi government stopped issuance of visas for pilgrims to the country. East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela told TOI that medical authorities sent the 18 family members, relatives and neighbours of the Peddapuram patient to an isolation ward on Tuesday. In addition to this, they also carried out disinfection activities in the vicinity of the patient’s house. “Nearly 100 close contacts of the two patients from Kakinada and Rajahmundry, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after attending the religious meeting in Delhi, were admitted to hospital. We have been tracing other contacts of the patients,” said Dr Suseela. Telangana on Tuesday had highest number of Corona cases in single day with a total of 15 people testing positive. These are the people or their family members who went to Delhi for prayers in Marqaz Nizamuddin mosque With this, total number of cases have gone to 97 in Telangana. Till now 14 people are discharged from the hospitals and six deaths are reported in the state. Four of the victims had gone for the prayer meet in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tablighis-tested-jack-up-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/74922300.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Tablighis tested, jack up Covid-19 cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/ VIJAYAWADA: Coronavirus positive cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh saw a sharp spike on Tuesday with the two state governments aggressively tracking down all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in mid-March. While Andhra Pradesh reported 21 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 44, Telangana's tally jumped by 15 to 97. This is the highest number of positive cases recorded in a single day in the two states thus far and all of them had either attended the meet in Delhi or were relatives of those who had returned from the meet. According to the Jamaat sources, 746 people from Andhra Pradesh and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes after the sudden lockdown. Besides reaching out to Tablighi members, mosques in both states asked Jamaat members to voluntarily report at government hospitals if they had attended the Delhi meet. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP said, "They can also inform on helpline 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus." Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendar too appealed to the people who had gone to Delhi for prayers to get tested in government-run Gandhi Hospital. Sources said about 300 samples have so far been tested in Telangana and more clarity would emerge on the numbers after further tests on Wednesday. The two governments have also tracked down many of the contacts of those who had returned from Delhi and asked them to go into home quarantine. Disinfection drive taken up near patient’s home, localityIn Andhra Pradesh, the initial hint of the Old Delhi connection to the spread of the disease came when a 52-year-old tobacco businessman from Guntur district tested positive for the virus on March 24, followed by several other cases. Two other patients from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh are close contacts of a Karnataka man, who had returned from Mecca. One of the cases is from Peddapuram in East Godavari district. He also has a travel history to Mecca, before the Saudi government stopped issuance of visas for pilgrims to the country. East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela told TOI that medical authorities sent the 18 family members, relatives and neighbours of the Peddapuram patient to an isolation ward on Tuesday. In addition to this, they also carried out disinfection activities in the vicinity of the patient’s house. “Nearly 100 close contacts of the two patients from Kakinada and Rajahmundry, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after attending the religious meeting in Delhi, were admitted to hospital. We have been tracing other contacts of the patients,” said Dr Suseela. Telangana on Tuesday had highest number of Corona cases in single day with a total of 15 people testing positive. These are the people or their family members who went to Delhi for prayers in Marqaz Nizamuddin mosque With this, total number of cases have gone to 97 in Telangana. Till now 14 people are discharged from the hospitals and six deaths are reported in the state. Four of the victims had gone for the prayer meet in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tablighis-tested-jack-up-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/74922347.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Nizamuddin congregation: FIR registered against maulana, others of Tablighi Jamaat||NEW DELHI: An FIR has been registered against maulana Saad Kandhalvi, head of a faction of Tablighi Jamaat, and other members of the organisation for violating government directions by holding a religious meet. Crime Branch, which is investigating the case, is also analysing an audio clip in which Saad is allegedly heard asking people not to fear novel coronavirus, calling it a conspiracy against Islam. After conducting a health check-up, police reprimanded some of the Jamaat members after they were found spitting while being taken to the buses. It was found that 3,400 people had attended the religious meet between March 11 and 13 and then left for different parts of the country. Eight men from Kyrgyzstan were found staying at a guesthouse in northwest Delhi. They have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Sultanpuri. Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said that a case under Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) has been lodged. Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against the maulavi of Jama Masjid, Wazirabad after 12 foreigners who had attended the programme in Nizamuddin were found staying inside the mosque. Police will soon quarantine them. A case has also been lodged against the owner of the house in Bharat Nagar where the Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying. The Jamaat members on Tuesday defended themselves by citing a letter written by them in response to a notice issued by ACP Lajpat Nagar. They claimed that the evacuation of Alami Markaz had to be stopped midway due to the lockdown and its members were stranded because trains were suddenly stopped. However, officials pointed out that long before the lockdown, Delhi government had called for suspending all gatherings. In fact on March 24, a day after the lockdown was announced, police had taken 1,200 Jamaat members to the airport. Despite being asked to stop the programme, another 1,000 people regrouped at the mosque between March 24 and 29 without anyone’s knowledge. Police said they weren’t given any information about people falling sick inside the mosque. No medical check-up facilities or doctor was available there. When the area SHO visited the mosque on March 23 to serve a notice asking the organisers to vacate the building, he was told that it was a religious event being held behind closed doors after adopting proper quarantine measures. It was only on March 28 when a WHO team and the area SDM reached Alami Markaz that they discovered that people inside the mosque were also symptomatic of infection from the virus. Ashraf, a spokesperson of Tablighi Jamaat, claimed that they never violated any provision of law. It did not let the visitors, who came to Delhi from different states and nations, violate the medical guidelines by thronging ISBTs or roaming on the streets. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Jamaat said: “Markaz Nizamuddin would like to humbly offer the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help the authorities tide over the challenge of the current pandemic.” Delhi Police has written a letter to Delhi Government seeking immediate action against Tablighi Jamaat members, including 157 foreigners, who are currently staying at various places and mosques in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-registered-against-maulana-others/articleshow/74920881.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Lucknow||128 of 157 from Uttar Pradesh who had attended Tablighi meet traced||LUCKNOW: After a 24-hour search for 157 people from the state, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, police in 18 districts managed to track down 128 of them. While 120 were found to be quarantined in Delhi, eight were traced to be at their native places and have been home-quarantined. The search of he remaining 29 is on. The police, however, traced 95 others, who had also attended the Jammat event and were not on the list of 157 from Uttar Pradesh shared by the Delhi Police. 11 Bangladeshi nationals who were staying in a Bhadohi mosque after Tablighi meet have been quarantined DGP: Cops from 18 dists roped in to trace membersThe UP Police had received the list after Jammat headquarters in Delhi's Nizamuddin, which hosted a congregation early this month, was found to be hotspot for the spread of coronavirus. Out of these 95 people, 51 were foun in Mathura and 14 in Meerut. Besides, Jaunpur police found 30 people from other states, who had attended the Jamaat event and were coming back from Delhi, travelling in a bus. DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said that police chiefs of 18 districts had been given the task to trace the people who had visited the Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi. The 157 people who had attended the event were from Ghaziabad, Bahraich, Bhadoi, Bijnor, Baghpat, Barabanki, Prayagraj, Muzaffarnagar, Lucknow, Mathura, Agra, Sitapur, Shamli, Saharanpur, Meerut, Balrampur, Hapur and Varanasi. Senior police officials said that eight of them were found at their respective homes in various districts and have been asked to remain home quarantined after their samples were taken for further pathological tests. Sleuths with the help of surveillance and contact addresses provided by the Delhi police are now on the lookout for the remaining 29 of the 157. Police with the assistance of surveillance and health officials is tracing the 29 others. Maximum 28 persons who attended the markaz were from Muzaffarnagar, followed by 18 from Lucknow. “We have identified all of 18 who went to Nizamuddin even in Delhi, and have been quarantined by authorities in Delhi only,” said Lucknow joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora. Of 11 others -- eight from Mauaima (Prayagraj) and three from neighbouring Pratapgarh district -- who attended the Jamaat congregration in Delhi have also been traced to Delhi. They have been quarantined in a hospital by the authorities, said the SSP Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj. Similarly, in Baghpat of the four who went to attend, three were traced but one was missing. Likewise, in Mathura, of the two who attended one was in Delhi while sample of another one was taken by health authorities, despite no signs of flu or fever. In Sitapur, of the eight who attended, seven were foun quarantined in Delhi, while one was in Sitapur. He was tested and was found negative for any virus. The district administration of Barabanki also confirmed that of all the 14 who visited the markaz while Saharanpur administration found its three natives had been quarantined in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/128-of-157-from-uttar-pradesh-who-had-attended-tablighi-meet-traced/articleshow/74922304.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Increased water use during lockdown, so reduce, reuse and recycle||In many parts of the country, the lockdown owing to the corona crisis is going to spiral into another big issue — water scarcity. With a lion’s share of people still reliant on fresh water and no concept of recycle and reuse in practice, staying put at home has increased everyone’s consumption patterns multi-fold. AR Shivakumar, former scientist, Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology, Indian Institute of Science and water management advisor says, “There has been a surge in the domestic requirement, and with the depletion of groundwater, it becomes every citizen’s responsibility to save water.” Reduce water usage“The mantra is to use less and reuse more. So, collect the water that would be poured down the drain and use it for another purpose. When washing vegetables and fruits don’t do it under running water, soak them for a while in a dish and then wash. This water can be used later, to soak dirty vessels, or even for the first wash of utensils. Also, do not scrub dishes under running water,” advises Odette Katrak, co-founder Beautiful Bengaluru. Re-use and recycle“Every day, we flush down 30-50 litres of freshwater, per person, down our toilets. Substitute this with the water drained out during washing cycles of the washing machine. A washing machine uses 20%-22% of your daily water requirement, while toilet and washing combined uses 40-50%. You can save 20% by diverting the machine’s water outlet into your toilet bowl,” says Shivakumar. You can also reduce the amount of water in the flush tank by putting a one litre pet bottle filled with sand in it, says Lalithamba BV. Odette adds, “Water from washing pulses can be used to rinse dishes or water plants, but not to mop floors. Based on this, I evolved a water needs hierarchy framework depicting what secondary sources can be matched to certain needs, depending on whether clear, cloudy, soapy or muddy water would suffice.” Avoid chemical cleansers, go natural“Use natural cleansers to wash clothes, mop, and clean utensils. Unlike chemical detergents, these do not lather much and the water left thereafter, can be repurposed. We use the washing machine drain to water plants. Since the cleansers are natural and safe, there’s no harm done to the plants,” says Lalithamba. Use reject from water purifiers“For every 10%-15% of drinking water consumed by using a reverse osmosis (RO) purifier, 80% gets flushed out as reject. On average, a family uses 20-30 litres of water for drinking and cooking, which means for every 100 litres of water, you only get 20 that you can consume,” says Shivakumar. Odette adds, “Collect RO reject and use for mopping, watering plants, and cleaning the kitchen and basin, among others.” Wastage is 100 times your drinking needsOn average, a home of four people uses 30,000 litres per month, meaning 250 litres per person per day. Of this, hardly 3-4 litres is consumed, and almost 100 times of the water consumed is being flushed down. SMALL STEPS TO REDUCE WATER USE Redirect washing machine drain to clean toilet bowl Use RO reject to mop, water plants Fit aerators to taps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/increased-water-use-during-lockdown-so-reduce-reuse-and-recycle/articleshow/74919094.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Rosogolla to sandesh: Customers rush for sweets as shops reopen in Kolkata||You can keep sweets away from a Bengali, but you can’t keep a Bengali away from sweets. After a brief yet unexpected separation, Bengalis reunited with their oh-so-favourite mishti on Tuesday as a few renowned sweet chains resumed business, following a green signal from the government. Food app delivery boys queued up at shop counters on Day 1 as online demand surged. Within noon and 4 pm -- the altered business hours for sweet shops -- rosogolla, doi, sandesh, peda, kalakand and gulab jamun flew off the shelves. Welcoming the move, Sudip Mullick, owner of Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick, said, “Thanks to the government and our CM for understanding the plight of sweet makers. This decision will save millions of small dairies and tonnes of milk that was going waste. We are offering our regular as well as signature sandesh. And not to mention, rosogollas.” Safety firstThese shops are taking several precautions to ensure high safety standards. While masks and sanitisers are a must for staff, customers are being provided with hand sanitisers too. To ensure safe distance between customers, some shops have also created markings on the floor while others are asking patrons to wait outside the shop to ensure there’s no contamination. Gupta Bothers, which has sweets like peda, kalakand, sandesh and some namkeen items on sale, is focusing mainly on home delivery through apps to avoid any physical touch or contamination. Owner Muktesh Gupta said, “Our in-house staff are adhering to all hygiene norms while preparing and handling the sweets. In the lockdown period, we will be mostly delivering sweets as we don’t want customers to enter our shops. If someone visits, they can wait for their order to be delivered outside. This is a step we have taken to avoid any risk of contamination.” At Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick outlets, hand sanitisers are available on counters for the customers. Mats have been strategically placed on the floor to make sure patrons stand at a safe distance from each other. Most "Bengalis have a sweet tooth. Popular shops are ensuring proper hygiene and we trust them. I’m so happy that sweet shops are back. Now we have something to brighten up our mood amid lockdown, said Punam Gupta, a Bhawanipore resident. Smaller shops cautiousHowever, it is mostly the bigger chains that have reopened for now. Many traditional and revered north Kolkata shops – including KC Das, Putiram, Jashoda, Girish Chandra and Nakur Chandra Sweets -- are not ready to start yet, fearing safety and labour issues. “We are not thinking about business now. Our main concern is safety. We’ve been advised to stay at home and we are following that to the T. It is difficult to avoid physical contact during transactions and delivery of sweets, so it is best to reopen once the lockdown is over. Also, keeping the shop open just for four hours will hardly help our business,” said Prajesh Nandy, owner of Girish Chandra and Nakur Chandra Sweets. A few sweet shops like New Naba Krishna Guin in Bowbazar will remain open albeit with limited stocks. Owner Supravat Dey said, “We will only allow customers wearing masks inside the shop. Not more than two persons will be allowed inside at one point. We have also kept hand sanitiser for customers. A distance of three feet will be maintained between staff and patrons.” Since most of their staff have headed home in view of the lockdown, the stocks are being prepared by just three labourers. On offer are Ram bonde, rosogolla and a few types of sandesh. Precautions being taken by sweet shops1. Sweet makers and staff at shops to wear masks 2. They will sanitise their hands while making or serving sweets 3. Hand sanitisers to be provided to customers 4. Not more than two to three persons allowed to enter the shop at a time 5. Markings on the floor to ensure safe distance between customers Selling like hot cakes1. Rosogolla 2. Tok/mishti doi 3. Plain Sandesh 4. Peda 5. Kalakand 6. Gulab jamun 7. Samosa (available at a few shops post lunch hours as a snack item before they close down, amount of samosas churned out will be limited)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rosogolla-to-sandesh-customers-rush-for-sweets-as-shops-reopen-in-kolkata/articleshow/74918827.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
April 1, 2020||Business||Down 12,700 pts (31%), sensex has worst quarter||MUMBAI: As the fears about the impact of the spread of Coronavirus weighed on investor sentiment globally, Dalal Street ended its worst quarter ever on a brighter note. On Tuesday, a strong rally in sensex heavyweight Reliance Industries, along with across the board short covering and index management by large funds on the last day of the financial year, helped the index close at 29,648, up 1,028 points on the day. Of the sensex’s 30 constituents, 26 ended higher while IndusInd Bank, of late being hammered due to asset quality concerns, led the slide with a 14.7% crash. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe January-March quarter, that saw the sensex give up almost 12,700 points, or 31%—that too after reaching an all-time high at 42,274 on January 20—has been the worst in terms of points loss as well as percentage loss. Also investors wealth erosion of Rs 42.6 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 112.6 lakh crore, was the sharpest, official data showed. Foreign investors too took out over Rs 48,000 crore during the quarter, again making the three-month period the worst ever. Mutual funds, however, have acted as the cushion in the face of strong FPI selling and have recorded a net buying figure of about Rs 37,500 crore. According to a note by Shrikant Chouhan, EVP — Equity Technical Research, Kotak Securities, the day’s gains could be called the yearly and quarterly NAV management day for the market with several of the large-cap stocks closing at the day’s high. Technically, if the nifty falls below 8,350 level, it would retreat further to 8,250 or even up to 8,000 level, Chouhan said. “Global markets are doing better than expected but our markets are trading cautiously due to consistent selling from foreign institutions.” In Tuesday’s session, it was RIL that rallied over 8% and contributed about a fifth of the sensex gains which came after the company late on Monday said that its board on April 2 would consider fund raising. The decision by the company comes in the backdrop of an expected delay in stake buy by global oil major Saudi Aramco in RIL’s refinery business, a deal to offload a stake in Jio, its telecom arm to social media giant Facebook also being pushed back due to the Covid-related uncertainties, which also had shaved off over 40% of its value in less than three months and oil prices crashing by about 60% in less than two months. The other top sensex gainers in Tuesday’s session were ITC, ONGC and Tech Mahindra. Other than IndusInd Bank, the other index laggards were Maruti, Bajaj Finance and Titan, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/down-12700-pts-31-sensex-has-worst-quarter/articleshow/74921572.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Woman under quarantine in Kargil moved to hospital, delivers baby boy||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old woman, who was quarantined in Kargil near the Line of Control after one of her family members tested positive for Covid-19, has given birth to a bonny baby at a government district hospital. But the family reunion and celebrations will have to wait for a while since her kin, including her husband, continue to remain in quarantine. The father hasn’t been able to see the baby till now. Zahra Banoo gave birth to a boy on March 28, in what is possibly the first known case of “quarantine birth” in India. Zohra Banoo, the gynaecologist who attended to the mother, said the newborn weighs a healthy 3.5 kg and has been vaccinated. Two days before her due date, Zahra was shifted to the hospital from a quarantine facility in Kurbathang in an ambulance. “We shifted the mother to the out-patient department and utmost care was taken to ensure she didn’t come in contact with other patients,” said Dr Kachoo Sikandar Ali Khan, medical superintendent at the district hospital in Kargil. There are 353 people in quarantine in the district, Kargil DC Baseer Khan said. Zahra has tested negative for the coronavirus twice but those attending to the woman wore protective gear as an added precaution. By Tuesday, she had served 14 days of her quarantine and doctors said she would be released soon. Khan added that the delivery had brought much cheer among the hospital staff. “In these times of crisis, our staff volunteered to provide emotional support to the pregnant woman as she was alone,” said a doctor, citing the example of one Fatima, employed as sanitation staff at the hospital, who stayed with the mother during labour. At the quarantine facility, the father said he was happy and anxious at the same time. “This is my third child and I wish I could have been there with them,” said Vilayat Ali. “I’m grateful that the doctors supported us. We were shifted from Sankoo (a town 45km from Kargil) to the quarantine facility after my brother who had no travel history tested positive. It’s a tough region to travel with heavy snow on roads but we are glad the ambulance made that journey to bring us under medical supervision.” The parents don’t have a name for their child yet. “We’ll decide once our family is back together,” said Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/woman-under-quarantine-in-kargil-moved-to-hospital-delivers-baby-boy/articleshow/74921624.cms||Rohan Dua
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Don’t call girls for ‘kanya’ puja today, stay home and help the needy, say Delhi temples||NEW DELHI: Ahead of ashtami, when a lot of devotees perform “kanya” (or “kanjak”) puja by calling nine young girls home, major devi temples of the capital have urged people not to celebrate the occasion by inviting anyone and to stay at home, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsKanya puja is performed on the eighth and ninth day of Navaratri. It involves the worship of nine girls, representing the nine forms of Goddess Durga. Ashtami and Ram Navami also usually witness a large number of bhandaras (community kitchens), but temples heads and managements of temples such as the Kalkaji Shaktipeeth and Jhandewalan Devi have appealed to people to divert resources to help the needy during in these testing times. Rajeev Nanda, who manages the sanctum sanctorum at Katyayani Shaktipeeth at Chhatarpur said under the prevailing circumstances no one should call children at home as they may be exposed to infection. “The chief priests of Chhatarpur peeth have recommended that people keep nine representative kanjak portions in a big thaali and donate a portion to hungry cows, birds or stray dogs. Once the current crisis is over, devotees can worship the kanjaks,” Nanda said. Dedicated to the goddess Aadi Shakti, the Jhandewalan temple near Karol Bagh is among the oldest temples in Delhi and attracts lakhs of devotees during the auspicious period. Temple spokesperson Ramesh Chandra Joshi said that even the idea of “celebration” should not cross people’s minds when nation is fighting the virus outbreak and no one should call nine kanjaks home. “Devotees can carry out puja in their homes without the kanjaks. They take a vow to help the needy based on their capacities. Keep the donation aside that you want give to your temple, and dedicate it after the crisis is overcome,” Joshi said. “Nine kanjak can be replaced by a vow to help the poor and needy. We at the temple are also feeding 20,000-30,000 people who totally depend on us.” Senior public health officials have warned against any festive gatherings during Ram Navami to prevent any further spread of the coronavirus infection. “We should all stay at home and do our bit to contain the spread. That will be the best form of worship,” an official from SDMC remarked. At south Delhi’s Kalkaji shrine, head priest Surendranath Avdhoot also appealed to devotees not to do anything that violates social distancing norms. “Kanya puja has its own importance but the situation this time is such that even we will not be able to call anyone to the temple. There is no alternative. People can feed even one girl if someone is inside their home, otherwise send the food to their homes,” he added. North DMC chairperson Jai Prakash has appealed people to donate soaps, masks and hand-santisers to poor as charity. "Organise soap and mask bhandaras instead of the usual ones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dont-call-girls-for-kanya-puja-today-stay-home-and-help-the-needy-say-delhi-temples/articleshow/74921665.cms||Paras Singh
April 1, 2020||Business||Stocks fall, capping Wall Street's worst quarter since 2008||NEW YORK: Stocks fell Tuesday to close out Wall Street's worst quarter since the most harrowing days of the 2008 financial crisis. The S&P 500 dropped a final 1.6%, bringing its loss for the first three months of the year to 20% as predictions for the looming recession caused by the coronavirus outbreak got even more dire. Stocks haven't had this bad a quarter since the last time economists were talking about the worst downturn since the Great Depression, when the S&P 500 lost 22.6% at the end of 2008. The surge of coronavirus cases around the world has sent markets to breathtaking drops since mid-February, undercutting what had been a good start to the year. Markets rose early in the quarter, and the S&P 500 set a record with expectations that the economy was accelerating due to calming trade wars and low interest rates around the world. But benchmark U.S. crude oil dropped by roughly two thirds this quarter on expectations that a weakened economy will need less fuel. The yield on the 10-year Treasury dropped below 1% for the first time as investors scrambled for safety, and it ended the quarter at roughly 0.67%. Germany's DAX lost a quarter of its value, and South Korean stocks fell just over 20%. The big question is if markets will get worse. At this point, no one knows. "People are trying to digest the length and magnitude of what the coronavirus impact is going to be," said George Rusnak, managing director of investment strategy at Wells Fargo Private Bank. The steep drops from Tokyo to Toronto in recent weeks reflect investors' understanding that the economy and corporate profits are in for a sudden, debilitating drop-off. Economies around the world are grinding to near standstills as businesses close their doors and people hunker down at home in hopes of slowing the spread of the virus. But markets have also cut their losses in recent weeks on hopes that massive aid from governments and central banks around the world can blunt the blow. The S&P 500 was down nearly 31% for the quarter at one point, but it has climbed 15.5% since last Monday. The Fed has promised to buy as many Treasurys as it takes to get lending markets working smoothly after trading got snarled in markets that help companies borrow short-term cash to make payroll, homebuyers get mortgages and local governments to build infrastructure. Congress, meanwhile, approved a $2.2 trillion rescue plan for the economy, and leaders are already discussing the possibility of another round of aid. Whether markets have indeed found a bottom or whether investors have become too optimistic about the economic rebound coming after the viral outbreak peaks is impossible to say without knowing when the number of new infections will hit its peak. "We're kind of on this little milestone journey with markets," said Brent Schutte, chief investment strategist at Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management Co. "First, we get the economic plan in place, then we have to start to see some of the containment actions pay off. At some point it's going to be how do we get back to work." Among the next milestones for investors is Friday's jobs report, which is expected to show a sharp drop in payrolls. Companies will also being reporting their earnings results for the first quarter in upcoming weeks, and analysts are looking for the steepest drop in profits since the start of 2016, according to FactSet. The numbers may get even worse in the following quarter. Goldman Sachs economists said Tuesday they expect the U.S. economy to shrink 34% in the second quarter, but they expect growth to rebound in the third quarter. The S&P 500 fell 42.06 points to 2,584.59. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 410.32, or 1.8%, to 21,917.16, and the Nasdaq was off 74.05, or 1%, to 7,700.10. The relatively modest moves are a big departure from earlier in the month, when huge swings punished investors. The S&P 500 had its worst day since Black Monday 1987 on March 12 with a 9.5% loss, for example, only to outdo itself with a 12% drop two trading days later. Sandwiched in between was a 9.3% surge. The number of known coronavirus cases keeps rising, and the worldwide tally has topped 830,000, according to Johns Hopkins University. The United States has the highest number in the world, more than 170,000. Most people who contract COVID-19 have mild or moderate symptoms, which can include fever and cough. But for others, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, the virus can cause pneumonia and require hospitalization. More than 41,000 have died worldwide due to COVID-19, while more than 175,000 have recovered. We're still not even close to peak coronavirus in the U.S. which has already reported more cases than any other country and will sadly likely see a huge spike in the number of deaths, meaning further lockdown measures will likely follow," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA Europe. "Huge challenges still lie ahead."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/stocks-fall-capping-wall-streets-worst-quarter-since-2008/articleshow/74921685.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Govt slashes small savings rates by up to 140 basis pts||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday announced one of the steepest-ever cuts in small savings rates, which will see returns on the popular public provident fund deposits fall by 80 basis points to 7.1%, starting Wednesday, while the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme will see the annual interest rate drop by more than a percentage point. Similarly, rates on post office term deposits have also been slashed by as much as 140 basis points with one- to three-year deposits now fetching 5.5% instead of 6.9% earlier. The rate on five-year term deposits has been pared by a percentage point to 6.7%. These deposits come with quarterly compounding of rates. Even at the revised rates – which will be applicable for the April-June quarter -- the returns will be higher than what you will earn through a fixed deposit in a bank. For instance, for a five-year FD, State Bank of India is currently offering 5.7%. Besides, some of the schemes such as PPF have the added tax benefit which results in higher returns. For instance, someone in the 30% bracket will earn a post-tax return of over 9%, apart from the tax benefit on investment of up to Rs 1.5 lakh. In a post-budget interview, economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty had indicated to TOI last month, that rates will be lowered at the end of March. Although the announcement move is in line with the falling interest rate regime, the government had earlier ignored its own policy and refused to align the returns with market rates. Even this time, it has done so due to repeated prodding by the Reserve Bank of India as the lower policy rates were not translating into a commensurate fall in deposit and lending rates. While RBI has lowered policy rates by over 2 percentage points during the last couple of years, PPF rates have come down by 90 basis points since October 2016. Watch Govt cuts small savings rates by up to 140 basis pts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-slashes-small-savings-rates-by-up-to-140-basis-pts/articleshow/74921809.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||SC: Fake news spurring migrant exodus worrying||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed satisfaction with the steps taken by the Union and state governments to prevent spread of Covid-19 "at this stage" but expressed serious concern over fake news in social, electronic and print media causing the mass exodus of migrant workers from cities to their villages. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsA bench of CJI S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswar Rao said, "Upon perusal of the status report filed on behalf of Union of India, we are satisfied with the steps taken by the Union of India for preventing the spread of coronavirus at this stage." Noting that the mass migration had stopped with the intervention of the Centre and states and workers were being given food and shelter wherever they have been asked to stay, the bench said, "Migration of large number of labourers working in cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lockdown would continue for more than three months. Such panic driven migration has caused untold suffering to those who believed and acted on such news. In fact, some have lost their lives in the process. It is, therefore, not possible for us to overlook this menace of fake news either by electronic, print or social media." The SC's order underlined Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which provides up to one year imprisonment with fine as punishment to a person who makes or circulates a false alarm or warning concerning a disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic. It also said such panic mongers could be punished under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code. The court made it mandatory for states to follow the Centre's advisory in tackling Covid-19. "We trust and expect that all concerned — state governments, public authorities and citizens of this country — will faithfully comply with the directives, advisories and orders issued by the Union of India in letter and spirit in the interest of public safety," the court said. The bench said it was well known that panic could severely affect mental health. "We are informed that the Union of India is conscious of the importance of mental health and the need to calm down those who are in a state of panic. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informs that within 24 hours, the central government will ensure that trained counsellors and/or community group leaders belonging to all faiths will visit relief camps/shelter homes and deal with any consternation that the migrants might be going through. This shall be done in all the relief camps/shelter homes wherever they are located in the country," the bench said. "Anxiety and fear of the migrants should be understood by the police and other authorities. As directed by the Union of India, they should deal with the migrants in a humane manner. Considering the situation, we are of the opinion that the state governments/Union Territories should endeavour to engage volunteers along with the police to supervise the welfare activities of the migrants. We expect those concerned to appreciate the trepidation of the poor men, women and children and treat them with kindness," the bench said. The court posted the hearing of PILs filed by Lakh Alok Srivastav and Rashmi Bansal on condition of migrant workers for further hearing on April 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-fake-news-spurring-migrant-exodus-worrying/articleshow/74921830.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 1, 2020||Business||Government to borrow Rs 4.9 lakh crore in April-September||MUMBAI: Despite fears of a large borrowing programme to meet excess spending because of the coronavirus pandemic, the government on Tuesday said it would borrow Rs 7.8 lakh crore through gilt auctions in fiscal 2021, compared to Rs 7.1 lakh crore in fiscal 2020, of which 62.6% or about Rs 4.9 lakh, is proposed in the first half of the financial year. This was in line with the borrowing trend in the past few years when the government front-loaded gilt auction in the first six months of the fiscal by mopping up between 60% and 65% of its full-year target. Through weekly auctions of government bonds, the mop up would be about Rs 19,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore, compared to about Rs 17,000 crore in FY20. Through treasury bills, the government plans to borrow nearly Rs 1.4 lakh crore. However, given the Covid-related uncertainties, the bond market expects the total borrowing for FY21 to eventually shoot past the Rs 8 lakh crore mark, thus hardening the yield. According to Atanu Chakraborty, secretary, department of economic affairs, the government’s borrowing plan factors in any Coronavirus-related economic stimulus that may be required. He also said that the government has sufficient funds to meet its cash requirements. Bond market players said that the first half borrowing calender was more or less in line with the trend of recent years. According Ram Kamal Samanta, VP – Investment, Star Union Dai-Ichi Life Insurance, in an environment represented by subdued growth, stable inflation, ample liquidity and lower policy rate, fixed income market is likely to remain supported. “Moreover, use of unconventional monetary policy toll like LTRO and Operation Twist is also likely to contain any near term spike in yields. However going forward, with lower likelihood of any meaningful monetary easing and higher chance of fiscal slippage by the central and state governments, slowly and steadily yield will move up with each successive auction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-borrow-rs-4-9l-cr-in-apr-sept/articleshow/74921571.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Patients beat boredom with movies, mobile||PATNA: Covid-19 patients, who are undergoing treatment at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, are using video streaming platforms and social networking sites on their cellphones to keep themselves busy. Altogether 14 Covid-19 positive people are being treated at different hospitals in the state. Of these, seven have been admitted to the NMCH. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha told this newspaper on Tuesday that arrangements were being made to install one television set in each room to keep the Covid-19 patients occupied. “As all the patients are young and mainly in the age group of 25 to 40 years, they watch films or web series, stay connected with friends and family on social networking sites and read e-books,” he said. He added, “We are planning to provide videoconferencing facility to those who are not tech-savvy so that they can interact with their family members on a regular basis.” A 12-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is being treated at the JLNMCH, is watching cartoon shows and playing games on his smartphone these days. Hospital superintendent Dr R C Mandal said, “Of the six patients here, some do yoga and exercise in the morning. They also watch daily soaps and films on the TV sets in their rooms.” The doctor pointed out that the Covid-19 patients were staying abreast of the day-to-day happenings with the help of their cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patients-beat-boredom-with-movies-mobile/articleshow/74919534.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP thanks cops’ families in letter||Vijayawada: Director General of Police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang wrote an emotional open letter to all the families of the police department thanking them for their support and professional dedication during the present challenging times. The DGP said that while the police personnel are working 24x7 to contain the spread of Covid-19, the hidden sacrifices being made by the family members of the police personnel cannot be valued. Emphasising the efforts of the police who have been staying on roads continuously to implement the lockdown, Sawang said that he was proud of every khaki wearing person irrespective of their rank and cadre working for people risking their own lives. “I see a mother while you are pleading with people who venture out on the roads violating norms and at the same time a see a father in those police personnel who lift their lathis on those who do not heed to the repeated requests to stay at home” he said. Sawang said in his letter that he can understand the amount of physical and mental stress that the police personnel are taking on them during this national emergency. The entire department has left their homes ever since the virus spread and started guarding people. “It amuses me to watch the kids of police personnel who cannot even hug their fathers or mothers in fear of virus but to spread the message to masses on social media to support their parents,” Sawang said. Sawang said the amount of hard work that the Andhra Pradesh police are putting in to save the lives of people inspired him to go on to the roads to participate in the duties at ground level. He said he will do duty at police pickets along with other personnel in this difficult times. He promised the family members of the police that the welfare of the officers working on the ground level is being taken care of by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-thanks-cops-families-in-letter/articleshow/74919959.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||GMC dean says high-risk staffers should take preventive medication||Panaji: Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital Dr S M Bandekar issued a directive that all doctors and staff working in clinical departments, laboratories and the mortuary who may have been exposed to coronavirus patients or suspects must take chemoprophylaxis (of an anti-viral drug) in prescribed doses to reduce their risk of respiratory complications linked to Covid-19. Over 2,000 medical staff have been prescribed this medicine in GMC alone, a senior doctor said. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recently recommended the drug for healthcare workers and contacts of patients, but not for the general public. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-dean-says-high-risk-staffers-should-take-preventive-medication/articleshow/74921394.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank, PSU lenders cut rates||Mumbai: After holding on to its 6% return on savings account for almost a decade, Kotak Mahindra Bank has decided to finally lower rates. Meanwhile, a host of public sector banks have reduced their lending rates in line with the 75 basis points rate cut by the RBI on Friday. Kotak was among the first banks to respond to the deregulation of savings interest rate in 2011 by hiking return on deposits in savings accounts above Rs 1 lakh to 6%. On Tuesday, the bank said it would offer 5% on savings accounts with daily balances above Rs 1 lakh with effect from April 1 as against 6% earlier. For savings accounts with a daily balance of up to Rs 1 lakh, the interest rate will remain 4%. Bank of Baroda, India’s second-largest public sector lender, has reduced its Baroda Repo Linked Lending Rate (BRLLR) by 75 basis points with effect from March 28, 2020. Punjab National Bank besides reducing the repo-linked rate also cut its MCLR rates by 30 bps across tenures. The bank reduced its term deposit rates in various maturities buckets with a maximum rate of 5.80% for deposits maturing in 1 year and above. Chennai-based Indian Bank besides cutting slashed its benchmark lending rate linked to repo by 75 basis points also reduced its term deposit rates by 30-55 basis points and cut savings bank rate by 50 bps to 3%. For other borrowers, the bank has reduced its marginal cost of lending rate by 15 basis points across all tenures. The new rates will come into effect from April 1, 2020. Another Chennai-based lender Indian Overseas Bank reduced its repo rate by 75 bps and one-year MCLR from 8.45% to 8.25%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-psu-lenders-cut-rates/articleshow/74921582.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar government seals borders||PATNA: The state government on Tuesday sealed its borders with Nepal, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand to ensure strict implementation of the countrywide lockdown for preventing Covid-19 spread. Thousands of migrants have come back to Bihar over the past few days. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI that anyone coming from outside will now have to stay in the disaster relief camps set up in the government schools and buildings in the bordering districts. “Following the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments’ decision to send migrants back home on special buses even amid the lockdown, we allowed them to enter the state and took them to district headquarters and also to their native villages. But all of them have been kept in isolation camps for 14 days. No person will now be allowed to enter the state till the lockdown ends,” SuMo said. He said more than 50,000 people came back to Bihar over the last two to three days. “We were not prepared for such a heavy influx of people amid the lockdown, but the government handled the situation quite well. Disaster relief camps were set up in the bordering districts as well as villages within hours. We also provided relief to hundreds of people from Bihar in other states,” he said. On being asked about the people still stranded in other states, the deputy CM said: “Distress calls are being received on the helpline numbers of the state government, including in the office of resident commissioner of Bihar in Delhi, over the past few days and necessary action has been taken for more than 40,000 people so far. More than 12 officers have been appointed to take up each case and provide the required assistance by communicating with the district level officials in the states concerned. The state government will continue to help people from Bihar anywhere in the country or across the world at this challenging time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-seals-borders/articleshow/74919473.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jail inmates interact with kin via video conferencing||PATNA: The prisons inspectorate, which had prohibited visitors from entering jail premises for meeting inmates as part of social distancing measures to prevent spread of coronavirus, has now come up with virtual interaction system to enable people interact with the prisoners while sitting at home with the help of their smartphones. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra said the ‘e-mulakat’ system of videoconferencing had been started for the prisoners to reduce their mental stress as they might get disturbed if not allowed to interact with their family members. “Telephone booths have also been set up at the jails so that prisoners can talk to their relatives,” Mishra added. Prisons sources said the proposal to implement virtual interaction system had come earlier as well, but it is now being implemented on a war footing in all jails. “In fact, the prisons department rolled out the system on March 26,” the sources added. The IG (prisons) had temporarily banned entry of visitors to jails on March 14 as a precautionary measure to combat Covid-19. “The system will eliminate several security related hazards and ease pressure on jail authorities as large count of visitors throng jails for meeting prisoners regularly,” the sources said, adding configuration for ‘e-mulakat’ had already been completed in at least 20 jails in the state. “At Begusarai, Katihar, Bettiah, Samastipur and Darbhanga district jails, the project has already been implemented. Prisoners have started interacting with their relatives through videoconferencing,” they said. A senior home department official said the project would be implemented in other prisons, including eight central jails, soon. “Around 20 such calls were made till Tuesday in jails. One prisoner at a jail can use the facility at a time for five minutes,” the official said, adding those keen to interact with prisoners will have to download a mobile-based application for videoconferencing. A senior prisons official said one has to first send an e-mail via e-prisons platform to the superintendent of the jail where prisoner is lodged for registration and seeking approval for video conferencing. “Once superintendent is satisfied after verification of documents, he can give approval for videoconferencing and fix date and time for the same,” the official said. The official added that process is also on to enable prisoners appear for trial before separate courts at one go from inside jails in the future. On March 19, the Patna high court had become the first high court in the country to conduct hearing via videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jail-inmates-interact-with-kin-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/74919251.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 1, 2020||Patna||In Bihar, youth sounds ‘Covid alert’, lynched||PATNA: The death of a youth in Sitamarhi district on Monday allegedly after being thrashed for informing officials about Covid-19 suspects in his village has raked up a controversy. Even Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan expressed his concern over the incident on Tuesday. “The news of a youth thrashed to death in Bihar for informing about suspects of Covid-19 is extremely saddening. We are required to stand in unity as a society at this difficult time. The future of Indian society depends on it. Don’t step back from your responsibilities,” he tweeted while tagging an ANI tweet regarding the incident. बिहार में #COVID19 के संदिग्धों की जानकारी देने वाले एक युवक की पीट-पीट कर निर्मम हत्या की ख़बर बेहद दु:खद है।इस मु… https://t.co/w1Vx0s7UP6— Dr Harsh Vardhan (@drharshvardhan) 1585633100000Bablu Kumar (20) was brutally assaulted by some people at Madhaul under Runnisaidpur police station in Sitamarhi district, leading to his death on way to the SKMCH at Muzaffarpur. The deceased’s brother, Guddu Singh, in his statement before Ahiapur police in Muzaffarpur, alleged that Babloo was killed by fellow villagers for informing on the district helpline about Munna Mahto and Sudhir Mahto, who had returned from Mumbai. Guddu has accused six people, who used to help his father in his agricultural work. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar Singh, however, said the allegation was not found true during preliminary investigation. “The incident is a fallout of an altercation between the deceased and the accused after a motorbike hit one of them on March 29,” he said, adding that two of named accused have already been arrested. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Babloo’s murder had nothing to do with coronavirus. “The incident is a result of personal enmity,” he said. He, however, said one Munna Mahto was examined by a team of doctors at the village on March 27. “The deceased’s relative has not provided any evidence to substantiate the claim that Munna’s health was examined by a medical team on the basis of information given by Babloo,” he said and added that the medical team had, in fact, examined Munna on the information given by one Om Prakash Bharti, stated to be the husband of Sitamarhi district board chairperson. The deceased’s father, Vinod Singh, alleged that the case was being suppressed. “The police officers are under pressure,” he alleged. Meanwhile, Munna and Sudhir were sent to jail on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sitamarhi-youths-death-rakes-up-row/articleshow/74919441.cms||Ramashankar
April 1, 2020||Business||E-tailers eye railways, India Post for essentials||BENGALURU: India’s largest online retail platforms are looking to tap into the century-old networks of Indian Railways and India Post for removing supply chain bottlenecks to deliver essentials to consumers amid the national lockdown, three people aware of the matter said. There was a meeting on Saturday evening on the same issue between top officials of government departments like the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) and online platforms such as Amazon, Flipkart, third-party logistics firm Delhivery and Uber. Top bureaucrats from consumer affairs, civil aviation, railways and India Post were also present, sources added. As passenger trains are not running now, e-commerce firms are looking to use the railways to ship goods faster without traffic on tracks. India Post, which has one of the largest last-mile delivery networks in the country, would come in handy in getting essentials to consumers across top metros and smaller cities as well. India has over 1.5 lakh post offices. A senior government official in the DPIIT confirmed the development. This comes at a time when online platforms continue to battle labour shortage even when offering double incentives for deliveries. “Railways is doing couriers right now. It is prepared to run the extra services for e-commerce companies. Railways board chairman was also present in the meeting (with the online platforms). They can do these short services while running trains at Rajdhani’s pace (one of the fastest trains). India Post is already involved in essential services and they can do both — the first mile and last mile,” this official said. The transportation from railways will help e-commerce companies take goods from manufacturers to warehouses, as overall trucking routes remain choked, while India Post can act as a potential last-mile distributor of goods, another person aware of the goings-on said. “Conversations with India Post are still at a discussion stage. What is being discussed is post offices serving as drop locations where consumers can pick up fixed packages of essentials. Or the postman can also deliver these,” the source mentioned earlier said. Another aspect that is being discussed is pick-up of orders and packages from large offline retailers, including D-Mart, to avoid crowding at stores. “This is something platforms have to decide. If they want to do this at scale and solve the ongoing issue, they can,” the government official added. According to him, the situation still remains dynamic with daily improvements in the supply chain network compared to the previous week. “To achieve the objective of moving essential supplies across the country, from our sellers/vendors to the customers, our teams are exploring all possible collaboration ideas, including the railways among several other innovative ideas,” said Rajneesh Kumar, chief corporate affairs officer at Flipkart. He added the company has been hiring and that it is offering incentives to supply chain and delivery executives engaged in grocery/essentials to strengthen delivery capabilities. An Amazon India spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-eye-rlys-india-post-for-essentials/articleshow/74921530.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 1, 2020||Business||Steadview funding values Nykaa at $1.2bn||Bengaluru: Nykaa has raised a total of Rs 100 crore, or $13 million, from hedge fund Steadview Capital at a valuation of Rs 9,200 crore, or over $1.2 billion, according to MCA filings from business intelligence platform Tofler. With this, the online beauty and cosmetics seller has become the latest unicorn (valued at over $1 billion) in the Indian startup industry. The new round of funding comes as online retail business is set to enter a tough quarter, with sales restricted to just essentials and the overall slowdown likely to impact discretionary spending like cosmetics. Nykaa sells beauty products via its online store as well as 50-60 offline stores across the country. The funding includes the sale of shares by some existing investors and employees of Nykaa, which has been done at a discount to the $1.2-billion valuation. The latest round comes about a year after the company raised $15 million from TPG Growth, which had valued it at $724 million. Avendus Capital was the financial advisor to Nykaa on the fundraise. At the same time, Nykaa said that it is taking precautions as it told its vendors in a communication that its cash flows and income will be impacted. “The lockdown has already impacted business across industry, and this will have significant impact on the business cycle, including cash-conversion cycle...In light of this, we find it prudent to update you that there will be a delay in making payments of outstanding invoices to all vendors and partners,” Nykaa communicated on Tuesday. Nykaa confirmed the Steadview investment. “We are very grateful to achieve this significant milestone...In the midst of this unprecedented global crisis, we are working to ensure all our stakeholders are well served and that Nykaa emerges as a leading retail player in the industry,” Nykaa founder & CEO Falguni Nayar said in a statement on Tuesday. Nykaa, which was started by the former investment banker Nayar, is one of the leading players in the online beauty space, competing against e-commerce players like Amazon Fashion, Myntra and other niche players like Purplle, which was recently funded by Goldman Sachs. Nykaa counts Hero Group’s Sunil Munjal, FMCG major Marico’s Harsh Mariwala and Max Group among investors. The company’s net revenue more than doubled to Rs 1,159 crore at the end of March 2019 as against Rs 555 crore in the year-ago period. But what sets Nykaa apart is that it is one of the few unicorns that makes money, as it reported a profit of Rs 2.3 crore during the period against a loss of Rs 17.7 crore earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/steadview-funding-values-nykaa-at-1-2bn/articleshow/74921497.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 1, 2020||Patna||No entry without medical check-up: Villagers to migrants||PATNA: It’s a double whammy for hundreds of migrant labourers who came back to their native villages from outside Bihar following the nationwide lockdown. While they faced untold hardships to reach their destinations from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala, their entry to their homes have been banned by fellow villagers out of the fear of contracting Covid-19. Three youths, including two brothers, were denied entry to their homes Dhanauti villagers under Barun block in Aurangabad district on Monday. The villagers asked the youths returning from Ludhiana to first visit the special camp. Sujeet Sao (24), Anil Singh (30) and Rahul Singh (32) had no option but to get examined by doctors at the local primary health centre (PHC) from where they had to spend a night before being let off as there was no symptoms for coronavirus. In another incident, three youths were picked up by the police and health department officials from Silwatia Bargo under Ram Nagar police station in West Champaran on Sunday and subsequently admitted to a hospital at Bettiah. While Sanjay Choudhary and Vaikil Patel were let off after medical check-up, Dhananjay Choudhary was sent to the quarantine centre and his blood samples were sent to the RMRI, Patna for examination. The police team reached the village after being tipped off by some local residents that the three youths had returned from Tamil Nadu and had not undergone medical test. Such reports poured in from over a dozen villages in Vaishali, Kaimur, Banka, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Madhepura, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Katihar, Supaul and Bhagalpur districts. Narrating his woes, Sajjan Thakur (49) of Rampatti in Madhubani district said, “Pahle to bhukhe pyase kisi tarah ghar pahuche. Ab gaon mein entry ban hai. Jayen to jayen kahan (First we reached home hungry and now we are not allowed to enter the village. Where should I go)?” What distresses more is that those who have been quarantined at their homes have been socially boycotted. Handwritten pamphlets or notices indicating that they have been quarantined have been pasted on the walls. The neighbours were being told not to visit those under home quarantine. “These people are being treated as if they have committed a crime,” said social activist Pramod Kumar. Physician and secretary of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development, Dr Shakeel, has written to the principal secretary (health) and National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to stop ‘stigmatising’ the Covid 19 suspects. Authoritative sources said around 50,000 migrants have returned home from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Nepal in the last three days alone. While some were allowed to go home after screening, others were sent to quarantine centres in the border areas. The state directive to conduct health examination of all those returning from outside the state is also taking its toll on the government officials. In Jehanabad and Nawada, medical teams, which had gone to collect samples from some migrants, were attacked. Jehanabad BDO Ajay Kumar said, “The team was attacked when it visited Dayali Bigha after getting information from some residents that 22 villagers had come back from Delhi and four from Punjab. The locals became furious when a youth was being taken to the hospital for medical check-up. Two official vehicles were damaged in stone-pelting.” The SHO of Okri police outpost, Chandra Shekhar Kumar, said two people had been arrested in this connection. Earlier, a similar incident was reported from Nawada district. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said those found to be taking law into their hands won’t be spared. In the Jehanabad incident, raids were on to nab the other accused, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-entry-without-medical-check-up-villagers-to-migrants/articleshow/74919429.cms||Ramashankar
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist panchayat to form a disaster management force||Thiruvananthapuram: The district panchayat will be joining hands with the disaster management authority to form a disaster management force in the district. This was one of the key schemes in the budget 2020-21 presented by district panchayat president V K Madhu on Tuesday. The aim of the district panchayat is to form a force with a strength of 15,000 volunteers. A fund of Rs 25 lakh has been set aside for this project. V K Madhu said that while the district panchayat will train 500 volunteers, and various other grama panchayats in the district will train 14,600 volunteers. The idea for the project is apparently borrowed from the successful internship programme initiated by former district collector K Vasuki as well as former city corporation mayor V K Prasanth’s initiative of Green Army. The service of these volunteers will be utilized when the district faces a natural calamity or any exigency of massive proportions. This year, it was a gender budget that was presented. More than half the total fund was set aside for projects and schemes for the welfare of women. Fitness centres for women will be set up at select anganwadis in the district under the label of Smile Centre. These fitness centres will have mini gymnasiums and yoga training facilities. A fund of Rs 25 lakh has been set aside for this project. The panchayat will also be launching a new scheme to help financially poor people who are ailing from various illnesses. Through the project named ‘Aswas’ the panchayat aims to give medical aid to eligible people. A fund of Rs 1 crore has been set aside for this project. A fund of Rs 3.25 crore has been granted for Patheyam, a scheme started in 2016-17 with the slogan Hunger Free Kerala. At present a total of 6592 indivduals in as many as 73 grama panchayats are being given food through Kudumbashree workers. This year, the scheme will be incorporated with the Janatha Hotel scheme that is being implemented by Kudumbashree. Rs 7.5 lakh will be granted to 75 Janatha Hotels that are being opened in the rural district. A fund of Rs 2 crore has been set aside for Snehasparsham scheme for children with special needs. There are over 3000 children under this category in the district. Under this scheme, each child with special needs is given up to Rs 28,500 each year. Besides this, funds are also set aside to buy learning assistance equipment, laptops and computers for the children. The budget also has schemes to convert schools under the panchayat limits to hi-tech schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-panchayat-to-form-a-disaster-management-force/articleshow/74919968.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Four non-functional ventilators of civil hospital to be moved to CMCH||Ludhiana: A day after the death of a coronavirus-positive city woman, who had to be moved to Patiala after she could not be put on a ventilator at Ludhiana civil hospital, the health authorities on Tuesday decided to shift all four ventilator machines from civil hospital to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for high-risk Covid-19 patients. The ventilator machines that had been non-functional since their installation more than a year ago could have played a crucial role in saving the life of the high-risk patient. Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Datta said, “Health authorities have decided to make optimum use of all the four ventilators by shifting them to CMCH. Higher authorities will co-ordinate with CMCH to deal with high-risk Covid-19 patients in future.” There are nine other ventilators in the neonatal care unit of the civil hospital, but that too have been lying non-functional after installation due to non-availability of trained staff to run them. “We have informed the authorities about the need of well-trained medical staff for smooth functioning of rest of the ventilators, which are for newborns. Authorities have assured help in the next few days,” said Datta. The health authorities have asked the contacts of the coronavirus victim to quarantine themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-non-functional-ventilators-of-civil-hospital-to-be-moved-to-cmch/articleshow/74918994.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Man out of quarantine centre dispels false beliefs||Vadodara: The very thought of being locked into a quarantine facility may sound like solitary confinement, but that is hardly the case if the experience of a person who spent 10 days there is anything to go by. Umlesh Pandit, who spent 10 days at the quarantine facility at the State Institute of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFW), dispels many notions attached with the facility. He had opted to go there with his family after a relative who returned from abroad tested positive for COVID-19. “We opted to go to the facility right away instead of insisting on staying in home quarantine,” he said. Pandit, his wife Kalpana and son Shubham were kept in different rooms a SIHFW. “The rooms were spacious with an attached bathroom. We were given with fresh towels, toilet kits and slippers,” he said. “Diabetics like me were given tea, coffee and milk without sugar. Those who did not eat dinner were given fruits and milk. Those serving us were also polite and never complained,” he said. “We used to inquire about each other’s health and talk as a family,” he said. Pandit’s daughter Riya is studying MBBS in Spain. She stays with a relative there and is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-out-of-quarantine-centre-dispels-false-beliefs/articleshow/74919188.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||After Covid, cos will strive for ‘best place to be human’ tag||By Raj BowenOver the last month, the Covid-19 epidemic has brought humanity to its knees as nothing has ever done before, not even the two World Wars, seen in context. Once this is over (and surely it will be), there will be post-mortems, analyses, hindsight, conjecture and definitely a blockbuster movie or two. And the world will lick its wounds and limp back to normalcy. The human spirit has levels of resilience that stretch in direct proportion to the challenge they are tested with. The key word to note here is ‘human’ and that will need to be brought out of mothballed corporate cupboards. Physics defines the concept of ‘work’ as the measure of energy transfer as an object is moved over a distance by an external force, at least part of which is applied in the direction of the displacement. Embedded here may lie the clues to some of the fundamental shifts we need to make to first understand that organisations are not ruled by physics but by humanities. Here are some guidelines that we will now ignore to our own peril as, potentially, a Covid-20 will not take any prisoners: * Not capital, but energy: Organisations don’t run on capital — their essential lifeblood is the ‘energy’ that the employees bring with them and convert into something of value to the organisation’s clients. Yes, to an extent it mirrors part of the physics definition of energy transfer. The missing part is the understanding around ‘how’ this energy is created. The conventional party-time corporate phrase that ‘command and control of employees is dead’ is as clear a lie as there ever was. Ask any junior level employee what goes on in his head the day he wants to leave a little early because it’s his son’s first birthday. If he wants to make this happen, he needs to know how to work around the command-and-control reality, instead of mistakenly assuming it’s dead. * Not objects: The next reality that must change is about the understanding of employees as objects and the sharpest proof of that is the existence of human resources as a business function itself. Objects do break, get lost, get stolen, get rusted, become obsolete. Similarly, resources get depleted, dissipate, depreciate and, ultimately, are destroyed. Do we now have a case to (if not to formally re-label this part of an organisation) at least start believing that we don’t have thousands of ‘objects’ in the organisation — we have thousands of ‘humans’? Hopefully, the award to be coveted by corporations may well then be ‘A Great Place to Be Human’. * No need to shout: The third hangover of the physics definition that needs to be thrown out of the window is the part about ‘moving the object over a distance by an external force’. Think about it — very simply, the manager (it’s just wrong to use the word leader here) who shouts at and pushes his team hardest is the one who wins the promotions, the bonuses and the awards. This continues even as we get busy with power point slides quoting, ‘People don’t leave companies, they leave managers’. Don’t make any mistake here: Those managers still get promoted. This will now compulsorily call for a total overhaul to help managers transition into leaders by unlearning the physics way of creating energy/results of ‘pushing objects’ and learning the humanities way of creating energy/results by ‘engaging the human’s potential’. So, the ‘external force’ will not work any longer. Managers will have to learn the new skills of engaging humans. * Redefine work: The final part that brings this all together — or apart — is the physics notion, at least part of which is applied in the direction of the displacement. In the humanities context, the question is, ‘How aligned are an organisation’s employees towards pulling (remember, not pushing) in the same direction?’ Even the physics definition provides for ‘at least partial alignment’. Global studies around employee (redefined as human now) engagement point to low double-digits, possibly around 15% at best. There is no way 15 out of every 100 humans in an organisation will be able to pull the firm back from the devastating impact of Covid-19, no matter how loud the managers shout or threaten or push. We tried that for Covid-19, and finally retreated into our own personal spaces and hunkered down to sit quietly and allow it to pass on. The organisations that understand this reality must start setting the scale back to zero now, in multiple ways, and the re-definition of ‘work’ is the beginning. The existing calendar we all grew up following in the corporate world was BC and AD. The new one will now be BC and AC — before and after corona. The beauty is that it’s possible, if we want to. (The writer is managing partner at EMA Decision Dynamics)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-covid-cos-will-strive-for-best-place-to-be-human-tag/articleshow/74921596.cms||Raj Bowen
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||We’re ready to serve but need protective gear, staff: Docs||Nagpur: After orders from the collector and warning from municipal commissioner, the city doctors have restarted their clinics but complain of lack of help from the government, particularly failure to provide personal protection equipment (PPE) to prevent coronavirus infection. Many doctors had shut their clinics after the nationwide lockdown last week, which led to a slew of complaints by patients. The government then came out with orders to reopen them, despite strong opposition from Indian Medical Association (IMA).“We are also not keen to stop our livelihood, but are forced to do so due to unprecedented circumstances. When the lockdown began, the police beat up nurses and other staff coming to work and they now aren’t ready to resume duties. Most come from far off places, particularly in Mumbai and Pune, and they’d don’t have any means of transport. Some of our doctors are above 60 and also suffering from diabetes and blood pressure. Since morbidity rate of Covid-19 is more in this age group, they should be exempted, but the government is not listening,” IMA state president Dr Avinash Bhondve said. The doctors said they were not concerned with their own safety but also of nurses and other staff working with them, along with their family members.“Doctors are supposed to be the saviour of mankind. They are demigods who risk their own life to cure ailments. Covid-19 outbreak in India has posed a different type of challenge to our fraternity. Firstly, we don’t have PPE (includes gown, cap, mask, goggles, boot gloves at least), which is must for treating persons with highly infectious viruses/pathogens,” said consultant ENT surgeon Dr Sanjiv Ukil. Another doctor having clinic at Manewada Square said even patients weren’t coming unless in emergency due to lockdown. Therefore, there was no point in keeping the clinics open. “We have been putting the lives of staff like nurses and receptionist at risk along with those of patients. Unlike doctors, our staffers aren’t that much health conscious,” he said. Some doctors feel in such critical situation, operating small clinics was against the very principle of social distancing. “Individual clinics usually function from small premises where waiting area is not that spacious. The patients and relatives sit in cramped spaces and are at higher risk of getting infected. Doctors are always available for emergency cases,” former IMA national president Dr Y S Deshpande said.Stressing that PPE’s were a must in such situations, another ex-IMA chief Dr Ravi Wankhedkar said many patients coming to their clinics had symptoms of cough and cold and fever which could be Covid-19. “India already has shortage of human resource in healthcare sector. If doctors fall ill, the situation will only worsen. You don’t expect soldiers to fight without protective gear,” he said.Doctors are also facing problems of their staff’s unwillingness to report to duty due to virus threat. “Family members of our nurses, lab assistants, attendants are not allowing them to come. Many staff members don’t have identity cards. They face harassment by police. How to run clinics without proper help,” asked Dr Manish Jadhav, who runs a small clinic in Narendra Nagar.After Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) permitted telephonic consultation, many practitioners started to tide over the crisis. “This is completely safe for both doctor and patients and also saved our time and fuel. If doctor is infected, s/he could pass it on to hundreds of others. Hence, a middle way must be found out,” another doctor running a clinic at Laxmi Nagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/were-ready-to-serve-but-need-protective-gear-staff-docs/articleshow/74920766.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 1, 2020||Business||Sunil, Lakshmi Mittal cos commit Rs 100cr aid each||Mumbai: As India continues to face the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, a fresh set of names from the world of business are stepping in to help those in need. On Tuesday, Sunil Mittal-led Bharti Enterprises committed Rs 100 crore to relief and recovery initiatives related to Covid-19. Beyond this, Bharti said it will match the amount contributed by its employees towards India’s fight against the coronavirus onslaught. On similar lines, steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal said his Indian ventures will contribute Rs 100 crore to the ongoing relief efforts countrywide. New Delhi-headquartered Jindal Steel & Power, Piramal Group, IFFCO — a fertiliser company owned by a cooperative society, and component maker Bharat Forge donated Rs 25 crore each to the PM CARES Fund, which was introduced last week by the Centre for Covid-19 relief efforts. While Mumbai-based Indiabulls gave Rs 21 crore. Companies have been closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with local authorities and NGOs to bolster disease prevention and resilience efforts. They have been providing medical kits that include surgeon gowns, hood caps, shoe covers and infrared thermometers to the hospitals. Some consumer durable makers have also been offering air purifiers, refrigerators and water purifiers to medical centres. Oil PSUs — ONGC and IOC — contributed Rs 300 crore and Rs 225 crore, respectively, to the PM Cares Fund. ONGC’s contribution makes it the biggest PSU donor to the PM’s relief fund. Other PSUs — Power Finance Corporation, NTPC and NHPC — have put in a total of Rs 1,125 crore. SBI employees pledged Rs 100 crore to the PM CARES Fund. The 2.6 lakh employees will contribute two days’ salary. This is perhaps one of the biggest commitments by employees of an organisation. Last week, the PSU bank had announced a commitment of 0.25% of its FY20 profit in support of Covid-19 control. Tata Group, which announced a commitment of Rs 1,500 crore, tweeted that it will allocate Rs 500 crore to the newly formed relief fund by the Centre. The government has allowed companies to contribute from their CSR funds to the PM Cares Fund. Rules require companies with a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore or profit of Rs 5 crore to contribute 2% of profit for CSR. A significant chunk of the pledge by companies have gone to the PM Cares Fund. Xiaomi India pledged Rs 15 crore to various Covid-19 relief initiatives, while digital solutions provider for capital market transactions CDSL, Jyothy Labs and Care Ratings contributed Rs 7 crore, Rs 5 crore and Rs 2.5 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sunil-lakshmi-mittal-cos-commit-rs-100cr-aid-each/articleshow/74921537.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||Staff of Patna University dispensary on toes||PATNA: Even as all the postgraduate departments and colleges of Patna University (PU) have been shut due to the coronavirus lockdown, its central dispensary is extending medial help to the people residing on the campus and in the neighbourhood. All the seven medical officers and 19 supporting staff of the dispensary work from 9am to 5pm every day and render medical help to the people visiting the health centre. PU dispensary’s chief medical officer Dr Richa Sinha told this newspaper that a number of people from Lal Bagh, Bhikhana Pahari, Saidpur and Golakpur were visiting the centre to seek medical help. “The dispensary is preparing sanitizers as per the guidelines of the World Health Organization and distributing them. As a precautionary measure against Covid-19, it has provided sufficient number of gloves and masks to all the staff on duty,” Sinha said. She added, “As instructed by PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, steps have been initiated for setting up an isolation ward with at least four beds at the dispensary to accommodate the suspected cases of Covid-19. The proposed ward will be set up in the hall, which is allotted to the PU Yoga centre.” The VC claimed that PU would try to get all the buildings fumigated in order to ensure people’s safety against coronavirus. “I have directed the registrar to get thermal scanners installed at the main entrance gate of the university for screening the officers and the staff. All the sections of the administrative block are being sanitized regularly,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/staff-of-pu-dispensary-on-toes/articleshow/74919579.cms||B K Mishra
April 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: App tracks movement of migrants||PATNA: Altogether 1,80,652 migrant workers have so far returned to the state after the announcement of nationwide lockdown. State’s disaster management department’s (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit gave this information to CM Nitish Kumar during a high-level meeting held at the CM residence here on Tuesday. Amrit also informed the CM that proper screening of these people were being done near inter-state border areas and strict vigil is being maintained on their movement through ‘Garuda’ mobile app. He said adequate number of disaster border relief camps have been opened near all major entry points besides inter-state border for migrant workers. Besides these camps, necessary arrangements of food and lodging have also been made at village schools, he said. The high-level meeting was called by the CM to discuss the issues related to non-resident Biharis (NRBs) stranded outside the state and people who have already returned to the state during the last one week after the lockdown. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and other top officials were also present in the meeting, CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar said that all necessary efforts are being taken to solve the problems of stranded migrants on the basis of feedbacks being provided by them on the helpline numbers of the DMD and Delhi-based office of the resident commissioner, as well as the phone numbers of the CM residence in Patna. Nitish also said that relief camps are being run in the state capital for daily wage earners. “If necessary the number of such relief camps can be increased,” he said. He also reiterated that people, who are stranded in other states due to lockdown, should stay there. “Bihar government is committed to help them. Officials of Bihar government are doing the needful to solve the problems of stranded people after coordinating with the governments of respective states,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/app-tracks-movement-of-migrants/articleshow/74919502.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Agra||Click on weblink to get veggies, groceries delivered at doorstep||Agra: To ensure doorstep delivery of vegetables and other essentials during the lockdown, the administration in Agra has launched a weblink on which names and phone numbers of vendors have been put up according to their wards. The project was launched by Agra administration with support of Agra Smart City project team on Tuesday. Using it, citizens will be able to access ward-wise details of door-to-door suppliers of fruits, vegetables and groceries. The portal also has a self-assessment section with 10 questions on the symptoms of novel coronavirus. On Tuesday afternoon, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar who is also the chairman of the Agra Smart City Project launched the weblink http://agrasmartcity.in/EssentialItemSupplier.aspx. The list of essential item suppliers and self-assessment option can also be accessed through the official website of Agra Smart City. Municipal commissioner Arun Prakash said, “We have made available names and contact numbers of all the authorized grocers, fruit and vegetable sellers for doorstep delivery on the weblink. Citizens just need to enter their ward number and details of all nearby essential item sellers will be available on the screen. They can call the numbers as per the requirement and place order for home delivery.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The weblink has been created to ensure citizens do not face any inconvenience due to lockdown. Besides, the phone number of the essential item sellers, contact numbers of the police stations have also be made available on the weblink. We have also setup a corona medical control room which can be contacted on 0562-2600508 and 412. People can seek doctor’s help using WhatsApp number 7830067676 and call helpline number 108 and 102. Medicines prescribed by the doctors will be delivered at doorstep. People are advised not to step out of house without any necessary reason”. The DM added, “A self-assessment form containing ten questions to check for possibility of Covid-19 infection is available on the website. People are advised to answer the 10 questions. The assessment of each person will be categorized in high, medium or low risk category. The health department teams will contact the people in high and medium category. These people will be screened, and if required their samples will be collected for coronavirus testing”. With 435 cameras installed at 125 locations in the city, Agra police is monitoring the enforcement of lockdown in different parts of the city from the Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC) at Agra Smart City Office. Superintendent of police (traffic) Prashant Kumar Prasad said, “We are monitoring the movement of vehicles on road. Any vehicles which looks not associated with essential services are being spotted using cameras and policemen on duty are alerted. Through ICCC, Agra police is also ensuring that people do not gather at public places and outside shops in violation of lockdown. In such a situation, the concerned police station is directed to send people back to home”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/click-on-weblink-to-get-veggies-groceries-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/74919952.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 1, 2020||Business||22 lakh health workers to get Rs 50 lakh cover from New India||MUMBAI: New India Assurance has issued to the government a personal accident policy for over 22 lakh public healthcare providers with Rs 50-lakh cover each. The premium in respect of the policy is understood to be Rs 128 crore. The government has said that a loss of life due to contracting Covid-19 in the course of work would be treated as an accident. The health and family welfare ministry issued an order on March 29 entrusting New India Assurance with the issue of the policy. New India subsequently issued it on Monday in the form of a tailor-made personal accident cover valid for the next 90 days. This is for the first time that a personal accident policy is being issued to cover an infectious disease. Hitherto non-life companies could provide life insurance only for accidental death. While life companies issue policies covering death due to natural causes, there are no life policies for specific events. Speaking to TOI, New India chairman Atul Sahai said that currently most of the treatment for the coronavirus is being done at government hospitals. The policy therefore provides only death benefit. He said that the company had the capacity to provide this cover without going in for reinsurance support. The 22.12 lakh insured in the policy include healthcare providers and community health workers who may have to be in direct contact with Covid-19 patients, and private healthcare staff and workers as detailed in the health ministry order. Government officials said that the policy was aimed at boosting the morale of healthcare providers. In Italy, in three months, around 90 healthcare providers passed away on account of contracting coronavirus during the course of service. Healthcare experts say that the mortality rate numbers for coronavirus are not reliable as testing is very restricted in many countries. The higher the incidence of the disease compared to the death rate, the lower the mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/22l-health-workers-to-get-rs-50l-cover-from-new-india/articleshow/74921558.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 1, 2020||Patna||Patna: In times of coronavirus, telemedicine comes to patients’ rescue||PATNA: With people seeking medical help via virtual platforms amid lockdown, telemedicine services have finally taken off in the city. Of late, a sudden surge is being witnessed in the number of online and telephonic consultations people are seeking with doctors. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), telemedicine is one of the most essential services in strengthening the health system’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is also making efforts to deliver free consultancy to people, for which it has issued numbers of health specialists. The state health department is also running a helpline number for all non-emergency complaints. IMA-Bihar senior vice-president Ajay Kumar said around 300-400 doctors are giving consultation over phone to people across the state. “Keeping in mind the coronavirus spread, IMA has given a green signal to telemedicine facility. In just two-three days, more than 300 doctors from across the state, including Purnia, Muzaffarpur and Patna, have started giving free consultation to people who need medical advice,” he said. Former IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Brajnandan Kumar said it was decided at a recent meeting with health officials that a website will soon be launched for availing telemedicine services. “The online portal will have different phone numbers on which people can give a missed call to avail free check-up,” he said. The state health department is also running a helpline number – 104 – for all non-emergency complaints. State surveillance officer Dr Ragini Mishra said altogether 35,000 calls were received from across the state on this number and other district-level helpline numbers till Tuesday. “The queries have comparatively increased in the last few days. People are mostly asking questions about normal flu and viral infections,” she said. Meanwhile, doctors said they receive more than 20 queries via phone calls per day. Dr Pratyush Kumar of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) said the number of patients coming to the hospital has dropped significantly. “I receive around 10-15 queries regarding different health problems every day. Telephonic calls apart, several people have started consulting me through online chatting platforms. People don’t come to the hospital apprehending that they might come in contact with Covid-19 suspects,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-times-of-corona-telemedicine-comes-to-patients-rescue/articleshow/74919550.cms||Archi Rani
April 1, 2020||Patna||Lockdown hits several railway projects: ECR||PATNA: The 21-day Covid-19 lockdown has disrupted all the construction works being carried out at different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) at a cost of Rs 4,614 crore. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar claimed that the lockdown had hit the ongoing railway projects in Bihar. “Works like construction of new lines, rail bridges and foot overbridges as well as doubling of tracks and gauge conversion have been affected. Even after the lockdown ends, it will take time for the railways to restart the suspended projects,” the CPRO told this newspaper. During the current fiscal, a sum of Rs 1,113 crore has been allocated to the ECR for completion of the Koderma-Ranchi, Koderma-Tilaiya, Hajipur-Sugauli, Bihta-Aurangabad and Motihari-Sitamarhi new rail line projects. Another Rs 2,243 crore has been allocated for track doubling work on the Kiul-Gaya, Samastipur-Darbhanga, Hajipur-Bachhwara, Karaila Road-Shaktinagar, Danea-Ranchi Road, Garwa Road-Ramna and Ramna-Singrauli routes. “The Patliputra-Pahleza Ghat new line work, the yard remodelling work at Kiul and Lakhisarai and the gauge conversion work on the Sakri-Laukaha Bazar and Jayanagar-Bardibas routes are also likely to be delayed, leading to additional expenditure. The lockdown has created labour crisis,” the CPRO said. He added, “The lockdown has affected production work at the Bela wheel factory in Saran district and the electric locomotive manufacturing unit at Madhepura. Except track maintenance work, nothing else is being done under the ECR’s jurisdiction due to the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-several-railway-projects-ecr/articleshow/74919282.cms||Kumod Verma
April 1, 2020||Business||Aditya Puri successor may have to be finalised by June||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank may have to finalise potential successors for Aditya Puri by June 2020. In revised guidelines, the RBI has said that proposals for the appointment of a new MD & CEO of a bank should contain a panel of at least two names in the order of preference and should be submitted at least four months before the expiry of the term of office of the present incumbent. Puri, who is 69 years old, will complete his term in October 2020. Also, in the case of reappointments, the RBI has said that it must receive six months in advance an application along with the completion of fit and proper formalities by a board-level committee. The fit and proper guidelines include a declaration and undertaking from the candidate certified by the nomination and remuneration committee of the board. The revised guidelines were issued by the RBI on Tuesday. The declaration includes details of the investment, proceedings against the candidate and disclosure of any instance where the candidate has been reprimanded, censured, restricted, suspended or barred by any financial sector regulator. HDFC Bank had earlier this year said that it would tap executive search firm Egon Zehnder to help identify a successor to Puri. It was widely expected that it would take until July 2020 for the board-level committee to finalise a successor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/puri-successor-may-have-to-be-finalised-by-jun/articleshow/74921504.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||RBI deputy governor Kanungo gets 1-year extension||MUMBAI: The government has extended the term of RBI deputy governor B P Kanungo by a year even as N S Vishwanathan, another deputy governor, stepped down three months ahead of the end of his tenure. The RBI reallocated the portfolio managed by Vishwanathan among the three other deputy governors, Kanungo, M K Jain and M D Patra.  Jain will be in charge of regulation and supervision, which are now consolidated departments unlike in the past when they were split for banking and non-banking entities. He will also be in charge of communications. In a statement on Tuesday, the RBI said Kanungo’s reappointment was for a period of one year effective April 3, or until further orders. Kanungo has under Vishwanathan at the RBI the department of currency management, department of external investments & operations, department of government & bank accounts, department of information technology and department of payment & settlement system. Other departments are Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), foreign exchange department, internal debt management department, legal department and right to information departments. Vishwanathan was reappointed deputy governor for one year but chose to step down early, according to sources, on grounds of health. Vishwanathan was in charge of the important department of supervision, which had come to the fore in recent years due to the divergence in bad loans detected by the RBI and those published by banks. He served under three governors, Raghuram Rajan, Urjit Patel and Shaktikanta Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-dy-guv-kanungo-gets-1-yr-extension/articleshow/74921577.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||PE VC deals fall 36% YoY in Jan-Mar quarter||Chennai: Private Equity-Venture Capital (PE-VC) firms invested $5.9 billion (across 164 deals) during the quarter ended March 2020, 36% lower than $9.2 billion (across 249 transactions) during the same period last year, shows data from research firm Venture Intelligence. The latest quarter witnessed 14 PE-VC investments worth $100 million or more, down from 20 in the same period last year. The largest PE-VC investment announced during the quarter was the $567 million takeover of power generation company RattanIndia Power by Goldman Sachs and Varde Partners. At $1.7 billion, VC investments too investments were 22% lower (in value terms) compared to the $2.22 billion (across 196 transactions) during the same period last year. CureFit and Unacademy bagged large deals worth $114million and $110 million respectively. While VC investors in India seemed to have shrugged off the chilly winds emerging from the US (owing to the WeWork IPO fiasco and Uber stock price slide of late 2019), the Coronavirus contagion infected the ecosystem sharply starting mid-March,” said Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence. “We can expect VC investors to be highly selective when it comes to making new investments in the months ahead and to be focused more on helping existing portfolio companies survive the downturn,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-deals-fall-36-yoy-in-jan-mar-quarter/articleshow/74921034.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||CM visits shelter home in Peddem||Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited Peddem Sports Complex, Mapusa, on Monday, where around 300 migrants have been provided with shelter. Sawant said the migrants were walking to their homes in Karnataka, when they were intercepted by police at the checkpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-visits-shelter-home-in-peddem/articleshow/74921389.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Viral fever: Down 12,700 pts, sensex sees worst qtr ever||Mumbai: Dalal Street had a relatively good day on Tuesday, closing up 1,028 points — ironic, because the day’s trading session brought to an end the worst quarter ever in the history of the 30-scrip sensex. The January-March quarter, which saw the sensex give up almost 12,700 points, or 31% — that too after reaching an all-time high at 42,274 on January 20 (it ended at 29,468 on Tuesday) — has been the worst both in terms of points loss as well as percentage loss. Also, investors’ wealth erosion of Rs 42.6 lakh crore, with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 112.6 lakh crore, was the sharpest, official data showed. Foreign investors too took out over Rs 48,000 crore during the quarter, again making the three-month period the worst ever. Mutual funds, however, have acted as the cushion in the face of strong FPI selling and have recorded a net buying figure of about Rs 37,500 crore. On Tuesday, of the sensex’s 30 constituents, 26 ended higher while IndusInd Bank, of late being hammered due to asset quality concerns, led the slide with a 14.7% crash. However, the sensex was helped by a strong rally in index heavyweight Reliance Industries, along with across-the-board short-covering and index management by large funds on the last day of the financial year. According to a note by Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan, the day’s gains could be called the yearly and quarterly NAV management day for the market with several of the large-cap stocks closing at the day’s high. Technically, if the Nifty falls below 8,350 level, it would retreat further to 8,250 or even up to 8,000 level, Chouhan said, “Global markets are doing better than expected, but our markets are trading cautiously due to consistent selling from foreign institutions.” In Tuesday’s session, it was RIL that rallied over 8% and contributed about a fifth of the sensex’s gains, which came after the company said late on Monday that its board on April 2 would consider fund-raising. The decision by the company comes in the backdrop of an expected delay in stake buy by global oil major Saudi Aramco in RIL’s refinery business. Also, a deal to offload a stake in Jio, its telecom arm, to social media giant Facebook may get pushed back due to the Covid-related uncertainties. This had shaved off over 40% of its value in less than three months and oil prices crashing by about 60% in less than two months. The other top sensex gainers in Tuesday’s session were ITC, ONGC and Tech Mahindra. Besides IndusInd Bank, the other index laggards were Maruti, Bajaj Finance and Titan, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/viral-fever-down-12700-pts-sensex-sees-worst-qtr-ever/articleshow/74921483.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||HipBar offers digital help to overcome withdrawal symptoms & lockdown blues||Chennai: Diageo-backed liquor-tech start up HipBar has offered its bouquet of tech-services to the Tamil Nadu and Kerala state governments, which will ensure safe alcohol home delivery to bonafide consumers, satisfying the primal objective of social distancing. The platform which to deliver with proper checks including age verification, it could well turn out to be the perfect via media. With lockdown shutting down liquor supplies across states, withdrawal related issues are sweeping across the country. States such as Kerala has seen seven suicides as tipplers were denied their quota of booze, cases of spurious liquor and home brewing is surfacing, opening a newer set of problems to an already stretched government machinery. Kerala Government had announced prescriptions from government doctors for dispensing liquor to the dependents, and this was shot down by the IMA.HipBar, whose payment solutions are currently used by TASMAC, ran India’s first alcohol home delivery service in Bengaluru from August 2017 to November 2018 before facing legal headwinds. From its on ground experience, it developed an e-governance technology platform to help governments to organise and manage last mile delivery of alcoholic beverages in two working models, the hyperlocal model (Swiggy / Zomato) and the next day delivery model (BigBasket / Grofers). The state excise departments control the supply chain using a number of archaic methods like licenses and passes in movement of alcoholic beverages. HipBar said, when its technology is put to use, it can effectively regulate the last mile deliveries from a single dashboard. HipBar says if the governments want to cater to the alcohol deprived in a state of lockdown, home delivery can be operationalised almost immediately. “We are ready and waiting by the phones. States will realise that technology assisted home delivery of alcoholic beverages is better than the status quo on all fronts. Technology assisted alcohol home delivery is not a poor alternative. It's the best way to regulate consumption at a micro level and implement the moderation agenda at scale,” said Prasanna Natarajan, CEO, HipBar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hipbar-offers-digital-help-to-overcome-withdrawal-symptoms-lockdown-blues/articleshow/74921022.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 1, 2020||Business||Banks to roll out EMI waiver options soon||MUMBAI: Banks will soon come out with the operational procedure for retail borrowers to avail a three-month moratorium on their loans. Most lenders plan to send out text messages and emails allowing borrowers to avail the facility, while some have already done so. State Bank of India said that its technical team was working on the RBI circular and giving an option may take some time as this requires changes in current systems and procedures. The bank told customers that if an EMI was debited and they wish to avail the moratorium, they can contact the branch to initiate the refund process. ICICI Bank sources said that it was working late into the night to create a channel to give an option to customers. Read AlsoMissing two instalments may add 10 months to loanHit by the lockdown and faced with uncertainty, many people are looking to avail of the repayment relief that banks are offering. Although banks are yet to announce the details of the relief package and how it will work out, we do know that this is only a grace period and they are likely to chargeOn Monday, banks had a video-conference under the Indian Banks Association, where it was decided that the option has to be rolled out to all borrowers. HDFC, the country’s largest housing finance company, said that it would start sending out options to borrowers on whether to avail of the moratorium or not. Lenders across the board stressed the point that the moratorium was not a waiver of interest and that the interest for the three months would be recovered from the borrower. They also stressed that borrowers whose cash flows were unaffected should continue to repay their instalments as always. Meanwhile, to reassure borrowers, a host of public sector banks took to social media to say that a moratorium would be made available. Bank of Baroda said that it was providing the moratorium on all instalments falling due between March 1 to May 31 for all term loans, including corporate, medium and small enterprises. “EMIs of housing loans, vehicle loans, MSME loans and payment of all other term loans falling due after March 1 and up to May 31 have been deferred by 3 months,” Syndicate Bank said. UCO Bank told borrowers that it has granted moratorium of three instalments of term loans up to May 31. “The next instalment is now payable in June 2020. Your repayment schedule will be extended accordingly,” the bank said. Central Bank of India indicated in a tweet that the moratorium will be given to all. “Three months deferment is automatic & customers need not approach bank for the same,” the bank said. “However, customers may approach the bank to change the standing instructions or any other mandate given by them for payment of their loan instalment. Interest will accrue in loan accounts but no penal interest. March 20 instalment already paid will be automatically appropriated towards next EMI due, that is for June 20,” the tweet said. (1/2) Clarification regarding Covid19 relief measures on Loan Repayment. Three months deferment is automatic & cust… https://t.co/CEUaNqeMdk— Central Bank of India (@centralbank_in) 1585665601000Banking sources said that the RBI circular was not a directive to lenders to grant a moratorium to borrowers but a permission in case they wanted to grant relief. “It is up to each individual bank to take a view according to their credit policy,” he said. Lenders said that it was taking long as some of the matters had to be referred to board-level committees to enforce. Lenders said that they were seeking clarification from the RBI on whether it was necessary to recover interest from business immediately at the end of three months as mentioned in the central bank’s circular. “If we postpone for only three months and seek recovery immediately after that, it would be a burden on the borrower,” said a bank chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-roll-out-emi-waiver-options-soon/articleshow/74921490.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 1, 2020||Patna||No change in power subsidy: Bihar minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there is some good news for power consumers as the new tariff rate for 2020-21 fiscal with 10 paise per unit lower charges for all category of power consumers will come into effect from Wednesday (April 1) without any reduction in subsidy. Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) had announced the new tariff rates on March 20 on zero subsidy basis. Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the subsidy to be given to the power consumers will remain unchanged. “It has been decided in principle by the government that subsidy given to the power consumers against their electricity bills will remain unchanged. A final announcement regarding the same will be made in a few days,” he said. The decision to keep the power subsidy unchanged will benefit power consumers in Bihar as the BERC has reduced the power tariff for the first time in 15 years. The tariff rates will further come down after introduction of subsidy. For instance, after the announcement of subsidy last year, the effective rate for domestic power consumption in urban areas came down to Rs 5.40 per unit and Rs 3.17 per unit in rural areas despite a marginal hike in the tariff order of BERC. The practice of zero subsidy tariff petition was introduced in 2016-17 fiscal. The subsidy is announced by the state government after finalisation of tariff by the BERC. “The subsidy against power consumption normally varies in the range of Rs 2,500crore-Rs 4,500 crore. Thus, cabinet’s nod is required as it involves huge funds,” he said. In 2018, the state cabinet had approved Rs 4,137 crore for giving subsidy to power consumers. Another reason to rejoice for the power consumer is the decision of discoms to abolish meter rent, which are basically monthly fixed charges for energy meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-change-in-power-subsidy-energy-min/articleshow/74919309.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 1, 2020||Patna||70 hotels ready to keep Covid-19 suspects: Patna DM||PATNA: City hotels, including the luxurious ones, can be used as quarantine centres, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said after a meeting with representatives of hotels on Tuesday. “They are ready to help,” he said. “We have instructed them to clean their premises and be ready,” he said and added that around 70 such hotels have been listed for the purpose. Ravi said the administration will bear the cost incurred during the quarantine period. “We will also give some amount to these hotels to provide three-time basic food. As of now, all the hotels are shut. If we use their premises, they will also get certain amount,” he added. However, he said presently it is not needed as there are sufficient beds for Covid-19 suspects. “Around 40 people are already quarantined in Hotel Patliputra Ashok. Even Youth Hostel and Patliputra Sports Complex have been made ready as quarantine centres,” he said. On March 28, the district administration had a similar meeting with representatives of private schools and many had given permission to use their premises. Talking about migrant workers coming back to their native places, Ravi said local police stations have been instructed to support them with food and basic needs. “We are already running a community kitchen for this purpose and some 3800 packets were distributed among the migrants as well as local daily wagers and those staying in the slums,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-hotels-ready-to-keep-covid-19-suspects-dm/articleshow/74919560.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 1, 2020||Pune||PCMC staffers to donate to CM’s relief fund||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The current and retired employees of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation(PCMC) will donate a day’s salary and pension amounting to Rs1.5 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight the Covid-19 spread. “Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar will decide on whether to cut a day’s salary of this month or the next one,” Ambar Chinchwade, president of the Pimpri Chinchwad Mahanagarpalika Karmachari Mahasangh, told TOI on Tuesday. The PCMC pensioner’s association has also expressed its desire to donate a day’s pension to the corpus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-staffers-to-donate-to-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/74921388.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 1, 2020||Agra||Newly-married couple commits suicide in Agra||Agra: A newly-married couple allegedly committed suicide in Agra’s Shahganj area on Tuesday morning due to family dispute. The couple, identified as Gopal (21) and Priya (20), were found hanging from ceiling fan inside their room. The couple got married on January 18 and were living at Ramswaroop colony of Shahganj police jurisdiction along with Gopal’s parents and his three siblings. Speaking to TOI, circle officer of Lohamandi area, Namrita Srivastava said, “The couple were living on the first floor. At around 10:30am, Gopal’s younger sister Monica saw them hanging from the ceiling fan. The exact reason for the step is not known yet, but it looks like Gopal had some dispute with his father. He used to work along with his father at their family-run jewellery shop at city’s Albatia area.” “The bodies have been sent for autopsy. We are waiting for Priya’s parents who live in Shikohabad area of Firozabad district. We need to question them also,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/newly-married-couple-commits-suicide-in-agra/articleshow/74919965.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Agra||Transgenders of Hathras offer food to hungry||Agra: At a time when many daily wagers, the homeless and others have lost their means of livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown, a group of transgenders in Hathras have taken up the responsibility of feeding the hungry. Manisha, a member of the community, on Tuesday, distributed around 2,000 packets of cooked food. “This is a tough time for everyone and as responsible citizens, it is our duty to take care of others who are in need,” she said. She added that the transgenders may not be able to do much but will continue distributing food packets till the lockdown is does not end. Manisha, a transgender, said she and 12 others of her community, wear masks and take the required precautions while preparing and distributing the food. “We maintain social distancing while distributing food packets,” she said. Manisha and her group are also helping the needy by distributing raw material like flour among them. “We cannot sit idle after seeing the plight of these people who are starving,” said Manisha. She said that many of them who depend on begging for survival are going without food as everything is shut. “We don’t have a family to think about but we can help those who have families to feed. Our happiness is linked with the happiness of others, as we get money from people when they enjoy our performances,” said Manisha. The transgender said they have a bond with society and just want to lend a helping hand to those in need. Sent from my iPhone X||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/transgenders-of-hathras-offer-food-to-hungry/articleshow/74919973.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Govt to use Rs 120cr from ore fund||The government has decided to utilise Rs 120 crore of the Rs 400 crore in the Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund for setting up facilities for Covid-19, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. This, along with utilisation of funds from the district mineral fund, will mean the state has Rs 170 crore for these facilities. Sawant said the Union government would take a decision whether to extend the lockdown after April 14. He also said that the government would take a decision on conducting SSC and HSSC exam after April 14. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-use-rs-120cr-from-ore-fund/articleshow/74921414.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Heartrending scenes as two victims cremated||KABUL GURDWARA ATTACKLudhiana: Heart-breaking scenes were witnessed at the homes of two Ludhiana residents who were among those killed in the terror attack on a gurdwara in Kabul. Their families caught their last glimpse before they were cremated at a ground near Daresi. The bodies reached Ludhiana early Tuesday morning. Shankar Singh of Chawni Mohalla and Jeevan Singh of Nanak Nagar in Ludhiana were among those killed on March 25. The families had insisted that they wanted to see their faces one last time before they were cremated, so the bodies were brought in a special flight from Kabul to Delhi airport. Sunny Chawla, brother-in-law of Shankar Singh, said his sister-in-law along with the bodies had reached Delhi airport around 5pm on Monday, but they had to complete certain formalities before being allowed to travel to Ludhiana. He added that four relatives accompanied them and they reached Ludhiana around 4am. “The bodies were taken to the civil hospital for some tests before the cremation. My brother-in-law’s family, including his wife, three daughters and three sons, were at the cremation, besides other relatives. Harpreet Kaur, wife of deceased Jeevan Singh, her 13-year-old son and two daughters were also present at the cremation,” he added.“After the cremation, my sister-in-law Topi Kaur was tested at the civil hospital. Now she is admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital though she has no symptoms of coronavirus.”He said Topi Kaur was an Afghan passport-holder, but would not return to Kabul, as there was no one from her family there now.An eyewitness said about 100 persons attended the cremation.Ludhiana (north) MLA Rakesh Pandey represented the state government and laid a wreath with the message, “From the people of Punjab, India”, on the bodies. Police had made adequate arrangements for the cremation with ADCP-I Gurpreet Sikand also in attendance.Their children were inconsolable. Their close relatives said the deceased were lone breadwinners of their families.Manjeet Singh, brother-in-law of Shankar Singh, said he has left behind wife and six children, and none of them earn. He said his nephew, Akash, had a rehri at Ghanta Ghar Chowk and his two other nephews, Gurri and Babbu, who were between 14 and 16 years old, respectively, did not work. “My brother-in-law would send them money for their basic needs. My nieces, Kiran and Simran, study in classes IX and X, and their sister Roshni left studies after Class VIII. I don’t know how they will manage. We request the government to provide compensation to the family and also give job to a member.” ‘Went to Kabul 9 yrs ago’A relative of deceased Shankar Singh said he had gone to Kabul about nine years ago and was in cloth business there. He added that the deceased would daily do service in the gurdwara for about one-and-a-half hours. ‘Was to come on Baisakhi’A relative of Jeevan Singh said the deceased had told them that he would return on Baisakhi and get one of his two daughters married. He said the deceased has left behind a seven-year-old son, two daughters and wife. The relative said both Shankar and Jeevan were Afghanistan citizens and had learned the local language well. Vishal Singh, son of Jeevan Singh, said he studied in Class VI and the government should help them. His mother, Harpreet Kaur, said she has no source of livelihood and they live on rent. Apart from her son, she has two daughters, 19-year-old Simran and 13-year-old Kesar. She said her husband had gone to Kabul to work about eight years ago and he had recently come to India and left on February 4 after fixing marriage of their elder daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heartrending-scenes-as-two-victims-cremated/articleshow/74919006.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Tablighi members being tracked across R’seema||Tirupati: The state government on Tuesday alerted district administrations to locate and place under quarantine participants who had returned from a congregation at a mosque in the Nizamuddin area in Delhi. Close to 2,000 people had attended the session which was held between March 15-17 and stayed at the Markaz Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat group. The Kurnool district administration has said that 258 people from the district who attended the event have been identified. District collector G Veerapandiyan said 188 persons have been placed under quarantine at Rayalaseema University and 43 under home isolation. It is likely that 12 people travelled to other states. In Chittoor district, collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said 46 people have been identified, of which 28 have been placed under quarantine and 18 have travelled to other states. Forty-nine persons from Anantapur district have been identified, of which four are yet to return. In Kadapa, 40 persons attended the congregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tablighi-members-being-tracked-across-rseema/articleshow/74919978.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 1, 2020||Goa||Validity of driving licences extended||The ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of documents like driving licenses and various permits that expired since February 1. In an advisory issued to all states and UTs, the ministry has asked them to treat such documents as valid till June 30. The documents include fitness, permits (all types), driving license and registration, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/validity-of-driving-licences-extended/articleshow/74921398.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||GMC dean says high-risk staffers should take preventive medication||Panaji: Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital Dr S M Bandekar issued a directive that all doctors and staff working in clinical departments, laboratories and the mortuary who may have been exposed to coronavirus patients or suspects must take chemoprophylaxis (of an anti-viral drug) in prescribed doses to reduce their risk of respiratory complications linked to Covid-19. Over 2,000 medical staff have been prescribed this medicine in GMC alone, a senior doctor said. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) recently recommended the drug for healthcare workers and contacts of patients, but not for the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-dean-says-high-risk-staffers-should-take-preventive-medication/articleshow/74921399.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NGO pledges 25 litre sanitizer per day, ambulance||Nagpur: Responding to #savethedoctors call by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH ), NGO Nagpur First has started supplying it 25 litres of liquid sanitizer everyday to help doctors and paramedics fight novel coronavirus.The NGO has crowd-sourced the money beside pooling funds from its office-bearers in two days to provide the safety kit to IGGMCH. The NGO has offered an ambulance and masks to them.Nagpur First is also reaching out to citizens for donation to help doctors in their fight against Covid-19.Following shortage of safety kits and sanitizers, an emotional post went viral pleading for support to doctors at IGGMCH, also known as Mayo Hospital, where an isolation ward for positive Covid-19 patients has been set up. The other is at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).“If you are affected by coronavirus, there is a good chance of recovery, but you need a doctor to treat you,” the post reads. It goes on to seek personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks for hospital doctors who are in the frontline in fight against the disease. “As the patients increase, they will need protection. They can’t stay home like other citizens. We need to protect young doctors risking their lives,” it says.Nagpur First treasurer Sachin Jaghirdar said, “We are getting sanitizers from a village near Narsinghpur in Madhya Pradesh. The supplier is charging us Rs125 per litre. Before pledging the sanitizers, we had collected funds by making a public appeal at our level.”“Personally, I reached out to my contacts as well. Local individuals connected to Nagpur First contributed money. As of now, in two days of appeal starting from March 29, we have collected Rs1.5 lakh. Some kits form this money will also be distributed through city authorities,” he said.The NGO’s trustee Tanveer Mirza, who is a TOI Nagpur Hero, is coordinating the distribution of washable masks across the city.Jaghirdar said the ambulance is ready but Mayo authorities do not need it as of now. “But anybody can reach Nagpur First if they need the ambulance free of cost,” he said. Nagpur International diaspora is also contributing for the big fight back. “Chairman (international) Dinesh Jain, co-chairman Shashank Rao, chairman (India operations) Hemant Lodha and secretary Faiz Wahid are contributing from the respective countries they are based out of,” he said. Citizens willing to contribute can call or WhatsApp on 98223 25265.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-pledges-25-litre-sanitizer-per-day-ambulance/articleshow/74920778.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown effect: Air quality improves across Andhra cities||Vijayawada: It been a week since the nation-wide lockdown was announced and Andhra Pradesh has already witnessed a huge improvement in terms of air pollution. The difference has been particularly noticeable in urban areas like Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Velagapudi areas, where the Air Quality Index (AQI) values have dropped below 50, marking the present status as ‘good’. In Visakhapatnam, the AQI value stood at around 121 on March 1 deeming it ‘moderately polluted’. A day after Janata Curfew on March 21, it fell to 45 and entered the ‘good’ category. Speaking to TOI, BV Prasad, junior scientist of Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) said the air quality in Vijayawada and elsewhere in Andhra Pradesh earlier was satisfactory (AQI between 51 and 100) before the lockdown. “During the lockdown in most of the cities it is good. (AQI below 50). However, air quality will return to its original quality of satisfactory AQI, once the lockdown is lifted,” Prasad told TOI. AQI dropped to its lowest, 31, after the lockdown in Tirumala. The most prominent pollution parameter across the urban areas in the Andhra Pradesh happens to be PM10 and PM2.5 particles. The lockdown has been most effective in improving the air quality in Vijayawada. The capital region of Amaravati, too, saw a massive improvement with the present AQI value falling down to 36. AQI of Rajahmundry is at 50, which is categorised as ‘good’. However, in terms of water pollution, officials said there will only be a minimal impact even if there is no pilgrimage activity on the river banks. “Usually there is a minimal impact on water quality of river Krishna by the pilgrim activity and the impact is localised. It is the domestic sewage generated by Vijayawada that is adversely affecting the quality of water. There is no letup in that. Hence, there won’t be any lockdown effect on water quality of river Krishna,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-effect-air-quality-improves-across-andhra-cities/articleshow/74920001.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Two Dudhwa jumbos to help drive killer tiger back to PTR||Pilibhit: A day after a man was mauled to death by a stray tiger in Mala Colony, the second in 10 days in the area, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities have sought help from their counterparts in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) to capture or force the killer big cat to go back to the forest.The deputy director of PTR, Naveen Khandelwal, has urged the field director of DTR to send two trained jumbos to Pilibhit to monitor the movement of the killer tiger and drive it back to the wild.In addition, PTR's field forest teams have installed 10 camera traps around a wheat field where the stray tiger had killed a farmer on Monday evening.According to Khandelwal, a team of PTR has been sent to DTR on Tuesday morning to fetch two elephants to aid the field force to monitor the tiger.The jumbos are expected to reach PTR on Tuesdsy night. They would be kept in the elephants’ shed at Mala forest guest house, Khandelwal said.Meanwhile, the pictures captured by camera traps revealed that as many as three tigers of Mala forest range have strayed out of the forest into the rural belt adjoining PTR.“We have also set up two cages with live bait to trap the tiger. The elephants will also be deployed to patrol the 5 to 7 km-long stretchbetween the forest and agricultural beand.which adjoins the villages, including Mala Colony and Goel Colony," Khandelwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dudhwa-jumbos-to-help-drive-killer-tiger-back-to-ptr/articleshow/74918094.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||2 close contacts of Buldhana deceased turn out to be +ve||Nagpur: A 12-year-old girl and a 65-year-old woman in the family of the 45-year-old deceased from Buldhana tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 23. Seven of them have recovered and been discharged.The Buldhana deceased had no travel history, neither had any of his family members travelled recently. Health officials believe that these family members must have received the infection through the deceased person. This means the source from where the deceased got infected is still unknown.“We are tracing contact details and local travel history of the deceased from last two days. He had been to Yavatmal district, in Darwha tehsil, some days ago,” said Dr Premchand Pandit, civil surgeon of Buldhana.“There had been some positive patients in Yavatmal earlier. We have alerted police and health agencies there. They will now see whether the person had any contact history with any of the positive patients in Yavatmal,” he added.Meanwhile, the health department continued its door-to-door survey and contact tracing drive on Tuesday. Samples of some more contacts of the 60 admitted in isolation facility will be tested on Wednesday. A complete lockdown is being observed in Buldhana city, with the district borders sealed. Even shops of essential goods are not open in the locality where the positive patients used to reside. Health officials conducted a survey of every house in this locality.During this survey, some rumour mongers circulated a message on social media that this was a survey for NPR and NRC. So, many residents started opposing the survey. Eventually, higher authorities had to intervene and convince people that the survey was regarding Covid-19 only.Suspecting local spread of Covid-19, the district administration of Buldhana has taken some very important steps on Tuesday. On April 1, a WHO-sponsored online session about Covid-19 has been organized for all local doctors in Buldhana from 3 to 5pm. Dr Sanjay Suryawanshi and Dr Mujib of WHO will answer questions of local doctors on Zoom platform.CLUELESS ABOUT CORONASource of infection for Buldhana deceased yet to be traced12-year-old girl and 65-year-old woman in family tested positive on TuesdayBoth don’t have any history of travel out of Buldhana Doctors believe they were afflicted from deceased personMystery regarding source of infection in deceased unsolvedContact tracing and surveillance continuesSome more samples collected on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-close-contacts-of-buldhana-deceased-turn-out-to-be-ve/articleshow/74920793.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Traffic fine waiver: Rs 5.5cr till Mar 20, Rs 15L during lockdown||Kolkata: The one-time traffic fine waiver scheme launched by Kolkata Police from March 1 has got off to a flying start. In the first week, Rs 1.5-crore fine was collected and 2.7 lakh cases were disposed after 37,000 vehicle owners responded to the scheme. The response got even better when sergeants started collecting fines on the road. Till March 20, total collection of fines reached over Rs 5.5 crore. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, the collection of fines, however, reduced to a trickle. Total amount collected on March 31 is a little more than Rs 15 lakh, though online collection is still active. Senior traffic department officials said that the deadline for the fine collection is likely to be extended beyond March 31. Police sources said the lockdown affected the popular scheme in two ways: physical absence of vehicles on road, which means police had little option of pursuing anyone, particularly commercial vehicles like buses and taxis. Secondly, cops have been busy with the enforcement of lockdown and other duties associated with keeping the Covid-19 menace at bay. “We expect that the scheme will continue, but we will have to take a decision based on ground realities. We might reintroduce the scheme once things get normal,” said the police officer. The joint CP (Traffic) Santosh Pandey said that the traffic department’s priority goes to Covid-19 and the scheme has not been suspended for a single day as “it can be settled online.” The last round of waivers — one that ran for 75 days — had yielded around Rs 40 crore, compared to the paltry Rs 6 crore in a 30-day period this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traffic-fine-waiver-rs-5-5cr-till-mar-20-rs-15l-during-lockdown/articleshow/74921411.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar officials tracing Tablighi Jamaat members who attended event in Delhi||HARIDWAR: After six coronavirus-positive Tablighi Jamaat members died in Telangana, city administration has sounded an alert and is tracing the members of the congregation from Uttarakhand who attended a religious event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin with infected patients. The event was reportedly attended by about 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat members from March 13 to March 15. According to sources, 34 state residents, who are part of the group, attended the religious event at Nizamuddin. Among them, 26 members (12 from Dehradun, 11 from Haridwar, and 3 from Uttarkashi) have been quarantined in Delhi. The other eight Tablighi Jamaat members from the state are still missing. Abhay Singh, circle officer, Haridwar, told TOI, “We are collecting information from the local unit of Tablighi Jamaat and have asked them to provide data of all those who went to take part in the religious event in Delhi. So far, 26 members from the state have been quarantined in Delhi. We are tracing the rest of them and they will be quarantined as soon as possible.” Meanwhile, the local intelligence unit is also tracing those members of Tablighi Jamaat who had reached Haridwar from other states before the lockdown. Such members might also be quarantined. According to sources, 14 members of the congregation had come to Haridwar from different states to preach in city mosques. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “We are tracing all the members of the Jamaat who had come to Haridwar before the lockdown and they will be quarantined soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-officials-tracing-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-attended-event-in-delhi/articleshow/74920797.cms||MS Nawaz
April 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: New test kits likely in 2 months, ICMR says||NEW DELHI: India is likely to start manufacturing new serological diagnostic testing kits within the next two months as many advances have been made after the virus was isolated by research agencies, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. ICMR’s chief epidemiologist and communicable disease expert Dr R R Gangakhedkar said once the virus has been isolated, it helps in taking research forward for developing diagnostic kits, medicines and vaccines and India is working in that direction. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates“We are hopeful that at least a serological diagnostic testing will be made in India in next one to two months,” Dr Gangakhedkar said. Serological tests are tests that look for antibodies in blood and help in diagnosing diseases. Meanwhile, to take speedy decisions on R&D for SARS-CoV2 and Covid-19, the government formed a science and technology committee co-chaired by V K Paul and principal scientific adviser K Vijayraghavan. The committee will work in coordination with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), department of biotechnology(DBT), department of science and technology (DST) and other science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies for taking quick decisions on solutions to the disease. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe committee has given its consent to institutes under DST, DBT, CSIR, DAE, DRDO and Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to self-assess and prepare their labs for research and testing through standard and rigorous protocol. Besides, ICMR with its strength in clinical trials and operation research is working with the DBT and CSIR on the agenda of developing a vaccine for the Covid-19 disease. Amid concerns of time lag in giving approval to private testing laboratories, Dr Gangakhedkar categorically said “there is no time lag”. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“There is no delay, we are allowing those who are fitting into criterion. Now, the kit has to be procured by them. If they face problem in that, then they have to resolve it. We cannot do anything about it,” Dr Gangakhedkar said. He further clarified that the slight delay in reporting of approvals could be because of the load on data entry operators which takes a few hours. So far, the ICMR has approved 49 private labs and 399 patients have been tested in these labs. ICMR maintained there are adequate capacity and stocks of reagents in government labs to meet the current testing requirements. “The kits used in public sector labs are being procured and stored by us and we are not facing any problems in that,” he said. Till Tuesday, a total of around 42,788 tests were conducted by government diagnostic labs. So far, 123 public sector labs are functional under ICMR to test Covid-19. However, given the current testing protocols, India at present is using only 36% of this capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-test-kits-likely-in-2-months-icmr/articleshow/74921888.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||All Vidarbha patients asymptomatic, will recover||Nagpur: Amid the Covid-19 scare, there is some heartening news. Even though there are a dozen positive patients in Nagpur, none of them is critically ill. Excluding one woman who is 60, all are under 50 years of age and three are under 19. All of them are asymptomatic carriers and don’t have any ailment or complaints related to health. According to doctors, these have all the chances of making full recovery provided they follow medication schedule and isolation rules strictly. “All nine patients admitted in Mayo isolation ward are doing well. We have patients right from a 12-year-old girl to a 60-year-old woman. All of them are asymptomatic carriers of coronavirus. Doctors are monitoring their crucial health parameters periodically,” said a doctor treating these patients at IGGMCH. As they are not showing any symptoms or having any complaints, doctors are concentrating on improving their immunity. Fluids, multivitamins are given to them along with nutritious protein-rich food. Those having diabetes and hypertension are continuing their regular medicines while in isolation. Some were so enthusiastic that they recorded motivational video messages and shared it on social media platforms.In GMCH, all three patients admitted are from the same family. They are husband, wife and their son. As husband is suffering from paralysis, he is given separate medicines while the other two are taking common fluids and multivitamins. “We have experience of treating asymptomatic patients. Three such patients have already recovered and discharged from GMCH. Our focus is on maintaining their critical health parameters like temperature, blood pressure, and ensure ample rest to all of them,” said a professor from medicine department of GMCH.In Yavatmal, three patients who recovered were all above 50 years of age. One of them was having fever. Still, all of them recovered and were discharged. In Gondia, a 23-year-old youth is admitted in GMCH and he is also an asymptomatic carrier. “If we refer available preliminary data, age and co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, and obesity play vital roles in Covid-19. All other patients have great chances of recovery,” said a doctor in Gondia GMCH. While this is good news for Nagpur, people must understand that following social distancing and lockdown is important at least for next two weeks. Social distancing is the only way to avoid spread of infection. Covid-19 Still Controllable Here* Nagpur city has had total 16 Covid-19 ccases so far, 4 of them have recovered * In Vidarbha, total number of cases is 23, and seven have recovered * No patient admitted in Vidarbha was critical nor anyone needed ventilator support * All 16 patients admitted in Nagpur, Gondia and Buldhana are doing well* Eldest patient in Nagpur is 60-year-old woman, and her parameters are fine* All others are below 50 and have good chances of recovery * They still need to follow isolation strictly to avoid further spread of coronavirus * Everyone needs to follow social distancing up to April 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-vidarbha-patients-asymptomatic-will-recover/articleshow/74920812.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Admin limits veggie vehicles, brokers at Kalamna mkt yard||Nagpur: In a bid to avoid large gatherings and people throwing caution to the wind at wholesale Kalamna and Cotton Markets, the district administration has decided to allow only 100 vegetable vehicles and 50 brokers to do business per day. “In view of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, it has been decided to restrict the number of people at the markets. There are around 300 brokers and they will be allowed to work on rotation basis till the lockdown period,” said Rajesh Bhusari, administrator, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), Kalamna market yard. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “The collector has taken the decision to stop crowding. At least 8,000 people throng Kalamna daily. Now, this crowd will be distributed to 24 grounds identified by the NMC in 10 zones from where farmers will sell vegetables directly. All retail vendors and people can buy from these grounds. This will help avoid large assembly of people at one place.” The decision, however, did not augur well with the farmers and brokers. Vinod Lokhande, one of the leading vegetable brokers at Kalamna, said, “The rush at Kalamna on Tuesday was due to closure of vegetable market for four days from Friday to Monday. So, on Tuesday when the market opened, there was huge rush. The decision by Vegetable Brokers Association to close market for three days was wrong.” “Secondly, due to closure of Cotton Market, farmers reached Kalamna to sell their produce. On Tuesday, there were 3,000 vehicles, the number of which otherwise remains around 500 daily. For smooth supply of vegetables, the administration should impose time restriction from 5am to 9am instead of market closures,” said Lokhande. Lokhande said, “Brokers take guarantee to sell farmers’ produce. We also take risk in case it does not sell. On Tuesday, as limited vehicles were allowed, farmers sold their produce at throwaway price standing outside the Kalamna Market. There was a line of vehicles up to 3km.” Another broker Rahul Rakhe said, “It is the local people who are into panic buying. As weekly markets are closed, wholesalers are not coming and 70% buyers are residents. Kalamna vegetable market on Tuesday was more of a result of mismanagement.” “Another issue grappling is the foodgrain supplies. As police are not allowing private carriers and labourers inside, wholesale traders are not coming to buy foodgrains. Even though foodgrains come under essential commodities, its supplies are restricted. The business has come down to 25%,” said Gulab Balkote, one of the leading brokers. In March, there used to be supply of 5,000 sacks each of tur, gram and wheat. Due to lockdown, it has been restricted to 500-1500 sacks. Balkote said, “There are 500 labourers at the grain yard. Amid exodus of labourers, we managed to stop 100 of them from UP, Bihar and Chhattisgarh by offering them 50kg rice, 50kg wheat flour and 15kg tur dal.” However, even as the administration is imposing restrictions, no social distancing is followed. Though sanitizers have been placed at the main entrances, Bhusari said, “We are facing shortage of sanitizer stock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-limits-veggie-vehicles-brokers-at-kalamna-mkt-yard/articleshow/74920804.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Increased cop vigil slows down ganja trade in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: While the recent lockdown by the government was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, it has also ended up containing ganja trade in the district. The police and officials of the prohibition and excise departments have not registered any case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the past 10 days. In the post lockdown period, not a single ganja smuggling case was detected in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, which have emerged as safe havens for ganja smugglers. With the lockdown in tribal pockets, border areas and the NH-16 stretch, police presence at check-posts has increased across the state, promptimg ganja peddlers to stop smuggling the crop in vehicles suspecting that they may be caught, said deputy excise commissioner of Visakhapatnam, T Srinivasa Rao. “During this period (from March onwards) every year ganja smuggling increases in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Vizianagaram and along Andhra-Odisha-Border (AOB). But smuggling has dipped drastically after the lockdown. We saw this trend last during demonetization, after November 2016, as cash flow dried up,” said a senior police officer. Large swathes of areas in remote Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and AOB are used to cultivate ganja. People in these pockets cultivate Sheelavathi variety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ganja-trade-down-in-agency-areas-due-to-increase-in-police-patrolling/articleshow/74920017.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Good Samaritans of Karimadom Colony||Thiruvananthapuram: It has been more than a week since A Akbar, a tyre repair shop owner, opened his shop at Attakulangara. But he is not sitting idle in his home either. Akbar, along with his friends and neighbours in the Karimadom Colony, has taken up a task: To provide food for guest workers staying near their colony. Three days ago Rafeek M, a taxi driver, who has not been going for work due to the janatha curfew and lockdown, told the Karimadom colony residents about the plight of guest labourers. Soon, they collected utensils from a resident who has cutlery rental services and started preparing food for around 60 people. However, when they completed the task, there was sufficient food for around 120 people. “A friend informed me that the guest workers were living without food as they could not go out during lockdown to purchase provisions. With no work, it has become difficult for them to buy food. So, I thought of collecting money to prepare some food. But, later when I discussed the same with my friends in the colony, they came forward to prepare the and serve them food,” said Rafeek. “We have been sitting idle at home for past one week due to lockdown. The idea to make food collectively kept us busy all these days. Three days ago, we made idli and sambar for around 120 people for dinner. The next day’s breakfast was also arranged. The Fort police station officers helped us in collecting and distribution of food as it wasn’t safe for us to distribute it directly,” said Sudheer K, an autorickshaw driver from the colony. People in the colony also pooled in money to buy three sacks of rice for the guest labourers. “We were told that they prefer to cook the food themselves and requested us to provide them provisions. We also collected some money and bought rice for them on Sunday. On Monday morning, officials informed us that a community kitchen has been started at Manacaud and they will supply food for the labourers,” said Akbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/good-samaritans-of-karimadom-colony/articleshow/74920041.cms||Anasooya.S
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||About 400 youths in Pusad for job ‘dumped’ at 2 hostels||Yavatmal: The curfew imposed to contain the coronavirus spread has aggravated woes of 418 youths who have been staying in two hostels and rented rooms at Pusad for the last 10 months. About 400 inmates at the hostels are living in inhumane condition without food, water or medicines. The hostels were locked from outside and the youths were not even allowed to go out to stock up essentials.On receiving a tip off, TOI contacted the hostel inmates. A few of them, on condition of anonymity, narrated their plight. It is learnt 1,600 educated youths were allegedly sent to Pusad by a Delhi-based company ‘Glaze Trading India Pvt Ltd,’ with its office at Janakpuri area of the country’s capital, after hiring them from various parts of the country.The company allegedly lured these youths by offering various incentives through social media. Over 1,000 were provided accommodation in hostels of BP Ed College and BN Engineering College. The remaining stayed in private rented rooms in Shreerampur area where the company has it branch. Now, 418 youths are staying at these three locations while whereabouts of the remaining are not known. The youths were allegedly also not paid salary. A few of them were given only a few hundreds as incentive. The company’s office in Shreerampur is closed and the manager is untraceable. None of the inmates either knows the names or contact numbers of their bosses.TOI alerted district collector MD Singh on Monday night who moved his machinery to save the starving youths at the hostels.On directives of the collector, Pusad tehsildar Vaishak Rahurwagh visited the hostels on Tuesday. According to Vaishak, 134 youths are housed in the BP Ed College hostel, 259 in BN Engineering College hostel and 25 in Shreerampur.The tehsildar summoned a medical team which examined the youths. The company markets medicines for skin care among other products. Ironically, the youths are suffering from contagious diseases like scabies, chickenpox fever, cough and similar infections, the tehsildar said. The toilets at the hostels are uncleaned for days together and garbage is lying scattered. It is learnt, the doctor who checked the sick inmates gave them sleeping pills and two other tablets.Vaishak claimed food grains have been sent to the hostel, but the inmates told TOI that they were not served food till 2pm on Tuesday. In the morning they were given only poha, the inmates said. The canteens at the hostels were closed down on Tuesday.The tehsildar is likely to file an FIR against the company for deceiving the youths, most of them hailing from south Indian states like Tamil Nandu, Kerala and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/about-400-youths-in-pusad-for-job-dumped-at-2-hostels/articleshow/74920817.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to shift veggie markets to large playgrounds, open spaces||Nagpur: In an effort to ensure social distancing and stop people from crowding in vegetable markets, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to turn 24 playgrounds or open spaces into markets. Civic officials said all weekly vegetable and roadside markets, which were closed either due to the anti-encroachment drive or the coronavirus scare, will be shifted to playgrounds.Out of the 10 zones, the NMC is allowing farmers to sell vegetables in open spaces or playgrounds in nine zones, excluding Satranjipura zone. The NMC, with the help of vegetable growers, is also planning to provide fresh vegetables at the doorstep of citizens in each and every locality from April 1, stated a press note released by the NMC.Despite the lockdown and appeal to ensure social distancing in public places, there was no response from the public, especially at places like Cotton Market, Gokulpeth road market and other market places in the city. As NMC’s marking to maintain social distancing failed to get the desired results, the city police took control and prevented people from crowding markets.With Cotton Market shutting down temporarily, farmers from nearby villages and towns will now sell their produce directly to citizens in the open places.The 24 places for the markets were identified by the assistant commissioners of nine zones. The NMC has also put some guidelines in place for vegetable vendors. Permission to sell vegetables will be given to those who follow the rules, clarified the press note.The NMC has chalked out terms and conditions for entering the market and they include following social distancing, marking to avoid crowding, keep valid documents of vehicles and driving licence. If the driver has cold, cough or fever then he should get himself examined at a nearby government hospital.NEW VEGGIE MARKETSZone 1 — Jaitala weekly marketZone-2 — Ram Nagar playground & Yeshwant StadiumZone-3 — Reshimbagh ground; Indraprasth Society open land (Kalode Mahavidyalay, Beltarodi road) and Pipla Road (near Dhage’s bungalow)Zone-4 — Unthkhana Ground (in front of Tata Capital Heights); Raja Baksha ground, Bhagwan Nagar playground (Near post office); Balaji Nagar ground (near Velu Corner); Renuka Vihar Colony ground and Narendra Nagar NIT GroundZone-5 — Shrinagar Ground (Darshan Colony) and Stadium on Tajbagh Road (near PF office)Zone-6 — Dighori ground (old Bagadganj) and NMC School (new Shukruwari, Model Mill Chowk, Gadikhana)Zone-8 — Sardar Wallabhai Patel playground (Kucchivisa Bhavan, near Satnami Nagar) and Bhaskar Vyas ground (east Wardhaman Nagar)Zone-9 — H R Cancer Hospital (Kalamna Ring Road) and Deepak Nagar (Uppalwadi Road)Zone-10 — Nara Road; Krishna Dham (Zingabai Takli) and Gumnam Lawn (Gorewada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-shift-veggie-markets-to-large-playgrounds-open-spaces/articleshow/74920837.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Supply streamlined, traders shift focus to safety protocol||Kolkata: Traders in the wholesale hub of Burrabazar have now shifted focus to social distancing and maintaining hygiene protocol while conducting business after some normalcy has returned in reviving the supply lines for commodities. While some outlets have cordoned off their shops dealing with customers standing outside, others have barred entry of more than one person at a time. At least one oil agency has promised to waive off coolie charges if a customer pays through digital wallet and does not come to their place physically. Posta and Burrabazar are the biggest wholesale hubs in the state where lakhs, including traders, labourers, drivers, helpers and customers congregate every day. The gathering has not been huge since the lockdown as most of the establishments have remained shut but they want to implement a standard operating procedure for the coming weeks. Several department stores and even retail markets are trying to decrease crowding in the market and also washing or sanitising hands before entering. The objective of the three-week long lockdown is to isolate people and prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. “Till now, all our efforts were focussed on getting the market open and making it operational. Now, we were concentrating on getting hold of labourers and delivering goods to the retailers. We have also started receiving good to replenish the stock to some extent. In a wholesale market where thousands of people work together, it is very difficult to practice social distancing, but we are trying to put in place a norm where some sort of isolation can be practiced,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association. The owners of Anshul Trading have cordoned off the entry gate of their shop with a rope. They are dealing with the customers from the other side. After the deal is finalised, only one labourer can enter and lift the goods. “We cannot sit at home because we deal in essential commodities. But the threat of novel coronavirus is equally dangerous for us, which is why we have restricted entry to the shop,” said Sanjay Goel, one of workers in the shop that deals in biscuits, papad, besan and makai. Navratan, a cooking oil agency, has waived off coolie charges for customers paying through digital wallet. “Nowadays, the means of communication are excellent, and a person need not go to a shop physically to purchase. We will waive off their coolie charges for those who place orders over phone and pay through digital wallet,” said Madhusudan Binani, owner of the agency. Platinum, another oil agency, has curtailed its working hours. The outlet is now open till 1pm only. “We want to do business but, in the meantime, save ourselves and our employees too,” said one of the owners. The merchants’ association has instructed the labourers to wear masks and wash their hands regularly. Food is being provided by the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/supply-streamlined-traders-shift-focus-to-safety-protocol/articleshow/74921420.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Drones to keep tabs on people violating prohibitory orders||COIMBATORE: The city police are planning to deploy drones to monitor people’s movement at markets and other places, and depute cops, who are below 50 years of age, for vehicle check as part of the precautionary measures to contain Covid-19. In the past, the city police had used three drones to monitor the rallies that were taken out both in support of and against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Many anti-CAA public meetings were also monitored with the help of drones. Now, they are mulling the option of using the drones for “patrolling” during lockdown. While the public have been advised to come out only to buy essential commodities, police have been seizing vehicles form the people, who have been coming out deliberately in violation of prohibitory orders. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said they have been controlling the movement of public in the city. “We plan to use drones to identify people, who are deliberately coming out and gathering at a place in large numbers. We have already deployed more than 1,200 cops, who are working in two shifts in the city, to identify such people.” In another instance, inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah inspected security arrangements in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Nilgiris districts. He visited Thudiyalur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai and Mettupalayam in Coimbatore, inter-district border on Annur-Avinashi Road, and toll plazas at Kaniyur and Vijayamangalam. Periaiah urged the motorists to use face mask and hand sanitizers. Later, he inspected the security arrangements at the inter-state border check post at Walayar. “All the 14 inter-state borders and 13 inter-district borders have been sealed. At least 1,900 cops are deployed in Coimbatore alone,” he said. As on March 30, Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode district police had registered 3,573 cases for violating prohibitory orders. While 3,206 people were arrested, 2,266 vehicles were seized during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drones-to-keep-tabs-on-people-violating-prohibitory-orders/articleshow/74920822.cms||Sindhu Kannan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man jailed for post on sale of liquor||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old man was nabbed by the city police on Tuesday and sent to jail for circulating a fake government order (GO) on social media stating that the excise department will open liquor shops. The fake GO had gone viral on social media. The accused was identified as K Sanish Kumar alias Sunny, a resident of Uppal. On Saturday, cybercrime police received a complaint from Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), state task force and excise department. The excise department stated that few miscreants created a fake order by forging the signature of the director of prohibition and excise department and were circulating it on social media which stated that liquor shops would be open from 2pm to 5.30pm on March 29. “This is a fabrication and the state government and the prohibition and excise department have not issued any such orders,” stated the complaint. According to cybercrime police, notices were served to five other persons for forwarding the order to others. The accused was booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the IT Act and sent to jail. “This is a warning to those who want to create or circulate fake news,” said an officer from Hyderabad commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-jailed-for-post-on-sale-of-liquor/articleshow/74920843.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Surat||42 untraceable after foreign visit in Surat district||SURAT: As many as 42 out of total 600 people, who landed in Surat district from foreign locations between March 1 and 22, remain untraceable, forcing district health department to seek help of the state government and police to locate them. A detailed list of 42 travellers with their names, addresses, travel destination and date of arrival has been published by the district health department and also sent to the state government for further action. The district health department had received from the state headquarters the list of travellers, who needed to be in quarantine but had gone to various talukas of Surat. The department was successful in tracing majority of travellers since March 1, but 42 remain untraceable. Dr Piyush Shah, epidemic medical officer (EMO), Surat district, said, “Travellers landing at Surat airport from foreign destinations have to submit self-declaration forms to the immigration. The forms are sent to the state governments and forwarded to the districts concerned where the travellers go. We had received a list of 600 people from the district in the last one month. These 42 are from Bardoli, Palsana, Kamrej, Choriyasi and Olpad talukas.” Dr Shah added, “Our teams went at the addresses mentioned, but couldn’t find them. We believe they had filled in false information in the self-declaration forms to avoid home quarantine. At present, about 300 are under quarantine in the entire district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/42-untraceable-after-foreign-visit-in-surat-district/articleshow/74920039.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cooked meal twice a day for 12 lakh people at 2,800 locations||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will expand its base to feed the poor and start distributing cooked meal for 10-12 lakh people twice a day at about 2,800 locations from Wednesday. According to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the AAP government is at present providing ‘jan ahaar’ to almost four lakh people at 800-odd locations in the capital. To ensure that social distancing was maintained at each hunger relief centre, the Delhi government has now decided to add 2,000 more locations from Wednesday. Officials said the district magistrates of each of the 11 districts along with officials of the directorate of education (DoE) have been asked to identify schools or other prominent government buildings and set up hunger relief centres. The locations, said officials, will be in close proximity to jhuggi clusters, resettlement colonies and those pockets where the daily wagers and poor reside so that they don’t have to walk long distances for food. The government had earlier set up two feeding centres in schools in each municipal ward. With enough space for people to stand and maintain social distancing, the schools were the ideal locations for the purpose, said an official. The decision to add more such locations was taken during a video conference chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to review the measures taken to contain Covid-19. Kejriwal, some of his cabinet colleagues and top officers of Delhi government and police attended the video conference. According to officials, the LG expressed concern over reports of violation of social distancing norms at some of the food distribution centres. “The LG clearly stated that ensuring social distancing should be the topmost priority at the moment to prevent Covid-19 from spreading in the capital. In view of such reports it was agreed upon that the number of food distribution centres should be increased from present 500 to 2,500 so that social distancing is adhered to effectively,” said an official. The Delhi government currently runs 568 hunger relief centres, each having the capacity to provide food to 500 people. In addition, about 260-odd night shelters also provide cooked food largely to the homeless apart from any other person willing to eat there. “Right now, food is available at around 800 locations in Delhi. From Wednesday, 2,500 schools and 250 night shelters will start distributing food for 500 people each, which makes it a total of 2,800 centres. We were feeding 3.5-4 lakh people daily and from tomorrow and we will start feeding 10-12 lakh people from tomorrow,” Kejriwal said in his digital press conference on Tuesday, adding that people were crowding at the food centres leading to the decision to increase their numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cooked-meal-twice-a-day-for-12l/articleshow/74920847.cms||Atul Mathur
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Uneasy calm grips Old City localities||CHARMINAR: Most mosques in the city have been locked down with entry permitted only to imams and mauzins to offer prayers and make the call for prayer. However, unscheduled prayer calls have been heard from the terraces of houses at nights regularly in certain parts of Old City. One of the devotees from Tabligi Jamat told TOI on the condition of anonymity that mosques have been shut down and the entry of devotees totally barred. Details of those who returned from the congregation in Delhi have been shared with officials by Mallepally Markaz. “The names of the returnees from Delhi have been shared with officers concerned. Most have been moved to hospitals from their homes. Several have tested negative too,” one of those who attended the Jamaat told TOI on condition of anonymity. Syed Mohsin, a resident of Old City objected to civilians assisting cops and the lack of safety gear on them. “How can people be allowed to help policemen without wearing masks and other protective gear? On par with other citizens they should be careful and alert else they may spread the virus,’’ Syed Mohsin told TOI. The residents in Old City sought the state government’s help to sanitise localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uneasy-calm-grips-old-city-localities/articleshow/74920831.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||WHO clears air on disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies||Hyderabad: Amidst confusion over the disposal of the bodies of Covid-19 victims, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that the bodies can either be cremated or buried. WHO has described as myth, the argument that bodies of Covid-19 patients should be cremated. The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions and their families should be respected and protected throughout. Hasty disposal of a Covid-19 dead person should be avoided. “It is a myth that persons who have died of a communicable disease should be cremated, but this is not true. Cremation is a matter of cultural choice and available resources,” WHO said in its interim guidelines on how to deal with the bodies of Covid-19 victims. The guidelines gain significance in the backdrop of the alleged order of Mumbai municipal commissioner that the bodies of the victims, irrespective of their religion, should be cremated. WHO further elaborated that authorities should manage each situation on a case-by-case basis, balancing the rights of the family, need to investigate the cause of death and the risks of exposure to infection. The interim guidelines warn that children and adults above 60 years and immuno-suppressed persons should not directly interact with the body. “Based on current evidence, the coronavirus is transmitted between people through droplets, fomites and close contact, with possible spread through faeces. It is not airborne. As this is a new virus whose source and disease progression are not yet entirely clear, more precautions may be used until further information becomes available,” WHO said. According to WHO, except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola, Marburg) and cholera, bodies are generally not infectious. Only the lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Otherwise, cadavers do not transmit diseases. “Till date, there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons, who died of Covid-19,” WHO said, adding that the safety and well-being of everyone who tends to bodies should be the priority. Before attending to a body, people should ensure that the necessary hand hygiene and personal protective equipment (PPE) supplies are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/who-clears-air-on-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies/articleshow/74920036.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||False alarm raised over home quarantined man||Vadodara: With both awareness and fear over COVID-19 spreading, officials have started getting information regarding violation of home quarantine apart from violations of the lockdown. One such incident turned out to be a false alarm as the person had completed the quarantine period on Tuesday itself. The incident was reported by an alert citizen from Godhra. A man who was home quarantined was spotted by an alert citizen in the Kalal Darwaza area. The citizen clicked a photograph and even relayed it to a health officials. Teams of the health department rushed to the residence of the man and verified his details. It came to light that the man had completed his home quarantine period on Tuesday itself. “The man was under observation of our teams. There was unnecessary panic, but it is good that people are alert,” said the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/false-alarm-raised-over-home-quarantined-man/articleshow/74919198.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||People posting fake info will be booked, warn cyber cops||Bhopal: The cybercrime branch of Bhopal Police, issued an advisory on Tuesday, warning people against online fraudsters active amid the lockdown. Police said, such fraudsters are making efforts to disturb peace in the society by spreading false rumours online. If you find someone spreading misinformation, you can report them to the police, said cops. Police have also warned people not to share any rumours carrying uncertified and unscientific information on Covid-19. Any person who shares such posts will be booked under violation of Section 144 and Disaster Management Act. During lockdown, messages offering “free Internet data” are being circulated over social media platforms, Bhopal Police told TOI on Tuesday. These messages have a link — clicking on which may give fraudsters an opening to steal private data from your device, including siphoning off money from your digital wallets, said ASP cybercrime branch, Sandesh Jain. Jain said, another message which is doing the rounds of social media is of “free recharge” offered by the government. It even has names of Prime Minister, CM and other ministers, he said, adding that no such scheme is being run by the government and people are advised to not trust any such message or forward them to others. “Many messages asking for donations for helping those in need are also being circulated. Ensure that you only deposit money in trusted and verified organisations and check before making any donations,” Jain said. Jain said people should avoid forwarding rumours or inflammatory messages. “Before forwarding a message, you should verify the content ... In case, you find any rumour being spread online, you can report it to police on 7049106300,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-posting-fake-info-will-be-booked-warn-cyber-cops/articleshow/74920829.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Students lend helping hand to poor||Kolkata: Students and alumni of Jadavpur University and Presidency University have come forward to help the daily wagers and vendors affected by the lockdown. While the JU students have formed Commune, a community kitchen to feed hundreds of homeless and daily wagers in and around Jadavpur station, Dhakuria station and Golpark, the PU students have been raising funds to help the vendors around the university with medicines and essentials. The kitchen at JU has come up on the parking area near Gate No. 4. Research scholar Hindol Mazumdar said, “After getting the JU authorities’ approval, we have set up the kitchen to feed hundreds of pavement dwellers, migrant labourers, daily wagers, including cycle rickshaw pullers. Given the present crisis, it is our social responsibility to ensure that none is starving.” On Monday, the JU students had cooked khichdi and distributed it to 150 people in and around Jadavpur station, Dhakuria, Gariahat and Golpark. “We are following the health advisories while cooking and distributing the food. Our initiative will continue till the lockdown ends. We are trying to cook more food and cover wider areas between Garia and Golpark daily,” said Debjan Sengupta, an ex-student of JU. Some teachers and non-teaching staff of JU have also joined the social initiative by helping the students financially. Among the vendors helped by PU students during the lockdown include Badam Kaka, Dilip Kaka, Sukumar Da, Lal Da, Ananda Da, Chat Kaka. Asif Abdullah, a student of PU, said, “Badam Kaka was out of money for medicines. We have solved the problem for a week or two.” The Presidency University Students’ Union members have also started raising funds to help the mess-staff and canteen-staff and requested students, teachers, non-teaching staff for donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-lend-helping-hand-to-poor/articleshow/74921433.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh chilli farmers want to shift stock to cold storages||GUNTUR: Chilli farmers are in a fix as they could not sell the produce with the sudden closure of the agriculture market yard due to the lockdown. The agriculture market yard suspended the activities in the yard last week little after the state government declared the lockdown as part of containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Contrary to the initial expectations that the yard will resume its operations on Wednesday, the government has extended the lockdown schedule till April 14 following a directive from the Centre. The long lockdown has put farmers in a tight spot as they are worried that the quality of chilli might be affected if the mercury levels go up in the coming days. In that case, they might have to sell their stocks at lower prices. Demand was soaring for chilli when the situation suddenly changed due to the spread of Covid-19. The prices were actually steadily rising due to the high demand from exporters giving the growers profitable margins before the closure of the yard. While the top varieties Teja, Guntur Sannalu were quoted anywhere around Rs 14,000-Rs 18,000 per quintal, even average qualities were picked up at not less than Rs 10,000 per quintal. These prices were highest in the recent history and farmers were virtually dreaming about reaping rich dividend when the Covid-19 shattered their hopes. Farmers are now demanding that the state government allow them to transport their stocks to keep them in the cold-storages till the yard resumes activity. While one round of yeild had been picked and bagged and kept in their back yards, the farmers are yet to pick the last yield. Added to this is the shortage of agriculture labourers. “The government should immediately allow us to engage workers to pick the remaining chillies as the crop is drying up fast due to rising temperatures,” said a grower Narasimha Rao of Muppalla village.  A leading exporter Lanka Kranthi Sekhar observed that allowing the farmers to keep their stocks in cold storage is the best solution as the prices would not go down even after the reopening of the yard. He said there was sufficient space in the cold-storage in and around Guntur city to take in entire stock available with the farmers. Meanwhile, BJP MP GVL Narasimha Rao has said that he had discussed the plights of chilli farmers with senior officials and expecting them to take remedial measures. He hoped that the yard would be reopened shortly to take the stocks in a phased manner. The government should immediately allow us to engage workers to pick the remaining chillies as the crop is drying up fast due to rising temperatures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chilli-farmers-want-to-shift-stock-to-cold-storages/articleshow/74920043.cms||Samdani MN
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||WHO clears air on disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies||HYDERABAD: Amidst confusion over the disposal of the bodies of Covid-19 victims, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified that the bodies can either be cremated or buried. WHO has described as myth, the argument that bodies of Covid-19 patients should be cremated. The dignity of the dead, their cultural and religious traditions and their families should be respected and protected throughout. Hasty disposal of a Covid-19 dead person should be avoided. “It is a myth that persons who have died of a communicable disease should be cremated, but this is not true. Cremation is a matter of cultural choice and available resources,” WHO said in its interim guidelines on how to deal with the bodies of Covid-19 victims. The guidelines gain significance in the backdrop of the alleged order of Mumbai municipal commissioner that the bodies , irrespective of their religion, should be cremated. WHO further elaborated that authorities should manage each situation on a case-by-case basis, balancing the rights of the family, need to investigate the cause of death and risks of exposure to infection.The interim guidelines warn that children and adults above 60 years and immuno-suppressed persons should not directly interact with the body. “Based on current evidence, coronavirus is transmitted through droplets, fomites and close contact, with possible spread through faeces. It is not airborne. As this is a new virus whose source and disease progression are not yet entirely clear, more precautions may be used,” WHO said. According to WHO, except in cases of haemorrhagic fevers (such as Ebola, Marburg) and cholera, bodies are generally not infectious. Only lungs of patients with pandemic influenza, if handled improperly during an autopsy, can be infectious. Else, cadavers do not transmit diseases. “Till date, there is no evidence of persons having become infected from exposure to the bodies of persons, who died of Covid-19,” WHO said, adding that the safety and well-being of everyone who tends to bodies should be the priority. Before attending to a body, people must ensure hand hygiene and personal protective equipment supplies are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/who-clears-air-on-disposal-of-covid-victims-bodies/articleshow/74920851.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Pune||Parole gain for 6,000 convicts serving 7 years or less term||PUNE: Additional director-general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand said on Tuesday that the state government’s notification amending the existing parole rules to facilitate extension of the parole benefit to convicts serving 7 years or less in jails was expected to be issued by Thursday. The move was being considered in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and the need to decongest prisons in the state. Ramanand told TOI, “Close to 6,000 convicts lodged in state jails are expected to benefit. We have recommended amendment of rule 9 of the Bombay Parole and Furlough Act 1959 for granting emergency parole to the convicts. The amendment will empower the jail superintendents to release them on parole after checking their past conduct. For instance, if a convict was earlier released on parole, whether he had returned to the jail after the parole lapsed etc will be looked into.” “The notification amending the parole rules will be issued by the disaster management department. The jail superintendents will have the power to release the convicts on parole for 45 days. The parole can be extended for 30 days as per the Epidemic Diseases Act. The parole will stand terminated after the notification is revoked or withdrawn. The convicts will then have to return to jail,” he added. The state police will monitor the movements of around 1,694 under trial prisoners (UTPs) released on bail so far, including 138 from the Yerawada central prison since March 27. More UTPs are expected to be released in a phased manner. Pune police’s additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale told TOI, “All police stations and crime branches will check undertrial prisoners released on bail by visiting their residences on a regular basis for maintaining surveillance and keeping tabs on their current activities.” “We have complied data of all criminals in the Criminal Intensive Surveillance System. The data will be used for monitoring their movements. The criminals will be summoned to the police stations and crime branches to deter them from committing new crimes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parole-gain-for-6k-convicts-serving-7-years-or-less-term/articleshow/74920849.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 1, 2020||Surat||Three-day exemption for employers to pay salary||SURAT: After the recent clash in Vadod between police and migrant labourers, city police has announced three-day relaxation from Tuesday for employers in the city to go out to pay salaries to their employees. Considering the workers’ allegations of not having food and cash, the cops will allow employers till Thursday to pay salaries or money for other expenditures to their employees. However, the employer should ensure that there is no crowding while distributing salary, cops said. "Police have discussed the issue of payments to the employees with other government officials. After discussion we have decided to give relaxation for three days to the employers to go out to pay salaries to the employees," city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told TOI. City police officials have also discussed the issue of food supply to the migrant workers with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-day-exemption-for-employers-to-pay-salary/articleshow/74920075.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Politicians too begin spraying disinfectant to control corona||Nagpur: Apart from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), public representatives, too, have started distributing and spraying disinfectants in their localities. Some corporators have not engaged workers as they themselves are spraying the disinfectant. With the rise in Covid-19 patients, the NMC on March 28 started manual spraying in areas where positive patients were found and also engaged 11 fire tenders for spraying on main roads. The NMC is spraying sodium hypochlorite, claiming it will prevent the spread of Covid-19. Some public representatives started spraying much before the NMC’s drive. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, who is also Congress city president, said, “I distributed 50 machines which can be mounted on backs. Spraying will be done all over my constituency. I also engaged three four-wheelers in which a big tank has been installed with a pump for spraying. It’s my responsibility to keep citizens safe and sound. There is also panic among people who feel relaxed after spraying is done in their areas. I’m continuously providing sodium hypochlorite and necessary materials for the drive,” he said. When asked whether it’s permissible, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said, “They are public servants. So, no problem. But all should follow the guidelines. NMC has launched the drive across the city and is covering all areas,” he said. BJP corporator Jitendra ‘Bunty’ Kukde engaged 10 machines in his ward from March 23 onwards. “I personally mount the machine on my back and do spraying between 7am and 1pm daily. I have covered all the areas in my ward along with my nine supporters. I’m willing to give the machines to other wards,” he said. Another BJP corporator, Dayashankar Tiwari, engaged a four-wheeler for spraying. “As the NMC is short of staff, the entire city cannot be covered fast. It is also our responsibility as public representatives to keep our people safe. There is also no violation of the lockdown as it is an essential service. It is also not a violation of section 144 as just two persons — a driver and a sprayer — are engaged,” he said. BJP city president and corporator Pravin Datke, too, distributed 50 spraying machines. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said, “Union minister Nitin Gadkari is likely to engage three private fire tenders for spraying soon. Gadkari also plans to give one bottle of hand sanitizer to every household. Many such initiatives have been planned by Gadkari and the BJP’s city unit. We are public representatives and always in public service in all situations,” he said. Some party leaders were seen spraying sodium hypochlorite with tools used for watering plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/politicians-too-begin-spraying-disinfectant-to-control-corona/articleshow/74920840.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Burnt by boiling oil thrown by husband, woman dies in hospital||BHOPAL: Five days after a 32-year-old man allegedly threw boiling oil on his 30-year-old wife, while she was sleeping with her three children at her home in Jehangirabad locality, the woman died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Monday. The woman had sustained severe burn injuries on face, eyes and upper body. Jehangirabad police added sections of murder to the case and launched a manhunt to nab the accused, who is absconding since the incident. After committing the horrendous act, the accused allegedly stole Rs 25000 from the woman’s cupboard. He had a major fight with his wife on Wednesday night when he saw that she had got the money which she was saving with a self-help group. He asked his wife to give him the money for liquor, but she refused.So next day, he burnt her with boiling oil and fled the spot with money. Police said that the victim Geeta Shaqya, 30, hailed from Gwalior. She got married to Bunty Shakya, a resident of Bheem Nagar, in 2008. They have three children. Police said that accused Bunty was addicted to alcohol and often quarrelled with Geeta in inebriated condition. Three months ago, Geeta had filed a complaint against Bunty at Jehangirabad police station, after which he went absconding and was residing at his native town in Gwalior. Recently, when lockdown restrictions were enforced, Geeta called him and asked him to return home to avoid coronavirus. Police said that Bunty returned home a few days ago and started quarrelling with Geeta in inebriated condition. The couple had a dispute over money on Wednesday night after Bunty returned home drunk. After arguments, they went to sleep. Bunty got up around 4 am on Thursday and boiled oil in a pan on the pretext of preparing tea. He threw boiling oil on Geeta while she was asleep. Geeta sustained around 30 per cent burn injuries on face, eyes and upper body. She rushed outside in terrible pain and raised alarm. Her sister Rajkumari, who stays in the neighbourhood, called ambulance and dialled 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/burnt-by-boiling-oil-thrown-by-husband-woman-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/74920846.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||LMH joins Covid-19 fight with 350-plus beds||Nagpur: Lata Manageshkar Hospital (LMH) attached to NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences, city’s only private medical college, has now joined the fight against Covid-19. LMH Dean Dr Kajal Mitra said that hospital had reserved 350 beds for isolation of patients, ten Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds with ventilators and 13 High Dependency Units (HDUs). “Looking at the burden of patients at two government hospitals in city, LMH had offered to give our services in a meeting with divisional commissioner. Earlier, we created a ten-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 suspects. Now, we have extended the capacity to 350,” said Dr Mitra. LMH will not only admit the coronavirus suspects but also collect their samples for testing. In case found positive, the patient will be shifted to separate rooms where ICU and ventilators will also be available, if needed. LMH has also agreed to shift non-Covid-19 patients from GMCH and IGGMCH to their campus if these government hospitals require vacating some more beds for coronavirus patients. Campus of LMH hospital is situated at Digdoh hills on Hingna road which is comparatively far from city centre. This could be an advantage as chance of infection will reduce in case community spread of Covid-19 starts in Vidarbha. The hospital has 1,200 plus students of UG, PG and superspecialty courses. Added strength * At present, the Covid-19 patients/suspects are treated only at IGGMCH and GMCH* After 12 new patients found in city from March 26, the burden on these two hospitals increased* At present, these two hospitals together have 97 beds reserved for Covid-19 cases* Number of ventilators and ICU beds is very limited in both hospitals * LMH will offer 350-bedded isolation facility, 10 ICU beds with ventilators and 13 HDU beds * The hospital on Hingna road is also ready to shift and treat non-corona patients from GMCH and IGGMCH immediately||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lmh-joins-covid-19-fight-with-350-plus-beds/articleshow/74920850.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Pune||IMD finds major changes in rainfall trend in last 30 years||PUNE: An IMD analysis on the rainfall trends from 1989 to 2018 has shown significant changes in India’s monsoon and annual showers, which in part could explain the extreme heavy downpour events and the simultaneous dry conditions in parts of the country during the past few years. Scientists involved in the study have connected these changes to climate change, especially during the past 30 years. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) study found that frequency of rainy days showed an significant increasing trend over Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, northern parts of Madhya Pradesh and parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. On the other hand, significant decreasing trends were seen over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab and the country’s northeastern parts. In Maharashtra, the analysis showed that in the months of June to September, there has been a significant increase in rainy days in the stations in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigad, Kolhapur and Bhandara. “There is a significant decrease in rainy days in stations in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha districts,” said Pulak Guhathakurta, head, climate application and user interface, climate research and services, IMD, Pune. In October last year, Guhathakurta said, the Parliament standing committee had told the ministry of earth sciences to gauge the effect of climate change on the rainfall patterns of India during the recent 30 years. “Past analysis reports have estimated the impact of climate change on rainfall from 1901 to 2010. But this is the only study so far in India that gauges the impact of climate change on rainfall patterns during the recent 30-year period,” he said. “One shocking aspect of the study was the decreasing trend in rainfall and increasing trend in dry days during the last 30 years over the fertile Ganga Brahmaputra basin, a major agricultural zone,” he said. In Maharashtra, the study also showed that every year, there is a significant increase in rainy days in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigarh, Kolhapur and Bhandara districts. In contrast, there is a significant decrease in rainy days in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha districts. “We noticed that during June to September, there is also a significant increase in heavy rainfall days in Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Raigarh, Kolhapur and Bhandara. On the other hand, there is a significant decrease in heavy rainfall days in Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Yavatmal, Wardha,” he said. State-specific analysis showed that only five states (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Nagaland) have shown significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall. All these five states, along with Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, have also shown significant decreasing trends in annual rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-finds-major-changes-in-rainfall-trend-in-last-30-years/articleshow/74920856.cms||Neha Madaan
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||No bread for breakfast as city bakeries work with skeletal staff||KOLKATA: Bread, which is a staple in most city homes, was hard to come by at most markets on Tuesday. The trickle of a supply on Sunday virtually dried up on Monday, leaving lakhs discontent about an essential breakfast item disappearing from the menu. Families were forced to shift to alternative options, including roti-sabzi, poha, corn flakes or oats. If the bakers’ association is to be believed, the shortage is liklely to be on till the end of the lockdown. According to bakery owners, almost all labourers have left for their villages before the three-week lockdown started, leading to a halt in product of bread and other bakery products. Scarcity of flour and maida in the wholesale market has only compounded the problem. Bread manufactured by some of the popular brands have also disappeared from shops. “In our household, bread is a must for breakfast. Till Sunday, we received at least some quantity but from Monday, there is absolutely no bread available in the markets. Families with children are bound to face a lot of difficulty. We are forced to explore other options,” said Arpit Ganguly, a resident of Premchand Boral Street in Bowbazar. Pointing to the reason for the sudden shortage, Ariful Islam, chief executive officer of the West Bengal Bakers’ Association, said, “Only 5% bakeries are open in the city, which is highly inadequate to meet the demand.” According to Islam, most labourers left the city for their villages on the Saturday before the Janata Curfew. “Saturday is a holiday in bakeries. These labourers, who live in the districts, could not return because the entire country was locked down with no local trains and buses plying. We were operating the bakeries with skeletal staff but now, even their families are scared and calling them back. Many of them have managed to leave already,” said Islam. Alleged police highhandedness has also been making it difficult to retain the few hands, who have been reporting to work. A baker in Bowbazar alleged his employees had put the dough in the oven and were standing outside the bakery because it was very hot inside, when cops thrashed them. “The cops did not even give any time to explain they were employees of the bakery. One of the boys was badly injured and the rest were so scared that they have refused to work until the lockdown got over,” said the owner of the bakery. Shortage in supply of flour and maida is causing a huge problem in production of bread. “Almost all flour mills in the state are shut. All the wholesale outlets in Posta are yet to open. The bakeries are not getting enough raw material for production,” said Aslam. Owners said they were trying to convince some of their workers to return. “Some of them may return in a day or two but the supply of bread will return to normal only after the lockdown is lifted,” said Islam .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-bread-for-breakfast-as-city-bakeries-work-with-skeletal-staff/articleshow/74920877.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Truck driver robbed, murdered near Daund||PUNE: A 55-year-old truck driver was stabbed to death, while the cleaner of another heavy vehicle suffered injuries after a gang of six men assaulted and robbed them of valuables collectively worth Rs7,000 in the early hours of Monday on Pune-Solapur highway near Daund, about 110km from the city. The Daund police have identified the deceased driver as Kashinath Kadam of Osmanabad district. The injured cleaner of another truck, Mohammed Pathan (49) of Osmanabad, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Daund. Shakil Shaikh, the cleaner on Kadam’s truck, has lodged an FIR with the police. Inspector Sunil Mahadik of the Daund police said Kadam and Shaikh were on their way to Pimpri from Osmanabad in the early hours of Monday. They were carrying pulses in the truck. “Around 2am, Kadam stopped at Malad village along the Pune-Solapur highway for answering nature’s call,” Mahadik said. While Kadam was returning to the truck, the six men all of a sudden surfaced in front him and started beating him up. “When Kadam resisted them, one of them stabbed him near the chest and robbed his Rs3,000 and cellphone,” Mahadik said. He said the suspects attacked the driver and the cleaner of one more truck parked near Kadam’s truck. “They robbed Rs2,000 and cellphone from its driver, Altaf Patel of Osmanabad. The cleaner of the second truck, Pathan, suffered injuries in the assault,” Mahadik said. Shaikh, the complainant, took Kadam to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. “We registered the offence under sections of dacoity and murder with dacoity of the Indian Penal Code,” Mahadik said. He said there was already heavy police deployment along the highway because many people were attempting to migrate to their native places during the lockdown because of the Covid-19 situation. “We are suspecting involvement of local gang behind the robbery and murder of the truck driver. There are few gangs in the area involved in train robberies,” Mahadik said. “We are working on some clues and have also intensified patrolling in the area,” he added. The lockdown across the country because of the Covid-19 situation had left several truck drivers and cleaners stranded on highways with their vehicles. No food joints were open for them and they had a torrid time waiting on roads for the state borders to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-driver-robbed-murdered-near-daund/articleshow/74920861.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa goverment, MEA may evacuate 8,000 Goans abroad: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI/COLVA: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that his government, with the aid of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), wishes to evacuate around 8,000 Goans working abroad — including seafarers — and quarantine them in Goa. “A decision in this regard will be taken in the next two days,” he said. Sawant met Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao (NCP), Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco (Congres) and seafarers’ associations on the issue. “The associations’ claim is that there are around 7,000-8,000 seafarers and Goans working in the US, Italy, Spain, etc,” Sawant said. “I have spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah about it. We are still discussing how to get them back and where to quarantine them. With the help of the MEA, we want to resolve the issue. We want to help them.” Founder of Seamen’s Association of India (SAI) Dixon Vaz told TOI that the CM was informed about the situation and conditions on cruise liners where seafarers are stranded with food stocks depleting. A call was then made to the director general shipping, he said. Vaz said that Sawant assured the delegation that he is in tough with the PMO, home ministry and MEA to make the necessary arrangements to get those stranded back to Goa following all safety procedures. Vaz said he also told the CM that crew members are stranded in coronavirus-affected countries, and that arrangements have to be made here in Goa to quarantine them upon their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-mea-may-evacuate-8000-goans-abroad-sawant/articleshow/74921453.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur likely to get three more Covid-19 testing labs||NAGPUR: With Mayo Hospital overburdened, the Central and state government are likely to give permission for testing of swab samples for Covid-19 to three more government institutions of the city — AIIMS, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), and Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu). At present, Mayo Hospital is the only approved lab in entire Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and some parts of Madhya Pradesh (MP). With rise in number of suspected cases and close contacts of positive persons, Mayo Hospital is reportedly overburdened. As per public representatives and family members of patients, reports are delayed up to 24 hours or more. Mayo Hospital has only one Real Time PCR Machine, which is required for testing of swab samples for Covid-19. If given permission, Mafsu may come as a big relief as it has three machines, of which one has the latest technology at its state-of-the-art Centre for Zoonosis at Nagpur Veterinary College, Seminary Hills. Deputy director (health) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and his team inspected Mafsu’s centre on March 28 and submitted a report to the state’s public health department. Mafsu director (research) Dr NV Kurkure and registrar Chandrabhan Parate told TOI, “Mafsu is ready to take up the challenge in larger interest of country if given permission by the government. It is our social responsibility to serve the nation and people. We have experienced staff and mechanism, which can be easily utilized for testing Covid-19 samples. We have already sent six doctors for training at Mayo Hospital a day ago.” Dr Kurkure added Mafsu has three Real Time PCR Machines at its veterinary public health department, pathology department and microbiology department, and all can be brought to Centre for Zoonosis to begin work as per protocol of WHO and government. “Centre for Zoonosis was developed 3-4 years ago and is equipped with all types of facilities,” he said. As per officials, the government is also likely to give permission to AIIMS situated at MIHAN and GMCH. These two institutions have one machine each, and, most importantly, treatment facilities. Another major advantage will be that all four institutions are situated in different locations of the city. The government, in association with the district administration, can chalk out districts and area wise distribution of samples. Reports can be delivered quickly and in large numbers if all four laboratories are in service in the city. A private establishment — Druv Pathology and Molecular Diagnostic Lab — has also reportedly applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-likely-to-get-three-more-covid-19-testing-labs/articleshow/74920859.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighi Jamaat congregation: Participants urged to get tests done||HYDERABAD: With concerns being raised about those who returned from Nizamuddin in New Delhi after attending a religious programme, health authorities in different districts of Telangana began identifying them and urged them to come forward for health check-ups. In Mahbubnagar district a new facility was created for corona suspects to be quarantined. Minister V Srinivas Goud said 17 people who had attended the programme in the district were already under home quarantine but would be shifted to hospital quarantine. In Nagarkurnool, authorities identified 12 people who had attended the gathering. Out of them, 10 tested negative for coronavirus, and one tested positive. The result of another was awaited. Meanwhile, migrant workers are being taken care of in various districts. In Siddipet, finance minister T Harish Rao distributed rice and Rs 500 each to the workers and assured them that they would be assisted during the lockdown period. In Nirmal district, collector Musharraf Ali Farooqui organised camps and distributed rice to migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/participants-urged-to-get-tests-done/articleshow/74920860.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Abandoned pets wander through deserted streets under Covid-19 lockdown||HYDERABAD: A yellow Labrador scavenges from a garbage bin near Secunderabad without a collar or owner in sight. Similarly, a German Shepherd, also without a name tag or collar, was found tied to a pole in Narayanguda Government Veterinary Hospital earlier this week. While the city’s streets have become deserted since the lockdown was announced, animal rescue teams say that they are witnessing an unusual increase in the number of pet dogs being abandoned on city roads due to the spread of Covid-19. The average number of calls received by Animal Rescue Shelter, an NGO, regarding such cases, has increased from one to two cases per week to at least three cases per day. “It is very concerning. We have been receiving at least two to three calls every single day. One of our recent rescues was of a Lhasa Terrier from Attapur. The dog was so scared that it used to constantly shake in fear when someone would go close to her. Another Pomeranian that we rescued was left at a car mechanic workshop in Jeedimetla,” said Shruti Darak, founder of Animal Rescue Shelter. Animal welfare organisations also say that the number of calls from pet owners wanting to give up pets is also on the rise.“There is a sudden surge in number of pet owners wanting to give up pets. Our Facebook page on pet adoptions is a proof that people are scared they might get infected. We are working on overcoming that by counselling them and disseminating correct information,” said Aanchal Khanna, an animal activist. Despite the World Health Organisation (WHO) clarifying that Covid-19 cannot be transmitted through dogs, many are either abandoning their pets on streets or frantically calling shelter homes to give them up. Clearing the air about the misinformation, Dr Jasleen Kaur from Allvet Pet Clinic said, “Pets do not get Covid-19. They do not get the strain of coronavirus that can be transmitted from them to humans. There is absolutely no reason to abandon your pet or send it to a shelter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abandoned-pets-wander-through-deserted-streets-under-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/74920864.cms||Moulika.KV
April 1, 2020||Delhi||WhatsApp messages of Delhi officials under lens||NEW DELHI: Leaked WhatsApp messages from a group administered by a Delhi government official who faces disciplinary action for "dereliction of duty" is being investigated by intelligence agencies as it points to actions which were at odds with the 21-day lockdown announced to stop the spread of coronavirus. Sources at the Centre said contents and the dates of the messages coincided with the surge of migrants on Delhi roads who were seen moving towards the borders with UP and pointed to actions meant to facilitate or encourage the flow of workers during the weekend. Four Delhi government officials face action for failing to carry out lockdown orders and putting public health at risk. Renu Sharma, additional chief secretary, transport department, and Rajiv Verma, principal secretary, finance, were suspended. Satya Gopal, additional chief secretary, home and land buildings department, and Ajay Kumar Arora, SDM, Seelampur, were served show cause notices. The agencies, which are collecting information on the migrant movement in the capital, are looking at reports and videos of announcements made in certain areas asking people to move to the borders where it was claimed buses were available to take them further to UP and Bihar. The availability of DTC buses to move migrant workers in large numbers to the border is also being investigated. The WhatsApp communication, however, points to an effort to take people on the roads to certain points for onward journeys. Home ministry officials have held that the actions, in contravention of the lockdown orders, amounted to a sabotage of the effort to contain the coronavirus infection spread. Sources said the Centre's displeasure was bluntly conveyed to the UT administration on Saturday evening as thousands of migrants swamped inter-state bus depots. There have been migrant movements in other states and cities as well, but the events in Delhi are being seen in a different light by the Centre which feels that officials charged with implementing the lockdown order failed to do so and perhaps acted with deliberation. Delhi government has not reacted to action taken by the Centre against its key functionaries. TOI reported on Tuesday that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had also expressed unhappiness over the migrants being allowed to move outside the city despite the lockdown. The largescale of movement of migrants has presented central and state health authorities with the challenging task of tracking workers to their villages and hometowns. Bihar, home to thousands of migrants, is indignant about the "breach" of the lockdown and has struggled to figure out ways to deal with the return of hundreds of potential carriers of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/whatsapp-messages-of-delhi-officials-under-lens/articleshow/74920901.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Rising to the challenge, textile units of Indore make PPE kits for state||Indore: As Madhya Pradesh is facing acute shortage of protective gears for health workers, textile units in Indore have swung into action to supply Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit across state. Textile units will cater to the demand of protective gears for the entire state and kits will be distributed through a centralized supply chain from Bhopal, claimed officials. The state government has roped in over half a dozen textile units in Indore such as Pratibha Syntex to manufacture PPE kits, masks, gloves and other medical essentials crucial to prevent infection in health care workers. Madhya Pradesh Industry Development Corporation (MPIDC) Indore head Kumar Purushottam said, “PPE kits will be supplied from Indore to across the state. We have roped in Pratibha Syntex and many allied textile units to manufacture these kits for which the design and material have been approved by the state health department and initially over 2,000 PPE kits are being manufactured in a day. The target is to scale up production to around 5,000 PPE kits in a day.” According to industry experts, the daily requirement of PPE kits in the state is about 6,000-7,000 kits per day. Principal Secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, looking after supplies of medicines and logistics, said, “We are targeting around 1 lakh suits, our present manufacturing capacity is 2,500 and very soon it will be 5,000 per day at Indore. We are also buying from other sources and expecting 10, 000 in next 10 days and another 20,000 after the delivery of first lot.” He said efforts are on to start manufacturing of PPE kits in Bhopal. To ensure continuous supply of PPE kits, the state government has called raw material from Pune, Gujarat and Bangalore and targeting to build inventories for around 70,000 kits. HS Jha, vice president, HR said, “We are making one-time use protective gears, masks and gloves at our factory. Demand is huge and we are trying to meet the demand by enhancing production capacity but raw material and workers are a few challenges. We have set up a separate room for making these protective gears. We are also working to make reusable suits.” Jha said the factory is producing around 1,000 suits and 15,000 masks per day at the facility. State government also plans to send some samples of the kit to Central testing laboratory in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rising-to-the-challenge-textile-units-of-indore-make-ppe-kits-for-state/articleshow/74920857.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Max risk but few masks for cops||Bhopal: Police personnel — frontline warriors enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown — are the most vulnerable since they come in contact with people. And they do so with little more than cloth masksand a prayer. While senior police officers are working 15-16 hours at a stretch, field staff have 12-15-hour shifts in this unprecedented crisis. They have to face a lot of challenges, including the anger of people, who violate the lockdown. A force of around 3,200 cops has been deployed across the city, day and night. Although the department has distributed masks, gloves and sanitisers yet many cops, especially the lower-ranked staff complained that they have not been provided any such protective gear. They said that they were arranging these items on their own. Every police station has been given a budget of Rs5,000 for arranging sanitiser/ handwash and masks along with wash basins on their premises but several cops told TOI that it wasn’t enough as complainants, too, use the facilities. “In this unprecedented crisis, police and health workers are the most exposed to the disease as they come in contact with a large number of people daily, especially while enforcing lockdown in crowded areas,” a senior officer said. Little or nothing has been provided by the department as far as protective gear is concerned, said the officer. “I personally procured 200 litres of chemical to sanitise police stations in my jurisdiction. Masks and hand sanitisers are being procured by staff themselves,” he added. A constable deployed at a checkpost near the airport said that 22 of them, including 10 from SAF, have purchased masks on their own. RI Deepak Patil, however,said the police control room procured 9,000 masks and 2,500 gloves, which have been distributed at police stations. Small bottles of sanitisers have been provided to every cop on duty. Personal protection equipment (PPE) kits will be procured and provided by BMC. SP (HQ) Dharamveer Yadav said that those who opt for police force are mentally strong and understand how to deal with the hazards of their profession. He said that policemen have been made aware to follow basic rules during duty, including maintaining social distance. “They have been directed not to go home during the duty hours to avoid infecting family members. Masks and gloves are being provided to the force and the distribution process is underway. If demand grows, more supplies will be provided”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/max-risk-but-few-masks-for-cops/articleshow/74920858.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 1, 2020||Pune||5 more test +ve in Pune, 2 sans foreign travel history||PUNE/MUMBAI: Five more individuals tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection in the city on Tuesday, taking the Pune’s case tally to 48. “One of the persons testing positive is a 28-year-old man of Kalyaninagar. He has recent history of international travel. He was admitted to the quarantine facility at Naidu hospital on Monday and tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” a civic health official said. Another infected persons is a 55-year-old resident of Ghorpadi Peth. “He has no history of recent foreign travel. He went to KEM hospital with complain of mild breathlessness. He was referred to Naidu hospital where he tested positive for the infection. His condition is stable,” the official said. Another person diagnosed with Covid-19 is a 51-year-old woman from Junnar, the rural parts of Pune. “Her son has tested positive and is being treated at Kasturba hospital in Mumbai. She got admitted to Naidu hospital after she developed flu-like symptoms. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” the official said. A 60-year-old man, a resident of Kondhwa, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He also has no history of international travel. He developed breathlessness, following which he was referred to Naidu hospital. His condition is stable,” the official said, adding a 38-year-old man, resident of Lohegaon, also tested positive for the infection. He is being treated at Armed Forces Medical College. “He has no history of international travel. His contacts are being traced,” he said. Two Covid-19 deaths were reported from Mumbai and Palghar on Tuesday. The latest patient who died in Mumbai was a 60-year-old resident of Worli Koliwada, sealed after a dozen cases were detected there in a few days. On Tuesday, three fresh cases were found there, including that of a technician who worked with the cardiac surgeon associated with Saifee Hospital who died last week after testing positive. Palghar reported its first Covid-19 casualty with the death of a 50-year-old with no travel history. Dr Dayanad Sooryavanshi, Palghar’s district health officer, said the patient had come to stay with his family comprising wife and two daughters at his Saphale home as the factory was shut due to the 21-day lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-test-ve-in-pune-2-sans-foreign-travel-history/articleshow/74921443.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Without regular professional care, special children struggle during lockdown||PANAJI: One section that is feeling the impact of restriction on movement during the lockdown is children with special needs and their parents. Fifteen-year-old Guirim-resident Mahiya Vernekar, who has cerebral palsy, is growing restless being constantly indoors. She cannot make the weekly visit to her grandmother’s house in Mapusa. Parents of the Anand Niketan student, Mahiya, are also concerned over her not getting physiotherapy sessions. “Mahiya has become naughtier and restless since being restricted indoors. We used to take her to her grandmother’s place in Mapusa once a week, besides, taking her for a joyride to Panaji. That kept her in good spirits. She is missing her physiotherapy and speech therapy. But we cannot do anything about the current situation, we have to deal with it,” Mahiya’s father Ramesh Vernekar said. Special educator Snehal Verenkar is one of the founders of the Grey Blend Foundation, which offers services of special educators at homes across North Goa at a nominal cost. Since the novel coronavirus threat, many parents have themselves opted out of the service to avoid any possibility of infection. In cases where parents have expressed the need to continue the service, most of the Foundation’s special educators and therapists are unable to travel as they are dependent on public transport. “I have received calls from three parents already who said there is increase in behavioural problems in their autistic children. Autistic children don’t like their routine to be changed and when schools will open now after a long time it will take an extra effort to bring these children back on track. Parents do not have the same skills of special educators to deal with the children and we can be of limited help over the phone,” Snehal said. She said that the lockdown has led to shortage of some food items and this is especially tough to deal with for parents of special children. “One parent was frantically calling me today to ask where she can get biscuits from. Biscuits and other bakery products form a major part of her child’s diet and the special child is having trouble adjusting to rice and dal meals. Many special children do not understand verbal instructions, and special educators can help in convincing them,” Snehal said. She said special educators are providing parents tips like how to engage children with autism with visuals such as cartoons on TV and picture books. Headmaster of Sanjay School for Special Children in Porvorim, and with centres in Curchorem and Vasco, Tatu Kudalkar said that parents also have the added burden of taking extra care of their special children during this period, as many of these children have lower immunity. “Children with cerebral palsy need physiotherapy on a regular basis. Without it, their muscles tighten and then you are back to square one once they return to school. We were considering arranging for such children and the physiotherapist to come to the school during the lockdown for continuity in therapy. But it was felt that it is not advisable as the immunity of many of the children is low. The older students at our vocational centre too have to deal with having nothing to keep them busy at home,” Kudalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/without-regular-professional-care-special-children-struggle-during-lockdown/articleshow/74921446.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 1, 2020||Indore||Grain procurement postponed again||Indore: State government once again postponing grain procurement process on Tuesday increased worries of farmers as apart from struggling financially, they are dealing with issues including that unavailability of labours, storing harvest and safeguarding standing crops. Indore on Tuesday morning reported third incident of fire in standing crops in as many days. Following state government’s instructions, some district administration including Mandsaur had made required arrangements to start grain procurement process from Wednesday but the same had to be postponed at the 11th hour due to rise in coronavirus patients and threat of further spread. "The procurement of Rabi crops has been postponed in view of increasing threat of Covid-19. New date to start process is yet to be decided," senior administrative official leading statewide process of grain procurement said wishing anonymity. While Indore administration had already decided not to start the procurement process, other district administrations including Mandsaur cancelled the same by evening. Disappointment was also witnessed among wagers and traders, who are active in Neemuch-based grain wholesale market. Meanwhile, fire destroyed standing crops in a farmland in Katkoda village of Depalpur tehsil. This was the third incidents of fire in farms under Depalpur and Hatod tehsil in as many days, where negligence on part of power company was alleged. Bablu Jadhav, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Mandur Sena said on witnessing rise in incidents of short circuits, they had requested power company not to supply electricity during day hours but the officials did not pay attention leading to fire incidents damaging standing crops in the fields. He demanded state government and discom to compensate affected farmers and take required steps to check fire incidents in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/grain-procurement-postponed-again/articleshow/74920870.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Police to track flu-like symptoms||Tracking symptoms : Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy has asked resident associations to inform the police if anyone has flu-like symptoms. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-to-track-flu-like-symptoms/articleshow/74920888.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||One more released from hospital after recovery||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: One more Covid-19 patient was discharged from the New Bhosari Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad on Tuesday evening, after his successive throat swabs tests came negative. With this, 10 positive Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged after 14-day isolation and treatment. The health of the other two, who are also on the verge of completing their treatment, remains stable. “Even so, we have to be watchful. We are now in the process of testing more. Hopefully, the count will remain stable,” Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said, adding that no new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the PCMC said it surveyed 27,500 households and 87,346 citizens. It has so far surveyed 6.30 lakh patients for the contagion. The surveys are mostly based on self-declaration by members whose houses are visited. Citizens are asked to self declare their health conditions, age and travel history. In case the visiting officials find anything amiss, people are either taken to the hospital or are advised home quarantine. Consequently, a total of 1,498 persons have been home-quarantined till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-more-released-from-hospital-after-recovery/articleshow/74921456.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||No contact of Central Nagpur patient is positive||Nagpur: After reporting novel coronavirus positive cases consecutively from March 26 to 30, Nagpur reported no new confirmed case of Covid-19 on Tuesday. All samples tested till late Monday night were found negative. These include samples of remaining 20 contacts of Central Nagpur man who has travel history of Vrindavan (UP). More than 35 contacts of this person have been tested negative so far. Although tested negative, all of his close contacts have been shifted to MLA Hostel for 14-day quarantine. NMC, on Tuesday, brought two more housemaids and aged parents of the patient for testing. Their results are pending. Tuesday also brought relief for doctors and nurses of the GMCH. Nine doctors and eight nurses, who were in close contact of one of the positive Covid-19 patients earlier, were quarantined on Monday and their samples were taken for testing. All of them tested negative for Covid-19. These doctors and nursing staff had treated 45-year-old brother of a Jaripatka patient. He had a paralysis attack and was under treatment in GMCH. As his younger brother was tested positive for Covid-19, doctors had collected elder brother’s samples too. As they were tested positive, entire medical staff which treated this patient was at risk. Even though their samples have tested negative, they will be in home quarantine for next 14 days as a precautionary measure. Total 39 samples from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and 28 from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) were tested on Tuesday. Apart from these, one sample recommended by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 23 coming from Buldhana, four from Wardha, three from Sawangi, and one each from Sevagram, Akola and Chandrapur were tested negative. No new sample was sent from Gondia, where a positive patient is under treatment. Wednesday is going to be an important day for Nagpur. Mostly, low-risk contacts of the positive patients were tested on Tuesday. If tested negative on Wednesday, it would be a major step towards restriction of Covid-19 spread in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-contact-of-central-nagpur-patient-is-positive/articleshow/74920982.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE (Mains) put off till May end||Hyderabad: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Mains), which was scheduled to be held on April 5, 7, 9 and 11, has been postponed till May end by the National Testing Agency on Tuesday. According to a press release by NTA, exact dates will be announced after assessing the situation in the coming weeks. “The admit cards for the exam will now be issued after April 15 based on the situation at that time, ” read the release.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-mains-put-off-till-may-end/articleshow/74920871.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Youth booked for stalking minor girl in Pune||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Monday booked a 20-year-old youth on the charges of stalking a minor girl (15) for the past one month and for beating up her father after he reprimanded him on Monday. The youth was booked under sections 354-D (Stalking) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the Nigdi police in this regard on Monday night. The woman stated in her complaint that on March 3, when her daughter was on her way to the dairy, the suspect stalked her and also used lewd language. “He had been following her ever since,” the complaint stated. “On Monday evening, when the girl’s father went to his house and reprimanded him, the youth beat him up. The youth also threatened the man of dire consequences, if the latter approached the police,” an officer from the Nigdi police said, adding that further investigation was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-booked-for-stalking-minor-girl/articleshow/74920880.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 14 strays captured at Gandhi Hospital||HYDERABAD: Following a spate of complaints of strays entering the Gandhi Hospital premises, GHMC workers captured 14 dogs on Tuesday and shifted them to the north zone shelter. GHMC veterinary assistant Goverdhan Reddy told TOI that the strays had been shifted to the corporation’s kennel temporarily. “The hospital authorities had informed us that these dogs are moving around within the hospital and disturbing their routine while treating Covid-19 cases,” he said. He said they also talked to some animal welfare activists before shifting the dogs to the GHMC kennel. “They are kept in a separate section of the kennel so that we can leave them back in the same place once things get better,” said Reddy. The hospital authorities had asked GHMC to step in as the dogs were entering the hospital premises during inspections conducted by the higher authorities and hampering certain services in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-strays-captured-at-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/74920876.cms||Moulika.KV
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Eerie silence, grim faces in Prof Colony||Bhopal: A week into the 21-day lockdown and five days after Professor’s Colony was declared ‘containment area’, residents are coming to terms with the hardships. Supply of milk and essential items have dried up forcing residents to move out. Residents moving out of containment area pose a threat to the general population. The administration has failed to streamline supply of essentials in the area, complain residents. Barring public announcement to stay indoors and maintain social distancing nothing has been done for screening of people or sanitisation of the area, alleged residents. The containment area resembles a war zone—an eerie silence, with grim faces occasionally spotted from the balconies of the houses. Majority of the residents of the colony are abiding by the rules and learning to live with the hardships. “We have been complying with the government orders, but what about the administration? Is it complying with its own order of containment area?” a resident, Dr Sumit Agrawal, asked. “Two most important measures mentioned in the CA order, issued by the additional district magistrate of Bhopal on March 27 night, also include sanitization operations around the colony and screening by health officers at the exit points of the colony,” he stated. But nothing of that sort is happening, he added. Another resident told TOI, “Even the supply of milk, an essential commodity, has been stopped, forcing the people to move out of the colony and violate the rules. Why can’t these be made available to the residents in the area.” The first positive case of Covid-19 was detected on March 22 from the colony. Seven days since, on Tuesday, public announcement explaining the importance of ‘social distancing’ continue to blare through the speakers. An autorickshaw with a loudspeaker fitted atop went around the colony saying, “lockdown is a must in these circumstances, coronavirus destroys automatically in 10 to 12 hours, which is why staying indoors is necessary.” The announcement also allayed fears about shortage of supply of essential commodities, saying medical stores are open 24 hours. “Please stay at home and spend time with your family for the safety of your family and yourself. All the essential commodities have been made available to you. We are working for your well-being.” The public announcement also informed the people, “Stay indoors. You will also not be able to move out of Bhopal, now. No one will be able to enter the city also as all the boundaries are sealed.” Anxious residents are keen to learn about the fate of the two positive cases found from the area and the recent test reports on them, besides screening of people in the area, if and when it would be undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eerie-silence-grim-faces-in-prof-colony/articleshow/74920882.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MERC gives major relief to solar rooftop consumers||Nagpur: Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has given a major relief to solar rooftop consumers by rejecting MSEDCL’s demand to impose astronomical grid support charge (GSC) on them. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) had proposed the GSC ranging from Rs3.60 per unit to Rs4.08 per unit for high tension (HT) consumers and as high as Rs8.60 per unit for low tension (LT) consumers. GSC at this level would have made solar rooftop unviable. The commission in its recent order stated that the total capacity of solar rooftop in the MSEDCL area is 460MW. This is way behind the target set by the state government. The commercial impact on MSEDCL is not significant. Therefore, to incentivize solar rooftop systems, the commission has decided not to impose any GSC on them. GSC will not be imposed until the total capacity of solar rooftop reaches 2000MW in the state. Solar experts said the MERC has ensured there will be no GSC for another four to five years. According to a sample calculation done by the commission, GSC will be very reasonable when imposed. However, to compensate MSEDCL for the revenue loss caused by solar rooftop consumers, MERC has imposed banking charge on the consumers. It is 7.5% for HT and 12% for LT consumers. Explaining the banking charge, solar expert Ajit Ganguly said if a consumer uses more energy than he generates through solar, then he will not have to pay any banking charge. Same is the case if generation and consumption is equal. However, at the end of the year if the consumer has generated 100 units more than his total consumption and sold it to the MSEDCL then the discom will pay only for 88 units (for LT consumers) and money equivalent to 12 units will be the banking charge. MERC has ruled that all consumers having net installed capacity up to 10KW will be exempt from banking charge. Those opting for net billing arrangement will also be exempt. Same is the case with solar rooftop systems behind the net meter and not opting for either net billing or net metering. Solar experts Ganguly and Sudhir Budhe welcomed the order and said it would encourage more consumers to go in for solar rooftop. “New consumers had put their plans on hold due to the proposed GSC,” said Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/merc-gives-major-relief-to-solar-rooftop-consumers/articleshow/74920867.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Pune||Rural police impound 80 bikes from rule violators||PUNE: The rural police on Monday impounded around 80 two-wheelers from residents moving on the roads without permission, valid reason or essential purpose. The action was carried out in the areas under the jurisdiction of Shikrapur, Loni Kalbhor, Haveli and Loni Kand police stations, which account for several semi-urban areas. “Many of the motorists had come out merely for fun,” a police officer said. The impounded vehicles will remain at the police stations concerned till the lockdown period ends or until further orders. The rural police have also been maintaining a close watch on the movement of vehicles in semi-urban areas such as Wagholi, Shikrapur, Sinhagad Road, Lonavla, Khed, Baramati, Daund and others. Sandeep Patil, the superintendent of police, Pune rural, said the police would take action against motorists violating the lockdown orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). “Such people will be booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” he said. A senior police officer told TOI, “The riders had came out on the village roads and highways. When officers intercepted their vehicles, the riders told them they were going to meet their friends, family or wanted to buy vegetables. But they had travelled around 10-20km for the same. The riders were also lying to avert police action. So, their vehicles were impounded and were taken to the police station for further action.” Some of the errant riders were found travelling in groups of two or three vehicles, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-police-impound-80-bikes-from-rule-violators/articleshow/74920873.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy tells officials to track contacts of all Covid positive cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In view of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy called an emergency review meeting on Tuesday with chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and higher officials of the health department. At the meeting, the officials informed the chief minister that the 21 new cases that have been reported have been identified as those who attended a religious congregation in New Delhi from March 15 to 17. The CM directed officials to gather information about the people who attended the religious congregation and all possible secondary contacts. Since the virus has a tendency to spread rapidly from person to person, the CM asked officials to trace all potential contacts on war footing and quarantine them to contain further spread of the virus. DGP Gautam Sawang told the chief minister that the administration had gathered information from various sources, including the railways and the organisers of the congregation, and most of the participants have already been quarantined. The chief minister appealed to those who travelled to New Delhi to come forward voluntarily and undergo necessary tests for the safety of their family and the society at large. Further, the chief minister directed officials to intensify the door-to-door survey in urban areas to identify potentially infected people who have travel histories to Covid-19 affected areas. The CM asked officials to provide means of communication like website and phone numbers so that people can come forward to report their health condition. While reviewing the distribution of essential commodities in urban areas, the CM suggested that the distribution of essentials including vegetables be decentralised. He also asked officials to take stringent action against those who jack up prices. He said that officials should ensure that every shop displays the price chart to curb overpricing of essential commodities. CM Jaganmohan Reddy further asked officials to ensure that farmers get minimum support price (MSP) for all crops including tomato and banana. He said that necessary steps need to be taken for perishable goods. Officials told the CM that they are allowing farmers to sell fruits and vegetables in front of shops so that they can increase retail sale. The CM told officials that apart from taking temporary measures, officials should also look for permanent measures by creating area-wise ‘janata markets’ according to demand. Officials informed the chief minister that export of aqua products to China and USA has resumed. Out of 69 processing units, 41 have resumed work with limited staff. Control rooms have been set up to resolve issues pertaining to aqua farmers. He said that all pending bills under Arogyasri have been cleared for network hospitals and that district-level officials should ensure proper healthcare facilities are made available at all hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-tells-officials-to-track-contacts-of-all-covid-positive-cases-in-state/articleshow/74920112.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||People throng markets before complete lockdown in Mhow||Dhar/Mhow: Before the three-day complete lockdown along with sealing borders of Mhow, people rushed to markets to buy groceries, vegetables and other items at Mhow on Tuesday. People from Mhow town and nearby areas thronged almost all vegetable and grocery shops. Markets remained crowded till 4 pm as the administration had ordered the closure of markets by 4 pm. Home delivery of grocery items continued till late evening as it was allowed by the authorities. People also came out to celebrate the festival of Ashtami of Navratri which falls on Wednesday. On the other hand, preparations for sealing Mhow town were carried out on Tuesday. Barricades were erected at all four entry points viz Dharnaka, Simrol Road, Kishanganj and near DSOI square. The barricades were closed at midnight restricting any movement. After the Nizamuddin incident, the administration conducted a search in the mosques of Tablighi Jamaat at Mhow. During this, 11 outsiders were found at Tin Gali mosque which is Markaz of the Jamaat at Mhow. All of them were taken to Mhow civil hospital and were examined for coronavirus. Hospital in charge Dr HR Verma told TOI that no symptoms of Covid-19 were found in any of them, on which they were allowed to go but were advised to remain in isolation. Earlier on Monday late evening, five women out on the roads and a shopkeeper Arvind Pal selling groceries were taken to Mhow police station. Mhow TI Abhay Nema told TOI that though no case was registered against them, they were made to sit in the police station for more than an hour as a punishment. Despite lockdown ordered by Dhar collector Shrikant Banoth, its wasn’t enforced at Pithampur. Almost all shops were found open and none of the customers at any shops maintained physical distance. In Dhar, 13 samples were sent to the laboratory on Monday evening, out of which 10 have been found negative while reports of three patients have not come. Till now, 76 persons have been kept under isolation at house or hospital and 17 have been discharged from isolation after the medical authorities were they were confirmed to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/people-throng-markets-before-complete-lockdown-in-mhow/articleshow/74920886.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Food and shelter in camps, but workers worry about home||PUNE: A huge clamour goes up as IAS officer Vishal Solanki walks around the quarantine camps in Daund and Loni Kalbhor. His instructions to his staff about cleanliness and medical facilities here are almost lost in the voices of the migrants demanding that they be allowed to go home at least 1,200km away. “The only thing they all are saying is that they want to go back home. We cannot allow them as per the government mandate till April 14,'' he said. Solanki is coordinating the operations. After reports of migrant workers leaving the camps and some errant employers ferrying them across the district’s borders surfaced, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday said the district administration will register First Information Reports against such persons. He said his officers are convincing the migrants at 150 sites to stay put. “Ration distribution has been streamlined and we will ensure that all 150 sites get enough,’‘he added. They have been put up in community halls, schools and even hostels. Many reserved quarantine facilities are being used to accommodate them. They get food, drinking water, area to bathe and toilets. But many just want to go home, even if it is over 1,000km away, there is no transport and they will have to walk. The bleakness of the situation has got to them. The 14-days that stretch ahead, lack of work, fear about contracting the coronavirus in the close confines of the quarantine camps, family ties and farm work waiting back home have made the workers restless. P Singh said he left the transit camp in Shirur but was stopped by the police. “We are finding it very difficult to stay here. We get food and ration but we do not want to stay here. Our families are worried. The government should send us back home,'' he told TOI. A worker from Daund said the police are keeping them all there. Another said social distancing was absent as the mats are laid close to each other. “There are some workers from Tamil Nadu and they have been told they will be taken care of,but it will be difficult to keep them here till April 14,” he said. In Indapur, just 20 migrants from Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka of the over 100 remain, after their contractor took them away at night. “We can give them food and shelter but they are not willing to stay back at all. They are determined to leave,'' the official said. A woman with a two-month-baby said she cannot stay in the makeshift camp and officials shifted her to another site. The camps are manned by the police but there is no tracking system at all. “We can't follow them everywhere. Some say they are going to the toilet and escape. Some refuse to eat and some get aggressive as they push us and leave. It is tough to keep them locked up in one place,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/food-shelter-in-camps-but-workers-worry-about-home/articleshow/74921465.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Manglaur home quarantined||HARIDWAR: As many as eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Manglaur have been put under home quarantine for the next 14 days to avoid any chances of spread of the deadly coronavirus. Police officials will put a notice at their homes so that their neighbours and other visitors know that a suspected coronavirus patient has been quarantined in the house. Swapn Kishore Singh, superintendent of police (rural), told TOI, “Eight people — one from Akbarpur village near Manglaur and seven from Malanpura locality of Manglaur — had gone to Delhi on February 17. After staying in Delhi for a couple of days, they visited Sultanpur district near Lucknow.” Meanwhile, Piran Kaliyar police arrested a 25-year-old man from a Roorkee village on Tuesday for posting derogatory remarks against a community on his Facebook wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/eight-tablighi-jamaat-members-home-quarantined/articleshow/74920897.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 1, 2020||Indore||Jail inmates released on parole||Indore: Keeping in view the coronavirus outbreak, 111 undertrials and 218 convicts were released from Central jail on Monday and Tuesday. Jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangre told TOI that all undertrials, who were serving a sentence less than five years were released whereas the convicts who used to go home regularly on parole were given two months parole. “On Monday morning 111 undertrials and in the evening 51 convicts were released whereas on Tuesday morning 167 convicts were released. We are going to release 51 more convicts today,” said Bhangre. He added that they had received help from private schools who provided them with two buses to drop prisoners home. “The buses were sanitised well before and after the prisoners were dropped,” he added. The inmates were released after a health check-up. They were dropped at their respective homes in 10 buses. Abiding court orders, over 475 inmates of Bhairavgarh jail were released on parole for 60 days. Officials said 100 inmates were released on Monday whereas over 350 were released on Tuesday afternoon. Jail superintendent Alka Sonkar said that the capacity of the jail is only 1600 whereas over 2550 inmates were lodged in the jail. In order to reduce the overcrowding and keeping in view the coronavirus outbreak, the inmates were released. More release will follow in the coming days, she said. The jail officials also accompanied the inmates in the bus and dropped them at their respective homes. Sonkar advised the inmates to stay indoors. District jail superintendent Aditi Chaturvedi said, “ 208 prisoner were released on Monday and 10 on Tuesda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/jail-inmates-released-on-parole/articleshow/74920894.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Cops help maintain essential supplies in Durga Nagar||Bhopal: After a railway guard tested positive for coronavirus at Durga Nagar in Semra area on the city outskirts, the area in the 1-km radius of the colony was declared "containment zone” by the district collector. While all movement of people from within the area and outside have been banned, district administration is trying hard to ensure essential supplies to the households.Cops are helping out the residents by forwarding their daily requirements to food officer, who along with the SDM is later distributing it to the residents.People in the area have taken to the lockdown seriously and are not venturing out, said Raju Saxena, a resident. Most of us have confined ourselves indoors, but keeping the kids in 24 x 7 is proving to be a tall order, he said.Meanwhile, in a news that would be of relief to the people oin the area none of the family members of the railway guard have tested positive, so far.“The guard’s wife and his two children tested negative. The spread of coronavirus in Bhopal is limited to people who contracted it from outside the city — except for the journalist, who got the infection from his daughter. We have been able to check spread of the virus at community level so far and it is very satisfying,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore.He further said, people in the “containment area” should stay indoors for 14 days, and no one from outside should be allowed to visit anybody in the area. All residents of the area are screened for coronavirus and 50 houses on each side of the Covid-19 positive patient are being regularly monitored.All essential goods are being supplied to the neighbourhood as per their needs by the administration to ensure that no one goes out.A resident of the area, Jeetu Rathore, said that essential goods were being delivered to every house by a team led by the SDM and a food officer. The residents have to tell the on-duty cops about their requirement, and they forward the information further. He said, doctors also came to the area, but he isn’t sure whether they examined people in all householdsStation house officer, Bajaria police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls said the police was reasonably tough in not allowing people to venture out or let people from outside come in but it is not always possible to accomplish it 100% lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-help-maintain-essential-supplies-in-durga-nagar/articleshow/74920896.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, ‘RoadVigilant’ tohelp track violators||Thiruvananthapuram: The Varkala police are turning to technology to nab people roaming on streets citing excuses like purchase of essential commodities and medicines. From Wednesday, the policemen at Varkala station will be using a mobile phone app, Road Vigilant, developed by two techies of a startup firm to track down the movements of motorists in their limits. The app has been developed by Shibin A S and Abhinand S of Catch a Cloud Technologies Private Limited that is incubated under Kerala Startup Mission. According to Shibin, the app works on the simple principle of cloud computing. When a motorist is checked by police at a checking point, they would enter the registration number of the vehicle and the purpose of the trip in the app. The same information will be immediately synced to the devices of cops on duty at other checking points. “If the motorist roams around unnecessarily and is caught by the cops at any other location, he/she cannot use the same excuse they used give earlier as the police already have the information of their trip,” said Shibin. Varkala station house officer inspector G Gopakumar said they already conducted a trial run and the app was working fine. The Varkala police have five checking points at Palachira, Pazhaya Chantha, Maithanam Junction, Punnammoodu and Beach Road. Meanwhile, the city police have intensified the vigil during lockdown in the wake of the death of a Covid-19 patient at Pothencode in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-roadvigilant-tohelp-track-violators/articleshow/74920115.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Lapsed driving licences valid till June 30||PUNE: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has said it would consider all vehicular documents lapsing during the lockdown valid till June 30. These documents include driving licences, fitness certificates, permits, etc. “In an order on Monday, the ministry of road, transport and highways has directed that the validity of fitness, permits, driving licences, registration or any other documents — which could not be renewed due to the lockdown, and those that have expired since February 1 or will expire by June 30 — be treated as valid till June 30,” an RTO official told TOI. The official added that the Pune RTO had stopped issuing fitness certificates on March 23, creating a huge backlog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lapsed-driving-licences-valid-till-june-30/articleshow/74920895.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown brake on pujas, devotees go tech-savvy||Kolkata: The nationwide lockdown imposed to minimise the spread of novel coronavirus has put the brakes on the celebration of the last puja on the Hindu calendar: Navratri for Gujaratis and Punjabis and Basanti Puja for Bengalis. While all community celebrations have been called off, families traditionally holding Annapurna puja on Ashtami have done away with all the elaborate arrangements, carrying out the rituals with bare minimum flowers and prasad. It goes without saying that no invitation has gone out. Pricey fruits and scarce sweets are another reason for people to cut down on prasad. In spite of supply improving, fruits are being sold for a premium and most sweet shops remained shut. People also complained about not getting enough milk to prepare kheer. Those who took the trouble to visit flower wholesale market at Jagannath Ghat on Tuesday were shocked to see the rush for the limited fares. With local train services being suspended, flowers from Sheoraphuli, Uluberia and Kolaghat have not been arriving; even retail shops across the city have been closed. In spite of the scarcity, some sellers brought flowers to Jagannath Ghat, hitching a hike on the small trucks and battery-operated rickshaws being used by vegetable sellers. But all that they could offer were hibiscus, rajanigandha, bel, dopati and marigold.  Prabir Lahiri from Ballygunge Place will go ahead with his family’s Annapurna puja. But he has cancelled the order for an idol and that of a caterer. “It will be just the four of us in the family this time. I will perform the puja in the absence of a purohit,” Lahiri said. Some Gujarati families in Bhowanipore used technology to celebrate Navratri. They read out “kathas”, connecting friends and relatives over videoconferencing. “We usually get together to chant the prayers and sing garbas, but these are extraordinary times,” said Amit Popat. His wife, Bhavika, has decorated the picture of the Goddess and kept a smartphone in front of it, through which extended families joined in the puja. A large number of people will also celebrate Ram Navami on Thursday online. Among them is 76-year-old Bharat Kumar Raja, a resident of Elgin Road, who heads one such group that will chant the ‘Ram Raksha mantra’ over a videoconferencing app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-brake-on-pujas-devotees-go-tech-savvy/articleshow/74920909.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Four rumour mongers arrested in separate cases||Nagpur: Cyber cell sleuths on Tuesday arrested four rumour mongers in separate cases for spreading fake news related to the outbreak of Covid-19, and the ongoing curfew in city. Meanwhile, the cyber cell of city and rural police is keeping a strict vigil on social media, as Wednesday is April Fool’s Day. Cops have urged citizens to refrain from sending fake news, or face action. The two arrested persons, identified as Shoaib Sheikh and Mohd Irfan Qureshi, were booked for spreading a fake message on Tuesday regarding the deployment of military in some sensitive areas in the city. The other two, identified as Sanjay Chanekar and Ramdas Tonge, were arrested for spreading a fake message regarding disinfectant spraying in the city at night between 10pm and 5am, with a picture of municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, earlier this month. In both the incidents, cases were filed at Sadar police station under relevant sections. Last week, city police had arrested three persons who had made a fake audio clip claiming that several patients, including a few doctors had tested positive for Covid-19. The audio clip had spread like wildfire among the citizens. An offence was registered and city police, with the help of cyber cell nabbed the trio. In the latest incident, the WhatsApp number of Nagpur police enquiry had received a message claiming that some areas in the city were blacklisted, and that military would be deployed in those areas. The areas imcluded Mominpura, Shanti Nagar, Pili Nadi, Jafar Nagar, Gandhibagh, Tajbagh, Kamptee and Hasanbagh. The message claimed that police could not control these areas, and hence the military force was being called in there. The message also said that lathicharge and rubber bullets would be fired by the military to control the crowd, so citizens should stay in their homes. In the end, the message read, “Please share this message with everyone and don’t go out of the house”. Police officials later verified the message with the police commissionerate and district commissioner’s office and learnt that it was a fake news, following which Ashok Bagul, senior PI of police control room, filed a complaint with Sadar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-rumour-mongers-arrested-in-separate-cases/articleshow/74920893.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Pune||1.5 lakh construction labourers under govt care: Walse Patil||PUNE: The labour department has reached out to construction workers. All six revenue divisions have directed officials to focus on the 1.5 lakh workers stuck in the state. Labour minister Dilip Walse Patil said the government has made arrangements for midday meals for registered construction workers in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nagpur under the Atal Ahar Scheme at their sites. “Most are migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. We have arranged for their food and shelter as they are not able to go back to their home states,” Walse-Patil said. All developers’ associations across the state have been told to ensure that construction site workers are looked after. Pune CREDAI metro president Suhas Merchant told TOI that labourers at 45 sites across the state are getting food as of now. CREDAI Maharashtra had already promised ration to those stranded at construction sites. “I was planning to arrange for a vehicle and leave for my home town in Madhya Pradesh. But my family has told me to stay put. I am getting food and ration and we are taken care of,” a worker told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-5l-construction-labourers-under-govt-care-walse-patil/articleshow/74921471.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Over 11 lakh screened in Chhota Udepur for COVID-19||Vadodara: The health department of Chhota Udepur completed door-to-door survey of 98% houses in the tribal-dominated district for coronavirus by Monday. The survey was initiated a week back with 690 teams roped in for the mammoth task.According to district administration officials, over 11.6 lakh people in the district have been screened for symptoms of coronavirus. “Our teams have also created a database of people who have travelled abroad and other cities and whether they have any symptom or not so that nobody in disease can fall ill due to the virus,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra.“Not a single case of coronavirus has been recorded in the district so far. Thirteen people have been kept in the home quarantine and two in government facility,” said chief district health officer Dr M R Chaudhary.“Once the quarantine period will be over our health workers will check their health twice in a day for some period to make sure that they do not show any symptoms,” Mayatra added.“Along with screening people our teams have also advised people to contact nearest health centre if they have cold, cough or breathing problems,” said another district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-11-lakh-screened-in-chhota-udepur-for-covid-19/articleshow/74919218.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Industries distribute food, ration to workers||Indore: Rising to the occasion, industries of Indore and Pithampur have started distributing food packets and ration to workers in the region. Industries have joined hands to supply food to the needy hit by Covid-19 lockdown, which they expect may help in prevent migration of workers to their home towns. The country has witnessed massive migration of workers mostly dailywage labourers and contractual workers from industrial towns to native villages due to lack of work and remuneration. Dinesh Mishra, head of corporate affairs at SRF Ltd said, “We are distributing 500 food packets daily to workers and the needy in Pithampur. We are in touch with our labour contractors and ensuring feeding workers of unorganized sectors.” Amid complete lockdown in city due to a spurt in Covid-19 positive cases, food and ration are being supplied through district administration. The Centre has directed state governments and collectors to make arrangements for food and basic amenities for migrant workers to prevent massive migration from industrial towns in past few days. Rajeev Mujumdar, deputy general manager, HR, Unichem laboratories ltd, Pithampur said, “Looking at the seriousness of the situation and request from district administration, we are distributing around 300 food packets every day in areas where workers reside. We are maintaining proper hygiene and following norms to ensure healthy and clean environment.” Many industries are supplying sanitisers and masks. Pratibha Syntex Ltd is feeding around 1,500 workers daily in their canteen and distributing 500 food packets every day. Some industries are also arranging accommodation for unorganized sector workers while many companies are supplying rations to their workers in these hard times. Pramod Dafaria, president, Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh said, “The association has identified areas, where most workers reside with their families. Asha Confectionery is distributing over 9,000 food packets every day. We are giving ration packets containing wheat, pulses and rice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/industries-distribute-food-ration-to-workers/articleshow/74920900.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Spl teams to ensure supply of essentials||Vijayawada: The state government has constituted coordination teams to ensure proper implementation of the lockdown and maintain the supply of essential commodities. A total of 32 officials have been divided into seven teams to oversee issues regarding supply of essentials. The coordination team headed by MT Krishna Babu, principal secretary (transport)will look after the overall coordination of all issues. The team headed by Rajat Bhargava will look after the manufacturing of essential commodities. The team headed by Kona Sasidhar will look after their supply. Y Bhanu Prakash will head the team that will oversee transportation and movement of essential commodities and Gopal Krishna Dwivedi will head the team that will deal with management issues related to local bodies and essential services like water, power and sanitation. Vijay Kumar Reddy has been appointed for media management and dissemination of information to the public. District collectors have been asked to set-up coordination teams on similar lines at district levels. Daily reports of the situation will be generated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spl-teams-to-ensure-supply-of-essentials/articleshow/74920136.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||40-year-old toddy addict ends life||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old labourer ended his life by clutching a live electric wire at Kothur in Rangareddy district on Monday. Police said that the man, who was a toddy addict, might have taken the extreme step due to severe withdrawal symptoms. The deceased was identified as Laxmaiah from Kodicherla village near Kothur. According to Kothur inspector N Chandrababu, the incident happened at Kodicherla village on Monday afternoon. “Laxmaiah was addicted to toddy. Due to the lockdown, he was unable to get toddy. Family members said that he suffered from withdrawal symptoms for a few days and could not sleep. On Monday afternoon, Laxmaiah held the live wires of an electric transformer in the village and died on the spot,” the inspector said. Police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC and shifted the body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-year-old-toddy-addict-ends-life/articleshow/74920926.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hundreds of Jharkhand workers eager to go home||HYDERABAD: Fear of being stuck in an alien city far away from their families is haunting hundreds of construction workers from Jharkhand, who are working at a site in Kandi of Sangareddy district. They are eager to go back home as they feel their villages are better suited to protect them from contracting the dreaded coronavirus. “I am scared of something happening when I am all alone here,” 31-year-old Inderdev Kumar, a carpenter from Pallamu district in Jharkhand, said. Explaining what home means to him, the migrant worker says, “Ma, biwi, gaon, parivar (Mother, wife, village, family).” The sole breadwinner, he shudders to think what will happen to his two small children without him. “Work is not everything,” he says. Kumar is among 2,000 workers, many of them from Jharkhand, hired by two companies working on the site. Till Monday, they did not have food but after activists raised their issue, the companies provided essential commodities under government supervision. Anup Kumar Paswan, supervisor at the site, said, “We have tried reaching out to the Jharkhand chief minister’s office as well as the collector, but in vain.” Paswan says with the spread of the virus, it is safer for them in their villages than here. “Our villages are better isolated and there are no cases that have been reported there.” Paswan said some of the workers had left on foot for Jharkhand. He, however, could not confirm the numbers but said they remained small as most amenities were being provided by government here. Activist Vinay Vangala, who has been instrumental in drawing the government’s attention to the plight of the workers, said, “We are directing migrants to Annapurna centres. For those who do not have access to this, we are providing food packets.” Vangala and other activists were working on a site in Bhanur in the city on Tuesday where 50 migrants had been living on biscuits for two days. Speaking to TOI, M Nagesh, revenue divisional officer, Sangareddy, said the two companies had given good facilities to the workers and after the government’s intervention they had provided ration and santizers as well. “Most migrants want to leave because they are scared to be away from their families in a time of crisis. We are trying to convince them to stay and have informed them that road, rail and air networks are shut for now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-of-jharkhand-workers-eager-to-go-home/articleshow/74920907.cms||Uttara Varma
April 1, 2020||Pune||Actor’s interim relief extended till April 20||PUNE: A sessions court on Tuesday extended the interim pre-arrest bail granted to actor Vikram Gokhale in the Girivan cheating case till April 20. The case, alleging cheating of Rs96.99 lakh, was lodged against Gokhale and two others by an investor in a plot scheme at the Girivan hill station project, at Dongargaon and Hotale villages in Mulshi taluka. “The matter came up for hearing before in-charge sessions judge H R Waghmare as the regular court was not in session. The judge extended the interim protection as the Paud police have yet to file a report on the notice the court had issued at the last hearing, seeking their reply on the actor’s anticipatory bail plea,” Shivraj Joshi, a lawyer representing the actor, told TOI. Kothrud resident Jayant Bahirat has alleged that Gokhale, as chairman of Sujata Farms Pvt Ltd, and two of its director misrepresented the project and cheated in allotment of plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/actors-interim-relief-extended-till-april-20/articleshow/74920904.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 1, 2020||Pune||With check-up & medicines, this doc helps many fight lockdown blues||PUNE: For the past few days, a modest multi-speciality hospital in Chikhali has been an oasis of hope in a city left feeling bleak by the novel coronavirus outbreak. Apart from providing free treatment and medication, general physician Jitendrasinh Rathod also feeds about 1,000 daily wage workers, women and children from the area. Rathod’s 20-bed facility is located at Sane Chowk. “I have been running the multi-speciality facility for a few years,” Rathod said. About three-four months ago, he established the Rathod Foundation for social work. “Under the foundation’s banner, I had started medical check-up for daily wagers in the initial stages of the coronavirus outbreak,” Rathod said. During these check-ups, Rathod noticed that the workers were struggling to find food, and started providing packaged food — mostly rice khichadi. Rathod recalled how, at first, some workers with major health complaints got really worried — this was before the lockdown was enforced — and would come to him for check-ups. “They had some flu-like symptoms, but unrelated to Covid-19. With proper medication and care, they recovered,” Rathod said. As the service was free, word spread rapidly, and the other daily wagers from the vicinity rushed to Rathod’s facility for any health-related complaints. “Earlier, I would also go to their transit camps and distribute food, but I haven’t been able to do that since the lockdown came into effect. So we now distribute food directly from the hospital,” Rathod said. Soon, Rathod started getting phone calls from other people and volunteers’ organization, with requests for food. “We provide food to them too as per requirement.” he said. The food is prepared in the hospital’s kitchen, and Rathod has been funding the entire initiative out of his own pocket. “My social foundation is in its nascency and has no outside funding. I have been spending from whatever income my hospital gets to help people out in this time of crisis,” Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-check-up-medicines-this-doc-helps-many-fight-lockdown-blues/articleshow/74921478.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat TR takes control of Tipeshwar||Nagpur: Finally, from April 1, administrative control of Tipeshwar (149sqkm) and Painganga (400sqkm) wildlife sanctuaries in Yavatmal district will be brought under Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), Amravati. Both the sanctuaries in Pandharkawda wildlife division were under Pench Tiger Reserve. The state government had issued orders in this regard on January 30, 2020. With better wildlife management in the last 4-5 years, Tipeshwar has come a long way and has hit the global map for presence of tigers and regular sightings. Tipeshwar hogged limelight when a collared tiger travelled 3,000km to reach Dnyanganga sanctuary in Buldhana. In 2012 and 2014, Tipeshwar and Maregaon villages were relocated. In 2015-16, there were two tigresses and a male. Today, the park has 17 tigers with three males, five females and nine sub-adult cubs. Now MS Reddy, APCCF & field director of MTR, will take over the control of these two sanctuaries with immediate effect. Reddy, who already controls over 3,058 sqkm area, which includes eight wildlife sanctuaries and one national park in three districts, will get an additional control of 574sqkm now. The total area under MTR’s administration will be 3,633sqkm. But, Isapur wildlife sanctuary (121sqkm), which is under Pusad territorial division, has been left out. The logic behind handing over both the sanctuaries to Melghat is that these protected areas (PAs) fall under Amravati revenue division. Till now the PAs were under the Nagpur revenue division. The divisional forest officer (DFO), wildlife, Pandharkawda, used to look after Tipeshwar and Painganga. Now he will report to the Melghat field director. The area under Melghat will now be quite close to what APCCF (wildlife), East Nagpur, looks after. As per the new GR, Reddy will straightway report to PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar, who will be his controlling officer. The fresh move will help expediting relocation of villages in which the revenue department has an important role to play. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-tr-takes-control-of-tipeshwar/articleshow/74920908.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopalis stranded in other states count down to end of lockdown||Bhopal: With the country-wide lockdown and suspension of trains, flights and inter-state buses, many Bhopalis are stranded all over the country and having a tough time fending for themselves in hostels, hotels and apartments. Komal Nagdavne, a private employee based in Mumbai, has been stuck in her apartment all by herself since March 24. With little supplies and nowhere to go, she fears what will happen to her if the lockdown extends further. “I was supposed to work from home so when I tried booking my train or flight tickets on March 21, the portals were jammed because of the rush. I could not get home and all the flights were cancelled after March 24. I only have supplies for two weeks, but I don't know what will I do if the lockdown continues after April 14. All the shops are closed and policemen are not letting people go out even to get groceries and medicines", said Komal. Snehlata Sharma Bharadwaj, mother of Ragini Gupta, a lawyer, told TOI that her daughter is stuck in her PG accommodation in Delhi and is unwell. Due to the lockdown, she is suffering all alone. “She is in a really bad state with stomachache and fever. The private hospital did not admit her and only gave her painkillers. Doctors say if her bleeding does not stop, she will not be able to have children in the future. I would have gone to Delhi and brought her back, but due to the lockdown I am not able to take care of my daughter", said Snehlata. Ragini Tiwari said her five-year-old daughter is in Raipur with her grandmother and aunt since March 12. Recently, she also had a flu, which has got her really worried. “I was out of town on an assignment when my mother-in-law had to leave for Raipur for treatment. She took my daughter. When her treatment was over and they were about to come on March 22, all trains got cancelled. Since then, my daughter and mother-in-law are at a relative's place. My daughter is suffering from cold, I just hope it is not coronavirus", she said. Saroj Kumar, a private employee based in Abu Dhabi also tried to make it home in Bhopal, but could not get flight tickets. "My wife and children are in Bhopal, while I am here at the mercy of my company. So far, we have not faced any problem, but my family is having trouble in the city as everything is shut down,", Kumar said. Himanshu Sharma, another private employee, is stuck in Goa and is living in the company-provided accommodation. "Initially it did not seem as serious, but now that everything is closed, here I am feeling lonely without my family. Though there has not been a problem of survival, the only things I am relying on is the stuff I have in store. Hope it lasts till the end of the lockdown," he said. Many other families are having to spend the lockdown time away from their loved ones as there is no means to come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-stranded-in-other-states-count-down-to-end-of-lockdown/articleshow/74920915.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt initiates measures to help tomato farmers||Amaravati: Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu has directed officials to help tomato farmers who are facing trouble selling their produce due to the lockdown. He asked them to allow the tomato vehicles to reach marketplaces. Responding to a plea made by a farmer on social media, the minister on Tuesday said he has asked officials to track down the farmer and purchase his entire quantity. He assured that they are taking necessary measures to allow the transportation of the agriculture goods across the state. He said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has already directed them to discuss the issue of transporting perishable goods to the markets in the neighbouring states if they are opened. He revealed that officials are negotiating with the exporters of perishable agriculture produces, including tomato and fruits, as measures are needed to clear the stocks from AP. He said the chief minister is particular about initiating measures to help farmers in the time of the lockdown. He admitted that they could not move the stocks out of the agriculture fields due to non-availability of transport and agriculture labourers. He, however, said that the Centre has already issued a notification to allow movement of agriculture commodities across the country by opening inter-state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-initiates-measures-to-help-tomato-farmers/articleshow/74920127.cms||Samdani MN
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Training to cooking, players make themselves at home||PANAJI: Terraces, balconies, unoccupied rooms and even the road in front of the house is being put to good use by Goa’s top footballers as they fight to remain fit in times of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. With a 21-day lockdown across the country, there are challenges for everyone. Footballers are coming up with innovative ideas to maintain their fitness levels at home, drawing inspiration from superstars like Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. The Goan footballers may not have the best facilities like the Barcelona and Juventus stars but that has not put a full stop to their fitness training. They haven’t stopped and are now urging fans to stay safe, fit, and indoors. “There isn’t much I can do right now but I always work on my fitness even in off season. I train on the terrace. Running is restricted but can’t help it. I eat healthy food and my diet is on track,” FC Goa midfielder Lenny Rodrigues told TOI. FC Goa captain Mandar Rao Dessai hasn’t stopped training, even when at home, and has been urging fans to protect themselves. “These are testing times and we need to fight together to get through them,” said Mandar, who was last seen playing foot volley with former teammate Jonathan Cardozo, at home. This is off season for Mandar and Lenny with the Indian Super League (ISL) already coming to an end. But for others like Churchill Brothers FC defender Meldon D’Silva, there are still five matches to be played in the I-League. “Our movement is restricted. There are cops roaming everywhere in Benaulim. I just try to do some body weight and abdomen exercise at home,” said the Churchill defender. “Fitness levels have dropped but there is little we can do about this,” he said. Former Churchill Bros midfielder Nicholas Fernandes, now with Gokulam Kerala FC, is making the best use of the lockdown, working out, spending time with family and even learning cooking from his mother. “It has not been easy due to restrictions, but we are fine for now. Have been working out and sleeping really well these days. I get time to spend with my family and my dog, which I have missed lately,” said Nicholas. Many players from the Goa Professional League are also finding it tough with the state league approaching its business end, yet there is no stopping. FC Goa developmental team striker Aaren D’Silva has a ground just ahead of his house. He’s tried training there, only to be stopped by the police. The road in front of his house has come in handy. Nobody really knows when the restrictions on movement will be lifted. Until then, footballers will continue with what they know best: staying fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/training-to-cooking-players-make-themselves-at-home/articleshow/74921472.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||American woman who spent 2 weeks in Rishikesh tests Covid-19 positive on return to US||DEHRADUN: An American woman who had spent two weeks in Rishikesh in March created a stir in the yoga town when she put up a post on Facebook a few days ago after she had returned to the US that she has been found Covid-19 positive. In the post which she put up on a friend’s timeline, she alerted that all those with whom she had come in contact with in Rishikesh, should get themselves checked. The woman had stayed at a resort in the Tapovan area when she was in Rishikesh from March 2 to 14. Speaking to TOI about the issue, Dr Jagdish Joshi, health department in-charge of Tapovan area, said, “The woman’s friends told us that she has written — I was with you guys for a long time and now, I am tested positive for coronavirus so I request all of you to please get yourself tested and take care.” In another post, she told her social media friends that she became asymptomatic on March 23. “The incubation period is from my last day in New Delhi, the two days travel and my week home. Who knows really where I got it from. Thank you all for your wishes. Please everyone follow the guidelines set forth by your medical communities,” she wrote further. The health department, on the basis of her hotel and travel details, identified 27 people who have been quarantined for 14 days. Among those she met were some children in a local school in Rishikesh as well. Health officials said that none of the people have so far showed any symptoms. Meanwhile, it also came to light that the woman had stayed in Delhi’s Paharganj area for about five days. “We are writing to the medical authorities in Delhi to get the locations she had stayed in, so that people she came in contact with can be alerted,” Dr Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/american-woman-who-spent-2-wks-in-rishikesh-tests-covid-19-positive-on-return-to-us/articleshow/74920913.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Star quarantine facilities charge guests over Rs 4,000 per day||HYDERABAD: Quarantined in star hotels in New Delhi, international passengers, many of them from Hyderabad, who flew into the country hours before the lockdown, have been hit by a double whammy— steep tariffs and an approaching ‘exit’ date. Some of the families that TOI spoke to said that the daily rent at these hotels ranges between Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,600 per day, which comes to Rs 56,000 to Rs 64,400 for the entire isolation period. But the hefty bill is only part of their problem. Guests say that some of the hotels have asked them to vacate the premises by April 5, leaving them worried about where to go next. With all domestic connections suspended and several borders sealed, they are not sure how to get home once they check out. “We have no relatives or family in Delhi. There is also no communication from authorities about alternative arrangements. I don’t know what my parents will do if they have to leave the hotel by April 5,” Naveen Amaravadi told TOI from Toronto. His elderly parents arrived in India from the US on March 22 and were taken to a star hotel. “We had to take a tough call and send them back (from my sister’s place in New Jersey) because my father is diabetic and he was running out of medicines. Also, the situation in the US was deteriorating so we thought they’d be safer in Hyderabad,” said Amaravadi, who even tweeted his story to officials in India, seeking help for his parents. He said there were at least 30 families from Hyderabad staying at the same hotel. When TOI contacted the hotel, the staff confirmed that the exit date was fixed as April 5. “Maybe the government will make some arrangement after that,” said an executive at the front desk, adding that 100 families had been quarantined at the property. Another resident from Nizampet shared a similar story. “My parents returned from Philadelphia on March 20. They were asked to wait for mandatory screening at the airport for 19 hours...Since my father is 60 years old, they were asked to stay in quarantine for 14 days. They are staying in a hotel by paying Rs 4,000 per day. These are such tough times...Do they have to keep paying and stay in Delhi...Can they not return home?” Navya tweeted, seeking IT minister KT Rama Rao’s help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/star-quarantine-facilities-charge-guests-over-rs-4k/day/articleshow/74920938.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Muted Rama Navami this year as celebrations move indoors||Vijayawada: The state government has urged the public to avoid large gatherings as part of Sri Rama Navami celebrations this year. The festival will be a low-key affair with the lockdown in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. One of the widely-celebrated festivals in the state, Sri Rama Navami is observed for over five days with devotees offering prayers to Lord Sri Rama and the performance of the Seetha Rama Kalyanam in pandals on Rama Navami. This year, authorities of the endowments department will perform the Rama Kalyanam at Vontimitta without permitting devotees as part of measures to prevent large congregations. In a similar move, authorities at the Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada have announced that the Sri Rama Kalyanam will be performed at the temple without allowing any devotees. Officials are looking into the possibility of live telecasting of the Kalyana utsavam. The Ram Mandiram at Eluru Road is also gearing up to celebrate the festival without devotees. Artisans selling Rama idols in Vijayawada are running into losses as no buyers have come forward with the lockdown in force. “We sell Sri Rama idols every year during Sri Rama Navami. Hundreds of pandal organisers used to purchase idols from us. But the situation is quite opposite this year. Not even a single set of idols has been sold to date. We are migrant workers from Rajasthan and the government should help us,” said Jaidheer, a seller from Kanuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/muted-rama-navami-this-year-as-celebrations-move-indoors/articleshow/74920172.cms||Venu Lanka
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||Avoid panic buying, no shortage of LPG: IOC||Bhopal: Indian Oil Corporation has allayed fears of LPG shortage in times of Corona lockdown, assuring that the supply chain is functioning “very effectively and efficiently, as ever”, and that “ there is no shortage of petroleum products in the state. However, a refill is allowed only 15 days after availing the last one. Talking to TOI, V Satish Kumar, state head of IOC and state-level coordinator for the oil industry, said, “As of March 31, we have pending booking calls of 19,097 and a backlog of 1.17 days only. We deliver around 16,500 filled cylinders every day in Bhopal city. The situation is absolutely normal and well with in control. There is no need to worry.” “We have introduced a system of enabling booking a refill only after a gap of 15 days from the day of availing a refill, as this will avoid hoarding arising out of panic booking and help meet requirements of all needy customers in time,” Kumar said, adding: “We request our customers to understand and abide by that in the interest of all.” He said immediately after the lockdown, there was a 25% spike in LPG cylinder refill booking between March 24 and 26. “It has tapered down to normal levels now,” he said, adding that all of IOC’s bottling plants in the state are functioning at more than 125% of their capacity, adhering to health protocols. “All of our LPG distributorships are fully operational,” he reiterated, urging LPG customers not to resort to “panic booking” as there is sufficient stock. Customers needn’t visit a showroom to book refill, as all other modes of booking, including SMS, IVRS, WhatsApp, website and mobile app are operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/avoid-panic-buying-no-shortage-of-lpg-ioc/articleshow/74920941.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||All eyes on Markaz Nizamuddin after spike in coronavirus cases||Hyderabad/Vijayawada: After a sudden spike in positive cases in AP and Telangana, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the Telugu states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All the six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some of the participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of Covid-19 when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train and a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz, which can accommodate about 10,000 people. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to the lockdown. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform 104 helpline immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of the society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help the authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. Of the 746 persons from AP, 122 are quarantined in the hospitals, 207 sent to government quarantine centres and 297 are in home quarantine. Search is on for the remaining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-eyes-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-spike-in-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/74920163.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||City sweet-makers want morning slots||Kolkata: Sweet-makers in Bengal have appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to consider changing the timings of their shops and allow them to operate between 8am and 1pm, instead of the current noon-4pm slot. “We had written to the CM, requesting her to allow us to open shops as over 10 million litres of milk had been going waste every day. But the timing we have been allowed to operate is not conducive to sweet shops and hence, the fresh appeal,” said Jagannath Ghosh, joint secretary of Paschimbanga Mishtanna Byabasayee Samity that has written to the CM , asking for a time change. While smaller sweet shops in residential areas opened around noon on Tuesday, bigger brands remained shut for want of workers, who had gone home following the lockdown. A review by the association showed most customers stepped out to buy essentials in the morning and there was hardly any buyer in the afternoon. Post 1 pm, it would be difficult to find customers for sweets, the association said. “We are taking some time before we are able to start functioning normally,” said Dhiman Das, of K C Das. Among the big brands, Hindusthan Sweets and Balaram Mullick opened on Tuesday. But the entire range of sweets was not available on the first day, when the milk and chenna supply was yet to be restored. Sweet shop owners said they would ensure safety for their workers and there was no question of crowding as not too many labourers were employed. “The question of crowding outside the shops also doesn’t arise because we will follow the same rules as that at grocery shops,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick. Child specialist Apurba Ghosh waited in a queue outside Hindusthan Sweets, said owner Rabindra Kumar Pal. “We were happy to see him. It helped to boost our spirit,” Pal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-sweet-makers-want-morning-slots/articleshow/74920959.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kids of Covid patient too test positive||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after concerns were raised over compromise of room quarantine by a Covid patient in Malayinkeezhu, two of his kids were also tested positive for the disease on Tuesday. This is the second time the district administration is coming across violation of home quarantine. The authorities have communicated to the field volunteers to insist on room quarantine and assign a single member of the family to take care of person under quarantine. Samples were tested positive for a 13-year-old boy and 8-year -old girl. However, the samples of his wife came negative on Tuesday. A total of 300 people were brought under isolation in the district on Tuesday. 23 people completed 28-day home quarantine on Tuesday. Currently, 17,749 people are under home quarantine in the district. Thirteen were admitted to hospitals with disease symptoms and 22 were discharged on Tuesday. Meanwhile, on Tuesday one more Covid-19 case was reported in Kollam. The new case is that of a family member of the Prakkulam native who was tested positive last week. Meanwhile, health authorities identified 139 primary contacts and 155 secondary contacts of the Prakkulam native through field visits. All except one primary contacts have been tested negative. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kids-of-covid-patient-too-test-positive/articleshow/74920181.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Govt’s scientific adviser ‘differs’ with ministry, pitches for home-made masks||NEW DELHI: Referring to research that claims once 80% of the population wears a mask, the coronavirus outbreak “can be stopped immediately”, office of the principal scientiﬁc adviser (PSA) to the government on Tuesday issued a detailed manual on homemade masks which can be easily produced with household material and can also be reused. “Wearing the masks is specially recommended for people living in densely populated areas across India,” said the office of the PSA, K Vijay Raghavan. Quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), the manual emphasised that “masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. If you wear a mask, then you must know how to use it and dispose of it properly.” The manual, issued by the PSA office, will help people to make such masks at home with the help of simple household materials such as cotton cloth, scissors and sewing machine. The analysis of the US-based National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) says masks can minimise the risk of the Covid-19 spread. “If 50% of the population were to wear masks, only 50% of the population would be infected by the virus. Once 80% of the population wears a mask, the outbreak can be stopped immediately,” the PSA’s office in its statement said. The analysis further said, “Covid-19 virus spreads easily from person to person contact. Virus carrying droplets dry fast enough to form droplet nuclei and remain airborne eventually landing on different surfaces. The SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has been detected in aerosols for up to three hours and on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to three days”. The proposed guide is meant to provide a simple outline of best practices to make, use and reuse masks to enable NGOs and individuals to self-create such masks and accelerate widespread adoption of masks across India. Besides, the PSA asked scientific institutions to self assess and prepare their labs for research and testing through the standard and rigorous protocol. The entire response is being monitored by the science and technology empowered committee for Covid-19. The committee, constituted on March 19, is responsible for coordination amongst science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govts-scientific-adviser-differs-with-ministry-pitches-for-home-made-masks/articleshow/74921930.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||6 TN workers stranded in NZB||Hyderabad: DMK president MK Stalin on Tuesday brought to the notice of Telangana government six Tamil Nadu workers stranded in Nizamabad due to the lockdown. In reponse, IT minister KT Rama Rao said that the migrant workers are being taken care of and put out photographs of the group of persons being extended provisions. “Thank you for your quick support to Tamil Nadu workers during this critical period,” Stalin told KTR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-tn-workers-stranded-in-nzb/articleshow/74920953.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government seeks clarity on people’s entry from other states||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Tuesday moved the high court seeking review of the orders regarding restriction of the entry of people coming from other states at the state borders. The HC had issued orders in two separate petitions regarding the entry of the people. The government moved a review petition saying the orders were contradictory. The government contended that in one of the orders the high court directed the government to follow national protocol but in the second, it directed the government to allow people enter the state without mentioning the national protocol. The high court heard the review petition through video conference for the first time in its history. Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy heard arguments from their homes while advocate general S Sriram and counsels for the petitioners presented their arguments through mobile phones. The AG said the orders were contradictory and requested the court to take back the order that did not mention national protocol on Covid-19. The chief justice said his order clearly mentioned the national protocol. The counsel for the petitioner said the second order was given by Justice Satyanarayana Murthy. The high court reserved its orders on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-seeks-clarity-on-peoples-entry-from-other-states/articleshow/74920198.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Denied entry into their villages, migrant labourers seek FIR against President Xi for spreading Covid-19, unemployment||Bareilly: A group of migrant labourers from Lakhimpur Kheri and Nepal, who were working in Maharashtra, Delhi and other states, have given a written complaint to local police seeking action against China’s President Xi Jinping for spreading Covid-19 pandemic across the world. Main complainant Pinku Kumar, who is a resident of Palia town, was not allowed to enter his village and was forced to stay in the quarantine camp. Another complainant, Sanjay Kumar, also belongs to Lakhimpur Kheri district and he had reached his hometown after travelling for nearly five days and spending much part of his savings. In their complaint, the migrants also said that Jinping is responsible for all the deaths, lockdown and unemployment, “so he should be booked and compensation should be provided to the affected people”. Circle Officer Rakesh Nayak has received a copy of the complaint from them and handed over to the Palia SHO. Palia SHO Vidhya Shankar Shukla told TOI, “A group of labourers have collectively given a complaint and asked for action against Xi Jinping for spreading novel coronavirus and unemployment. We cannot register an FIR on such a complaint and have forwarded the complaint to the SSP. Police and district administration are ensuring that proper food is provided to the migrants until they are quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/denied-entry-into-their-villages-migrant-labourers-seek-fir-against-president-xi-for-spreading-covid-19-unemployment/articleshow/74920214.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, cabinet and MLAs defer 75% of their March salaries||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot deferred payment of 75% of his gross March salary to himself along with deputy CM, cabinet ministers and all MLAs. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting held at the CM's residence on Tuesday. The move has taken due to the shortfall in the expected revenue of Rs 17,000 crore for the month of March. Similarly, 60% and 50% of the gross salary of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officers, respectively, has been deferred by the government. Other than Grade IV employees, 30% of the salaries of all other government employees will be deferred for some time. The 30% deduction will be applicable also to pensioners. Health workers, policemen and contractual employees have been exmpted from this deduction. The state had gone under lockdown even before the Centre announced a countrywide shutdown. The revenue of most of the departments has gone down following the move. In a major relief to disadvantage groups, Gehlot has decided to give a financial assistance of Rs 1,500 to BPL families, beneficiaries of state BPL and Antayodya Yojna, 25 lakh construction workers and registered street vendors who are not covered under the social security pension scheme. The total cost of the financial payout will be Rs 500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-cabinet-mlas-defer-75-of-their-march-salaries/articleshow/74921498.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Woman booked, youth held for sharing fake news||KOLKATA: Two FIRs were registered and a person was arrested in the last 48 hours as cops stepped up their fight against rumour-mongering. What was appalling was the fact that most of these rumour-mongers are well-educated students, bankers, chartered accountants and even government officials. Worsening things was an ‘April Fool’s’ message stating that the lockdown will continue for 10 additional days after August 14. Only when an attached file is downloaded does the receiver understand that s/he has been ‘fooled’. A day after a woman was arrested for spreading panic in New Alipore, it was the turn of Techno City police under Bidhannagar police to arrest a 26-year-old man who has been spreading rumours of as many as six people of a New Town housing complex being diagnosed with Covid-19. The accused — Muslem Ali Moll, a resident of Patharghata — is unemployed. He had forwarded a message that he had received and claimed to have no idea about the consequences. “He was spreading fake information over social media and WhatsApp. He had also sent in the message that the owner of the security firm was also infected. After getting the message, locals were very scared and tried to leave the place. The security guards also refused to work due to fear. Soon, a suo motu complaint was lodged and the accused nabbed,” said an investigating officer. In north Kolkata, netizen Jayanta Kumar Saha lodged a complaint against a woman for sharing a malicious video shot outside the city, passing it off as an incident that took place within Kolkata. “The complainant was surfing his mobile phone on Ahiritola Street when he noticed the post on his Newsfeed on Facebook. Sharing such content can lead to communal tension,” an officer said. The case was recorded at Jorabagan police station under sections 153A/295A/504/505(1)(c)(2) of IPC. The port division has lodged another FIR over the same video. “We are investigating the charges. The video was shot in Ahmedabad, but was passed off an incident in our area,” claimed the second complainant Asraful Hossain. The Kolkata police, meanwhile, have decided to question 100 people under CrPC 41 for sharing and sending fake messages. Both CID and Bengal police have warned against circulating fake videos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-booked-youth-held-for-sharing-fake-news/articleshow/74921027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||17 more cases in Indore in a day, Madhya Pradesh tally 66||INDORE/BHOPAL: As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s Coronavirus hotspot. With one more patient each testing positive in Bhopal and Ujjain, the state’s count shot up to 66 on Tuesday. With 44 cases, Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally. To add to the day’s grim tidings, one more patient died in Indore, taking the city’s toll to three and state to five. The eruption of Covid-19 cases in Indore has alarmed the administration, which extended the total lockdown to a week (until next Monday). Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that tougher measures may have to be taken to stem the tide in Indore. In a message to Indoreans, the CM said: “It’s because of you that Indore came first in Swachh survey thrice. We have to defeat coronavirus. Lockdown is the only way.” Tuesday’s reports came from AIIMS-Bhopal. “Forty samples were sent to Bhopal from Indore Virology Laboratory after ICMR, which monitors every test report, sought re-test of samples because of an error in the process,” said MGM Medical College PRO Rahul Rokade. Bhopal’s fourth Covid-19 case is a rather bizarre one. The 25-year-old had returned from UK in mid-March but was dodging quarantine, say officials. He was placed in home isolation in Indore upon return, but hopped on his motorcycle and drove to Ujjain and then to Bhopal, where he started showing symptoms and was admitted to a private hospital. His swab sample tested positive on Tuesday and he was shifted to AIIMS. Now, officials are scrambling to trace possible contacts on a 200-km stretch. Most of the new patients in Indore were in close contact with Covid-19 cases reported earlier. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “The report released by AIIMS-Bhopal shows 17 new cases in Indore. With this, the number of positive cases stands at 44. Most of the new ones were in close contact with patients tested positive earlier.” Indore had a third corona death, too. According to a bulletin issued by MGM Medical College, a 49-year-old woman died at 10.20pm on Monday. She had tested positive on March 23, a day after she was referred to MRTB hospital from a private hospital. The woman had high blood pressure and diabetes but she didn’t have any travel or contact history, said the health bulletin. This was the second Covid-19 death of the day in Indore -- in the morning, a 41-year-old man had died after being shifted to MY Hospital from a private hospital on Sunday night. His condition deteriorated rapidly and he died the next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/17-more-cases-in-indore-in-a-day-state-tally-66/articleshow/74920972.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers stare at losses due to lockdown||Jaipur: Farmers in Rajasthan are facing immense difficulties in selling their perishable produce like fruits and vegetables amid lockdown. Thousands of tonne of farm produce are either packed or ready for sale but due to low demand in the market farmers fear that they will be hit hard this year. Hastimal Rajpurohit, a farmer of pomegranate in Barmer district, said that he is not sure he will be able to sale even one fourth of his produce. “Earlier, around 400 tonne of produce was sold in the market within a few hours. Now, not even 20 tonne of fruits is sold for two days. After harvesting, transportation from one place to another a permit is required the process of which takes days to complete. At the time of harvest, it is difficult to find labour as well,” said Rajpurohit. Farmers say that perishable items cannot be kept for more than two weeks. “If it was wheat or cumin, we would have stocked it until price becomes stable. But with perishable items, we cannot keep them for long. There is also no cold storage facility available. Many farmers have already packed their produce but nowhere to sale. My condition is better as I can afford this loss but small farmers who have taken loans on interest will be ruined,” said Rohan Vishnoi. There have been incidences in last week when due to low prices in the market, farmers sent tons of cucumber to the goshalas to be fed to the cows. “I am getting minimum price in the market. What is the point of letting them rot? Now, it is being used for some animals,” said Kishan Lal, a cucumber farmer. As per the wholesalers, it is not just the availability of produce in the market but also the supply of the produce to nearby town. Jinen Ghelani, one wholesaler explained that one big mandi in the city works to transport produce to the nearby town which has now stopped.“Mandis are very important for the sale of produce. But with street vendors finding it difficult to go to mandis, restriction in transport to nearby cities and state is hampering our business,” said Ghelani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-stare-at-losses-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/74921496.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||38 Germans evacuated, flown to Frankfurt||Hyderabad: A group of 38 German nationals, who were stranded in Hyderabad, were evacuated on Tuesday via a special flight. They were flown to Mumbai and subsequently taken to Frankfurt. Air India operated this relief flight to carry stranded German nationals from Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai. The group comprised 19 women, 17 men and two infants. The exercise was carried out by the airport authorities in coordination with the German consulate and Telangana government. “All these passengers were serviced through the fully-sanitised interim international departures terminal (IIDT),” GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL) said in a release. “Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the Covid-19 threat. The passengers from Hyderabad were joined in the aircraft by a few already-seated German nationals who flew in from Chennai,” it said. On March 28, RGIA handled another special rescue flight of IndiGo that was used to evacuate its crew members stuck in Hyderabad. The flight came from Mumbai with eight crew members, who disembarked at RGIA and departed to Chennai with five stranded crew members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/38-germans-evacuated-flown-to-frankfurt/articleshow/74920988.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||17 more cases in Indore in a day, Madhya Pradesh tally 66||INDORE/BHOPAL: As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s Coronavirus hotspot. With one more patient each testing positive in Bhopal and Ujjain, the state’s count shot up to 66 on Tuesday. With 44 cases, Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally. To add to the day’s grim tidings, one more patient died in Indore, taking the city’s toll to three and state to five. The eruption of Covid-19 cases in Indore has alarmed the administration, which extended the total lockdown to a week (until next Monday). Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that tougher measures may have to be taken to stem the tide in Indore. In a message to Indoreans, the CM said: “It’s because of you that Indore came first in Swachh survey thrice. We have to defeat coronavirus. Lockdown is the only way.” Tuesday’s reports came from AIIMS-Bhopal. “Forty samples were sent to Bhopal from Indore Virology Laboratory after ICMR, which monitors every test report, sought re-test of samples because of an error in the process,” said MGM Medical College PRO Rahul Rokade. Bhopal’s fourth Covid-19 case is a rather bizarre one. The 25-year-old had returned from UK in mid-March but was dodging quarantine, say officials. He was placed in home isolation in Indore upon return, but hopped on his motorcycle and drove to Ujjain and then to Bhopal, where he started showing symptoms and was admitted to a private hospital. His swab sample tested positive on Tuesday and he was shifted to AIIMS. Now, officials are scrambling to trace possible contacts on a 200-km stretch. Most of the new patients in Indore were in close contact with Covid-19 cases reported earlier. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “The report released by AIIMS-Bhopal shows 17 new cases in Indore. With this, the number of positive cases stands at 44. Most of the new ones were in close contact with patients tested positive earlier.” Indore had a third corona death, too. According to a bulletin issued by MGM Medical College, a 49-year-old woman died at 10.20pm on Monday. She had tested positive on March 23, a day after she was referred to MRTB hospital from a private hospital. The woman had high blood pressure and diabetes but she didn’t have any travel or contact history, said the health bulletin. This was the second Covid-19 death of the day in Indore -- in the morning, a 41-year-old man had died after being shifted to MY Hospital from a private hospital on Sunday night. His condition deteriorated rapidly and he died the next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/17-more-cases-in-indore-in-a-day-state-tally-66/articleshow/74931532.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cheer amid gloom as 12 kg rice distribution begins today||HYDERABAD: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement, the distribution of 12-kg rice (per person) to white ration card holders will commence on Wednesday. Officials along with local leaders under each fair price shop (FPS) will distribute time slot tokens to the card holders from April 1 to ensure that a large number of people do not throng FPS for rice. Civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar held a high-level review meeting on Tuesday and said 12-kg rice per person would be given to every card holder without fail and as such they should not rush to the fair price shops and ensure social distance is maintained. Civil supplies commissioner Satyanarayana Reddy said the card holders who have been taking rice regularly under PDS need not give their thumb impression on the biometric equipment. They have to just show a copy of their white ration card and after verification on EPoS machine at the shop, they would be given the rice. However, those who have not taken rice under PDS for over three months have to give their thumb impression on the biometric equipment. Tokens would be given at the door steps of the card holders who have been regular to FPSs as their residential address data is available with officials and local leaders. Those who have shifted or have been irregular can go to the shop and request for tokens. However, all of them should not gather at FPS at the same time and maintain social distance. FPSs in rural areas can also start distributing rice from Wednesday itself if their token distribution is finished. In GHMC area wherein every FPS has a large number of card holders attached with it, the rice distribution is likely to commence on Thursday. Officials, local leaders and FPS dealers can keep shops open from 7 am to 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cheer-amid-gloom-as-12-kg-rice-distribution-begins-today/articleshow/74920991.cms||Roushan Ali
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||T releases Rs 29 cr to feed migrants||Hyderabad: Telangana government has released Rs 29 crore towards distribution of rice or wheat flour to migrant workers in Telangana. The money has been kept at the disposal of collectors, who have started supplying either rice or cooked food to the migrant workers. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had said each migrant will get 12-kg rice or wheat flour and Rs 500 cash per person. The government has identified 3.36 lakh migrant workers in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-releases-rs-29-cr-to-feed-migrants/articleshow/74921002.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 lockdown: Ration may soon be delivered at doorstep||NEW DELHI: Delhi government may soon start delivering dry ration to a section of beneficiaries covered under National Food Security Act 2013 at their doorstep. Sources said the food and civil supplies department is working on a plan to send the ration—wheat, rice and sugar—to senior citizens, widows, differently abled and other vulnerable sections. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday expressed his concern over sudden rush of people at city’s fair price shops to collect their monthly entitlement of foodgrains. In view of lockdown to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading, the government has started giving 1.5 times of the actual entitlement of ration for the month of April free of cost to over 71 lakh beneficiaries covered under public distribution system. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday also announced that the government was trying to explore sources where it can procure foodgrain from to provide ration to those not covered under the NFSA – 2013. While Delhi government officials said the food and civil supplies department was still working on the modalities and no final decision had been taken, sources said only vulnerable section would be covered under doorstep delivery of ration during the lockdown period. According to the data available on the website of the food and civil supplies department, 71,08,074 members of 17,50,523 families are covered under the food security act in the national capital. There are 2,011 fair price shops in Delhi to cater to more than 17 lakh beneficiary families. While the government had instructed distribution of ration from March 30, some fair price shops opened two days earlier and witnessed long queues of card-holders. This has forced the government to explore other options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-may-soon-be-delivered-at-doorstep/articleshow/74921008.cms||Atul Mathur
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Suspected deceased was not Covid-19 patient||Nagpur: The 55-year-old Chandrapur man, who died yesterday at Mayo Hospital, was not infected by novel coronavirus. His swab samples, collected right before his death, tested negative on Tuesday. Doctors said he died of viral pneumonia, and not of Covid-19. The person was admitted in a private hospital at Ramdaspeth for two days. Being a pneumonia case, the private practitioner treating him referred him for the Covid-19 tests. “We received a communication from the NMC health department on Tuesday morning that the person tested negative for Covid-19. It was a great relief for all of us,” said the doctor. As a precautionary measure, NMC authorities had sanitized the entire private hospital late on Monday night itself. Authorities had also planned to seal this hospital and shift admitted patients from here in case the person had tested positive. “But, there is no need to seal our premises now. We are back at work and serving patients. NMC officials have collected swab samples of doctors and health workers who treated the deceased during the two days. But since he himself tested negative, their test reports are also irrelevant now,” the doctor said. According to him, the deceased was a patient of viral pneumonia. He had other problems like obesity and hypertension. He came to Nagpur in a serious condition. Following protocol and new ICMR guidelines, he was referred for the Covid-19 tests. He did not have any travel history since long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suspected-deceased-was-not-covid-19-patient/articleshow/74921063.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||No waiver, schools only asked to defer fee demand till after lockdown||Nagpur: A state education department circular requesting schools not to demand fee payment till the lockdown period ends, was misrepresented by fake news peddlers on WhatsApp causing a lot of confusion. Many parents and schools were led to believe that a complete waiver of fee has been announced even though it was at best a ‘deferred payment’ suggestion. The circular clearly mentions that all schools are being requested not to force parents to pay either pending or next academic session’s fee till the lockdown is in force. The circular probably assumed not only financial difficulty but also the fact that many parents still prefer to pay fee by depositing cash or cheque at banks or at school fee counters. With the traditional format of fee payment not a possibility in the current situation, the state education department rightly told schools to suspend fee demands till the lockdown ends. Some messages on WhatsApp are twisting its meaning and causing a lot of confusion. Some schools too approached TOI after incorrect interpretation of the circular reached them. As per the circular, it is clear that once the lockdown is over schools can again start collecting their pending dues. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said they appreciate the government’s stance. “We will comply with the state education department’s guidelines on fee collection, as we too understand the restrictions on movement,” said Dayma. However, the Pan-Maharashtra Trustee’s Association also reminded the government that school owners are also reeling under financial stress not only because of coronavirus effect but also because of non-payment of RTE bills. Dayma said, “We have so many schools that have not been reimbursed even a single rupee for the free RTE admissions. In some cases, the reimbursement amount is already with the district education department but they are not giving it to our schools on some or the other pretext.” IESA says it stands firm on boycotting all RTE admissions till every bill has been cleared. The RTE lottery has already been conducted in the state with parents being informed about the school their ward has got admission in. However, due to the lockdown the entire admission process has been put on hold till the government removes restriction on movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-waiver-schools-only-asked-to-defer-fee-demand-till-after-lockdown/articleshow/74920995.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government allows firms to manufacture essentials||JAIPUR: The state government has allowed manufacturers of essentials to operate their factories for ensuring supply continuity in the lockdown period. As per a notification, the willing units are required to take permission from the district authorities or RIICO and follow a long list of conditions aimed at insulating the operations from coronavirus. The industries department, that initially allowed the processing of oil, flour and daal, has now expanded the list essentials that include drugs, pharmaceutical and medical devices and their raw materials and intermediaries. Manufacturing units of packaging material for food items, drugs and other essential commodities and devices, manufacturing and packaging units for fertilizers, pesticides and seeds are also included in the list. A senior official of the industries department said close to 400 units have sought permission to start their operation to manufacture products listed in the essentials list. While additional chief secretary, department of Industries, Subodh Agarwal did not provide the exact number of units that have sought permission, but he said, “Industries department in accordance with the advisory from Central and state home ministry, is granting permission to these industries.”  He said that while granting the permission, the industries department will strictly follow all advisories which are issued at different times by state and Central governments and as per instructions, the industries will have to ensure availability of medicated sanitisers, soaps, masks and important safety equipment in working areas apart from availability of all daily requirements of living for the workers living on their residential premises. “Industries will have to provide complete sanitization and fumigation while taking care of social distancing and contact-less transfer of goods from one person to another. As per advisory, industries will have to inform the administration about any outbreak of viral infection, fever, cold and cough and any other infection for earliest medical screening,” added Agarwal. Industries commissioner Muktanand Agrawal said RIICO will provide necessary pass, permit, and permission letter to industries operating in RIICO while general manager of District Industries Centers will provide the permission to industries operational outside RIICO boundaries. Source, said 88 units have contacted so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-allows-firms-to-manufacture-essentials/articleshow/74921500.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||done2 foreigners in Ahmednagar who tested +ve had attended Delhi meet||Nashik: The Ahmednagar district administration has picked up 35 people, mostly foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi on March 13. Two of these foreign nationals who tested positive for Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at Evangeline Booth Hospital here in Ahmednagar. The remaining 33 have been quarantined at the Ahmednagar civil hospital. While the swab reports of 21 of them are still awaited, the other 12 have tested negative for the infection. Ahmednagar district collector Rahul Dwivedi confirmed that the group of 35 was part of the congregation at Nizamuddin. Some of them were scholars and the rest participants. “Majority of the scholars are foreign nationals,” he said. The foreign nationals hail from countries like Indonesia, Tanzania, Brunei, Iran, Ghana, Mauritius and Ivory Coast. District police sources said the 35 people came from Delhi to Ahmednagar in three batches by train in mid-March. “The first group of 14 people had put up at a mosque at Jamkhed taluka. The other two batches comprising 11 and 10 people respectively were put up at mosques in Ahmednagar city and Nevasa respectively,” police sources said. “A congregation similar to the one that had taken place at Nizamuddin was planned in Ahmednagar city on April 3. But the district administration declined permission following the Covid-19 pandemic. The groups staying in the mosques could not move out of the district due to the lockdown restrictions,” the sources said. District superintendent of police Sagar Patil said the local police has registered FIRs against some residents who had provided shelter to the groups staying in the mosques. “These residents were duty-bound to inform the local administration about hosting foreigners so that their medical examination could have been done in view of the Covid-19 situation,” he said. The administration picked up the first group of 14 people from the Jamkhed mosque on Sunday after a tip-off. On Monday, the other groups were picked up from Ahmednagar city and Nevasa. District civil surgeon Pradip Murambikar said three local residents who came into contact with the group at the Jamkhed mosque tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “We are waiting for the reports of 80 other locals who were in touch with these groups,” he said. “The district administration has sealed areas near the mosques in Ahmednagar city, Jamkhed and Nevasa. It is undertaking an extensive survey to detect persons who came into contact with these scholars,” Murambikar said. It is learnt that the Ahmednagar district administration played a crucial role in telling the state government that the huge religious congregation had taken place at the Delhi-based headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Highly-placed official sources told TOI that the district administration shared details about the congregation with the state government on Sunday after it picked up 14 scholars from Jamkhed. “Our feedback is that the state government shared this information with the Union government,” district officials said. A police official said the group members who were picked up did not think it necessary to share details with the local authorities about their visit to Ahmednagar. “They were too casual in their approach about entire issue. Their local contacts in the district said they did not inform the authorities about the visit to these group members since they feared that the administration would quarantine them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/done2-foreigners-in-ahmednagar-who-tested-ve-had-attended-delhi-meet/articleshow/74920228.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
April 1, 2020||Ajmer||Round 2 of screening in Ajmer||AJMER: The 17-year-old sister of Kharikoi youth was also found coronavirus positive on Tuesday taking the total number of people infected in Ajmer to 5. The father, mother and brother of the first patient had earlier been detected positive and are under treatment at SMS Hospital in Jaipur. District administration has identified 6 people from Kharikoi and Dizzi Bazaar area with high fever and admitted them to JLN Hospital in addition to 10 suspect cases. Out of the 1,132 samples, 127 have so far turned negative while results of others are awaited. More than 7,000 people have been home quarantined and teams of medical department have again started screenings in Kharikoi, Mulasar Road, Diggi Bazaar and Pannigram Chowk. After it was found that relatives of infected patients were residing in Khanpura and another team went for screening to Khanpura on Beawar Road. Strict curfew remained imposed in four police station areas while remaining city remained under lockdown. There are now supplies of food and eatables in the city and police are working 24 hours to maintain the lockdown. DGP Bhupender Singh on Tuesday came to Ajmer and discussed the situation. He later went to Bhilwara. Railway hospital has started a fever clinic from 9am to 4pm. Emergency services in railway hospital for 24 hours has also started. Families of RPF staff is preparing to make masks on largescale and provide it to those who are working during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/round-2-of-screening-in-ajmer/articleshow/74921499.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Suspect tests negative in Kota, movement bar in 1-km periphery of house||Kota: District collector Om Kasera has issued an order under Section 144 of CrPC for zero mobility within the periphery of one km in Teen Batti Circle, Basant Vihar, Dadabari area of the city after a 65-year-old man was suspected to be infected with coronavirus in preliminary screening on Monday evening. The test report of his samples from Jaipur, however, declared him corona-negative on Tuesday morning. The medical and health department as a precautionary measure, referred him for further treatment to SMS Hospital in Jaipur. Over 100 people, who were found to have come in his contact during travel and home stay in last 15 days, were asked to be home quarantined. Door-to-door screening in the locality has begun. A 65-year-old man, a resident of Teen Batti Circle, Basant Vihar area of Kota city in the preliminary screening was diagnosed positive with coronavirus on Monday evening and the sample report by local microbiologists was inconclusive, following which his samples were sent to Jaipur for confirmatory test late on Monday night and in the confirmatory report received on Tuesday morning, he tested negative, said Kota collector Om Kasera in a media briefing on Tuesday afternoon. The suspect, a medical representative by profession, is a native of Kota but is currently living in Jaipur with his family, he added. The suspected person went to Jaipur by train on March 13 and returned to Kota by train on March 16 and with symptoms like cold, cough and fever, he was admitted to the MBS Hospital’s isolation unit on March 30, he said. The suspect’s family members in Jaipur, his milkman, maid at Kota have also been home quarantined. One of the two taxi drivers, who took him to stations, has been identified and has been asked for home quarantine while the other taxi driver is yet to be identified, he added. As per the protocol of medical emergency situation, all the preventive and precautionary measures have been put in place, the collector said. The order under Section 144 of CrPC has been declared till April 3 and door-to-door survey, screening in every household in the area have been started, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspect-tests-ve-in-kota-movement-bar-in-1-km-periphery-of-house/articleshow/74921514.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Borrowers perplexed as banks deduct EMI||Visakhapatnam: Confusion ensued among borrowers who received message alerts on EMIs from banks, days after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a three-month moratorium on EMI payments to mitigate the effects of Covid-19. The RBI had on March 27 announced that all banks, including housing finance companies, could allow deferral of loan repayment by three months but “central government had announced the moratorium on EMIs. But unless we receive instruction from our central office, we can’t do anything. People are not listening to us,” said an assistant bank manager at Indian Overseas Bank (IOB). Sathia Narayanan, senior regional manager at IOB told TOI that borrowers should inform the bank in advance in order to seek relief in loan repayment. “As per guidelines, borrowers can contact the banks and inform the concerned authorities about relief,” he said. Many borrowers, however, were unaware of the procedure and regarded the announcement as a three-month EMI holiday. A private company employee Srinivasa Rao said, “When I inquired about deduction of EMI from my savings account, bank officials said they have not got any instructions from their head office. I kept the money for the ration of April month as nobody knows how many days this lockdown will go on.” “Every bank has its central system linked with servers. If central offices of banks are not changing the procedure and providing relief as mentioned by the RBI, borrowers will not get relief,” said another banker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/borrowers-perplexed-as-banks-deduct-emi/articleshow/74920246.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Go for online classes, CISCE asks schools||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked schools to go for online teaching as classroom teaching has been suspended for a prolonged period due to the nationwide lockdown. CISCE has expressed concern over the outbreak of Covid-19, which has affected every aspect of human life. The schools too had to put all the academic activities on hold. Under the circumstances and keeping the interest of students in mind, the council has provided some suggestions for utilising the lockdown period productively. Council secretary and chief executive Gerry Arathoon wrote to the principals that in order to ensure that the teaching and learning activities don’t suffer, all affiliated schools should make alternative arrangements, using modern and digital means. Online learning platforms, which help schools conduct their classes online without any limitations on the hours or numbers of classes, can be an option. “We are aware that many schools have already started using such systems. However, it is requested that schools that are yet to go for this should use these progressive alternative measures. Besides developing their own module, schools may also use those which are already available in the public domain,” said Arathoon. Principal of a school pointed out that the council is especially worried about the delay in holding the classes for students who are set to appear in the board examinations in 2021. “We won’t be able to complete the syllabus on time. Also, it will help if the council postpones the exams by a month,” he said. “To conduct online classes, some audio-visual online platform may be used by teachers,” added Arathoon. CISCE has also advised teachers to utilize the resource material available on the council’s website. “There is an abundance of material on the council’s website for every level — from Class I to Class XII, which may be used as assignments or practice material for students. These include past years’ question papers, specimen question papers, students’ performance documents for all major subjects at the ICSE and ISC level for the past 6 years,” reads Arathoon’s letter to the heads of the schools. For the aspiring ICSE and ISC examinees, subject-wise analysis of Pupil Performance Documents have been suggested to be studied in detail by the teachers to prepare a set of guidelines for their students on how to prepare for the ICSE and ISC examinations, as well as how to attempt the questions. “We have also asked teachers to encourage project work,” Arathoon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/go-for-online-classes-cisce-asks-schools/articleshow/74921007.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Walled City curfew, prohibitory ordersin Jaipur district extended indefinitely||JAIPUR: The prohibitory orders (Section 144) imposed in Jaipur district and curfew clamped in Walled City have been extended indefinitely from March 31 midnight in the light of the spurt in corona positive cases. The curfew and prohibitory orders were initially imposed till midnight of March 31. Gathering of more than five people at any public place, religious, and other functions without the permission of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) continues to be illegal and punishable under Section 188 of IPC, said an order issued by collector Jogaram. Police will monitor the curfew with the help of drones, he said. In its fresh directive, the administration said the Walled City areas have been completely sealed and those living there must stay indoors till further orders. The residents can also report any suspected cases to helpline 181. Essential services will be allowed to operate during the curfew period. If any resident in the area has an emergency, they will have to get passes from the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-curfew-prohibitory-ordersin-jaipur-district-extended-indefinitely/articleshow/74921512.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||NDMC flats in Bakkarwala turned into isolation centres||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)’s sanitation and health department swung into action on Tuesday after suspected novel coronavirus cases were shifted to its isolation centre at Bakkarwala from Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin. The civic agency had earlier provided its newly constructed 240 EWS flats at Bakkarwala for quarantine purpose to Delhi government. As many as 120 flats are housing the suspected cases, with one person staying in each flat. How the remaining flats will be used will be decided in a day or two. A senior NDMC official said that they sanitised these flats as soon as a decision was taken to use them as isolation wards. “Our staff are regularly cleaning and disinfecting the complex as well as the nearby areas, apart from ensuring proper lighting and water supply arrangement in each flat. A team of our doctors, along with the doctors from Delhi government, has also been deployed,” added the official. On Tuesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that of the 1,033 people evacuated from Markaz, 333 were sent to hospital and 700 to quarantine centres. Over 2,000 people had gathered at the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters to attend a religious congregation in mid-March. “The flats are far from a crowded area. Though the area doesn’t fall under our jurisdiction, these one-room flats were constructed for our staff at a land belonging to us. These were not yet occupied by our staff,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-flats-in-bakkarwala-turned-into-isolation-centres/articleshow/74920910.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw project tenders: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday urged Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to either withdraw or reconsider some of the decisions taken by his government that defeat the purpose of the lockdown. In a letter to the CM, Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said, “These decisions will defeat the very purpose of lockdown and the massive operations launched to prevent spread of coronavirus. If Kaleshwaram project tenders are not withdrawn, it has to be assumed that the government has some vested interest in it,” alleged Revanth.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-project-tenders-cong/articleshow/74921006.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jodhpur||22 people discharged after 2-week isolation in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The first batch of 22 quarantined suspects, who had returned from foreign trip, was released by the administration from two quarantine centres set up in the city. They were released after they completed the period of 14 days from their arrival. Incharge of the quarantine cell and registrar of the ayurveda university, Arun Purohit said 15 of these quarantined were released from JIET College and 7 from Maheshwari Bhawan, the other centre in the city. According to him, currently, there are 93 suspects quarantined in JIET College, while 37 have been quarantined in Maheshwari Bhawan. The Jodhpur administration had decided to shift all persons, having reached Jodhpur after March 17 from any foreign visit, in the quarantine centres to keep them under 14-day observation and ensure they do not come into contact with other persons. Their family members had also been screened. “The tracing of such persons continues and some new suspects had also been quarantined in these centres on Tuesday also,” Purohit said. Meanwhile, the decision of the administration to shift these suspects to quarantine centres had met with stiff resistance by the family members stating that they would better be quarantined at home as they had already been doing. “But given our experience with regard to the first case of the city and its history, we decided to shift them to quarantine centres for 14 days, deducting the days they had already spent in quarantine at their home,” Purohit said. Complaints through videos poured in wherein inmates complained about lack of cleanliness in the rooms of JIET College and expressed concern that it could be a threat to them. Admitting this, Purohit said, initially the sanitation workers were hesitant to go in, but they were counselled and provided with the required kits for safety, after which they agreed to begin cleaning from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/22-people-discharged-after-2-week-isolation-in-jodhpur/articleshow/74921505.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ties between states strengthen as battle against coronavirus hardens||HYDERABAD: The fight against coronavirus has improved inter-state relations as top officials along with chief ministers of the respective states are cooperating with each other and taking steps to help the cause of each state in the interests of the people. Telangana depends on West Bengal for supply of gunny bags to store paddy and rice. With a super bumper crop of 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy expected in Rabi season from the first week of April, Telangana is faced with huge shortage of gunny bags. As on date, Telangana has 35 lakh gunny bags, but as per official estimation, it would need another 35 lakh to 40 lakh gunny bags in view of the expected 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy. As the gunny bag manufacturing plants in West Bengal have shut due to the lockdown, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and chief secretary Somesh Kumar have taken up the matter with West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to ensure supply of gunny bags. A few days ago, Mamata Banerjee had requested KCR and chief ministers of other states to take care of the workers from West Bengal and ensure that they do not face food shortage. Similarly, governments of Telangana and Bihar are also in touch with each other over requirement of workers for loading and unloading of paddy and rice in Telangana. The chief minister had announced that he will speak to the Centre and arrange for special trains if needed to bring back labourers from Bihar. Over 95% of the total workers involved in loading and unloading of rice bags at rice mills and godowns in Telangana are from Bihar, but a majority of these workers who went home for Holi could not return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ties-between-states-strengthen-as-battle-against-virus-hardens/articleshow/74921012.cms||Roushan Ali
April 1, 2020||Nashik||SPPU, NMU, YCMOU declare lockdown period as vacation||Nashik: Three state universities have decided to declare the lockdown period as their official vacation period. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Pune, Kavayitri Bahinabai Choudhari North Maharashtra University (NMU), Jalgaon, and Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU), Nashik, said on Tuesday that all the colleges affiliated with these universities will consider the lockdown period as part of their summer vacations. SPPU released a circular on Monday and instructed all heads of departments, administrative sections, principals of affiliated colleges and directors of affiliated institutes that the university has declared interim vacation from April 1 to 14. Prafulla Pawar, the SPPU registrar, said: “Given prevailing Covid-19 situation, the management has taken the decision. Further decisions in the matter will be taken as the need arises.” The circular states that the faculty members of the university and the affiliated colleges may be called to carry out essential work as and when required. Also, the non-teaching (non-vacation) staff shall continue to work from home during the interim vacation. According to the university sources, SPPU is also planning to cancel the examinations of the first-year students, but the decision in that regard is yet to be taken. Taking similar measures, NMU and YCMOU also declared interim vacations on Tuesday. E Vayunandan, vice-chancellor, YCMOU, said: “We generally break for two months twice a year — once in May-June and then in November-December. This lockdown period shall be adjusted in the coming vacations.” Deelip Mhaisekar, vice-chancellor, MUHS, said: “Our university functions with a different pattern. We are planning to adjust these days of lockdown in the next academic year’s vacations but no decision has been taken yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sppu-nmu-ycmou-declare-lockdown-period-as-vacation/articleshow/74920256.cms||pragya jain
April 1, 2020||Delhi||‘How many times can we revise the text?’||New Delhi: For Class XII student Ayush Singh, all his Central Board of Secondary Education exams would have been over by March 24. He had everything planned for the month he would have to wait for the results to be declared. But the anti-coronavirus lockdown has upset all his intentions with two exams still to be written. Annoyed by his parents constantly asking him to study, Singh is desperate for the lockdown to end.“How much can I keep studying the same thing repeatedly. I am so done,” said the commerce student of Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, who has to write his Hindi and business studies exams. “Unlike a few friends who want to sit for their chartered accountancy exams and are studying, I only aim to pursue a BCom at Delhi University.”The uncertainty of the exam schedule due to the lockdown has left parents and students stressed. Gauri Mathur, who apart from the Class XII exam also has to sit for competitive exams, grumbled, “I only have the computer science exam remaining, and, of course, the competitive exams. But everything has been rescheduled and this is a stressful time for me.”Ritesh Anand’s daughter has just the Hindi paper to write. “It is just one paper, but it also means my daughter cannot feel free. Moreover, the NEET exams have also been rescheduled. CBSE should give us an idea of when the exams will be held."Mohammad Zunaid, a student of Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Sunder Nagri, is in a worse situation. He has three exams pending in geography, Hindi and English. “Due to riots, our English exam was postponed. A new date had been announced for it, but now we don’t know when it will be held. How much can I study? So I am sketching and painting instead these days,” said Zunaid.Student counsellor Geetanjali Kumar recalled a distress call recently. “The mother was worried about her son’s exams being rescheduled,” Kumar revealed. “She wanted her son to study, and he wasn’t. So, she called me complaining that seeing him watch TV through the day was causing her anxiety and irritation.” Kumar advised her to let him relax and study at his own pace and not force him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-many-times-can-we-revise-the-text/articleshow/74934155.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Minister plea to give relief to farmers||Jaipur: Tourism minister Vishvendra Singh has appealed to the CM to give relief to the farmers and poor by waiving off their electricity and water charges. He said the farmers in Bharatpur have already suffered by the recent hailstorm and now because of coronavirus, their situation has worsened. “In view of the difficulties being faced by the farmers and the poor, I urge the chief minister to waive off their electricity and water charges,” the minister said in a release. He also appealed that the rest of the hailstorm relief money due for payment be made immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-plea-to-give-relief-to-farmers/articleshow/74921520.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik schools begin mid-day meal ration distribution||Nashik: After the state department of primary education, Pune, turned down the district headmasters’ request to delay the distribution of mid-day meal rations to students, the Zilla Parishad schools have started the distribution activity. On Tuesday, the ration was distributed in nearly 300 primary and secondary schools in the district in small batches. Dattatreya Jagtap, the director of the primary education department, said the state government has decided to distribute the mid-day meal ration to the students for their welfare during the time of distress. “On March 27, all the districts in the state were instructed to start the process of distributing the ration, which is to be used to cook the mid-day meal for the students. Since the students are not coming to the schools, the ration should be sent to them,” Jagtap said. According to him, out of 35 districts, only seven districts had delayed the process of distribution. The other 28 districts have actively started giving away the ration packets. The ration includes rice, pulses, spices and oil. It is to be distributed equally among all the students. The headmasters association of the Nashik district had told the state department that they want to postpone the distribution in view of the lockdown. S B Deshmukh, the secretary of the association, said: “We had requested that due to the police embargo, let us distribute the ration after April 14. Also, if there are any families that require ration urgently, we can make arrangements for them. But our request was turned down.” Deshmukh said there are nearly 900 schools that have to distribute the mid-day meal rations for the students of Classes I to VIII. Jagtap said the schools have to make arrangements to call the parents in small batches. “There are not many students in rural schools. The headmasters can call the parents in small batches each day. It is not an unmanageable task,” he said. He added that the schools can take assistance from the police. “If required, police can help in preventing crowding at the schools. Other districts have marked boxes at a distance of one metre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-schools-begin-mid-day-meal-ration-distribution/articleshow/74920268.cms||pragya jain
April 1, 2020||India||Ministry’s mask-use advice at odds with PM adviser’s stand||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Tuesday said it is framing guidelines for home-made masks. However, its current guidelines on masks saying their use should be limited depending on the risk of exposure and that healthy people do not need to wear masks are at variance with a manual released by K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the PM, suggesting home-made masks as a strategy to prevent the spread of Covid-19 disease. On the other hand, ICMR chief epidemiologist Dr R R Gangakhedkar said India must not be compared to other western countries where the incidence of the disease is much higher. “Masks are to prevent the risk of exposure to the infection. Let us not compare India with the US where the Centre for Diseases Control has advised people to wear masks. The level of disease outbreak in India is not the same as in the US," he said. While Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, at the same briefing as Dr Gangakhedkar, said that masks were a scarce resource and everyone need not use one, earlier on Tuesday, K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the PM, tweeted: “Masks lower the chances of coronavirus entering the respiratory system through droplets still in the air from an infected person, reducing the chances of inhaling the virus. Especially useful for people in densely populated areas.” The tweet was not necessarily at odds with the “risk exposure” criteria but suggested widespread use which the health ministry did not. Raghavan advocated home-made masks, noting “home-made masks are 70% effective and in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with soap and water or frequent hand rubbing with alcohol-based sanitiser”. However, home-made masks did not immediately receive approval of the health ministry with Agarwal saying guidelines will be issued soon. Gangakhedkar was more forthright, saying, “the US today is the second most Covid-affected country after Italy. Indian outbreak is at a very different level. The probability of exposure to Covid in India is low. So, only sick people should wear masks. The better way to prevent Covid spread is social distancing which India is following.” Agarwal also said people should wear masks only when needed and when they are suffering from cough and need to wear a mask to prevent the infection from spreading. “Masks are a scarce commodity which we must use judiciously,” Agarwal said. He said the PSA’s manual is being technically examined by the experts and guidance will be issued in time, even as he maintained that even the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not specifically advised countries on the use of home-made masks. As per health ministry’s current guidance, healthy persons need to wear a mask only if they are taking care of a person suspected with Covid-19 infection. Besides, one who is coughing or sneezing should wear a mask. “Masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water,” the health ministry guidance says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ministrys-mask-use-advice-at-odds-with-pm-advisers-stand/articleshow/74921931.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL artificially reduced distribution losses: MERC||Nagpur: After years of manipulating agricultural pump power consumption figures, MSEDCL has been finally caught red-handed. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has accepted recommendations of a working group on agricultural sales, constituted by it, and stated that the distribution loss was far higher than that claimed by the MSEDCL. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its tariff hike petition had claimed that distribution loss in its area in 2018-19 was 14.7%. However, the working group stated in its report that it was 5.84% higher, that is 20.54%. The artificial reduction was done by inflating farm pump power consumption. MSEDCL has been for years not reducing power theft and claiming that farmers were using more units and passing off electricity stolen as electricity used. The artificial increase in farm pump consumption was done in two ways. The first was to claim that unmetered farmers were using more electricity. There was no data to back this claim. MSEDCL put forth this claim every year in its tariff hike petitions. This could not be possible with metered farmers. So, the discom sent them inflated bills. This problem was acknowledged by then BJP energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. He had ordered MSEDCL to hold camps to correct power bills of farmers. In 2015, Bawankule also formed a three-member committee under MSEB Holding Company director Vishwas Pathak to find out actual power consumption by farm pumps. IIT Powai was also asked to estimate it. Based on the IIT report, two members of the committee — consumer activists Pratap Hogade and Ashish Chandarana — concluded that MSEDCL was inflating agricultural power consumption. However, Pathak refused to sign the report and submitted a separate report exonerating MSEDCL. Now, Pathak has been proved wrong and Hogade and Chandarana have been proved right. The commission has pulled up the MSEDCL for claiming more subsidy from the state government by inflating agricultural electricity sales. The government pays a subsidy on every unit of power sold to farmers because they get it at a highly subsidized rate. MSEDCL has thus duped government of thousands of crores over the years, it was bared. The commission has, however, not charged MSEDCL with deliberately inflating farm pump consumption. It has claimed that accurate figures could be calculated by the working group due to use of advanced technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-artificially-reduced-distribution-losses-merc/articleshow/74921015.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Retail vegetable sale at Peth Rd APMC halted after crowding||NASHIK: The agriculture produce market committee and police jointly stopped the retail sale of vegetables at Sharad Pawar APMC along Peth Road after people crowded there. The civic and district administrations have already appealed to people to maintain social distancing, but people are not following it. There are two APMCs in the city -- one along Dindori Road and another along Peth Road. Usually, vegetables are auctioned at Dindori Road and fruits and potatoes are auctioned at the mandi along Peth Road. However, the operations at Dindori APMC were closed down from March 25 and all activities were shifted to Peth Road facility. Wholesale and retail vegetable sale was underway at Peth Road. On Tuesday morning, there was a rush of people to buy vegetables at Peth Road APMC. Moreover, vegetable vendors and consumer were not following social distancing norms. Taking serious cognizance of this, Nashik APMC management and police jointly decided to stop the retail vegetable markets at the APMC. “We have stopped retail sale of vegetables at Peth Road APMC. The wholesale auction of vegetables and fruits will continue as usual,” said Arun Kale, secretary, Nashik APMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/retail-vegetable-sale-at-peth-rd-apmc-halted-after-crowding/articleshow/74920283.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Sex workers run out of food, essentials||New Delhi: “Are we not human that we have been left to die like this?” This was asked by one of the thousands of sex workers at GB Road, who are struggling to survive because of lack of income amid the countrywide lockdown. More than 4,000 sex workers usually operate from the cramped multi-storeyed brothels. Of these, at least 2,000 are still staying in their dingy quarters, while the others have been shifted out by their handlers. When TOI spoke to the sex workers, they said they have been making distress calls for the past three days as they have run out of food. Virender Kumar, director of NGO Mission Mukti Foundation, said they along with officials from Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights rushed to check on the sex workers after getting the distress calls. “We saw the women living in a very sad state. They had rations for only one meal. Since nobody is visiting the brothels due to the lockdown, there is no way for them to make money. They have not been able to buy the bare essentials, including milk,” Kumar said. Kumar added that they are making a list of the brothels where help is required. “We will buy food for these women with donations so that they can stock it for at least a week. I urge agencies to help these women during these difficult times,” he added. A sex worker lamented, “Delhi government is providing food in several schools, but we feel ashamed of going out. So, we have locked ourselves in the brothels. We don’t have medicines and haven’t eaten since the past two days. We’ll die like this.” Many of these sex workers have children too, which is another reason for them to worry. “Some of us have savings. But even that will get over in no time if things continue like this. I don’t have milk to feed my child. We know we are outcasts in society, but even we are human. If the government doesn’t save us, we will starve and eventually die. Don’t save us, but at least save our children,” said a sex worker. “People look at us with disrespect and treat us like untouchables. That’s why we haven’t been going to the hunger relief centres. The younger girls have been taken away, but we have nowhere to go. I have been at this brothel for the past 35 years and have never starved like this,” said a 50-year-old sex worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sex-workers-run-out-of-food-essentials/articleshow/74934176.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Three persons found dead in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Two persons died reportedly due to health issues due to withdrawal symptoms, both were addicted to alcohol, in Malkajgiri. In the first case, J Franquilin, 45, a daily-wage worker, was reportedly addicted to alcohol and was staying on the footpath near Moula Ali railway bridge. The victim’s body was found near the bridge on Tuesday. Police suspect the victim could have died due to health issues. Another victim, Mohammed Dasthagiri, 40, of Secunderabad, was reportedly addicted to toddy and suffered seizures. The victim died in Yadavnagar, Malkajgiri. Police suspect he died after a seizure attack. Malkajgiri police booked separate suspicious death cases. In another incident, the body of a 26-year-old private employee was found in a sump at Kistapur brick manufacturing unit in Medchal. The victim, D Santosh, 26, from Gudimalkapur, was suspected to have accidentally fallen in the sump under the influence of alcohol over a week ago. A case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-persons-found-dead-in-hyd/articleshow/74921018.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||They can’t cook to save their lives...||New Delhi: Shikha Mittal, a resident of south Delhi’s tony Safdarjung Development Area, is a successful entrepreneur who lives alone, works from 9.30am to 9.30pm and travels frequently. Cooking, however, was a skill she neither possessed nor required — until the novel coronavirus upended everyone’s life.The 36-year-old said, “I live alone here to be closer to my office and the airport, while my parents live in Kamla Nagar in north Delhi.” Hiring a domestic help, cook and gardener ensured the founder-director of Be.artsy, which helps organisations involved in financial literacy and prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace, didn’t have to worry about her home.She returned from an overseas visit in early March and opted for self-quarantine, surviving 14 days mainly on milk and fruits. Just when her isolation ended, the nationwide lockdown was announced. Deprived of her cook, Mittal requested her mother to send her voice notes on how to cook basic things. She also looked up cooking instructions on YouTube. “I typed ‘aaloo ki sabzi basic’ and saw hundreds of videos,” said Mittal. Thanks to tech, the entrepreneur has quickly learnt how to make paneer parantha, papad ki subzi, tahri and other dishes. She has also got used to the jhaadu-pochha routine.For thousands of Delhi residents who can’t cook to save their lives and depend on domestic helps, neighbourhood eateries or tiffin services for meals, technology has come as a saviour. From online cooking courses to voice notes and video calls from family members, it has saved the day for those who never thought a lockdown could leave them starving.Videos with catchy tags, such as ‘lockdown recipes’, ‘Coronavirus cooking’ and ‘quarantine recipes’, are a rage on YouTube. Indian recipes requiring basic cooking skills are garnering lakhs of views. In fact, such videos are being uploaded every hour and the less fussy the recipe, the more popular the video. Most of the videos instruct newbies on cooking meals with the minimum resources, at times without even vegetables. Of course, the lockdown recipes of celebrity chefs like John Torode and Jamie Oliver are garnering outlandish number of views.Sudhir Kumar, 24, a Munirka resident employed in a private firm, relied on his ‘aunty’ for meals, but the virus curtailed all her arrivals. Kumar learnt to make dal chawal when he found kneading flour for the more preferable chapati was beyond him. “But you can’t eat dal chawal twice a day for days,” Kumar laughed. “So, I started looking up online vidoes.”Kumar experimented with continental food, which he liked but couldn’t find ingredients in Munirka. He replaced processed flour and butter with the readily available atta and ghee. “I even used atta to make white pasta sauce today,” he smiled. “I have huge stock of oregano seasoning and chilli flakes and I use these liberally for every dish.”For Shaheen Bagh resident Aamir Aijaz, 32, a self-proclaimed foodie and a cookery illiterate, simple food wouldn’t do the trick. “During my wife’s frequent travels to Mumbai, I ate out. But now she’s stuck in Mumbai and the eateries in my area are closed,” said Aijaz. Unlike most caught in a similar predicament, online videos didn’t work for the development sector worker. “When in doubt, you can’t ask questions to a video,” he explained. Instead he chose to make a video call to his wife.“I started with dal chawal and then moved to aaloo ki subzi. With the confidence I gained, I graduated to egg curry and yesterday, I made pulao and chicken curry,” Aijaz said with unhidden pride. His wife approved of his effort, but did he? “It was awesome,” Aijaz beamed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-cant-cook-to-save-their-lives-/articleshow/74934193.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Postal dept to facilitate mobile veg markets||Hyderabad: To facilitate mobile vegetable markets in various colonies, the postal department has tied up with Telangana agriculture department. The move will help people make purchases in their colonies. The department’s Mail Motor Service (MMS) has tied up with Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) for distribution of life-saving medicines, surgical items, saline bottles, oxygen cylinders to various primary health centres (PHCs) in 33 districts of the state. For this purpose, 20 MMS vehicles were pressed into service. MMS vehicles were also ensuring essential supplies to the needy migrant workers in partnership with NGOs . Three postal department’s mobile vans would also be available from Wednesday for money transactions like deposits and withdrawals in Padmaraonagar, Golconda Chowrastha, Gandhi Nagar, Zamistanpur, Chikkadapally, Ashoknagar, Kulsumpura, Karwan Sahu, Toli Chowki, Mehdipatnam, and Golconda areas. All arrangements were made for disbursement of Aasara pensions to over 22 lakh beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-dept-to-facilitate-mobile-veg-markets/articleshow/74921016.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors diagnosing virus symptoms on WhatsApp||Nagpur: The incessantly rising number of people infected by Covid-19 is a daunting challenge for those working day and night to save lives. The unprecedented situation is taking a toll on the mental and physical health of these saviours of humanity. With an aim to ease the pressure off doctors, city-based NGO Parindey Foundation has started a digital doctor consultancy helpline for coronavirus on WhatsApp. The helpline offers patients the opportunity to get free consultancy from specialist doctors. The initiative, christened ‘Niraamayaa Bhava’ was started by Siddhartha Roy, a 21-year-old author and community developer, and chartered accountant Niranjan Jadhav, supported by Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani — who manages the operational aspect of the advisory. When patients reach out on the WhatsApp number 7020844301, the doctor in-charge sends a symptom sheet to them to know their profile and travel history. After analysing the report, the doctor provides a solution and if needed, sets an appointment for a video/telephonic call. If the symptoms are severe, the patient is advised to meet the doctor in person. After the physical check-up, the patient is prescribed medicines or necessary tests. “I have been working on various government projects for innovation and social change, but this is the time when we all should come together and do our bit,” says co-founder Siddhartha Roy. “I had this idea in my mind from a long time, but felt that executing it alone would be challenging, which is why I collaborated with Parindey Youth Foundation and several doctors. It feels good to do our bit for the society,” he adds. “We had seen the sufferings of China and knew that if Covid-19 hits India, it'll hit us really hard. So we decided to make our citizens aware about it and reduce the stress on government hospitals. It has worked well and people have given a really good response,” says co-founder Niranjan Jadhav. The initiative was launched by district collector Ravindra Thakare on March 20, and around 110 people have been helped through this platform by now. Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, a senior doctor who is associated with the initiative, says, “More than the disease itself, it is the fear which needs to be fought. The situation is such that even if people have regular cough, they start worrying of contracting the virus. The symptoms, travel history and other sources of exposure need to be carefully analysed for us to give measured advice. We are working on removing this fear from their minds.” “I was very scared when I developed coronavirus-like symptoms. After a detailed online consultation through the platform, I was advised some tests. However, my reports were negative and I was discharged from the hospital,” says a beneficiary on the condition of anonymity. The panel of doctors associated with the initiative comprises Dr Shailendra Mundhada, Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani, Dr Satish Deopujari, Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, Dr Devika Jadhav, Dr Madhavi Deshmukh, Dr Shreya Kate and Dr Nishi Roy. Dhruv pathology and molecular diagnostic lab is helping with the research and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-diagnosing-virus-symptoms-on-whatsapp/articleshow/74921623.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Shut down weekly markets where social distancing is not followed: Game||Nashik: Civic chief Radhakrishna Game has ordered that all weekly markets where social distancing norm is not being followed will be shut down. The Nasik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also issued fresh guidelines for vegetable vendors informing them about the precautions that they need to take. The civic chief has also banned sale of vegetable on handcarts. The vendors have been instructed to give the vegetables in packets or baskets so that the agriculture produce are not touched by everyone. Game has expressed concerns over people not following the social distancing norm at the weekly markets. “The NMC has already issued instructions to vegetable vendors and people to maintain at least 1 meter social distancing. Also, there should be a space of five metre between two vendors. But these instructions are not being followed,” a civic official said. “Taking serious cognizance of this, Game has directed the civic administration to shut down such weekly vegetable markets,” he added. Vendors have also been told to display a board asking the consumers to buy weekly stock of vegetables and should not visit the market frequently. “Some vendors are selling vegetables on handcarts in various colonies across the city. Thus, the NMC has also decided to ban sale of vegetables by vendors on handcarts and the municipal commissioner has already issued an order,” the officials said. Meanwhile, some agriculture producer companies like Sahyadri Farms have started doorstep delivery of weekly baskets of fruits and vegetables for the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shut-down-weekly-markets-where-social-distancing-is-not-followed-game/articleshow/74920292.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||No bail pleas during lockdown: HC||The Rajasthan High Court directed the registry on Monday to not list any bail pleas as “extremely urgent case” as it had decided that only important matters would be taken up during the lockdown. During a hearing of a second bail application, a single-judge bench of Justice Pankaj Bhandari ordered that no bail application would be listed before the court for hearing. The bench observed that even during Diwali, Holi and winter breaks, the bail applications were not listed. It asked how come the courts be “forced” to hear a bail application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-bail-pleas-during-lockdown-hc/articleshow/74921528.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||...While they cook to make a living||New Delhi: Perhaps antakshari comes first to mind when you have to while away the hours with your family in these days of the anti-coronavirus lockdown. But there’s something more interesting cooking. Chefs, barred from their hotel kitchens, are using the break to stream cookery sessions. These are helping people not only to bring out their inner cooks, but also proving it is more stimulating to wield a ladle than sing about one.Home cooking and home workout are the only two online trends beating the news about the novel coronavirus. The drudgery of being imprisoned at home appears suddenly to be lightened by the cardamom and almond phirni of chef Abhishek Gupta, the carrot coconut and turmeric soup and tomato rice of chef Megha Kohli, the pancake recipe of The Grammar Room and the corn khichdi and green chilli prawns of Comorin restaurant. And for those inclined more to liquid sustenance, no antakshari success could outdo the sessions on how to make heady Quarantini and other cocktails by mixologists Nitin Tewari and Yangdup Lama. These chefs are enabling people to prepare dishes with minimal, available ingredients. Chef Vanshika Bhatia related how her friends started messaging her for recipes of basics like roti and parantha. “Many singles in the city rely on ordering in or domestic maids for their meals. I realised many of them hadn’t cooked in their lives and were facing a genuine problem,” said Bhatia. “That is the reason I decided to keep my recipes simple and use readily available ingredients.”Bhatia has posted videos on making pizza and bread as well as preserving and pickling. She taught how bread can be made without yeast and crepes with kuttu atta for Navratri, suggested ways to make pizza toppings and sauces and even showed how easy it was to make cough remedies. Most usefully, she suggested alternatives to fancy ingredients.In one session, chefs Anchal Bhalla and Suchana Bera discussed how to enjoy the simple but popular Bengali staple, aloo makha (mashed potatoes), with flaxseed chutney. Both Bhalla and Bera concurred on the need to stop binging on unhealthy snacks at home, with still quite a few days of indolence left. Bhalla has posted videos, for instance, on healthy home-made crackers. “I am trying to post videos of essential dishes for single professionals and dishes that a mother can cook with a rkid, such as a cake, with the ingredients normally found in homes,” explained Bhalla.From his home in Uttarakhand, chef Pawan Bisht has been countering the overall despair and panic through his videos. “There was so much negativity online that I thought rather than be an expert on the coronavirus, I would share what I know,” Bisht said. “When I started posting the cookery videos, the response showed that people needed a break from the information deluge on Covid-19.”Bisht is also acquainting Indians with his native cuisine, cooking with ingredients from his home state. His videos teach people how to use alternative ways of cooking. Bisht laughed and said he never imagined that people would be able to destress themselves by looking at him making bhang ki chutney, aloo ke gutke, sarson ka saag and urad dal ke vade. He certainly helped the citizens go one up on the national isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-while-they-cook-to-make-a-living/articleshow/74934209.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyient to make critical medtech parts||Hyderabad: City-based Cyient Ltd, a global engineering and technology solutions company, on Tuesday said its Mysuru facility has got clearance to run its medtech manufacturing lines to support the production of medical equipment that is critical in the fight against COVID-19. Cyient will be producing assemblies that are used in X-ray generators from GE Healthcare and diagnosis units from Molbio Diagnostics to enable rapid disease testing in India. Cyient will manufacture PCBAs (printed circuit board assembly) used for regulating power, rotation control & filament control of X-ray generators used in CT scanners and X-ray machines. For diagnosis units, Cyient will make the complete unit which includes PCBAs, wire harness and enclosures. Cyient said it has received permission from the Mysuru district deputy commissioner under the Essential Services Maintenance Act 1968 and the governing state ESMA that allows uninterrupted services of medical essentials to healthcare institutions as they are essential services for the community. Commenting on the development, Rajendra Velagapudi, senior vice president and CEO, Cyient DLM, said, “We are proud to support our customers in the healthcare industry at this critical time. We will continue to do everything we can to help reduce the impact of this crisis on our customers’ operations as they focus on delivering the technology needed to fight Covid-19 at a national and global level.” Cyient’s factory in Mysuru, which was acquired from Rangsons Electronics, is dedicated to electronic manufacturing processes, including printed circuit board assemblies, cable harnesses, and box-builds that closely align with our core competence in electronic systems design, integration, and manufacturing services. Cyient acquired 74% stake in Rangsons Electronics in 2015 and went on to increase it to 100% in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyient-to-make-critical-medtech-parts/articleshow/74921033.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||17 Tablighi members visited Jaisalmer two weeks ago||Jaisalmer: Around the time when cases of Covid-19 started increasing in the country, a 17-member group of Tablighi Jamaat arrived here from Delhi on March 17 and took part in programmes held at a few mosques. The group had arrived in the district on February 26 before heading to Jaisalmer three weeks later. The group went to Pokhran on March 19. Though no case of coronavirus has been reported here, the visit of this group has alerted the local intelligence officials, security agencies and the district administration. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang confirmed that the group came from Delhi in mid-March. “They went to various areas of Sadar police station. We are trying to find out the places they visited. We have received information about them going to Pokhran from Jaisalmer,” Kang said on Tuesday.According to official sources, the group had started a 40-day tour to various parts of the country and was in Jaisalmer on March 17 during which they visited few religious places and mosques and took part in programmes in which dozens of people were present. Sources said when CID and other intelligence agencies got information about the group going to different places in the city without permission, they objected to it following which the group left for Pokhran the next day. Reportedly, the group stayed in Pokhran and took part in some programmes and when security agencies got information, they were asked to leave Pokhran as well. After this, their last local movement was found at a few places in Jodhpur division. Sources said till now, there is no information about them, but intelligence and security agencies are trying to trace the members. Since the virus shows symptoms after a few days, therefore local administration and security agencies are worried and are trying to collect more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-tablighi-members-visited-jaisalmer-two-weeks-ago/articleshow/74921532.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||What steps taken for migrant workers: HC to Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court has sought a reply from the state government on what measures have been taken for migrant workers walking on the roads amid the lockdown. The bench comprising Justice G R Moolchandani and Justice NS Dhadha sought a reply while hearing a petition by advocate James Bedi, which was converted as public interest litigation (PIL). In the letter, Bedi informed the court that much discomfort was caused to migrant labourers while they walked thousands of miles amid the lockdown. He also brought it to the notice of the court that thousands were still trapped on the road without food, water and transportation facilities and alleged no facility of stay for these labourers. The bench heard the advocate through audio calling. Advocate Bedi appealed to the court to protect the human rights of the workers. The bench stated that they too have seen this in many news and videos, though the government has tried to provide food, transport and shelter. But such conditions were created due to fear among the workers. In this regard, the court has sought a detailed report on April 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-state-what-steps-taken-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/74921536.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||BMC starts ‘sealing’ hospitals if a patient turns out to be positive||MUMBAI/THANE: The number of nursing homes and hospitals being “sealed” after unknowingly treating Clovid-19 patients is increasing across the city. TOI found at least five nursing homes and small hospitals whose staff is under quarantine and they are unable to accept new patients. BMC officials refused to confirm any number, though. Experts said the BMC’s idea to quarantine medical staff of such centres for 14 days would affect access and quality of healthcare in the city. On Tuesday, a Chembur-based 100-bedded hospital became the latest to “shut” its doors on patients after a patient turned out to be Covid-19 positive. When TOI called the hospital’s reception desk, the operator said it isn’t taking new patients even in casualty. A Thane nursing home’s staff is quarantined there itself as a patient tested positive after being transferred to another hospital in Mumbai. One of the first victims of Covid-19 from Deonar was admitted in a local nursing home and her positive reports came a day after she passed away. In another instance, an 86-year-old Ghatkopar resident who died in L H Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, on Monday had spent a week in a nursing home in Mulund. It was closed for a 14-day period. A senior BMC official said there is no policy to seal a hospital or nursing home, but according to World Health Orgainisation rules, its staff has to get tested for Covid-19 and quarantined. Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s T Ward, said, "After the 86-year-old patient tested positive for Covid-19, we immediately got the staff tested as per protocol.” Of the 55 persons tested, one nurse was positive. “We hence asked the hospital to not admit any new patients for the next 14 days and asked those who were tested to home quarantine for the next 14 days,” he added. Hospital owner Dr Prince Surana said given the shortage of medical manpower, stopping every such nursing home or hospital would only worsen the crunch. Another doctor said the government should ask medical staff to use protection equipment and N95 masks even while treating non-Covid-19 patients. In Thane (West), 32 staff and 11 patients admitted to a private hospital in Vartak Nagar were quarantined after a 34-year-old man previously admitted there tested positive on Monday. He has a travel history to the UK, said TMC deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi. He is the 11th positive patient in Thane. (With Richa Pinto)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-starts-sealing-hosps-if-a-patient-turns-out-to-be-ve/articleshow/74920328.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC develops app to track people under home quarantine||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has developed a mobile application, Mahakavach, to keep a track on Covid-19 suspects who are under home quarantine. All those who have been put under home quarantine will have to download this application on their mobile phones. The suspects will also have to register self-attendance on the application every day. The administration will get an alert if the quarantined person crosses the area marked through geo-fencing on the application. This will help the administration to monitor the movement of the suspects. This app has been developed jointly by the NMC, Maharashtra state innovation society (MSIS), Nashik District Innovation Council (NDIC) and Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL). Currently, the process of checking home quarantined people is being carried out manually. “Mahakavach mobile app is to be used by only those people who are under home quarantine and also by people as suggested by health department. Other people are not allowed to use this app. Moreover, the link and the QR code for this app will be sent by the municipal corporation,” an NMC official said. “It is difficult to keep an eye on every person who is under home quarantine. These people are expected to stay at home for 14 days, but some do not. The radius of their movement is geo-fenced. It will be easier to track people under home quarantine through this app,” he said. The administration will immediately get an alert if the person under home quarantine crossed the radius. “This app is being used by the administration and soon will be launched in Maharashtra,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-develops-app-to-track-people-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/74920306.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 266 coaches to be made quarantine units||JAIPUR: The engineering wing of North Western Railways (NWR) is tirelessly working to convert 266 coaches into isolation wards for keeping Covid-19 suspects. On the direction of the railway board, the engineers and technical staff at the carriage workshop in Ajmer and in other divisions of NWR are burning midnight oil to complete the task. These coaches will have extra space for oxygen cylinders, medical equipment and toilets. With the preparation of these coaches, NWR will be able to accommodate 4,256 isolation beds for patients to be brought for quarantine isolation. Authorities of NWR on Tuesday said work was in progress and they were on the job of making the isolation coaches as early as possible. As a part of Covid-19 preparedness, it was decided by Indian Railways to have 20,000 coaches with quarantine facilities. “We have been assigned the task to convert 266 coaches into quarantine isolation facility. Our engineers and other technical staff are on the job to get it done as soon as possibleWe are going to provide it to the state government to bring patients needing quarantine isolation,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. On specification and modifications of these coaches, a senior officer of engineering wing said, “We have been asked to remove the middle berth and ensure proper space for patients, dedicated space for doctors and para-medical staff attending to them. Extra electrical switches and holders in every cabin to facilitate the team of doctors,” the officer added. Mosquito nets would be provided on the windows of the coaches. “Also for insulation of the coaches, bamboo/khus mats would be fixed and pasted on the roof. Also extra charging points for laptops, mobile phones and for medical equipment will be installed,” the officer added. “These are non AC sleeper coaches which are under modification. Each coach is expected to have 16 beds for quarantine isolation which means NWR would have 4,256 beds for patients,” the officer added. Also every cabin in the coach would have three dustbins each with foot operated lids of red, blue and yellow colour suitably lined with garbage bags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/266-coaches-to-be-made-quarantine-units/articleshow/74921534.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Migrant workers get lukewarm welcome at native villages||Jaipur: Even as thousands of migrant workers return to their native villages in Dausa, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and other districts of the state, their journey does not just end there. The people residing in their villages are cautious about the Covid-19 pandemic, and are asking these workers to stay under quarantine and not to visit their homes directly. In some districts, the villagers themselves are intimating the district authorities on their arrival and the administration is then keeping these people in isolation at schools, panchayat buildings and other places in the villages. TOI on Tuesday spoke to many villagers in Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur districts where a sizeable number of migrant workers have arrived from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. “Five people have arrived from Delhi, where they work as labourers in Pitampura locality. We have informed about their arrival to the Patwari as soon as they were spotted entering into the village. They are kept at a house away from their home where they are given food. A team of paramedical staff and district administration had also visited them,” said Nekiram Gujjar of Bhandarez village in Dausa district. Similarly people in Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Sikar too have reported such arrivals to the district authorities and local officials like Gram Patwari. “Even there is good awareness in the villages, our teams comprising ANMs, Asha workers and others are doing survey. Yet, many cases in which migrant workers have arrived have been reported by the villagers themselves,” said a senior officer in district administration, Sawai Madhopur. However, there are also complaints that health officials and other concerned officials are not going for door-to door surveys at many villages. Health department has already directed various districts and its health, local administration and police to keep an eye on the migrant workers arriving there, who have come either from other districts in Rajasthan or from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrant-workers-get-lukewarm-welcome-at-native-villages/articleshow/74921542.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Five vehicles launched to sell veggies in Ramnad||MADURAI: The district administration has launched five vehicles to sell vegetables and thereby avoiding overcrowding in Covid-19 lockdown in Ramanathapuram district on Tuesday. Addressing reporters, collector K Veera Raghava Rao said the district administration officials have taken steps to ensure the availability of vegetables and fruits for people by setting up temporary shops at three places in Ramanathapuram town in the district. He said that apart from three places, five vehicles have been arranged to sell vegetables to residents in Ramanathapuram town. He said that this arrangement has been made to ensure that people get quality vegetables at nominal price. He said that steps are also being taken to arrange 50 such vehicles to sell vegetables at important places in Ramanathapuram town areas. Works are underway to arrange similar vehicles for the sale of vegetables across the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-vehicles-launched-to-sell-veggies-in-ramnad/articleshow/74921039.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||MP urges 1-month special pay for 108 ambulance employees||MADURAI: Virudhunagar Congress MP B Manickam Tagore has urged the state government to provide one-month special pay to the 108 ambulance employees in the state for effective service to prevent the spread of Covid- 19 during the lockdown period. In a representation to the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Tagore reminded that he (CM) had announced in the assembly session that one-month special pay would be given to doctors, nurses and sanitary workers who are working effectively for the containment of Covid-19 in the state. He said that even after the promulgation of Section 144 during the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, all the 108 ambulance employees are working round-the-clock in order to help the people during emergencies. Tagore said there are nearly 5,200 employees working with the 108 ambulances in the state and they are rendering an effective service during this emergent situation. Hence, the request to provide the special pay. Tagore also said the government should ensure that sufficient quantity of masks and sanitizers are provided for the safety of all 108 ambulance employees in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-urges-1-month-special-pay-for-108-ambulance-employees/articleshow/74921038.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||31 undertrials of Vadodara Central Jail released||VADODARA: Thirty-one undertrials of Vadodara Central Jail were released on bail for two months on Monday as per the guidelines of the high-power committee of Gujarat high court. Of the 31 undertrials, 17 were in jail in connection with cases related to payment of maintenance while 14 are facing trial for petty offences in which the jail term is less than seven years. “On Tuesday too more inmates, who are in jail for cases of maintenance payment will submit their bail applications,” said jail superintendent Baldevsinh Vaghela. Vadodara Central Jail has 609 undertrials currently. Vadodara District Legal Services Authority is helping prisoners with bail procedures. “Panel advocates of DLSA were there at the jail. On Tuesday too if an inmate who wants to submit his or her bail application does not have a lawyer, they can seek help of our panel advocates,” said DLSA secretary Aasutos Raj Pathak. Judicial magistrates will be visiting the central jail to hear the bail pleas of the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/31-undertrials-of-vadodara-central-jail-released/articleshow/74919232.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Teachers to observe shelter homes in city||Jaipur: Government school teachers in Jaipur district have been assigned the task to supervise the schools that had been converted into shelter homes for the migrant workers and homeless people. Government teachers are supposed to be present on duty 24x7 in fours shifts as directed by the government. Lately, teachers have been entrusted with many tasks related to coronavirus outbreak. Teachers are involved in conducting survey for coronavirus. Dug, a panchayat in Jhalawar district, has appointed government teachers for delivering food and ration to the houses of the people. The government teachers are cooperating in the time of crisis but they have been demanding medical kit for their protection. Vipin Sharma, general secretary, Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Union said, “We are in support of the government in the time of crisis but they should provide us safety kits for supervision work because we will be under threat. Moreover, teachers must also be included in the insurance plan recently declared for the medical staff. When we are working on field, we should be given this protection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-to-observe-shelter-homes-in-city/articleshow/74921055.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Onion auctions shut in APMCs across Nashik district, scarcity likely||NASHIK: All APMCs in Nashik district, including the country’s largest wholesale onion market in Lasalgaon, have been closed due to the coronavirus scare. Every day, on an average, 1.25 lakh quintal of onions are auctioned in the district and around 1 lakh quintal are dispatched to different domestic markets in the country, particularly to North to South India. Although few traders are still dispatching onions procured in the past two days, onion consignments to domestic markets are expected to come to a grinding halt in a day or two. According to traders, this may create a scarcity in the next few days and may lead to a rise in wholesale onion prices if supply is not resumed. Around 30-35,000 quintal of onions are auctioned every day at Lasalgaon APMC and two of its sub-markets in Niphad and Vinchur. Nearly 20,000 quintal are auctioned at the Pimpalgaon APMC. The remaining 70,000 quintal are auctioned at other eight APMCs at Chandvad, Umrane, Malegaon, Sinnar, Satana, Kalwan, Deola and Yeola. Jaydatta Holkar, the former chairman of Lasalgaon APMC and an onion trader himself, said: “There is likely to be an onion scarcity if auctions do not resume.” “Prices may also increase,” added Sandip Magar, the secretary of Chandvad APMC. “The detection of Nashik district’s first positive Covid-19 patient — a resident of Pimpalgaon Nazik village adjacent to Lasalgaon — has sparked fear among the traders. Moreover, workers are also not available for loading, unloading, grading and packaging of the onions. This is why the auctions at Lasalgaon had to be stopped,” said Manoj Jain, a trader. Hotels and restaurants are big onion purchasers but, currently, they are closed too. However, if the auctions do not resume in a few days, there is a real possibility of onion shortage, said Jain. “We are struggling due to the non-availability of workers. Most of our workers have already left for their native places. Even the local workers are not stepping out of their homes,” said an office-bearer of Lasalgaon onion traders’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-auctions-shut-in-apmcs-across-nashik-district-scarcity-likely/articleshow/74920340.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||War room ops kick off in Jaipur district||Jaipur: A war room has been established in Jaipur district to deal with the problems faced by the residents during lockdown. The first meeting along with the officials going to work in the war room was held on Tuesday at Jaipur district collectorate. Orders were issued by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a few days back to establish a war room in every district to resolve citizens’ issues. Officials of all the departments – PHED, JMC, water, medical, animal husbandry and others have been made part of the war room. Additional district collector (IV) Ashok Kumar said the main purpose of this war room is to resolve citizens’ issues as soon as possible. “About 16 officials have been appointed who will be on duty 24x7 attending calls of people who are facing difficulty in getting water, electricity or ration. The officials have been asked to resolve the complaints within one day,” Kumar said. Officials have been asked to immediately inform their departments concerned regarding the complaints received. Any complaint, if not resolved in a day, should be informed to the authorities. A list of complaints received and resolved should be submitted to the collector every day. “I request to all the citizens to stay at home and avoid going out without any reason to prevent the spread of disease. Anyone can call on – 0141-2204475 or 0141-2204476 to register a complaint for any problem during the lockdown,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/war-room-ops-kick-off-in-jaipur-district/articleshow/74921056.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||For women, dupattas turn protective gear||MADURAI: In view of Covid-19, it is important to wear masks as a precautionary measure to curtail the spread of the virus. However, many people, who come for shopping, predominantly women, are seen covering their faces with a piece of cloth, handkerchiefs or dupattas as protective gears while their husbands are seen wearing a proper mask. Most men in the markets can be seen wearing the green mask sold in medical shops. “What is surprising is that some couples come to do the shopping, and while the husbands are seen wearing a proper mask, the women are seen using their sarees or dupattas around their face as a mask. This is so wrong in the current situation and I have told some of them that the mask was equally important for both,” said a policeman on duty near the Anna Nagar market. There is also the problem of many people reusing the disposable masks after doing the shopping and that could be dangerous. A corporation official said that many people seemed to be in holiday mode, shopping in pairs and some of the couples were carrying infants while shopping in crowded places like the Nelpettai fish market. City’s leading pulmonologist Dr M Palaniappan said that wearing masks while going to public places was a must. “They should be wearing proper masks and not cloth and handkerchiefs as that would not serve the purpose,” he said. He added that a person may be asymptomatic or a sick person could have sneezed or coughed in a particular place and moved away. But, the aerosol containing the virus would be in the air for about one hour or more, hence wearing a proper mask was a must in these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/for-women-dupattas-turn-protective-gear/articleshow/74921046.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Online grocery stores not taking new orders||HYDERABAD: The online grocery stores, despite all assurances, are not fully functional in the city and this is causing severe inconvenience to the citizens. Though most of these stores resumed their operations, a majority of them are not accepting new orders owing to the ‘massive backlog of orders and operational constraints’. “I have been trying to place an online order for groceries since last Monday. None of the online stores are accepting orders,” said Krishna B, a housewife. She said that unless these stores start functioning fully it will be hard to remain in self-isolation as people will be forced to step out to buy groceries. “Despite the officials saying that they are issuing passes for delivery boys working with these online stores, the situation on the ground looks very different. Even yesterday, one of the online stores pointed out that they are working with the local authorities for permission to start their operations,”asked C Bharath, a techie. One of the online stores, based out of Gurugram, said that they would be accepting new orders in a day or two. “With the help of local authorities, we have obtained permissions and restarted our operations. We are delivering older orders first and should begin taking new orders within a day,” read a message on its app. Online stores are also facing a shortage in manpower, which is forcing them not to accept any new orders. “Dear customer, slots may not be available currently. We are working with cab aggregators, restaurant association and other retailers to get help without manpower requirement,” read a notification on the app of a Bengaluru-based online store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-grocery-stores-not-taking-new-orders/articleshow/74921065.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Vegetable vendors in Trichy against collection of user fee now||TRICHY: Even as the Gandhi market facility has been closed indefinitely as part of the lockdown, vendors in makeshift vegetable markets are reluctant to pay the indirect user fee charged by the person who had taken the Gandhi market space on lease from the corporation. The user fee collection will impact the price of vegetables, vendors said. While ensuring supply of vegetables amidst the lockdown remains an uphill task for authorities, vegetable vendors on Tuesday lamented the Trichy Corporation’s insensitive approach in charging indirect user fee. People continue to hand out tokens and collect user fee from vegetable traders at the behest of the lessee. “Collection of user fee during such a difficult time is inhumane. Traders are using the land provided by the district administration, why should the corporation collect user fee?” Akbar Ali, a vegetable trader said. A section of vegetable traders said that the user fee, around Rs 25 to Rs 50 per shop, may force small-time traders to compensate their expense by hiking vegetable price. The user fee collection was reported at all the four makeshift markets including Anna Stadium and Cauvery bridge. Understanding the difficulty in sourcing vegetables and since Gandhi market space is not used by vegetable traders, the vendors urged the corporation to stop the lessee from collecting user fee. However, the corporation seems unmoved. “The market was leased to a person for Rs 1.75 crore. If we insist him to stop the fee collection, we will have to repay the sum which is unlikely now,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vegetable-vendors-against-collection-of-user-fee-now/articleshow/74921049.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Locals help stray dogs beat hunger||TRICHY: The lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus seems to have turned foes into friends as Trichy residents, who often complain about stray dog menace, have come to the rescue of canines loitering for food. A group of people from various walks of lives have taken permission from the city police to feed the dogs once a day through a common kitchen to prepare food. The closure of commercial establishments, particularly street food stalls, has hit stray dogs hard as they depend on them for their daily feed. Also, with public movement drastically reduced and with no littering, stray dogs have been roaming around for food. That was when a group of people formed a WhatsApp group called “Feed stray dogs” comprising around 30 people from various parts of the city. The group has also availed of vehicle pass from the city police to move around to feed the animals. “We have arranged a common kitchen in Singarathope to cook food for the stray dogs. Five volunteers will place the food on paper plates in the evening and night,” G V Karthik, one of the volunteers, said. On Monday alone, the group fed 50 stray dogs at Palpannai, Lakshmipuram and Ariyamangalam localities. Rice, egg and chicken waste from shops and sponsored by people were mobilised for the common kitchen to feed the canines. “We have planned to feed at least 500 stray dogs a day during the lockdown. Lack of food may prompt the canines to attack people,” M Sekaran, a social worker added. Besides the group, various individuals who usually complain about stray dog menace have come forward to help the animals craving for food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-help-stray-dogs-beat-hunger/articleshow/74921047.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 1, 2020||Madurai||69 wagons of sugar from Karnataka reach Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Indian railways, working round-the-clock, has managed to transport 69 wagons of sugar bags to Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts from Karnataka.  Nearly 31,125 bags of sugar weighing 1,713 tonnes, were transported in 27 wagons and unloaded at Virudhunagar goods shed on Monday. Similarly, 53,130 bags of sugar bags weighing 2,667 tonnes were transported in 42 wagons and unloaded at Milavittan goods shed in Tuticorin district on Tuesday. Though the railways have suspended the passenger train services till April 14, the freight services continue to operate across the country to ensure the availability of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-wagons-of-sugar-from-karnataka-reach-tn/articleshow/74921045.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC Covid-19 & Nashik Bazaar apps for citizens||Nashik: Apart from the mobile app ‘Mahakavach’ particularly for quarantined patients,the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has developed two more mobile apps — ‘NMC Covid-19’ and ‘Nashik Bazzar’ — to help people during the lockdown. Those who have come from abroad or those who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients may fill up their information on ‘NMC Covid-19’ app. With this application, the administration’s task of finding out who has returned from foreign/affected countries has reduced to a great extent. People can voluntarily inform authorities about the same via this app. “Once any such information has been received on the app, the municipal corporation will immediately send medical teams who will take necessary medical precaution,” said NMC officials. “Moreover, this ‘NMC Covid-19’ app will also have all the necessary contact numbers of doctors, hospitals, news feeders, food donors, shelters, etc. This will help common people to get in touch with the necessary services,” said officials. In addition, another mobile app — ‘Nahik Bazzar’ — will help city residents to order groceries and get home delivery. The app will have a list of grocery shops and other essentials. The residents will have to place order through the app and the items ordered will be delievered at their doorstep. The NMC has developed the grocery special app in association with the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA). Citizens can download these mobile apps from ‘nmc.gov.in website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-covid-19-nashik-bazaar-apps-for-citizens/articleshow/74920356.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 1, 2020||World||White House projects 100K to 240K US deaths from virus||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Tuesday warned Americans to brace for a "rough two-week period" ahead as the White House released new projections that there could be 100,000 to 240,000 deaths in the US from the coronavirus pandemic even if current social distancing guidelines are maintained. Public health officials stressed that the number could be less if people change their behavior. "We really believe we can do a lot better than that," said Dr. Deborah Birx, the coordinator of the White House coronavirus task force. That would require all Americans to take seriously their role in preventing the spread of disease, she said. Trump called American efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus "a matter of life and death" and urged the public to heed his administration's guidelines. He predicted the country would soon see a "light at the end of the tunnel" in the pandemic that has killed more than 3,500 Americans and infected 170,000 more. "I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead," Trump said. "We're going to go through a very tough two weeks." Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government's top infectious disease expert, said the numbers are "sobering" and called on Americans to "step on the accelerator" with their collective mitigation efforts. "We are continue to see things go up," Fauci said. "We cannot be discouraged by that because the mitigation is actually working and will work." Birx said pandemic forecasts initially predicted 1.5 million to 2.2 million deaths in the U.S. But that was a worst-case scenario, without efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus through social distancing. Birx said states that have not yet seen a spike in cases as New York has could take action to flatten the curve of rising hospitalizations and deaths. As for the projection of 100,000-240,000 deaths, Fauci of the National Institutes of Health said: "We don't accept that number, that that's what it's going to be. ... We want to do much better than that." The comments came after Trump announced Sunday that he was extending to April 30 the social distancing guidelines that urged Americans to cease social gatherings, work from home, suspend onsite learning at schools and more in a nationwide effort to stem the spread of the virus. It was an abrupt reversal for Trump, who spent much of last week targeting April 12 as the day he wanted to see Americans "pack the pews" for Easter Sunday services. Many states and local governments already have stiffer controls in place on mobility and gatherings. Trump spoke after another troubling day for the stock market, which has been in a free fall as the cononavirus ground the economy to a near-halt and left millions unemployed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 400 points, or roughly 1.9%, to seal the worst first-quarter finish of its 135-year history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/white-house-projects-100k-to-240k-us-deaths-from-virus/articleshow/74921934.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Migrant labourers use farms to walk to avoid getting caught||NASHIK: The fear of getting caught is forcing migrant workers off the roads and into the fields. Many workers from Mumbai and Pune are now walking through the farms adjacent to highways to approach their respective destination. Many migrants from Mumbai were spotted walking through the fields to prevent getting spotted by the police amid the country-wide lockdown. Those spotted outside their homes are being detained by the police and handed over to the district administration. On Monday, superintendent of police Arti Singh said that a large number of people were found walking through the fields and open spaces on either side of the highways in an attempt to hide from police at the checkposts. On Monday, 750 people were detained by the police. While some were found travelling in six trucks and tempos, many were spotted walking. “Those detained have been handed over to the district administration. They will be boarded in different facilities till April 13. They are being provided with food and medical attention,” the police said. Police officers added that they did not find anyone walking on the roads on Tuesday. However, at around 4 am, 49 people were found travelling in a truck. They were heading towards the Nashik city from Trimbakeshwar. DCP Vijay Kharat said they had put up a checkpost in Pimpalgaon Bahula on the Trimbak Road. Around 4 am, the police saw a truck approaching from the Trimbakeshwar side. They intercepted the truck and interrogated its driver who told police that his name was Pappu Abdul Khan (27) and he was a resident of Bhivandi in Thane district and a native of Baihiraich in Uttar Pradesh. When police asked him the reason for travelling during the lockdown, he failed to give a satisfactory answer. When his vehicle was checked, police found 49 men cramped inside it. They were immediately shifted to school number 26 of the Nashik Municipal Corporation in Swarbaba Nagar, Satpur. Police said that they were provided with food and accommodation at this facility, adding that their medical check-up will also be conducted. Meanwhile, an offence was registered against the truck driver under various section of the Indian Penal Code including section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Police are also keeping a vigil on open fields adjacent to the highways to check if more people are heading towards Nashik from Mumbai and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrant-labourers-use-farms-to-walk-to-avoid-getting-caught/articleshow/74920365.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Staying at home true service to nation: Guv||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra sent a message to the people on Tuesday to abide by the lockdown and be patient in the time of crisis. Everyone has to stand united and support the country. Staying at home is the true service to the country, you are alone but not alone, he said. “As a family member, I request the people of the state to call the helpline numbers in any emergency so that the administration can provide the necessary help and medical immediately,” he appealed. If there are people around you who do not have food, help them, but keep a distance of one metre, he said. “We have to take necessary precautions to avoid corona. This is necessary for ourself as well as our family, society, state and country,” the governor added. He further said that, “it is everyone’s collective responsibility to cooperate with the government in making arrangements. The doctors, nurses and pharmacy and other staff associated with this profession are fulfilling their responsibilities. I thank all of them.” “Milk, vegetable-fruit and grocery traders are also doing their job in this time of crisis. I appreciate it.” “I request the traders that this is the time to serve the country. You should not do any activity like black marketing or hoarding during this crisis. Cooperate with the administration in making arrangements. This is the collective responsibility of all of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/staying-at-home-true-service-to-nation-guv/articleshow/74921058.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Villages abide by lockdown, fence entry and exit||TRICHY: While the city folks were seen flouting the physical distancing rule while purchasing essentials from meat and vegetable markets here, their counterparts in Ariyalur and Karur villages have shown the way to combat Covid-19 by fencing their entry and exit points to prevent outsiders from venturing into their village and also avoid residents from leaving. “Villagers are extremely cooperative to section 144 imposed by the state government. The movement of people within the villages has come down drastically,” said P Kannan, vice-president of Unjini panchayat. People in around 1,400 houses in Unjini panchayat, not completely relying on the rural civic body for taking up preventive measures, disinfect their houses with turmeric water. The panchayat has also sprayed natural disinfectant using neem leaves paste on public roads and near water tanks. In the city, even on Tuesday, people as couples were seen visiting makeshift markets set by the district administration. Maduram school ground and Cauvery bridge markets saw multiple members of families thronging vegetable markets. “Though the authorities had made circular markings to maintain social distancing, people come as a family to purchase vegetables,” said S Ramachandran, a vegetable vendor. Since milk and vegetables are available nearby, villagers said that they hardly go out of their houses. “We move out only to check our agriculture fields. Villagers abide by the lockdown,” said P Balakrishnan, a farmer from Pettavaithalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/villages-abide-by-lockdown-fence-entry-and-exit/articleshow/74921053.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown taking toll on mental health of Rajasthan residents||JAIPUR: Real estate broker Saurabh Choudhary spends hours every day on his mobile phone checking the latest updates on coronavirus. An avid traveller and a social person, Choudhary keeps waking up at night since the lockdown was announced by the state. “He constantly thinks about the impact of the epidemic in his business and personal life. Remaining glued to his cellphone throughout the day and losing sleep at night is a simple case of high levels of anxiety,” said neuro-physician Dr Bhawna Sharma, while sharing the case of one of his patients who consulted her on Tuesday. Choudhary is not alone whose life has turned upside down after the government forced people to go into self quarantine to combat the spread of the virus. Manjari Shah (name changed), a mother of two children aged 3 and 6 years, is a relationship manager at a private bank. “Living in a house 24/7 with a family is a luxury, but it becomes a nightmare with intense work pressure, discharging household work added with fear of the epidemic. It is completely disorienting my focus. Not only am I making mistakes in my office work, but while I cook, I miss some ingredients,” said Shah. Sleep disorders, cognitive imbalance and anxiety are the most common symptoms many people are complaining to neuro-physicists, clinical psychiatrists and psychologists in Jaipur. The lockdown, which has forced people to stay indoors, has started taking a toll on the mental health of people. Most complainants are highly educated or businessmen. Students are at the receiving end of the lockdown due to the indefinite postponement of their exams and uncertainty of the future. “I have noticed changes in the behaviour of most of them. They over react to every situation, display their anger too often and remained isolated,” said Sarvesh Kumar, a hostel warden in Kota. He has 16 students in his hostel stuck up due to lockdown. S S Nathawat, the former head of department psychology, Rajasthan University, termed it a situation akin to national emergencies. “The mental health problem is spreading like an epidemic especially among the young brigade. The uncertainty about future is a single most reason slipping them into depression. The government has to work towards spreading positivity by diverting their attention towards self-belief,” said Nathawat, who has authored 11 books on behavioural science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-taking-toll-on-mental-health-of-residents/articleshow/74921059.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Curbs on goods carriers lifted||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government in a significant move eased lockdown restrictions on Tuesday through a government resolution (GR) freeing the movements of all kinds of goods carriers, while earlier only those transporting food and essentials items were allowed. The GR issued by the transport commissioner says, “To control the spread of the coronavirus (COVID 19) in the country the government of India under the Disaster Management Act 2005 banned movement of all vehicles except those carrying food items and medicines. However, with revised instructions from the government of India’s home secretary, it has been directed to lift the ban on the movement of all kind of goods carriers so hereby all collectors, police commissioners, district police authorities, RTO officers are directed to not restrict movements of any goods carrier. After this order any goods carrier may move without any movement pass.” By this order, the government will freely allow all kind of goods carriers to move, which will help restart many economic activities that were hit by the lockdown. “Restricted movement of transporters was hampering supply of several non-essential commodities which were used as raw materials for packaging industry. The move will help ease supplychain issues. However, manpower issues are still rampant." Mukesh Dave, president, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transport Association (AGTTA). Meanwhile, reacting to the development, president of Gujarat Trader’s Federation, Jayendra Tannna, said, “The government decision will add to the ease of movement of goods, at a time when the demand has gone up and the supply is slow. However, manpower issues are being faced by transporters as well as distributors and thus, special permissions for movement of drivers, labourers and others involved in transport should be done and they should not be harassed by police personnel."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curbs-on-goods-carriers-lifted/articleshow/74921332.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu government locates participants of Tablighi Jamaat conference, put them under observation||KARUR: A 42-year old man of Karur who tested positive for Covid-19 was one among the 29 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Trichy and Pudukottai also have a total of 30 attendees of the conference who have been isolated at government hospitals besides the Indonesians quarantined in Thanjavur. Participants of the conference are also home quarantined in Perambalur district. “As many as 29 people, including a Kulithalai-based man who was tested positive for Covid-19, from the area had attended the Delhi conference. All of them have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur and blood samples taken for testing,” state transport minister M R Vijaya Baskar said. He said that the details about their residences, family members, the places they visited etc were collected by the officials. After attending the conference, he returned to Kulithalai after landing at Trichy by flight from Chennai on March 26. As he developed Covid-19 symptoms, he approached the hospital and was admitted. The minister said two of his co-passengers have been kept under observation at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) and another one has been admitted to IRT Government Hospital in Perundurai. Vijaya Baskar said that 5-km radius around the residence of the man is brought under surveillance. “Spraying of disinfectants and health check-up are being conducted in the area,” he said. In Trichy, 20 people who attended the Tablighi conference have been isolated at MGMGH. Samples of 13 of them have been taken for testing. In Pudukottai, the district administration and public health and preventive medicine department have identified 10 people who had attended the Delhi conference. “All of them have been isolated at the government hospital at Aranthangi and blood samples taken for testing. Ten more people from Pudukottai area are in Delhi,” Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari told ToI. One man from Aranthangi had attended the Malaysian Tablighi conference. However, the collector said that he has completed 28 days of home quarantine. The case of Thanjavur is different. The district administration has identified 12 Indonesians at Adhirampattinam and Patttukottai areas. An official said that they had not attended the Delhi conference. All of them would be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur, the official said. A resident of V Kalathur in Perambalur district had also attended the Delhi conference. On his arrival at Trichy airport, he was sent to home quarantine. “My blood sample was taken and I have been advised to be in quarantine. I am feeling well,” he said. (With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj and S Deepak Karthik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-locates-participants-of-tablighi-jamaat-conference-put-them-under-observation/articleshow/74921066.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Equipment for Miraj lab installed, trials begin||Kolhapur: The equipment for laboratory, which will test suspected Covid-19 swab samples, has been installed at the Miraj government medical college and the trials have begun from Tuesday, said Abhijeet Chaudhary, district collector of Sangli. Chaudhary told TOI, “We will be sending our trial test results along with the swab samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for verification. If everything goes well and the accuracy is approved, the laboratory will be operational from as early as Thursday.” “The machine has been provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and will prove quite helpful for speedy detection of the swab sample results,” he said. State minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that the lab will resolve the swab testing issue for Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, and Ratnagiri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/equipment-for-miraj-lab-installed-trials-begin/articleshow/74921743.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra partially defers March pay of CM, government staff, even cops and health workers||MUMBAI: The cash-strapped Maharashtra state government has partly deferred payment of March salaries to its employees and elected representatives. The decision applies to the chief minister, cabinet ministers, MLAs as well as staff in government and semi-government establishments, universities and aided organizations. Salaries of police personnel and health staff, who are working round-the-clock to fight Covid-19, will be affected too. Finance minister Ajit Pawar said the salaries will be paid in two instalments over the next few months. CM Uddhav Thackeray said, “There is no question of slashing anyone’s salary. We will be giving it in instalments due to the economic crisis the state is going through currently. Also, we will prioritize the instalments for all our staff engaged in providing essential services, like police and health workers.” As per the decision taken by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the CM, cabinet ministers and MLAs will be paid 40% of their salaries for March. Class I and II employees will be paid half their salaries and Class III 75% of their salaries. Class IV employees will get full salaries. The state has nearly 17 lakh employees and pensioners. As the monthly salary bill comes to about Rs 12,000 crore, deferment of pay will save government up to Rs 5,000 crore this month. The state’s salary bill is Rs 1.5 lakh crore annually. Nearly 1.1 lakh people are Class I and II employees, five lakh are Class III staff and 1.2 lakh Class IV. Then there are two lakh in police and two lakh teachers. “All our resources are being used to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The state government is also under a lockdown, which has also led to a decrease in state revenue. The state’s financial condition is such that some expenses need to be pushed,” said Pawar. The Opposition criticized the decision to put off salary payment of health staff and cops. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane tweeted: “Why is Maharashtra Gov cutting salaries of Police and health department workers and officers.. they r the ones... risking their lives n working overtime for us!” “The state has promised to pay the remaining part of the salaries in the next months. We accepted it in larger public interest,” said G D Kulthe, advisor to the Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers’ Confederation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-partially-defers-march-pay-of-cm-govt-staff-even-cops-health-workers/articleshow/74920383.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pets suffer as vets refuse to visit, shops run out of food||KOLKATA: While keeping the home stocked with groceries and the constant need to check one’s hygiene to prevent contracting Covid-19, the importance of keeping a food supply for pets unhindered has been overlooked. Few pet stores are open and even those are low on stocks as distributors are refusing to deliver. Online portals, too, are cancelling orders. Worsening things is vets’ refusal to attend to pets. In such an instance, a 7-year-old labrador — Buzo — died on Tuesday after vets refused to come and check on him. Buzo’s owner Anirudh Ghosh, a resident of Ballygunge, said, “I called multiple vets when Buzo’s condition worsened. But no one agreed to see him due to the lockdown despite veterinary services not being restricted.” For 48-year-old Mitali Banerjee, it’s getting more difficult by the day to feed her cats. “I have five rescued cats and they all are used to eating cat food. Now that the stores are shut, I have no option but to feed them milk. But they are lactose intolerant and are falling ill,” she said. Two of her cats gave birth recently and are refusing to eat the homemade khichdi. “I tried ordering cat food online but they refused to deliver. I want the government to help get the supplies started,” she pleaded. Aniruddha Bose, a Shyambazar resident, is in a similar situation with 10 dogs to care for. “I have food for my dogs that would last just a week,” Aniruddha said. Most pure-breed dogs grow up having a particular brand of pet food and have health issues if forced to change it. Kashika Arora, who runs a pet grooming salon, has 25 pets and her stocks are almost over. “I hope the government provides help to these poor animals soon,” she said. Feeding her dogs — Honey and Tiger — has become a tough task for south Kolkata resident Ayesha Nadeem. “My German spitz and pug are used to only special dog food and are not willing to eat home-cooked food. I have exhausted my stock of pet food now,” she rued. Not just food, medicines, too, are unavailable and with veterinarians staying indoors, pet parents are anxious. Goutam Guha, who runs a pet shop in Baguihati said, “We get supplies from Dhulagarh but they have shut shop because of the lockdown. Local suppliers, too, refuse to deliver as they are scared of being beaten up by the police. Only government intervention can solve the problem.” South Kolkata pet shop owner Amit Prasad said, “This is not the time to profit. The aim is to help pets get their food. Dogs and cats suffering from kidney issues or diabetes need specific food and cannot survive without them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pets-suffer-as-vets-refuse-to-visit-shops-run-out-of-food/articleshow/74921067.cms||Kathakali Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||2 deaths in city, swabs to be tested||Kolhapur: Two people — a 37-year-old man and an 85-year-old woman passed away in the city on Tuesday, confirmed Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR). She said that both the deceased had pneumonia and had no previous history of travel or possible contact with any of the Covid-19 patients. However, their swab samples have been collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for testing. The reports are likely to arrive by Wednesday. The 37-year-old patient was admitted to a private hospital at around 3 am on Tuesday. He passed away at around 11.30 am. The 85-year-old woman was admitted to another city-based private hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-deaths-in-city-swabs-to-be-tested/articleshow/74921738.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘Maintaining psychological safety is more important’||Psychologist Anagha Bhave is busy quelling the coronavirus fear in the minds of people, especially parents, who are seeking her solutions to problems of their own as well those of their children. Her phone is forever buzzing and by going the extra mile, she is injecting positivity. Bhave shared her tips with TOI on how to cope with the situation with a strong mind. Excerpts... How can one make up one’s mind to accept the coronavirus situation and yet find hope? During such unusual and trying times, a lot of us may find ourselves dwelling on ‘what-if’ and worst case scenarios. One way that can help one to feel hopeful is by remembering that anxiety arises when we focus on the likelihood of a future’s negative outcome. Just as there is a possibility that the virus outbreak might worsen in the future, there is also a possibility that it may not. People who are extroverts are feeling trapped inside their homes. How can they divert their mind positively? A: Social distancing and self-isolation are bound to be more difficult for people who are extroverts and enjoy socializing on a routine basis. By remembering that you are not alone in this, you may find that the feeling of loneliness and isolation reduces. A lot of youngsters are staying in touch with each other through mobile applications which are safe. It may also be helpful to shift the internal narrative from temporary discomfort to long-term health and safety, keeping in mind how one’s individual contribution can lead to the greater good. How should parents help their children positively? Parents should understand that maintaining their own as well as their children’s psychological safety is more important. Depending on the age group of the child, an open and calm conversation is the need of the hour. For younger children, storytelling is a great way to give a message. Stories should have a similar theme (virus outbreak) with a positive ending on how it was contained. Parents must have credible information from sources such as CDC and WHO. Teaching good habits and staying away from fake news also help. In what way can ‘quarantine’ feel like a ‘good time’? It can be utilized to accomplish skills and activities that are otherwise difficult to pursue due to a busy schedule. A routine can be established. This routine can involve self-care activities such as cooking healthy meals, practicing relaxing meditation, yoga and engaging in artistic endeavours. How can one control anxiety? One should strictly stick to the information derived from trustworthy sources. Inaccurate information not only induces stress and fear but also spreads contagious negative emotions. One can also limit constant monitoring and checking for updates, which is more anxiety-provoking than calming. If anxiety is rising, take a break from the news and social media. Avoiding information overload is a must because it will lead to over-thinking. How can parents deal with children who are curious and scared about corona? Equipping their mind with information is vital. It will allow the extra clutter to go away. Answer your child’s curiosity. Don’t put a veil on their questions. Gently keep a check on their emotions. Normalize the hype at home and engage them in creative and mindful activities depending on their age. Replacement of negative thoughts with positive ones helps a lot. For example, instead of ‘I’m going to fall sick’, say ‘I’m trying everything in my power to stay healthy’. How can one create a positive environment at home? Most of us were used to spending a sizeable portion of our day outdoors, in school or at the workplace. It can be overwhelming to suddenly feel homebound with all the family members under one roof. Wisdom then lies in bouncing back from the conflict at the earliest and not dwelling on it. If one has the privilege of space, retreating to a quiet and peaceful corner of the house can allow one to take a break from the hustle bustle of a busy household. Designating duties in advance to every family member can be very useful. Additionally, families can see this situation as an opportunity to spend quality time with each other and enjoy each other’s valued company. How can we equally divide time between watching news and performing refreshing activities? If one is frequently feeling gloomy, anxious and fearful after watching news, then it may be due to excessive exposure. The best way out is to watch news just twice a day and that too from one trustworthy source. Practicing mindfulness and gratitude should top the list to calm anxiety. It allows one to be in the moment, instead of constantly focusing on the future. To perform a mindfulness exercise, one needs to close ones eyes and focus on breathing. If thoughts enter your mind, then allow them to come and go gently without being judgemental or critical. How good does meditation help in such a scary situation? Meditation has been scientifically proven to be effective in managing anxiety and stress. Breathing exercises are commonly used to help a person develop mindfulness and deal with worry. Do soft skills and activities work equally well for adults and children? Mindful activities work very well with children. YouTube has guided mindful and meditation activities for children which can be practised regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maintaining-psychological-safety-is-more-important/articleshow/74921084.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 1, 2020||Agra||54 who took part in Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat meet quarantined in Mathura, Agra||Agra: The Mathura administration on Tuesday quarantined 51 persons, including 30 who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where 24 participants tested positive for novel coronavirus. Health officials said that the 30 quarantined people hail from Shamli and Yamunanagar and were part of the same meet and had moved to the mosques in Mathura and Farah on March 19. They added that none of them has showed any symptoms so far. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra, said their samples have been taken and sent to Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College for tests. All of them have been put up in quarantine centre for 14 days, he said. He told TOI that 21 others, including 14 from Agra and 7 from Shamli, were also home quarantined for 14 days. Though they had not attended Delhi’s congregation, they were in a ‘jamaat’ and hail from other states. Meanwhile, the Agra administration also quarantined 89 people, including 24 who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Others were from outside the state and were staying in mosques. Similarly, in Aligarh, 18 persons who had come from Aligarh in February and were staying in a mosque were put in quarantine as a precaution. They were also booked under IPC’s section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for staying in a mosque, which is a public place. In Agra, all these people were shifted to an institutional quarantine facility developed at a resort in Sikandra by the evening. Agra chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Vats said, “On the orders of the district administration, the health department teams along with police has identified 89 people staying in different mosques of the city. These people had recently come from outside UP. Some of them attended the religious congregation in Delhi. All these people have been shifted to a quarantine facility. The number of such people can further increase. Doctors have started screening them. We will keep them in a 14-day quarantine. Samples of all those having symptoms of Covid-19 will be sent for tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/54-who-took-part-in-delhis-tablighi-jamaat-meet-quarantined-in-mathura-agra/articleshow/74919330.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur readies over 4,000 beds to face surge in cases||THANJAVUR: As the number of Covid-19 patients and their close contacts is steadily increasing across the country, the Thanjavur district administration has geared up to tackle the situation by preparing 4,168 hospital beds to handle an emergency. Various private hospitals, engineering colleges, schools and community halls have been converted into temporary wards. Collector M Govinda Rao said that 2,400 beds including 1,200 at Government Medical College Hospital, 300 at government hospitals and 900 in private hospitals are available. By making use of available space in various buildings including private educational institutions, the authorities managed to get an additional 1,548 beds. That apart, 1,100 beds have been arranged at a private engineering college in Sengipatti, 200 beds in a building on Raja Mirasdar Government Hospital premises, 80 beds in Kumbakonam and 140 beds in Pattukottai. Revenue and health officials have earmarked a slum clearance board building to quarantine people coming from overseas and neighbouring states. 100 ambulances including 78 private and two bike ambulances are stationed readily for service, he added. The district administration has provided a pass to 396 trucks to transport essentials like vegetables. Following the intensive check at 25 public places, eight check posts and 26 government offices, 39,361 people have been examined. Of the 4,600 who arrived from various countries and neighbouring states, 447 have been quarantined in their homes and all of them are being monitored by both health officials and police. It may be noted that 1,185 action committee have already been formed to create awareness and monitoring purposes. To avert congregation of people and maintain social distance, the district administration has commenced door delivery of groceries, he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-readies-over-4000-beds-to-face-surge-in-cases/articleshow/74921072.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Nabanna gets frantic calls from patients’ kin stuck in Vellore||Kolkata: The control room at Nabanna has received several SOS calls from patients and their kin who had been to hospitals in south India and are now unable to return to Bengal. Amit Biswas, a Barrackpore resident, had gone to Vellore in mid-March for the treatment of his two-year-old son who has a cardiac problem. Biswas said that he gone to Vellore with his son in mid-March. “My son was discharged on March 22. We are staying at a guesthouse close to CMC, Vellore. I do not how long we have to stay here. There are over a hundred patients and their relatives from Bengal stuck here like us. The situation of patients from Bangladesh is even worse.” Biswas said. He added, “We do not know how long will the food be available, as cost is escalating. Potato is being sold at Rs 50 a kilogram,” Moreover, he claimed that markets were overcrowded.” Similarly, Abhijit Mondal of Durgapur had gone to Vellore for his father’s knee surgery a septuagenarian. However, after the operation, they are stuck there with their savings fast depleting. Several patients are stranded in Tamil Nadu as well. Bhaskar Das of Burdwan said he had gone for a laparoscopy of his wife. But due to the lockdown, the surgery has been postponed. He is now stranded there with his wife and mother-in-law with the hotels unwilling to accommodate them for too long. An official said the Bengal government is trying to alert the respective states as desperate calls are reaching Nabanna for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nabanna-gets-frantic-calls-from-patients-kin-stuck-in-vellore/articleshow/74921070.cms||Ashis Poddar
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Students get more time to prepare for Neet||MADURAI: Although the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Neet) has been postponed till further notice, students are more than happy with the extra time offered by the lockdown to prepare for the test using online coaching classes and video calls. Neet aspirant Sowmiya said she feels the current lockdown will impact Neet exam and medical admissions as well. “We can still continue to study using books, online apps and videos to prepare best for exam. But, we are anxious about how the admission process will be this time. Even college opening could be delayed,” she said. However, students are asserting that the extra time to prepare is encouraging them. Meenakshisundaram, a government school teacher, is coaching Neet aspirants through video calls. “It will not be the same as a classroom as you need interactive classes, which available online won’t work. I coach my students one-on-one through video call. It is time-consuming but still students are able to learn better this way since they can ask questions and clear doubts,” he said. Many teachers from both government and private schools have shared their phone numbers with Neet aspirants from their respective schools so that they can ask and clear doubts whenever they need to. However, coaching centres have been hit hard. “It is a unique situation for us since it feels like students get additional time but they can’t go for classes. We have also had to postpone indefinitely our crash courses which we conduct post board exams,” said Tamilselvam, coordinator at a private coaching centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-get-more-time-to-prepare-for-neet/articleshow/74921073.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR converts two non-AC cabins into isolation wards||HYDERABAD: As advised by the Ministry of Railways and to combat Covid-19, two non-air-conditioned coaches have been converted into isolation wards by the Lallaguda carriage workshop. “In these two cabins, both middle and upper berths and also side lower and upper berths are removed. In both the cabins, the width of the lower berth earmarked for the patient has been widened by 90 mm for sleeping comfort,” reads an official statement from South Central Railway (SCR). The toilet pans available at both the ends of the coach have been removed and converted into a bathing facility for the occupants. “While converting railway coaches into isolation wards, we are aiming to take isolation health facilities to remote locations across the SCR zone. These facilities are in addition to isolation beds provided by the zone at railway hospitals, health units, and training Institutes spread over 30 locations in the zone,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-converts-two-non-ac-cabins-into-isolation-wards/articleshow/74921079.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Action against group admins for April fool messages: Nashik police||NASHIK: The city police on Tuesday said that they will be taking strict action against the admins of Whatsapp groups if April fool messages related to Covid 19 are circulated in the group. The police said they want to avoid any panic or misunderstanding among citizens related to the pandemic. The police said that a large number of people would be sending April fool messages on Wednesday to their friends and families for fun's sake. However, currently, the entire country and the world is going through difficult times, so it is best to avoid any panic among the masses. A country-wide curfew has been imposed all over the country till April 14. Senior PI Sunil Rohakale of the Upnagar police station said, “We are appealing people to not circulate any message on Whatsapp that has the potential of creating misunderstanding among people related to Covid 19.” They said that this is a precautionary measure to avoid any more pressure on the district administration and the police. He said that group admins should take note that if anyone from his/her group is sending such messages that could become viral. “The concerned admin would be booked under Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and other sections of the Bombay Police Act and Disaster Management Act,” said Rohakale. If the case is sent to the court, the notice issued by the police can be used as evidence. Admins are advised to inform the same to the group members and set the message settings to ‘only admins’ for a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-against-group-admins-for-april-fool-msgs-police/articleshow/74920392.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Fishing community left in lurch||When the state and Union governments have announced special financial packages for the working class in the unorganized sector during the 21-day lockdown, the fishing community has been left in the lurch. Though fishing has been banned during the period, both the governments have not announced any relief for them. In this backdrop, National Fish Worker’s Forum (NFF) has appealed to the governments to extend financial assistance to the fishing community on a par with daily wagers during the curfew period. Next only to agriculture, the sector engages more than 10 lakh from the fishing community. Tamil Nadu has a 1,076 km-long coastline contributing 4.97 lakh tonnes of marine fish production. About 5,893 mechanised and 38,779 traditional boats are engaged in fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishing-community-left-in-lurch/articleshow/74921074.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara blood donors get free rides||VADODARA: To ensure there is no shortage of blood in the city and that hospitals receive stable supply of blood, the Vadodara district administration on Tuesday launched a unique initiative. All the six blood banks in the city have been provided two vehicles each so that they reach to the doorsteps of the donors, take them to the banks, collect their blood and drop them back at their homes. “We have assigned two wards each to every blood bank. The blood banks already have a list of donors with them. Two donors can be picked up and dropped using one vehicle,” said Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal, who flagged off the vehicles on Tuesday. She said such a system had become a necessity to ensure continuous supply of blood to the hospitals. The blood banks are not being able to organize mass donation camps because of COVID-19 scare coupled with 21-day lockdown. “The blood banks in turn will coordinate with SSG Hospital and GMERS Gotri Hospital to ensure that there is no shortage of blood,” she said. As a futuristic step, Indian Red Cross Society will also put up a link on its website through which people can register their names as donors. “This link will be provided within the next couple of days so that there is a proper database in place and everybody can contribute in their own way towards betterment of society,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-blood-donors-get-free-rides/articleshow/74919259.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Five of a family linked to Noida firm test positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly||Bareilly: Two days after a 34-year-old man, employee of a Noida firm where several cases of Covid-19 have emerged, was found to be infected by novel coronavirus, five of his family members, including his wife, mother, father, brother and sister, also tested positive on Tuesday. However, the man’s two-year-old son tested negative. Meanwhile, the health department has admitted another man, who works in the same Noida firm, to isolation ward and his sample for Covid-19 test has been collected.The man had returned to Bareilly from Noida on March 22 and stayed with his family in their house in Subhash Nagar locality. Health officials said the man claimed that he learnt through WhatsApp on March 26 that his colleagues have been tested positive and he went to the district hospital on March 27 to get himself tested. After the sample of the man was collected, he was admitted to the district hospital’s isolation ward. His six family members, including his two-year-old son, were shifted to the quarantine ward.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “Covid-19 cases in Bareilly increased to six on Tuesday and all of them are linked to the Noida firm. Besides, all positive cases belong to one family which resides in Subhash Nagar locality.”He added, “After the first case was reported on Sunday, we began active case surveillance and sanitization exercise in one-kilometre radius of the patients’ house. However, with cluster of cases being reported here, we will increase the radius up to three kilometres of the patients’ house.” District epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas said, “We have collected sample of one more man who too works in same Noida firm and his report for Covid-19 test is awaited. This man who lives in Bareilly’s Durga Nagar locality returned to the city on March 18 and he is suspected to have come in contact with a positive case. Besides, the family of six persons who tested positive came in contact with 11 persons in Bareilly. We are tracing more contacts of the family.”Health officials said a medical store owner and his son tested negative for novel coronavirus. The 34-year-old man had purchased a cough syrup from the medical store on March 23 and was under self-medication for cough for four days, said officials.Meanwhile, the doctors and staff involved in the treatment of positive patients will be quarantined at Hotel Uberoi Anand after their shifts get over. The district administration acquired the hotel for quarantine of the health staff.“Doctors, nurses, ward boys and sweepers who are in contact with the positive cases will live in quarantine at this hotel. After their shifts get over daily, they will go to hotel instead of their homes,” said the CMO. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-of-a-family-linked-to-noida-firm-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/74920410.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Five teams to cover 80 city wards to screen sick people||Bareilly: The health department has formed five teams to cover 80 wards in the city to track people who have returned from outside Bareilly for possible Covid-19 infection. Officials said on receiving complaints that a person who has returned from another district or state is sick, a team led by two medical officers will visit his home to check if they have Covid-19 symptoms. Each team will cover 16 wards of the city from Wednesday.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have been receiving complaints that a few people who have returned to Bareilly from other districts or states are unwell. On receiving a specific complaint, a team will go to check if the person has any symptoms. People who have returned from outside will be advised home quarantine. They should stay in a separate room and maintain minimum contact with family members. Samples of suspected cases will be collected if they fulfill the government’s guidelines.”According to sources, with scores of people returning to Bareilly from across the country, the health department has been receiving complaints from locals alleging their neighbour might have contracted the infection. “We have been informing people that people who arrived from outside Bareilly, and even locals, should strictly follow home quarantine,” said a senior official. Officials said as Bareilly city has 80 wards, each team will cater to 16 wards. “We are getting support of the district administration, and teams will start working from Wednesday,” said the CMO.Apart from the city, the health department had asked block-level teams to screen patients in rural areas of the district. Most people who have returned to villages were labourers or migrant workers who claimed they were forced to return after they lost jobs. Meanwhile, to avoid crowds at district hospital where Covid-19 positive cases are being treated, on Tuesday the flu clinic was shifted to a building of the 300-bed hospital in Khurram Gotiya locality, which is almost ready but still vacant. People with seasonal fever and cough visit the flu clinic. Sources said of the total patients who have been coming to the clinic of late, many were migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-teams-to-cover-80-city-wards-to-screen-sick-people/articleshow/74920429.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||11 Satara samples test negative||KOLHAPUR: Satara district civil surgeon Amod Gadikar on Tuesday said that 11 throat swab samples they had sent to NIV in Pune on March 30 have all tested negative. Gadikar said the throat swab samples of all senior citizens with foreign travel history after March 15 are being collected as a precautionary measure. Seven such samples were sent to the NIV, and they were all negative. The two patients, who had come in contact with the Islampur family, also tested negative. Further, two other suspected cases too turned out to be negative for the virus. According to Gadikar, the first two positive patients, who are currently in the isolation ward in the Satara district hospital, are responding well to the treatment and are stable. He added that on Tuesday, nine new suspects have been admitted across hospitals in the district. Meanwhile, Satara collector Shekhar Singh said that the section 144 imposed until March 31, has been extended until April 14 midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11-satara-samples-test-negative/articleshow/74921745.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tellapur residents raise Rs 5.5L||Hyderabad: The Tellapur Neighbourhood Association collected Rs 5.5 lakh in two days to help migrant workers. Ramana Eshwargiri, president of the association, said: “It is our responsibility to give back to the nation during a time of crisis. The government can’t do everything.” Till now, more than 300 people from different communities in the neighbourhood contributed towards the fund. On Wednesday, the association members plan to give grocery packs to 500 families. Also, Rs 3.5 lakh was transferred to a vendor in presence of Miyapur and Lingampally police to supply grocery packs containing 15kg rice, 2 litre oil, dal, tamarind and other essentials. The rest of the money will be used by community volunteers to carry out distribution work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tellapur-residents-raise-rs-5-5l/articleshow/74921086.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to run 3 special buses for civil hospital staff||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), owing to the lack of public transport system due to the lockdown, would be plying three buses for the staff of Nashik civil hospital. These buses will ply from Nashik civil hospital to Panchavati, Adgaon, Gangapur Road, Nashik Road and Deolali Camp. Around 70 employees of the hospital will benefit from this service. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said, “Due to the lockdown there are no buses and autorickshaws. Hence, we had approached senior officials of the MSRTC, who came to the hospital, gauged the situation and decided to run three city buses for the hospital staff.” Other precautionary measures like ensuring that only one person sits on one seat of the bus and sanitisation of the bus will be taken care by the Nashik civil hospital. These buses will run in the morning, afternoon and evening sessions. The nurses and class IV employees of the Nashik civil hospital were demanding that a bus facility should be arranged for them as they do not have any vehicle to reach the hospital from different parts of the city. “The staff has been informed about the timetable and the routes on which these buses will ply,” a senior official of the civil hospital said. “The staff has also been told to ensure that they take all the precautionary measures like using face mask, gloves, while travelling in the bus and also keep safe distance between the fellow passengers from their hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-run-3-special-buses-for-civil-hospital-staff/articleshow/74920421.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||N Maha’s first Covid testing lab becomes functional||NASHIK: The Dhule-based Shri Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College and Hospital (SBHGMCH) on Tuesday started testing throat swab samples of patients showing coronavirus-like symptoms. The institute has established a viral research and diagnostic lab on its premises to carry out real-time (RT) PCR tests for Covid-19 on a war-footing. The new facility, the first one in North Maharashtra, would be a boon for the districts in the region as they no longer need to send the samples to the Pune-based National Institute Of Virology. Hospital superintendent Dr Rajkumar Suryavanshi said several sophisticated pieces of equipment have been installed at the lab to carry out the tests. “We have collected the throat swab samples of the three suspected patients admitted in our hospital. The tests are being carried out,” he said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state government had directed the management of the institute to establish the lab to reduce the burden on NIV. “State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, medical education secretary Sanjay Mukherjee and director of state directorate of medical education and research (DMER) T P Lahane had been following up with the institute authorities on the issue,” the hospital officials said. Recently, ICMR, which had provided the funds, had directed SBHGMCH to hasten the process to set up the lab. SBHGMCH dean Nagsen Ramraje and hospital superintendent Rajkumar Suryavanshi prepared the blueprint for the project. Mrudula Dravid, the HoD of the microbiology department, would be in charge of the lab. “The lab has the capacity of testing 96 samples in one go. The tests take about four hours,” said Suryavanshi. NIV and SBHGMCH authorities were in touch online while the facility was being established. NIV has given its nod to start testing the samples. The officials at the institute said that the districts in the region would be informed about sending their samples to the institute rather than the Pune-based NIV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/n-mahas-first-covid-testing-lab-becomes-functional/articleshow/74920438.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Around 170 shelter homes to accomodate 50,000 people||Kolhapur: Around 170 shelter homes have been identified by the Pune divisional commissioner’s office in Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Kolhapur districts that will accommodate around 50,000 migrants and homeless people. “These shelter homes will provide all the necessary facilities, including food and medicines,” Dipak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner, said. A media brief from Mhaisekar said that in Kolhapur district 11 shelter homes can accommodate 46,410 people while 143 shelter homes in Satara has a capacity to serve 4,688 people. There are 16 shelter homes in Sangli that will house 1,306 people while 2 shelter homes in Solapur will provide all the necessary facilities to 62 people. The shelter homes have been started in association with the district administrations and non-governmental organisations. “In the wake of the current lockdown, many workers and homeless people have been left stranded. The state government has instructed the officials to arrange shelter homes and meal facility for such people,” Mhaisekar said. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “We have assigned responsibilities of taking care of these temporary residents and their basic needs, including safety, to respective nodal officers. In rural area, village-level committees will look after the shelter home inmates, while in urban area corporation officers have been assigned this task.” On reports of migrants fleeing shelter homes, state minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said such it is the emotions that are weighing higher at this point. “However, safety comes first and I would appeal to the migrants to stay at the shelter homes where all arrangements for their meal and safety have been made,” he said. Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar added that the officials have been asked to strictly monitor the food quality and ensure that everything remains in order at these shelter homes. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has asked the industries and sugar mills to provide shelter and food facilities to their workers. “Non-compliant industries and mills will face criminal action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/around-170-shelter-homes-to-accomodate-50000-people/articleshow/74921756.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC to feed strays in city from today||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start feeding stray bulls, cows and dogs from Wednesday. The Fisheries and Animal Resources Development (FARD) department has provided funds to BMC for the purpose. The capital city has 20,000 stray dogs. The dogs, which were largely dependent on leftover food of hotels and restaurants, are facing a tough time with all the hotels being closed. They are more aggressive when they are hungry and this may lead to rise in incidence of dog bites at this juncture, an expert said. BMC deputy commissioner Shyam Sundar Sethi said the existing supplier of dog food under Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme will supply food at the rate approved by the government for 18 days starting from April 1. “We will supply food to stray animals at more than 200 identified locations in the city. Three vans have been requisitioned from BMC mechanical section to transport the animal food,” said Sethi. A BMC official said four personnel will be deployed for each vehicle, of which two each will be from cattle drive squad and dog catching squad. The food will be supplied twice daily by the teams between 7am and 10am and between 4pm and 7pm. The cattle feed will be bought from local markets. The BMC has also appealed to people through different media, including social media, to provide food to the distressed animals during lockdown period. Earlier the People for Animals had written to the FARD department to alleviate the distress of the animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-to-feed-strays-in-city-from-today/articleshow/74919391.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Arumbakkam: Diabetics queue up at Siddha hospital for medicines||CHENNAI: With Siddha Central Research Institute (SCRI) in Arumbakkam closed for quarantine, patients who get their diabetes medicines from there were forced to go to the state-run Tamil Nadu Government Siddha Medical College next door leading to long queues. SCRI, a pioneer in Siddha research, has at least 500 to 600 diabetic patients visiting everyday. Patients are issued ID cards and medicines are distributed only for the next 14 days based on their prescription. Diabetic drug distribution happens only on Mondays and Tuesday to avoid confusion. So those, who arrived at the premises on Monday, were disappointed to see the pharmacy shut. Usually, most diabetic patients from SCRI are provided with ‘Triphala Kashayam’ and D5. Patients would mix them together at appropriate portions and have it twice a day. “They could have either sent a message, announcing the closure, to our registered mobile numbers, emails or in newspapers. We wouldn’t have taken so much risk, convincing police and others and travelled all the way to see locked doors,” said Jaya Kumar, a patient from Avadi. Also, most of the diabetic medicines prescribed by SCRI was not available in private pharmacies and even if one or two sell them , the quality is very poor, he added. “So we don’t know how we are going to keep our sugar levels under control for the next 14 days”. SCRI Director (in-charge) Sathiya Rajeswaran said they had to close because one of their doctors (a 27-year-old male) and two others from the campus were detected Covid-19 positive. Also, many staff were from MMDA Colony in Aarumbakkam, which has several people in home quarantine. At the Tamil Nadu government Siddha Medical College Hospital, there were long queues of people to buy ‘Kabasura Kudineer’, which is considered an effective medicine for diabetes. And there were curbs on how much you could buy. “Usually we buy three packets each but on Tuesday, only one packet was sold per person,” said Guru Prasanth, a patient from Anna Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/diabetics-queue-up-at-siddha-hospital-for-meds/articleshow/74921578.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Liquor worth over Rs 1 lakh stolen from wine shops||TRICHY: Liquor worth more than Rs 1 lakh were stolen from two locked Tasmac-run wine shops in separate break-ins reported from the city on Monday. The incident happened at a time when all the Tasmac outlets were closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. In the first incident, the miscreants broke into the wine shop at Konakarai in Woraiyur and decamped with 507 bottles of liquor including 180 ml, 375 ml, 650 ml and 750 ml liquor worth Rs 97,330. The robbery came to light when a worker in the bar found the main door of the shop broken on Monday afternoon. Shop supervisor M Sivaji, 50, a resident of Mannachanallur, lodged a complaint with the police. The Woraiyur police visited the shop and registered a case. A few hours later, the Gandhi market police in Trichy received another case of break-in at a wine shop in Varaganeri. The incident was first found by supervisor K Dinesh Kumar, of Tharanallur while he was inspecting the shop. On information, supervisor L Selvaraj, 52 a native of Kulithalai in Karur visited the spot and later filed a complaint with Gandhi Market police. The police visited the spot and found 134 bottles of liquor including 180 ml and 375 ml liquor worth Rs 26,100 from the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/liquor-worth-over-rs-1-lakh-stolen-from-wine-shops/articleshow/74921088.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In Covid times, cops shoot film||AHMEDABAD: When the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the world, city police cops seem to be busy capturing how they deal with people to show to cops of all the other police stations of Ahmedabad city. Some 50 cops, including a PSI, a PI and two ACPs were stationed in Laldarwaja in front of the Sidi Saiyyad Mosque with four cameras set up. Constables were stopping people, most of whom were involved in providing essential services, and interrogated them about why they were on the road. The cops also did not miss the chance to issue memos for traffic violation and put people in a queue to question them. When a police officer was asked about this, a person with a DSLR camera intervened and said, “We are shooting for Saheb”. At this, a crime branch ACP, who was present at the spot, cut off the person with the camera and said, “This is a routine procedure.” An official of Karanj police said they were shooting for a film to demonstrate to cops how they should work during the coronavirus lockdown. On why a crime branch ACP was present, the official said he also wanted to understand how to work in this situation. “We will show this film to every police station to teach cops on how to work during the coronavirus outbreak,” said the official. The official said as the coronavirus situation is unprecedented, they are filming the standard operating procedure for future reference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-covid-times-cops-shoot-film/articleshow/74921331.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin focus on contact tracing in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The health departments of Satara, Sangli, and Kolhapur are working round the clock to trace individuals, who might have come in contact with those testing positive for Covid19 infection. Satara civil surgeon Amod Gadikar said they check for all those who have come in contact with the Covid19 positive patient in the 15 days prior to the detection. “We check for the contacts from last 15 days. These contacts are then categorised into major and minor. Major contacts are the immediate family members, close friends, relatives, while minor contacts are co-passengers, driver, student,” he said. According to Gadikar, the major contacts are generally admitted in the institutional quarantine and their swab samples are also sent for testing for Covid19 infection. While the minor contacts are home quarantined and monitored by the health officials for 14 days. Aniruddha Athalye, district health officer, Satara, said that the first positive case for them was a woman with travel history. “We found that she had 11 major contacts and around 90 minor. Thankfully all the major contacts test reports came out negative,” he said. In the second case too, the positive patient had travel history. The health officials were able to identify two major contacts and 40 minor ones. His two major contacts also tested negative. Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetty said that after getting the details from the city’s first COVID 19 positive patient, they had quarantined as many as 35 close contacts and their swab sample was sent to the NIV. Only one patient was found to be positive, while all the remaining tested negative. “The patient had traveled in Mahalaxmi Express from Pune to Kolhapur in the general coach. He had used handkerchief to cover his face. However, we would like to appeal any co-passengers to voluntarily test themselves in nearby hospital or city’s civil hospital,” he said. In Sangli, after four positive patients were identified, around 30 plus of their close contacts were put under institutional quarantine and later the number of cases rose said an official from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-focus-on-contact-tracing-in-satara-sangli-kolhapur/articleshow/74921763.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai hospitals take to teleconsultation||MADURAI: With the outbreak of Covid-19 and the ensuing national lockdown, most hospitals in the city have temporarily halted outpatient consultations and are only attending to emergency cases. To help patients at this juncture, many private hospitals have introduced teleconsultation services. A multi-speciality private hospital in the city, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), has introduced ‘MMRHC Consult’, a video consultation and advisory service to help patients avail expert medical help within the comfort of their homes. The teleconsultation service can be accessed through the website www.mmhrc.com. It is also available as a mobile app on android and iOS platforms. Experienced doctors will be available between 8 am to 8 pm for consultation and providing medical advice. This service will be useful for those suffering from common illnesses. The doctors can diagnose the ailments by listening to the symptoms and prescribe medications or suggest different modalities of treatment. Dr Gurushankar, chairman, MMHRC said, “Telemedicine services can help identify serious health issues and provide advice for further treatments. This service also aids patients have a quick consultation with healthcare experts within the convenience of their homes.” Aravind Eye Hospitals (AEH), a private hospital catering exclusively to eye care, recently stopped all its general consultations and routine eye check-ups for the public andhas introduced e-consultations. E-consultation will facilitate an interactive eye care consultation via computer or smartphone through teleconference with an ophthalmologist. It is available through the website www.aravind.org. “The teleconsultation is being done for free now but we are a little worried that we might get flooded with calls, to clear even general doubts. So, additionally, we have asked our doctors to follow-up on all patients, who underwent emergency procedures recently, over phone instead of asking them to come in person,” said Dr N Venkatesh Prajna, Chief, Cornea and Refractive Surgery Services, AEH. Aravind Eye Hospitals (AEH), a private hospital catering exclusively to eye care, recently stopped all its general consultations and routine eye check-ups for the public and has introduced e-consultations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-hospitals-take-to-teleconsultation/articleshow/74921093.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Aala Hazrat Trust demands ban on Tablighi Jamaat||Bareilly: In a letter addressed to the offices of the Prime Minister, Union ministers for home and external affairs, as well as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, NGO Aala Hazrat Trust on Tuesday demanded immediate ban on Tablighi Jamaat for continuing with its Markaz congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi after the state ordered a lockdown. It also demanded legal action against the Markaz organisers. Aala Hazrat Trust president Mohtashim Raza Khan said, “The irresponsible organisers of the Tablighi Jamaat held their conference with neither security nor healthcare professionals, even as WHO declared the novel coronavirus as a pandemic. Thus they critically endangered our country and people. Many of the attendees were unwell, but didn’t inform the government and endangered us all. We condemn their irresponsible behavior, demand that the central government should ban the organisation and take strict action against its organizers. They have broken a fundamental rule of Islam, which says we are responsible for every single life in this universe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aala-hazrat-trust-demands-ban-on-tablighi-jamaat/articleshow/74920441.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Villagers opt for complete shutdown amid lockdown||Kolhapur: Rampant violations of the lockdown have prompted villagers to adopt new measures to keep visitors away and prevent people from roaming around. As many as 15 villages from Kolhapur district have decided to observe complete lockdown in their respective villages for three to five days. All the services will be suspended during these days, except medical emergency services, said villagers. Most of these villages conducted meetings of the sarpanch and other seniors and decided to implement the complete lockdown. The shutdown came into effect from Tuesday in some villages, while it would be implemented from April 1 in others. Kagal town, one of the important marketplaces in the district, has decided to follow 48-hour complete shutdown for two days from March 31. The Kagal Municipal Council has issued notification in this regard to the residents on March 30. Saravade village from Radhanagari taluka decided to observe complete shutdown for four days from March 31 to April 3. Sachin Jathar, retail shop owner from Sarawade village, said that despite the lockdown, people were roaming the village for purchasing grocery and crowding at vegetable vendors. We support the decision of our grampanchayat and expect people will support it by staying at home.” Rukadi village will follow complete lockdown for three days from April 1 and the villagers have been asked to support this to make a success. The other villages and towns that have decided to observe complete lockdown include Nandani in Shirol taluka, Ajara, Uttur in Ajara taluka, Mhakave in Kagal taluka and Kurundwad in Jaysingpur taluka. Satej Patil, guardian minister, has stated that if villagers are coming forward and putting restrictions on the movement of the villagers on their own, it is a welcome step and will help in preventing the spread of novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/villagers-opt-for-complete-shutdown-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74921767.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 1, 2020||Kochi||Kasaragod grapples with health infra||Kochi: Kasaragod is the ‘epicentre’ of the Covid-19 outbreak in Kerala, with 99 of the state’s 215 active cases, and is also the district with the highest number of positive cases across India. Unlike other districts in Kerala that boast excellent health facilities, Kasaragod’s medical infrastructure is proving to be woefully inadequate as the pandemic cuts a wide swathe across the state’s northern-most district that traditionally depends on Manguluru across the border in Karnataka for its medical emergencies. To begin with, there is no tertiary hospital in Kasaragod district to cater to the 13- lakh population here. Also, while in rest of Kerala, the doctor-population ratio is 1:300, in Kasaragod district it is 1: 1,925. The WHO prescribes a doctor-population ratio of 1:1,000. To meet the sudden surge in patients, the 275 government doctors and 300-odd nurses are now working 15 to 18 hours without any leave or weekly off. Read the entire story on TOI+  How India's Covid hotspot is coping with the crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kasaragod-grapples-with-health-infra/articleshow/74919422.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: IAS officer’s mother stitches 300 masks||HYDERABAD: Greater Warangal municipal commissioner and IAS officer Pamela Sathpathy’s mother Prabha has stitched masks for hundreds of municipal sanitation workers. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao and TRS leader K Kavitha recognised the municipal commissioner for her mother’s work on Twitter in response to the tweet of the commissioner. Pamela Satpathy told TOI, “While we were working to improve the supply of masks due to their shortage, my mother pitched in. She has a hobby of stitching. She stitched around 300 cotton masks for municipal sanitation workers.” Pamela said, “In tandem with the district collector and police commissioner, we are enforcing social distancing and home quarantine. We ensured three lakh households received delivery of essential commodities. Around 9,000 migrant workers have been identified and are being taken care of. Foreign returnees will be kept under home quarantine until April 7.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ias-officers-mother-stitches-300-masks/articleshow/74921100.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||MV docus’ validity extended||Bhubaneswar: Offering relief to vehicle users amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the state transport department on Tuesday notified validity extension of several motor vehicle-related documents. After receiving an advisory from the ministry of road transport and highways, the state transport department on Tuesday extended the validity of fitness certificate, driving licence, registration of non-transport vehicles and learners’ licence, among others, to June 30. These documents expiring between February and June will be treated as valid till June 30, 2020, state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. In a related development, the transport department said road accident-related deaths had come down due to restriction on movement of vehicles during the lockdown. However, the department could not give the relevant data. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mv-docus-validity-extended/articleshow/74919408.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Virus takes a toll on hospitality sector||Bhubaneswar: With the coronavirus pandemic rattling the global economy and disrupting supply chains, the future of the Indian tourism and hospitality industry looks grim. Worried over financial losses and the volatile markets, the Hotel Association of India (HAI) has sought help from the Centre and the state government, urging them to grant tax holidays and waive some taxes and bills so that the industry can revive from the deep downturn in earnings. In a letter to chief minister Naveen Patnaik, HAI president Puneet Chhatwal said the hotel occupancies were nearly zero owing to the wave of cancellations and suspension of airline services. “The revenue is at an all-time low and is on the verge of drying out,” the letter further said. “In this unprecedented time, the industry is in dire need of support from the government for its survival and subsequent revival,” the letter said. HAI’s honorary secretary J K Mohanty said, “Following the lockdown in the state, hotels across Odisha became empty as the guests were asked to vacate their rooms. Even the hotels that are being used as paid quarantine facilities are not yielding good response. However, we have to pay the staff and maintain the properties.” The HAI has urged the government to provide GST, licence fee and excise and other licences’ holidays for six months. They have also requested the government to defer utility bills and waive electricity duty for one year and property and municipal taxes and miscellaneous charges for six months. “The hospitality sector contributes significantly to the state’s revenue and is among the top foreign exchange earners and employment generators. We are confident of your support,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/virus-takes-a-toll-on-hospitality-sector/articleshow/74919417.cms||Minati Singha
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Store at Chennai mall in Covid eye||CHENNAI: Employees of an apparel store in a Chennai mall were asked to quarantine themselves and report to health authorities if they faced any health problems after a second staffer tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Last week a woman employee from Ariyalur had tested positive. The management has been told to contact all customers who visited the store between March 10 and 17 and ask them to remain in home quarantine and approach health officials if they need assistance, said Greater Chennai Corporation deputy commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy. “We have collected the list of customers and staff. Our teams will be visiting them,” Reddy said.  The shop has the list of customers who made purchases, but not details of people who merely visited the mall. Corporation officials were debating whether they should release an advertisement to warn people who visited the mall and the store. On Tuesday, the civic body also put out a notice that a man who visited the visa application centre in Good Shepherd Building on Kodambakkam High Road on March 15 afternoon turned out to be Covid-19 positive. In a red corner notice, the Greater Chennai Corporation said people who visited the centre on the same day should remain in home quarantine and isolate themselves. It also asked them to report to the civic agency immediately or call control room at 044 2538 4520. On Tuesday, officials from the civic agency visited homes of people with travel history to urge them to isolate themselves from the rest of the family within their homes. “We are seeing many families of Covid-19 cases also testing positive,” said a senior city health official. For instance on Tuesday, the 43-year son of a 73-year-old woman also tested positive for the virus. He works for in a pharma company and has a travel history to Thiruvananthapuram, officials said. He has been admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. In the Covid-19 control room, officials said the list of people in Chennai testing positive for the disease without contact or travel history was getting bigger. Four patients from Chennai admitted to government and private hospitals did not have contact or travel history. “This is more because younger people in the house with domestic travel history remain asymptomatic. They infect the elderly first. When we later test them they turn out to be positive,” he said. The state health department has advised the elderly to wear masks inside houses if people is they are living with people who have a travel history." Health minister C Vijayabaskar said while the state has initiated containment plans, it has not dropped it guard. “We are preparing ourselves for any surge in infections,” he said. From human resources to infrastructure and medicines, we are stocking up supplies, he told reporters after WHO members visited the 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 ward at the Omandurar Multispeciality Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/store-at-city-mall-in-covid-eye/articleshow/74921585.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Police tweet videos of those breaking quarantine rule||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur police have started making videos of people breaking quarantine and tweeting their videos to spread awareness about importance of staying indoors. Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh has shared two videos that show people breaking quarantine rules and roaming freely in the city. One video captured by the police on the duty shows two people, who had been advised home quarantine, to be sitting on benches near a joggers’ park in the city. Another video shared by the police shows a group of five people, out on the road, cycling. When questioned about it, they told the police that cycling was a part of their routine exercise. Police have also warned that action will be taken against those spreading rumours through social media on April 1, which is celebrated worldwide as April Fool’s Day. Senior police officers said that strict action will be taken against those found indulging in such activities. Police have warned that cases will be registered through the cybercrime department against those spreading false information on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-tweet-videos-of-those-breaking-quarantine-rule/articleshow/74921775.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai folk flock to buy native medicines||MADURAI: Traditional medicine stores in the city are witnessing large crowds in the morning hours, as people want to replenish their stock of medicines which they believe will help them ward off the deadly Covid-19 disease and other fevers this season. Kannadiyar Naatu Marundhu Kadai was established over a century ago and is the much sought after by people throughout the year. “They usually have all the siddha medicines, I came to buy ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ which is claimed to have medicinal properties to ward off coronavirus,” said T Ganesh of Anna Nagar. D Jeyakumar, a third generation owner of this shop said there has been a high demand for this concoction after it made rounds on social media as a prevention for Covid-19. “We ensure that people maintain social distancing while standing in front of the shop that is open from 6am to 9am. We prepare the medicines as per demand,” he said. But, some of the ingredients of this concoction come from other states. Jeyakumar said that he would be able to produce it till stocks of raw materials like ‘thippili’ and ‘agarakaram’ last. A 50g pack is given for Rs 80. Many other shops are also selling this product which is much sought after at varied prices. Many shops near the Madurai Meenakshi temple selling siddha medicines witnessed people coming there asking for similar concoctions. “It is a slow selling product for which the demand has suddenly gone up, but more stocks would be available only after the travel restrictions are lifted,” said Kumaran, one of the owners. Meanwhile, siddha practitioners like C Sudhanthiram of Chinthamani said ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ can be distributed like “nilavambu kudineer” which is given during dengue outbreak, if the district authorities give them permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-folk-flock-to-buy-native-medicines/articleshow/74921101.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mangaluru||This team distributes 150 food packets every day in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Hope Foundation is distributing about 150 food packets every day in and around Mangaluru. Saif Sultan, a management trainer and founder of Hope Foundation, told TOI, “With the lockdown, several people especially labourers are stranded in the city. Many have started walking towards their homes. We are also reaching out to essential service providers like police constables and Mescom workers, who have to struggle hard for a meal while on duty. With Suhail Sayed and Abdul Rishan and two cooks, we decided to set up a kitchen and distribute 150 food packets everyday. Several lorry drivers are stranded near the Baikampady industrial area and since we have obtained passes from the district administration, we will go around distributing food packets till the lockdown period is in force,” he said. Dal, rice and pulao packets are served thrice a week and veg biryani once. “We have enough funds for the time being,” said Saif, asking donors not to contribute funds. Earlier, Saif Sultan and Safwan Sayed donated 120 bottles of hand sanitizers to police stations and traffic police in and around Mangaluru. Neil Zackaria from St Georges Homeopathy gave these bottles at a discounted rate to Hope Foundation. “We wanted to distribute masks, but due to their shortage in the market, we could not take it forward,” he added. On Sunday, Snackies India donated 500 buns to the team and Patrao Caterers handed over 100 food packets. “We reached out to 40 stranded labourers from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal at Bunder. We will provide them with necessary ration items on Monday, “ said Saif. Meanwhile, the team has identified 500 needy families and will distribute necessary ration for 15 days. “As per the list compiled by our volunteers, the indent for 2,000 families has been finalised. However, in the first phase, Hope Foundation will reach out to 500 families. The bag will include 10kg boiled rice, 5kg sugar and other items like tea powder, oil, salt, wheat flour, garam masala, ragi, milk powder, chilli powder and other essentials, together worth Rs 1,000,” said Saif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/this-team-distributes-150-food-packets-every-day/articleshow/74918553.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Manpower shortage affects goods supply in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Thanks to bulk purchases made by consumers due to the nationwide lockdown, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) are flying off the shelves of wholesale and retail shops in the city. With more people staying indoors and most restaurants shut, consumption of staples has already gone up. Traders say there is a huge demand for milk and dairy products, grains and pulses, vegetables, processed food, bread, liquid hand wash, sanitisers, antiseptic liquids, infant food, diapers, sanitary napkins, tissues and disposables. In fact, many shopkeepers have restricted their shop timings mainly due to staff shortage and low supply from distributors. Many shopkeepers have marked social-distancing lines, mandated customers to wear masks and use sanitiser before entering the shops. Some even put up tapes and ropes in the shop to block entry of buyers. “These shelves are probably empty for the first time in recent years. Though there is demand but supply from distributors is low. My staff is also worried about safety as people are coming from different places. I don’t have a thermal scanner either. I don’t want to close it fully so I open only for a few hours to sell essential items like flour, oil and biscuits. I don’t want to put the safety of my workers at risk. I have also stopped distribution of drinking water cans to households,” said a shopkeeper on Lakshmi Road in Shantinagar. R Jayant Ganig, president of Karnataka FMCG Distributors Welfare Association, said: “Most FMCG manufacturers have stocks for more than two months. But we are facing manpower shortage to deliver these products. Many workers who went to their native places for Ugadi have not returned. They are finding it difficult to return to Bengaluru due to limited transport options. There is a demand for essential items like sugar, grains and pulses.” He said the government should provide transport facility to ferry workers from nearby places, including Tumakuru, Mandya, Hoskote and Chikkaballapur. GR Shanmugappa, president, Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents Association, said there should be at least one dhaba opens (roadside eateries) every 50km for the convenience of drivers. “We are now carrying only essential commodities due to the lockdown but, unfortunately, some traders are resorting to black-marketing to create artificial shortage and also jacking up prices.” There is also panic among drivers. B Chennareddy, leader of another lorry association, said: “The situation has improved in the last two days but still many drivers are hesitant to report to work due to Covid-19 fear. So they are still at their native places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-scarcity-of-goods-but-manpower-shortage-hits-distribution/articleshow/74920810.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court commutes life sentence of rape convict to 10 years||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday commuted the life sentence of a man who was convicted of raping a 14-year-old girl from Maripeda mandal in Warangal district. The sentence was reduced to a 10-year term by a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy after hearing an appeal filed by the convict. He had been sentenced to a life term by a trial court in Warangal. The HC bench upheld the conviction but disagreed with the trial court’s finding that this was a “rarest of rare” case. In October 2014, the 30-year-old who was a neighbour to the minor, had initially approached the girl with a proposal of love which the latter rejected. Angered by rejection, the man took the minor to his relative’s house where he sexually assaulted her for three days. The girl managed to escape from his captivity, reach her parents and lodged a complaint with police. The man was then arrested and sent to jail. A trial court sentenced him to a life term in prison following which the man filed an appeal against the court’s judgment. The high court bench examined the material and concluded that the man deserved punishment as he had outraged the minor’s modesty by force. At one stage, the convict claimed that he had the consent of the minor to which the court said that a minor’s consent could not be considered. The convict also argued that he had not raped the girl at all saying that medical reports did not find any such marks on the minor’s body. However, the court said that inflicting injuries on the minor’s body and threatening her with dire consequences were sufficient grounds to convict him. “Moreover, he (the convict) did not take this total denial stand before the trial court and he is not free to take such a stand before an appellate court. But this case cannot be treated as a rare case,” the high court bench said while modifying the trial court’s order. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-commutes-life-sentence-of-rape-convict-to-10-years/articleshow/74920852.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two youths held for hurling petrol bombs into place of worship||HYDERABAD: A fortnight after Molotov cocktails (bottles filled with flammable liquid and with a means of ignition) were hurled into a place of worship in Old City, two youths were arrested on Monday night. According to police, the accused duo had taken part in CAA/NRC protests, damaged an ATM centre and an RTC bus before targeting the place of worship. Task Force team nabbed the offenders from their houses in Chandrayangutta and handed them over to Madannapet police for judicial remand. “The accused have confessed to committing the offences. They will be produced before the magistrate,” Madannapet police said. A case was registered under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of IPC against the duo. The secretary of a worship place in Madannapet had lodged a complaint with police on March 14, alleging that some unidentified persons had hurled a petrol bomb into the worship place premises. “Broken pieces of the bottle were found in front of the worship place’s door at 4.30 am when one of the workers went there to open it. When the premises was searched, two more petrol bombs were found atop the worship place,” the complainant said. Taskforce Additional DCP G Chakravarthi said during the interrogation, the duo confessed that during protests against CAA and NRC, they had resorted to acts of arson by setting fire to a private bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-youths-held-for-hurling-petrol-bombs-into-place-of-worship/articleshow/74920868.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Amid corona constraints, Bengaluru couple hosts virtual naming ceremony for twins||BENGALURU: Picture this. A priest chanting mantras on a TV screen and well-wishers from across the country participating in online polling to pick the names of two newborns. This was the scene at Sachin Sethi and Amita Jain’s Whitefield home, which witnessed a virtual naming ceremony on Sunday. The couple was blessed with twin boys on February 1 and had planned a naming ceremony in March with their entire family, some of whom would fly in from Rajasthan, Arunachal Pradesh and even Assam. However, amid the Covid-19 scare, a large family gathering looked unlikely. “I didn’t want a small ceremony with just two of us and my parents. Neither did I want to put anyone’s health at risk by inviting them here. I had to do something to make sure the ceremony involved all our family members,” Sethi told TOI. The India head of channel services at a major IT company then took a leaf out of his new work-from-home schedule. The video conferences he took part in inspired him to conduct a virtual naming ceremony for his boys. “If we can work in that manner, why not organise a family function?” he wondered. Sethi planned it a few days ago and connected with his relatives via a video calling app on Saturday as part of a trial run. The call lasted almost four hours. “Most of them are not very comfortable with this technology and I had to make sure we were on the same page during the ceremony. From ensuring that the internet connections were functioning to showing them how to go about the proces, it was all worth it,” he said. Almost 30-35 people joined the ceremony through 12-15 phone lines. Among them was Amita’s father, who has been stranded in Arunachal Pradesh due to the lockdown. Her mother joined from Jaipur while other relatives participated from Kishangarh in Rajasthan, Guwahati and even Imphal. The couple also ensured the ceremony was not bereft of any traditional ritual. They had purchased all the items required for the puja a day earlier under their priest’s guidance. “Digambar Jain Guru Muni Shri Punya Sagar Maharaj guided the ceremony online from Sri Sammed Shikharji (Bihar), a sacred place for Jains, along with Didi Veena. Pandit Praveen Kumar Jain also joined the ceremony online from Shri Shantinath Digambar Jain Temple in Wilson Garden,” Sethi explained. Though separated by physical barriers, the elders gushed over the newborns and participated in the puja attentively. After an online poll, two names were picked from a list of eight — Avyukt and Avyaan. “Normally, the names would have been decided through picking of lots. But conducting the online poll was a wonderful experience,” recalled Sethi. The new parents are taking all precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “It all comes down to planning. I feel the country is moving in the right direction to arrest spread of the virus. What’s most important is making the most of every situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amid-corona-constraints-couple-hosts-virtual-naming-ceremony-for-twins/articleshow/74920623.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur villages unite, bring home natives||VADODARA: Thousands of labourers started their strenuous padyatras to reach their villages from different parts of the country after the lockdown came into effect. But around 6,000 labourers of Chhota Udepur were spared from the ordeal of this foot march. Reason? Their villages came to their rescue. Upon learning about the labourers’ trauma, sarpanches of a cluster of 45 villages of Chhota Udepur got together and created a list of all its residents who have gone out to Saurashtra and other parts of the state in search of work, along with details of the places where they have migrated to. “We contacted every migrant worker asking about their exact location and assuring them that we will bring them back,” said Narsinh Rathwa, sarpanch of Tejgadh, who heads the union of sarpanches in Chhota Udepur taluka. The village chieftains got in touch with the taluka development officer seeking permission to ferry their own vehicles and rented trucks to bring home these native labourers. “Before the government put a complete stop on bringing back the labourers, we had already brought back around 6,000 of our villagers in Chhota Udepur and several labourers from Dahod, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan too,” said Rathwa, adding that 20% of migrant population remains to be brought back. Not only that, the sarpanches have also contacted the employers of these labourers and have taken assurance from them that proper facilities and food will be made available to them until the lockdown period stays. “It was a huge task, but we got support from all the villagers to create the database and contact each of these 6,000 labourers,” Rathwa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-villages-unite-bring-home-natives/articleshow/74919280.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Malindo Air to operate three flights to lift stranded people in Trichy||TRICHY: Malindo Air will operate three flights to rescue the Malaysian national stranded in Trichy and other parts of the country after international flight services were cancelled due to Covid-19 lockdown. The flights will be operational on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. The first flight is scheduled to arrive at the Trichy airport at 10.23 pm on April 1, and will depart from here at 11.25 carrying the stranded passengers. The second flight will land at 9.45 am on April 2 and will take off at 10.35 am while the third is scheduled to arrive at 9.45 am on April 4 and fly back at 10.35 am. Earlier around 550 passengers of the country were airlifted in three rescue flights. However, around 100 Malaysian nationals are still stranded in Trichy and many more in other parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/malindo-air-to-operate-three-flights-to-lift-stranded-fliers/articleshow/74921108.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Ration shops open, says Tamil Nadu government, residents find them closed||CHENNAI: The ration shop at Periyapanicherry in Chennai’s western suburbs has been distributing household items to card holders, says the government. In reality, the shop has been shut for almost a week. Currently, more than six crore people benefit from 33,000 ration shops across the state. “With most supermarkets in our area and grocery stores out of stock, the ration shop [at Periyapanicherry ] was the only option to buy rice, dal, oil or sugar,” said K Anbalagan, one of the affected residents. On Monday, he contacted the state civil supplies Department and was told to check the status by contacting 1967 -- designated helpline number for Public Distribution System (PDS). He did that and went to the shop which was closed. At the very moment, he got a reply from 1967 saying the shop was open. Anbalagan immediately approached the local Village Administrative Officer (VAO) who assured him the problem would be rectified the next morning. On Tuesday, Anbalagan returned to the shop, found it shut and contacted the VAO who maintained it had been opened in the morning. He stuck to the stand when Anbalagan told him he was standing in front of the locked store. When contacted, the District Supply Officer (DSO) said Tuesday was billing day and the shop may have run out of stocks. It will be reopened on Wednesday, he promised, but refused to explain why it was shut for a week. “As a result of this, we are forced to buy rice and sugar at a much higher rate,” Anbalagan added. This has been the case with many more ration shops in the suburbs despite chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s earlier assurance to the people that ration shops will function regardless of the prohibitory orders during the lockdown. Similar problems were reported in Maharashtra with many shops in Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad not distributing essentials last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ration-shops-open-says-govt-residents-find-them-closed/articleshow/74921588.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Staff crunch may hit LPG distribution in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Supply of cooking gas is likely to be disrupted in the city because of shortage of delivery staff following the Covid-19 lockdown. Industry sources say consumption of domestic LPG cylinders has gone up with more people working from home, most restaurants closed and online food deliveries disrupted. On the other hand, sale of commercial cylinders has reduced due to shutdown of eateries. Distribution of gas cylinders may be disrupted due to panic booking and staff shortage. Oil companies and distributors clarified that they will deliver cylinders at houses. Ramesh Kumar, secretary, All India LPG Distributors Federation (Karnataka Circle), said they are catering to 80% of the demand. “There is no shortage of LPG cylinders as of now. But our delivery boys are finding it difficult to reach the agencies due to transport restrictions. Customers should not come to distributors to collect cylinders.” Kumar said some boys are reluctant to deliver cylinders. “In Mysuru, a quarantined person directly handed over cash to a delivery person. Such people should avoid direct contact with delivery persons since LPG distribution is a large network. These boys visit multiple houses, install cylinders, give receipts and collect cash from customers,” he said, adding the delivery boys have been provided with masks and gloves. “The number of trucks operated from LPG bottling plants to distributors has also reduced. The booking has been increased by 30-40% due to panic buying but we are doing our best to ensure that supply is not affected. The Centre should provide an insurance cover to all our staff” said Kumar. The state run oil marketing companies- Indian Oil, BPC and HPC – says they are ensuring the supply of LPG across the state. “Delivery operations including distribution of cooking gas cylinders are functioning and the supplies are maintained normally. Gas agencies have also stocked sufficient filled LPG cylinders to cater to public demand” said an IOC spokesperson in a statement. “The state government is also giving special provision for LPG refill supplies treating it as essential commodity. Public need not resort to panic booking as people in genuine need may not get their supplies on time. All customers may book refills as per regular requirement and supplies will be ensured”, it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/staff-shortage-may-hit-lpg-distribution/articleshow/74920613.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Apartments in Bengaluru report 8-10% jump in water usage||BENGALURU: With a large number of people staying home and with an added focus on washing hands through the day, several apartments in the city have reported an 8 to 10% jump in water consumption over the past week when Bengaluru remained under lockdown. According to Beautiful Bengaluru, a citizen intervention movement, each individual wastes around a litre of water while washing hands (for a 20-second period) as the tap is not closed. This wastage happens 10 times a day for each resident, said members of the group. “Water requirement for cooking and drinking has gone up. Consumption is also more because everyone is now very careful about washing hands several times a day. One should ensure the tap is turned off while soaping hands and reuse RO waste water for other purposes such as watering plant and mopping the floor,” said Odette Katrak, co-founder of Beautiful Bengaluru. “Overall, water consumption has gone up. A lot more people are staying home right now as a majority of residents are working professionals. The amount of water used for cooking at home and washing hands has also gone up,” said Vishnu Gattupalli, Secretary of Bangalore Apartments Federation’s Whitefield cluster. The BWSSB is now diverting water away from industries, commercial establishments and towards residential consumers. “We have decided to stop water supply to industries and commercial establishments during the lockdown. They account for 7-8% of the total water supply. We have been instead diverting 100 MLD water to residential areas over the past week,” said Tushar Girinath, managing director of BWSSB. “Not only has there been increase in consumption, usage patterns have also changed with people staying indoors now. Larger apartments with more than 50 units have seen an 8 to 10% increase in consumption, while smaller apartments’ consumption has gone up by 10% and above,” said Mirza Anwar, BWSSB assistant executive engineer for Mahadevapura zone. Some report dip in consumptionA few apartments have, however, said their water usage has gone down ever since the lockdown was imposed in the city. “While we used to get 19 to 20 tankers of water every day, this number is now down to 13 or 14 tankers a day — the main reason being that in all our households, the househelps are on leave. They consume a lot of water while washing dishes or mopping the floor. Now that we are doing the work ourselves, people are becoming more conscious about water usage,” said a member of the management committee of Sobha Hillview apartment in Uttarahalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/apartments-report-8-10-jump-in-water-usage/articleshow/74920680.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 fallout: Karnataka misses revenue target by Rs 4,536 crore||BENGALURU: The financial year ended on Tuesday and Karnataka missed its overall revenue target by a whopping Rs 4,536 crore, thanks to multiple factors, including the Centre’s failure to pay GST compensation and impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. For the first time in the state’s history, the shortfall in commercial tax collection is about 3,908 crore. Other two revenue heads — motor vehicle tax and stamps and registration duty — have also missed the target by Rs 628 crore and Rs 450 crore, respectively. Registration of vehicles and properties is normally expected to peak in March, but the activities nosedived this year due to the lockdown, said official sources. The only silver lining is revenue collection by the excise department, which has exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. The department has collected Rs 21,400 crore through liquor sales as against the target of Rs 20,950 crore. The biggest setback has come from commercial tax revenue collection, which includes GST, sales tax on motor fuels and professional tax. The target was fixed at Rs 76,046 crore in the budget for 2019-20. However, the collection stands at Rs 72,138 crore as on March 31. Officials in the commercial tax department said the shortfall is mainly because of the economic slowdown and the Centre’s failure to pay GST compensation to the tune of Rs 4,500 crore. However, sources said the worst is yet to come. Revenue collections are expected to dip further as the impact of Covid-19 will be felt more in the coming months because of the 21-day lockdown. “As commercial activities came to a grinding halt in March, the revenue figures in April are obviously expected be much below the monthly target,” said BT Manohar, member of consultative committee on GST, Government of Karnataka. On an average, the monthly collection of commercial taxes stands at Rs 4,500 crore. It includes sales tax of Rs 1,200 crore from the sale of petrol and diesel. This is expected to come down by Rs 1,500 crore. “Fuel consumption has taken a major hit although petrol pumps are not closed. We can only hope the virus spread is curbed and the lockdown is not extended beyond April 15,” said KM Basave Gowda, president of Akhila Karnataka Federation of Petroleum Dealers. Another reason why GST collection would be low in the next three months, say experts, is Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement extending the last date for filing of GST returns to June 30. “Most traders would like to avail the benefit of the moratorium on filing GST returns and would defer tax payment. Because of this, there will be a sharp dip in collection,” said S Prakash, former president of Karnataka State GST Practitioners Association. Could have collected Rs 1k cr more We could have collected Rs 1,000 crore more without the lockdown. As it continues in the first half of next month, there will be a sharp fall in April revenue SL Rajendra Prasad, joint excise commissioner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-fallout-state-misses-revenue-target-by-rs-4536-cr/articleshow/74920628.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||25 booked for gathering for prayers in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The Ichalkaranji police on Monday booked as many as 25 people in two separate incidents for gathering at religious places for mass prayers in the city. Police have invoked section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against them. Cracking whip against those violating lockdown rules and stepping out of their homes without any valid reason, police have taken action against as many as 446 people in the district and have seized their motorcycles. These include 78 cases from Kolhapur city alone and the remaining from various parts of the district. Police have also registered cases against 212 people under section 188 of the IPC for violating lockdown rules either by keeping their shops open or gathering in public places despite strict instructions not to do so. Police have, however, not arrested anyone so far. Police have said that strict action will be continued further if they notice anyone stepping out their homes unnecessarily. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has appealed to all people to follow orders issued by the district collector regarding home quarantine or institutional quarantine, adding that strict action will be taken against those violating the rules. Strict vigilance is being maintained on major roads connecting Kolhapur with other districts to ensure that people from other districts do not enter the jurisdiction of Kolhapur. Heavy police force has been stationed at the Kini and Kognoli toll plazas on Pune-Bangalore national highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-booked-for-gathering-for-prayers/articleshow/74921782.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Now, residents complain against NMC for using plain water as disinfectant||Nagpur: After police registered an our offence against Congress city secretary Rohit Yadav on Monday, residents of Kasturba Nagar slum, Jaripatka, lodged complaint with Jaripatka police station against the staffers of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday. The complaint has been lodged by Rohit Binkar, Om Yadav, Lalita Yadav, Mangala Shahu, Rajesh Shahu and others. “NMC staffers are spraying normal water instead of disinfectant in our area. The people residing in our society have seen NMC staffers filling water from borewell situated in the city and spraying it. Critical situation about Covid-19 is prevailing in the country. Therefore, stringent action should be taken against them,” they said. On Monday, Yadav was spraying disinfectant in Kasturba Nagar. He claimed NMC staffers spraying normal water. In a video clip that went viral on social media, he showed a milky white compound spraying from his machine while normal water in the machine of NMC staffer. He also emptied entire tank one of NMC staffer to show it. BJP corporators Virendra Kukreja and Mahendra Dhanvijay followed by NMC health department lodged complaints against Yadav with Jaripatka police who registered an offence against Yadav. A chemical trader Pavan Vij said, “One litre of 15% sodium hypochlorite solution is to be mixed with 14 litres water to obtain 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. The solution looks like normal water only.” On Monday, NMC deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradeep Dasarwar also issued a clarification that the civic body was spraying disinfectant and people should not suspect anything wrong. Kukreja had condemned Yadav’s act and alleged he was unnecessarily doing politics at such crucial time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-residents-complain-against-nmc-for-using-plain-water-as-disinfectant/articleshow/74921121.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Trichy||Panic-stricken people look up to siddha to fend off Covid-19||TRICHY: Scores of people looking for protection from Covid-19 have been making a beeline for the government siddha hospital in Trichy to catch hold of the scarcely available Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam. This comes in the wake of an advisory from the Union Ayush ministry, suggestions from siddha doctors through media as well as anonymous WhatsApp forwards prescribing it as a shield to boost one’s immunity level. The government siddha hospital has been functioning on the campus of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). “Nearly 800 people collected the mixture of Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam and Nilavembu Chooranam from us in a single day today,” district siddha medical officer (DSMO) Dr S Kamaraj told TOI. Since the supply of Kabasura Kudineer from Tamil Nadu Medicinal Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation Limited (Tampcol) is limited, government siddha doctors have prescribed the combination of 25 grams of Kabasura powder and Nilavembu powder. DSMO Kamaraj said the quantity will be enough for five days of medication to a person. “The concept of siddha medication is mixture of herbals. So, we mix Nilavembu with Kabasura chooranam and prescribe it,” he said. While Nilavembu Kudineer is an anti-viral available every day at the government health centres to tackle dengue, Kabasura Kudineer Chooram is an anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory prescribed regularly for treatment of fever, cold, cough, sneezing and sore throat — symptoms of Covid-19 also. Another siddha medicine, Aadathodai Manapagu for 10 ml, along with Kabasura Kudineer and Nilavembu mixture has also been suggested by the Ayush ministry. “Kabasura Kudineer Chooram acts as an immunomodulator because of the ingredients in the medicine. It will boost the immunity level of those taking the extract as a prophylactic measure as advised by the physician,” said government assistant siddha medical officer Dr M Vathsala. “Not everyone is required to take Kabasura Kudineer. Those with the exposure to the disease can take as a preventive measure. People are under the wrong impression that taking medicine and roaming around the town will keep them immunized against the virus. Stay at home is the medicine they should follow mandatorily,” said Dr Vathsala. The homeopathy wing at the government siddha block has seen a steady increase of crowd to get Arsenicum Album 30 medicine for Covid-19 prevention, as suggested by Ayush ministry .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panic-stricken-people-look-up-to-siddha-to-fend-off-covid-19/articleshow/74921113.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||35 shops closed for flouting social distancing norms in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has closed 35 stores in the city for not following social distancing norms and allowing customers to gather in large numbers throwing the curfew rules to the wind. On Monday, the corporation had closed around 50 shops. Corporation commissioner S Visakan, who inspected various places instructed officials to close down the stores in East Marret Street, Yaanaikkal, Munichalai, Vilakkuthoon and Vengalakadai Street on Tuesday. He instructed officials to make an announcement urging people to maintain social distancing through public address system at Yaanaikkal Kalpalam, 120 Feet road in Surveyor Colony, Race Course Road, Aavin junction, New Jail Road and Karimedu Market. Corporation officials said that home delivery of grocery items from 30 stores is being made available at present. They urged people to make use of the facility and restrict themselves to their houses. In order to spread the crowd, retails shops in Mattuthavani central vegetable market were closed and instead were allowed to open in 14 places identified by the corporation. It was also decided to sell vegetables at 100 places, one each in 100 wards of the city, through vehicles arranged by the corporation. The sale of vegetables has already started at 30 places. Efforts are under way to start in the remaining places, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/35-shops-closed-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/74921111.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Labourers return to Dharwad from Goa after 140kms walk||DHARWAD: As many as 30 labourers from Goa, who arrived in Dharwad district on Monday were provided first aid, food and staying facility. These labourers who are natives of Gadag and Koppal had gone to Goa for work. However, after the lockdown was clamped in Goa, they were rendered jobless. The Goa labour department, which had promised to protect their interests and provide them taxi facility to reach their home towns failed to keep its word. With no other choice, these labourers walked 140kms from Panaji to reach Alnavar on Monday. The staff at the check-post subjected them to thermal screening and health check-up. Many people complained of swollen legs and they are being treated at PHC. All the labourers were provided food and staying facility at the post-matric boys’ hostel in Alnavar. 145 vehicles seized Seizure of vehicles moving around violating the lockdown norms in Dharwad district continued on Tuesday and Dharwad Rural police seized 145 vehicles and imposed a fine of Rs 52,000 till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/labourers-return-from-goa-after-140kms-walk/articleshow/74920465.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bareilly||Ambulance services go on strike, injured man dies due to lack of treatment||Bareilly: A 45-year-old man succumbed to his injuries sustained in a brawl after he could not get medical attention as 108 and 102 ambulance services went on a strike in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday afternoon, demanding pending salary and safety kits for Covid-19. Police said a few days ago, Mohammed Irshad (70) of Baida village had stopped Shahnawaj and his friends from snatching ‘pakodas’ (fritters) from a local shop. Shahnawaj took it as an insult. On Tuesday, Shahnawaj and his friends Aneesh, Illiyas, Qasim, Shareef, Raunak and Amjad allegedly barged into Irshad’s house and thrashed him. When Irshad’s son Musheem tried to rescue his father, he was thrashed too, said police. The accused fled the spot, leaving both father and son critically injured. When the family called the ambulance service, they received no response; and, by the time police could help the injured, Musheem succumbed to his injuries, said police. Mohammadi police station SHO Sanjay Tyagi said, “The body was sent for autopsy and an FIR will be registered soon. The victim died due to critical head injuries. Ambulance drivers and associated staff have gone on strike, so he could not be taken to a hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ambulance-services-go-on-strike-injured-man-dies-due-to-lack-of-treatment/articleshow/74920476.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSFC to restart some plants next week||AHMEDABAD: State-run Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) has decided to restart some plants at its Vadodara unit from next week. “The ammonia Plant IV will begin start-up activities from April 6 (Monday). The plant will run at 55% load,” GSFC on Tuesday said in a filing to the BSE. The Urea-II plant will start on April 10 and production of urea will begin on April 11 at partial load. “The plant will be loaded up gradually to 100%. The ammonium sulphate Plant-1 will start its operations on April 11,” the company added. The decision to restart these plants was taken after the company management according to directives of the central government recently reviewed the starting up of fertilizer manufacturing plants at the Vadodara and Sikka (Jamnagar) facilities. “All precautions are being taken with respect to hygiene and safeguarding employees against Covid-19,” the company added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gsfc-to-restart-some-plants-next-week/articleshow/74921115.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Institutional quarantine for those entering Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Police have initiated strict action against people who are found entering Kolhapur district from various parts of the state. “As many as 79 such people were found at Kini toll plaza and in Shahuwadi taluka on Tuesday. They have been sent to institutional quarantine. The drive will continue further,” a police officer said. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said strict action will be taken against those travelling from Pune and Mumbai to Kolhapur, and will be kept in institutional quarantine. Instructions have been issued to police officer for taking action against those who are found travelling on NH4 and violating rules. Acting on the orders, Peth Vadgaon police with the help of revenue officials detained as many as 61 migrant workers at Kini toll plaza. They were travelling to their homes in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. As per orders, screening of all these workers was done and as a precautionary measure they have been kept in institutional quarantine at two buildings acquired by the civic administration – at Wathar and Peth Vadgaon. They will be released only after the lockdown ends given medical officials confirm they are fit to travel. Shahuwadi police on Monday detained 18 people who were found entering Kolhapur district through various borders connecting Shahuwadi. They have been sent to the institutional quarantine at a building identified in the same taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/institutional-quarantine-for-those-entering-kolhapur/articleshow/74921784.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Truck stuffed with 130 labourers detained||Ahmedabad: The city police on Tuesday evening detained a truck carrying 130 persons, including a large number of women and children, from Sardar Patel Ring Road near Ramol. The truck carrying migrant labourers had passed through Karnataka and Maharashtra before entering Gujarat. It was supposed to reach Rajasthan to drop the people. Inspector V D Vala of Shaherkotada police said that the truck was stopped by Ramol police and all the persons have been sent to night shelters in the Saraspur area. “The truck had departed from Bangalore,” said Vala. “All labourers and the children will be given food.” A city police official said that the question remains how the truck driver moved freely in two states with a large number of migrants.Police have detained the truck and have begun an investigation. All people in the truck will undergo medical examination. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/truck-stuffed-with-130-labourers-detained/articleshow/74921125.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Jaslok Hospital halts admissions after 2 cases||MUMBAI: A day after one of the nurses and a patient tested positive for Covid-19 at Jaslok Hospital, sources said OPD services were suspended and new admissions cancelled for a few days. A source said around 150 swab samples have been collected from the hospital. “Depending on how many new cases come positive over the next two to three days, a decision would be taken,” said a doctor. “These are steps to contain any further spread of infection,” said a doctor. TOI had reported on Tuesday a patient who had come for treating bladder cancer and needed dialysis, tested positive. The hospital said in a statement, “Our nurse who came in contact with the Covid-19 patient has tested positive. All the medical staff who came in direct or indirect contact of the affected nurse and the connected patient have been identified and quarantined as per the protocol. We have conducted direct and indirect contact tracing and swab testing is in process. We are taking all safety and precautionary measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jaslok-halts-admissions-after-2-cases/articleshow/74920497.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Dindigul administration reaches out to tribal villages in Kodai||MADURAI: The Dindigul district administration reached out to three tribal villages in Kodaiakanal on Tuesday with relief materials worth Rs 25,000. Residents of three villages-Valagiri, Valangulam and Moolaiyaru-have been reeling under shortage of essential commodities since the national lockdown was announced. Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the villagers have been out of work and with their access to the outside world has been cut off. Around 120 families living in these villages have been suffering from food shortage and their children plagued by malnutrition. When these issues came to light on Monday, social workers and organisations like Childline stepped in to pool in relief materials. The collected relief materials including rice, pulses, milk powder, health mix and biscuits were distributed to the villages by a team led by Kodaikanal revenue divisional officer, Sivakumar on Tuesday. There are more than 60 tribal villages in the hilly terrains of Kodaikanal and activists say the living conditions in these villages are abysmal. They have urged officials to make sure that people residing in these villages have access to food and drinking water. The movement of elephants has cut off their access to forest areas as well, from where they could have gathered some food. S Thanaraj, a tribal activist, said that the lockdown has disrupted the normal life of many villagers while a few of them have ventured into interior forests for their livelihood. Revenue officials said that all efforts are underway to provide medical access to the villagers. The tribal population will be the first batch of people in Kodaikanal revenue division to get Rs 1000 dole announced by the state government, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dist-admin-reaches-out-to-tribal-villages-in-kodai/articleshow/74921120.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nashik||Role of Ahmednagar adm in exposing the congregation in Delhi||Nashik: The Ahmednagar district administration apparently played a crucial role in bringing to the fore about the huge religious congregation that had taken part at the Delhi-based headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Highly placed official sources told TOI that the Ahmednagar district administration immediately shared details about the congregation to the state government on Sunday itself after it picked up 14 people that same day from Jamkhed taluka of the district who were part of that congregation. “Our feedback is that the state government shared our feedback with Union government on the issue after which things about that congregation came into public domain,” claimed district officials. After picking up 14 group members, the administration on Monday again discovered the presence of another 21 people in the district who too were part of the Nizamuddin event. They were also picked up and put into quarantine at Ahmednagar civil hospital. Insiders of the administration said that they were ‘taken aback’ when the 14 members of the group picked up from Jamkhed told the officials about the large gathering of people, including foreign nationals, at Nizamuddin. “Our question to them was whether they are aware of the need to have social distancing when Covid 19 cases are swelling across the globe,” recalled a local official. What has perplexed the local administration at Ahmednagar more that that group members who were picked up did not deem necessary the need to share details with the local authorities about their visit to the district and get tested for the infection. “We had feeling that all of them were too casual in their approach about entire Covid-19 issue and their grave consequences related to health. We had quizzed some of their local contacts in the district. They told us that they did not inform the authorities about the visit to these group members since they feared that the administration would quarantine them in hospital preventing them from meeting people,” said a police official. eom  e ����\u0012\u0018\u0007||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/role-of-ahmednagar-adm-in-exposing-the-congregation-in-delhi/articleshow/74920494.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Families shifted from Mangalwar peth to other places after first case reported, covid19 prevention staff steps up efforts to find them||KOLHAPUR: Many families from the Mangalwar Peth area, where the first confirmed case of coronavirus was reported, have temporarily shifted to other places. The city’s first Covid-19 case was reported from here last Thursday. On Sunday, a family member of the confirmed patient was also found infected. Meanwhile, many families, mostly affluent ones, temporarily shifted base to other areas in the city between Thursday and Sunday. The area has been completely cordoned off and search is going on to find the people who have come in contact with the positive Covid-19 patients. Officials who have been given the responsibility of tracing persons said that several houses in the locality were locked since the last few days. A senior official said, “We have learnt that both the positive patients have come in contact with several people from the locality. The first patient is not a native of Kolhapur, he lives in Pune. Therefore, many people don’t recognise him. We have received information that he roamed around in the locality, visited relatives and their friends.” “The man’s sister, who is a local, also tested positive for the contagion. Keeping her as the source, we are tracing the people who have come in direct contact with her,” said the official. The officials said that though they did not find any other suspect in the locality, they have still screened over 80 people from the area as a precautionary measure. The teams have collected the details of the families who have left the locality. These families will be requested not to hide information if anyone from among them has come in contact with the positive patients. They will also be told to undergo screening. Locals here said that the families who have left the area were living in Mangalwar Peth for the last 20 years. The officials are consulting with the locals to find out about the families who have left the area after the news of the two positive cases came to the fore. All the roads upto 500 metre from the containment zone have been barricaded. Locals living in the area surrounding Mangalwar Peth have expressed the troubles they are facing. The local committee is providing the essentials to them and looking after their health concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/families-shifted-from-mangalwar-peth-to-other-places-after-first-case-reported-covid19-prevention-staff-steps-up-efforts-to-find-them/articleshow/74921785.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Spl officer in K’god to contain Covid||Kannur: Alkesh Sharma, principal secretary of department of industries, who has been appointed special officer to oversee the coronavirus containment activities in Kasaragod, has said that the state government is equipped to prevent the spread of Covid-19, and there is no threat of a community spread in the present condition. “As of now, there is no fear of a community spread as we have put under quarantine all the primary and secondary contacts of the people who tested positive, and also they are responding positively, as they have understood the gravity of the situation,” he told TOI. No secondary contact has tested positive so far though the number of positive cases is high in the district, he said. The district, which is deficient in hospital facilities, need more healthcare professionals and technicians, and efforts are on to get their services from the private sector, he said. Since the hospitals in Mangaluru are denying entry to patients from the district, the health of other critically-ill patients also has to be taken care of and the district administration is giving importance to them as well,” he said. The issues pertaining to the elderly people, guest labourers, as also the old-age homes and orphanages would be taken care of and it would be ensured that nobody is starving, said the special officer. If anyone faces any issue due to the lockdown, they can get in touch with the control room but they should not violate the quarantine rules, said Sharma, urging people to remain indoors and break the chain to prevent the spread. The health facility in Kasaragod is poor and the work of the medical college is still going on. However, now the medical college building, which has been partially complete, is being developed as a Corona Care Centre. Nodal officers in Palakkad The Ottapalam sub-collector Arjun Pandian (Mob: 8921593496) was appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the Covid-19 pandemic management in Palakkad. The additional divisional magistrate T Vijayan (Mob: 9446336357) is appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the district level coordination of Covid-19 prevention activities. District collector D Balamurali said that 18 other district-level officers are also given charges to coordinate various activities to fight the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/spl-officer-in-kgod-to-contain-covid/articleshow/74919493.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Patna||17 from Kyrgyzstan home quarantined in Patna||PATNA: The state health department on Tuesday collected samples of 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals, who were spotted at a mosque in Digha locality of Patna recently, and sent them for test. The move was necessitated following rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation which was held at Nizamuddin markaz (centre) in New Delhi. Patna district epidemiologist Prashant Kumar said the 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals were screened earlier and found asymptomatic. “We have taken the sample for final confirmation,” Kumar added. These foreigners, who were on a religious tour, had been staying in two mosques in Kurji and Phulwarishrif. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said they were staying in two different groups in two mosques. He said locals got apprehensive after spotting them and informed the police. Sharma said 10 Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying in Kurji mosque and seven in Phulwarisharif mosque. He said they were taken to AIIMS-Patna on March 23 and screened. “They are here on tourist visa and with valid passport. For precaution, they have been home quarantined. One group is staying at a mosque in Phulwarisharif and another group in a flat at Samanpura. Local police stations have kept their passports so that they do not move during the quarantine period,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-from-kyrgyzstan-home-quarantined/articleshow/74919480.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: No increase in power bills as GERC decides to keep tariffs unchanged||AHMEDABAD: In a measure of relief for electricity consumers in the state, Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) has kept power tariffs unchanged for the 2020-21 fiscal. The commission has also given relief to Below Poverty Line (BPL) customers and agricultural consumers using power for lift irrigation. “There will be no increase in power tariffs for consumers of state-owned discoms and Torrent Power Ltd,” the state power regulator said on Tuesday.The private sector Torrent Power had sought a 21 paise per unit increase in tariffs for 2020-21 to make up for its earlier dues. TPL supplies electricity to Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat.  On the other hand, state-owned power distribution companies (discoms) did not demand an increase in tariffs in their petitions filed with GERC in December 2019. These four discoms are Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (UGVCL), Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL), Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) and Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL). In what could reduce monthly electricity bills of Below Poverty Line (BPL) consumers by more than 30%, GERC raised the applicability of Rs 1.50 per unit concessional tariff to 50 units per month from 30 units. Energy charges for agriculture consumers using electricity for lift irrigation has been reduced from Rs 1.50 per unit to Rs 0.80 per unit. “With this modification, electricity bills of this category of consumers will reduce by more than 43%,” GERC added. Night time consumption concession for HT consumers of state-owned discoms has also been increased from 40 paise per unit to 43 paise per unit. The commission also noted that all distribution companies achieved noticeable reduction in power distribution losses. “During FY 2018-19, all distribution companies except PGVCL and UGVCL in the state exceeded the target of distribution losses reduction set by the commission,” GERC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-increase-in-power-bills-as-gerc-decides-to-keep-tariffs-unchanged/articleshow/74921146.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai police personnel on duty undergo check-up for Covid-19||MADURAI: More than 2,000 police personnel and ministerial staff working with Madurai city police underwent medical checkup in the past one week to check for Covid-19 symptoms. Two people were found symptomatic, but there were tested negative for the disease. A medical team from government Rajaji hospital arranged by Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham visited the spots where policemen have been deployed. The team led by Dr C Geetha checked for temperature, pressure and symptoms for covid-19. Those, who had temperature were asked for medical history and were provided with medicines. “We visited more than 15 picketing points in a day and covered more than 200 personnel in a day. Only two were found with symptoms and both of them were tested negative. Many of them are aware of the symptoms of covid-19. However, they were sensitized since they may tend to be get carried away in the line of duty and neglect the symptoms,” Dr Geetha said. Police officials said that on Tuesday, all the ministerial staff in commissionerate buildings were checked for temperature. All of them were told about the importance of washing hands frequently. Hand sanitizers and masks were distributed to the policemen. A similar checkup will be carried out in regular intervals until the pandemic comes to an end. Those with medical conditions were asked to take rest to avoid infecting others, they said. Davidson Devasirvatham said that policemen get exposed to diseases as they come in contact with a large number of people on day to day basis. Medical checkup was organized to ensure that they stay health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-police-personnel-on-duty-undergo-check-up-for-covid-19/articleshow/74921149.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||3-tier telemedicine service starts, receives over 100 calls||KOLHAPUR: The district health administration has started a telemedicine service to guide the citizens on coronavirus-related concerns. A dedicated helpline has been activated and is being attended by medical undergraduate students. An online service has also been launched with the help of local information technology services providing firm. The callers have to provide details of their symptoms if any and, accordingly, the consultants guide them. “We ask for symptoms such as fever, cough, travel history and the details of the persons came in their contact. After gathering al details, we provide the locations of the nearby centre where they get the screening done from doctors through text messages. Also, we inform the doctors about such persons. It helps us to track the persons and thereby stop the spread,” said one of the consultants appointed to monitor the telemedicine services. Varun Jain, project co-ordinator, said that there are three levels of consultation. At the first level, the interns of medical colleges speak to the callers and if the symptoms are registered, the doctors speak to them through video conference. “We have consultants and doctors operating from their homes. It ensures social distancing. As per the new guidelines, doctors at the third stage can prescribe the medicines or further tests to be done. So far, we have received around 100 calls and none has been found with the grave symptoms. We are co-ordinating with other wings of administration. If a person requests for any other service, we transfer his/her call to the Kolhapur disaster management group. We are all doing this voluntarily under the guidance of the health administration,” said Jain. People with travel history can also approach for health service through the helpline. There are more than 500 people who are under home quarantine. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) staff visits them regularly. They are immediately taken to institutional quarantine if they show any symptoms. The online portal helps common people to get more details of the disease. To facilitate the movement of the patients in Sangli, especially from rural areas to the city or the town, the patients can put up the details on a digital tool, the link of which is made open for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-tier-telemedicine-service-starts-receives-over-100-calls/articleshow/74921787.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Water, sewer linemen keep Hyderabad afloat in hard times||HYDERABAD: In spite of the city being locked down, families across the city have not faced a dearth of potable water, thanks to the over 3,000 water and sewer linemen who are working on a war-footing to keep the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad afloat. “We use ‘key rods’ to open the valve of the water supply source to release potable water,” Mohammed Sharfuddin, a senior lineman working in Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) told TOI. Sharfuddin, who joined HMWS&SB as a daily wager in the Water Board under ‘nominal muster roll’ (NMR) category for a salary of Rs 350 per month, has been working with the Erragadda section for the past 35 years as a lineman. “I deal with 20,000 consumers in my jurisdiction. Complaints such as low pressure and shortage or delayed water supply are common. I’ve never been angry or upset over a complaint. It’s my job to sort such issues out. Like they say, work is worship,” he said with a smile. Sewer linemen make sure that our roads are not inundated with sewer water. Despite police implementing the lockdown strictly, G Laxmaiah, senior sewer linemen working at SR Nagar operation and maintenance (O&M) Division, rushed to Hajimasthan Lane in Borabanda along with other six sewer workers and unclogged a clogged manhole within half an hour of receiving the complaint. “For me, all days are working days,” Laxmaiah, who is an illiterate, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-sewer-linemen-keep-city-afloat-in-hard-times/articleshow/74921182.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Shortage of veggies in coming days||KOLHAPUR: Lack of labour in the rural areas have seen farming activities coming to a complete standstill with no harvesting of vegetables, fruits or sugarcane. According to the data from the Kolhapur agriculture market committee, the supply of farm produce has dipped by 30-35 percent. The small farmers are bringing vegetables to the city markets, however, the lockdown has led to an acute shortage of labour which in return has led to a shortage of farm produce. “We have reported that many labourers are not ready to work in the fields during the lockdown. They too fear coronavirus infection. Also, we have found that the restrictions on transport have created hurdles in bringing labour to farms. Currently, there is less demand as compared to normal times since the hotels and roadside eateries are also closed. Therefore the supply shortage is not felt currently in the city," said an office-bearer of APMC requesting anonymity. The sugar mills have put up a notice asking the cane farmers to make arrangements on their own to cut and transport sugarcane to the mills as many cutters have started to leave to their villages owing to the lockdown. The mills are assuring the farmers that the farmers will be paid the transportation cost, however, the farmers are not in a position to make such arrangements. According to primary estimates around 25% of sugarcane is still on farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shortage-of-veggies-in-coming-days/articleshow/74921789.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Elderly couple in Madurai gift 10 kg rice each to 840 dailywagers||MADURAI: An octogenarian couple in Madurai turned saviour for nearly 800 families in their village in Sivaganga when they came forward to distribute free rice to the families of mostly daily wagers so that they did not go without food during the lockdown period. R Sekkappan, a businessman of Anna Nagar, and his wife S Nagammai, both 80, told TOI that they were disturbed when the lockdown happened and wanted to do something for the families in their native Okkur village. “We know that many families in our village are daily wagers who buy their day’s rice after they get their wages. The sudden lockdown would mean they would go hungry without jobs,’’ said Sekkappan. Relatives in his village told him that the free rice and groceries for ration card holders were to be distributed only on April 2. The staple for all these families was rice and so the couple decided to provide it to them and help tide over the next 20 days. He made a few phone calls to Okkur panchayat president Raja, village committee member Andiappan and a group of volunteers to find out how many were in dire need of rice. They identified 800 families for him. With his own funds, he purchased 8 tonnes of rice so that each family could get 10 kilograms. “Then someone told us that there were another 40 families that did not have family ration cards but were elders without support. So we purchased another 400 kg of rice,” he said. They purchased ponni delux rice from a mill in Madurai at Rs 45 a kilogram. However, they needed permission for inter-district transport of the large quantity of rice to Sivaganga district. This was obtained as it was an essential commodity. A family friend came forward to provide three vans for transport. The rice was transported from Sunday and distributed to all 840 families by Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-couple-gift-10-kg-rice-each-to-840-dailywagers/articleshow/74921142.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC cautions private hospitals, begins to get information of patients||Nagpur: Taking serious cognisance of recent instances, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday issued directions to all private hospitals, radiology centres and pathology laboratories to give information of patients of pneumonia, severe acute respiratory illnesses and high-risk patients immediately after admission, and to ensure their treatment with all safety guidelines. The civic body has reportedly started to get information from private medical services. NMC additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “The directives were necessary to control Covid-19. Two patients were tested at two centres and one of them was admitted at Janata Hospital. Later, these patients tested positive. We had to seal Janata Hospital, Dhande’s Panorama MRI Centre and Rainbow Medinova Diagnostic Centre.” Gantawar added, “We also had to quarantine large number of doctors and related staff. Such instances and spreading of Covid-19 can be avoided if we get information in advance. We will send our team of doctors and get such patients tested in earlier stages.” Private hospitals and centres had started to give the information, he added. A North Nagpur doctor informed NMC that a group of eight persons from Minimata Nagar slum had returned from Lucknow the previous day and one of them contacted him, complaining of dry cough. “Despite sealing of borders, the group managed to enter the city, misusing a vegetable-laden truck. One of them visited my clinic complaining of cough on Tuesday. I alerted the NMC to check him,” the doctor said. The NMC team immediately attended to the person and directed all eight persons to observe home quarantine. The NMC is yet to decide on giving approval for restarting Janata Hospital and the two diagnostic centres. Gantawar said, “30 staffers of Janata Hospital — doctors, nurses, pathologist etc — are shifted to MLA Hostel for quarantine. Around seven staffers of the two diagnostic centres were also sent to MLA Hostel. One of the two patients was also admitted in GMCH after Janata Hospital.” “Therefore, GMCH has started quarantining its doctors who examined and treated him. GMCH sent nurses and ward boys for quarantine at MLA Hostel. All are doing well and have no symptoms,” he said. Mayo Hospital and GMCH informed that all patients, excluding two from Buldana were negative. The NMC continued its door-to-door containment drive across the city. The drive is also being carried out in the housing society situated in front of Gandhisagar in Central Nagpur, from where one of the flat owners tested positive a day ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-cautions-private-hospitals-begins-to-get-information-of-patients/articleshow/74921147.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||India||Govt taps 92,000 NGOs to help feed and shelter lockdown-hit migrants||NEW DELHI: The Centre has roped in civil society organisations to assist state governments and district administration in taking care of food, shelter and other needs of migrant workers who have been affected by the 21-day lockdown announced by the government to combat the spread of Covid-19 virus. In a letter to over 92,000 NGOs on the NGO darpan portal, the government has asked them to work with district administration in setting up community kitchens and provide shelter for migrants and the homeless in the cities. As the country ramps up its efforts to mount greater awareness, the government urged civil society organisations to join efforts in raising awareness about prevention, hygiene, social distancing, isolation and combating stigma. The government also sought their support for distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and items such as sanitisers, soaps, masks and gloves among community workers and volunteers. “The government has taken several measures so that their livelihoods are protected. At this juncture, I request you to coordinate your efforts and work closely with district administration and state governments so that measures of care, shelter, food and social distancing go hand in hand and they are fully taken care of in their present location. It is our responsibility that no one goes without shelter and food,” NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said in a letter to civil society entities. Kant also heads the empowered group set up by the government to coordinate with private sectors, NGOs and international organisations for response-related activities to check spread of Covid-19. The NGOs have also been urged to assist the local administration in identifying hotspots and deputing volunteers and care-givers to delivers services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons and other vulnerable groups. They have been tasked to partner with state and local governments in enlisting volunteers from among individuals and communities and develop communication strategies in different languages to create awareness at the community level so that Covid-19 spread is tightly checked and false information fully countered. The government wants civil society organisations to work with state and local governments in promoting behavioural change to ensure that there is no stigma and discrimination against Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-taps-92000-ngos-to-help-feed-and-shelter-lockdown-hit-migrants/articleshow/74921947.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Curfew curbs go for a toss as public become callous||MADURAI: Residents are finding ways to defeat the very purpose of curfew restrictions, even as police are taking stricter measures to keep them confined to their houses. With several bridges having been brought under police control and only essential movement allowed through select bridges between north and south Madurai, two-wheelers were seen buzzing past across the dry river at will and at a few other places. Out of the nine bridges in the city, essentials were allowed through only four. An alternative road connecting the south and north banks of Vaigai river next to the Kuruvikkaran bridge was closed. But, bikers were found crossing the dry river at Thathaneri and Iravathanallur with help from locals, who pushed the vehicles. The city police have been registering cases against shop owners for opening in violation of the curfew restrictions. Cases were also registered against those loitering on streets without any need. However, life in interior areas is normal for residents and shops opened as usual and people roam around like any normal day. “All the shops are open in the interior areas of Yagappa Nagar and there is no restriction in people’s movement. Only shops at Yaanakuzhai have been closed,” said Syed Ahamed Basha, a resident. For the second day, a large number of people thronged the market at Yaanaikkal Puthupalam. The fear of vegetables getting sold off made the public forget the social distancing norms. A health official from the corporation said, “We have been making frequent rounds and asking people to follow a minimum one metre distance, but they observe only till the time we are there.” City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham said that stringent action is being taken against the violators. So far, more than 1,000 vehicles have been seized and more than 500 cases have been registered against violators of curfew restrictions. Crowds can be better managed once the proposed 100 markets at 100 places begin fucntioning, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/curfew-curbs-go-for-a-toss-as-public-become-callous/articleshow/74921153.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Daughter of India’s first fatality discharged||KALABURAGI: The 45-year-old daughter of India’s first Covid-19 victim was discharged from hospital on Monday night as she has recovered fully and tested negative. The 76-year-old person (P6) from Kalaburagi died on March 11. A day later, tests showed he had died of Covid-19, forcing the district administration to take stringent measures like isolation of primary and secondary contacts. He was the first fatality in India. On Tuesday, a fresh case was reported — the 60-year-old wife of a doctor who treated P6 was confirmed positive, taking the tally in the district to 4. So far, there’s been no community outbreak. Four of P6’s family members were quarantined in the hospital after they developed symptoms and kept at ESI Hospital. On March 15, the 45-year-old daughter of the deceased, identified as P6, tested positive pushing the administration to lock down the district. On March 17, the 63-year-old doctor who treated P6 on March 6 in the patient’s house too tested postive. Now, the daughter has recovered fully. The test conducted after the 14-day in hospital isolation came back negative. For confirmation immediately after 24 hours, her samples were tested again and that was negative too. Health officials declared her safe. Along with the 45-year-old woman, three more were isolate and all three tested negative during the first test. Deputy commissioner Sharath B said: “The woman is safe to return home and she has overcame theCovid infection.” The 63-year-old doctor who is in hospital quarantine has almost recovered. The DC said he has been recovering fast and is in good health. The swab and blood samples were sent for testing and once the results arrive, a decision about discharging him will be taken, he said. Another worry is that his wife tested positive. According to the health bulletin, she has been isolated in the hospital and is under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/daughter-of-indias-first-fatality-discharged/articleshow/74920513.cms||Shreyas HS
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mehta to oversee fight against virus||Thiruvananthapuram: With the nationwide lockdown throwing life out of gear and multiple government departments forced to act on a war-footing in an effort to restore normalcy, the government has appointed additional chief secretary (home, vigilance and water resources) Vishwas Mehta in charge of overall coordination for fighting the outbreak. The government entrusted him with the responsibility under section 24 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He will coordinate with various department secretaries and line department heads and would give instructions from time to time regarding various steps needed to fight the pandemic. He will be assisted by secretary (ports) Sanjay M Kaul and would submit a daily report to the government regarding steps taken and progress being made. The government has appointed various officials in charge of the war room functioning round the clock. While overall charge of the war room is with principal secretary (transport and general administration) K R Jyothilal, he is being assisted by Sanjay Kaul. KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma has been deputed to Kasaragod to supervise containment activities with the district administration. While local self-government department special secretary K Biju, also being former labour commissioner, will assist incumbent labour commissioner Pranab Jyothinath with the welfare and accommodation of guest workers, MNREGS mission director Divya S Iyer will assist secretary (food and civil supplies) P Venugopal in provisioning and procurement of vegetables and essential food items. Meanwhile, the police have appointed IG (crimes) S Sreejith as assistant nodal officer for the welfare of guest labourers. He visited the labour camps in Paippad on Tuesday. He said that the camps he visited did not have any shortage of food and they also agreed to cook food for a group instead of cooking individually, so as to reduce wastage. State police chief Loknath Behera has come up with video clippings featuring himself, in Bengali, Odiya and Hindi, explaining the situation and the steps taken by the state government for the welfare of guest labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mehta-to-oversee-fight-against-virus/articleshow/74919527.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun DM puts upper cap on prices of essential commodities||DEHRADUN: In order to keep a check on the complaints of overcharging and hoarding of necessary commodities, Dehradun district administration has put an upper cap on prices of food grains for both wholesale and retail shops. District magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has ordered traders to sell goods at the prescribed prices or face legal action. The food grains included in the rate list include — rice at Rs 30-38 per kilogram, pulses at Rs 100-105 per/kg, wheat flour at Rs 30 per/kg, and sugar at Rs 40/kg among others. On Tuesday, six shop owners were penalised for overcharging during an inspection by the officials of Doon district administration in Sadar area. Meanwhile, district officials have been directed to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed when city residents or social organisations distribute food packets to those in need. On Tues day, around 8,400 food packets were distributed to daily wagers, students, and others in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-puts-upper-cap-on-prices-of-essential-commodities/articleshow/74920537.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: These drones can spray medicines, check temperature||AHMEDABAD: As India remains under lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has stepped up efforts to provide technical and financial assistance to the state government. Recently, researchers at GTU Innovation Council Nikhil Methiya and Kewal Kelawala have designed an ultra-modern drone, according to a media statement. While 32 drones are already being used by the government authorities to battle coronavirus pandemic, 300 more will be deployed shortly, it said. Presently, the drones are deployed in Surat, Ahmedabad, Morbi and Rajkot.  In densely populated areas, the drones can check if people are keeping the ‘social distance’ required for precautions against Covid-19. The drones are also equipped to measure thermal temperature of people. At a time, live monitoring of 10 districts can be done using the drones. Methiya, who is founder of Drone Labs, a startup, along with Kelawala, has created a drone that is used for information gathering, social monitoring, medical delivery and for spraying medicines. A drone squad has been set up in the state where data of more than 300 drone pilots have been gathered. As much as 10 litres of medicines can be sprayed per drone. Also, they are used for making announcement using microphones. Medicines weighing 500 gram to 1kg are also delivered to those in need, it said. “GTU always believes in promoting innovations that are useful to people and the country,” said GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/these-drones-can-spray-medicines-check-temperature/articleshow/74921195.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||109 from MP attended meet, 107 quarantined||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government has identified and quarantined 107 people from the state — and at least 20 foreigners — who attended Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat Markiz in the past month. The authorities are looking for two more MP residents. Thirty-one of them are from Bhopal. They and the 20 foreigners — apparently from Myanmar, Malaysia and Indonesia — have been identified and screened in the city for Covid-19, say officials. Swab samples have been collected for tests, said Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed officials to track and quarantine those who may have come in contact with them. “We have learnt that more than 100 people from Madhya Pradesh had participated in the religious gathering. We need to be alert and vigilant. All these people should be identified, screened and quarantined,” Chouhan said at a review meeting on Covid-19 on Tuesday. “This action is in everyone's interest. All superintendents of police (SPs) have been instructed to take quick action in the regard,” the CM said. Names, addresses and phone numbers of the 31 Bhopalis have been handed over to DIG by the state’s intelligence unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/109-from-mp-attended-meet-107-quarantined/articleshow/74921173.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Eleven on ‘leisure tour’ arrested by Vadodara DCB||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Tuesday swooped down on 11 persons found roaming aimlessly on the streets without any valid reason and arrested them from different areas of the city. Crime branch sleuths said that the accused were nabbed from Harni, Tandalja, Alkapuri, Gotri and Vasna Road areas based on complaints they received on their WhatsApp number and pictures from the drone cameras. “We had urged people to capture images of people who are moving around without any reason in their vicinity. We got a few photos following which we acted against those who flouted the lockdown rules,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Over the past two days, the cops have begun flying drone cameras in different areas to capture images of those who were moving out in public or gathering in groups. Also, the cops have been getting many photos of people venturing out. Cops said they first question the citizens found on the roads and if they fail to give satisfactory reasons, they are either arrested or their vehicles are detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eleven-on-leisure-tour-arrested-by-vadodara-dcb/articleshow/74919293.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation to sell bags of assorted vegetables to help check crowds||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has organized vegetable vendors and social activists to sell assorted vegetables’ bag in order to bring down crowds thronging various markets. Each bag containing 19 varieties of vegetables will be sold at Rs 250. Each bag will have shallots, onion, cabbage, carrot, brinjal, tomato, green chili, ladies finger, chow-chow, beetroot, potato, lemon, coconut, drumstick, ginger, snake gourd, curry leaves, mint and coriander leaves. To start with, 10 vehicles will be allotted to sell the bags between 6am and 10am in various parts of the city. Some advocates, youths from Vaa Nanba organization and Bedcroft organization have come forward to help the corporation joining hands with the Vilangudi wholesale vegetable vendors association. Corporation officials said that people will get vegetables at a lesser price compared to the markets, and at the same time the society will also get benefited as people gathering at markets will come down. People have to spend more time at markets since they have wait at each shop, which will sell two to three vegetable items. When people get all required vegetables, which are already packed to carry, they can leave in no time, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corporation-to-sell-bags-of-assorted-vegetables-to-help-check-crowds/articleshow/74921180.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Disinfection drive begins across slums||AHMEDABAD: From upscale areas and highrises, the Covid-19 war has now travelled to the slum pockets of Ahmedabad and poses a huge challenge for health authorities. In fact, in the case of Gajanand ni Chali in Gomtipur, where a Covid-19 patient died, municipal authorities have sought police help to ensure that home quarantine measures are followed by 45 families who came in contact with the victim. Since Tuesday night, disinfection drives began involving 34 fire tenders which are spraying sodium hypochlorite solution across all chawls and densely populated areas in all municipal zones. Running water is a huge challenge for slum-dwellers in most zones, which is a critical hygiene requirement in the war against Covid-19. “We will have to carry out disinfection drives using bleach solution almost every day across 691 slum clusters in which the city’s 16% population resides,” says a senior municipal official. He adds, “At many places, sanitation is an issue. Some sites have common toilets and common water collection points. This is a completely different ball game.” On priority basis, major slum clusters in Behrampura and Danilimda have been picked up by the AMC for disinfection. The south zone and the west zone of the city consist of 26% and 25% slum populations respectively, while in the rest of the zones — north, central, and new west — the slum population is between 10% to 14%, according to the AMC’s own 2014 slum atlas. A senior AMC official says, “The overcrowding of slums makes it difficult to follow recommended measures such as social distancing and self-isolation.” The disinfection drive will cover slum areas like Abhuji ka Chapra, 13 slum clusters of Gomtipur, and other slum clusters like Bhudarpura ka Chapra, Dhor Vada, Jiva Dosa na Chapra, Marwadi n Chali, Govindbhai ni Chali, Ramapir no Tekro, Chandrabhaga, and Gopal Nagar. “We are talking about a concentrated 1.86 lakh households which need to be monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disinfection-drive-begins-across-slums/articleshow/74921371.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||As 30 more test positive in south Tamil Nadu, areas isolated||MADURAI: The district administrations of Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have isolated areas from where fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported en masse on Tuesday. As many as 30 new people tested positive from the southern districts on Tuesday, taking the total number to 36 from the 10 districts. The fresh cases included 22 from Tirunelveli, five from Kanyakumari, two from Madurai and one from Tuticorin. In fact, 29 of the 30 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi while more people from the region who attended the conference have been isolated in the respective districts and samples sent for testing. “All 22 patients admitted to Tirunelveli medical college hospital are stable. All of their family members are kept under home quarantine. We are working to identify all their primary and secondary contacts and keep them under quarantine,” Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish told TOI. She added that they will come up with a containment plan for each area. She also wrote to the city police commissioner seeking police support to isolate Melapalayam area from where most of these people hailed. She said many from the locality who had travelled abroad have returned and there was a chance of the virus spreading. “All roads leading to Melapalayam should be disconnected for traffic,” she said. The police were requested to ensure that people of the locality stay indoors. Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere said four of the infected had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and returned on March 23. “The other person works in the Chennai airport,” he said. He announced Dennison Street and Velladichivilai in Nagercoil and Manikattipottal and Thengapattanam Thoppu in rural Kanyakumari district – where the five positive cases hail from – as containment zones. The collector said that disinfection has been carried out at the above areas which have been isolated. “We have deployed 270 field workers under 40 supervisory officials and five doctors for door-to-door verification to check if the people are showing influenza symptoms,” he added. In Madurai city, a 40-year-old man from Narimedu and a 45-year-old man from Thabaal Thanthi Nagar who attended the Delhi conference tested positive. They are currently undergoing treatment at the isolation ward in GRH and are stable. A total of 42 Tablighi members, including eight Thai nationals in Madurai, had attended the conference. “Currently, 12 Tablighi members are under observation in the isolation ward at GRH. Nine persons have meanwhile been isolated at a local quarantine facility, all of whom have tested negative for Covid-19,” said district collector T G Vinay. Tension prevailed near a lodge at Melagaram on the Tenkasi - Courtallam Road in Tenkasi district as six people from there who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi had returned and were kept under isolation. Following protests from the local villagers, they were about to be shifted to Courtallam amidst police protection in the presence of health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-30-more-test-positive-in-south-tn-areas-isolated/articleshow/74921202.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prescribing alcohol: Unrest brewing among doctors||Thiruvananthapuram: The government doctors who have decided to boycott the decision of the state government to prescribe alcohol for those showing withdrawal symptoms have decided to observe Wednesday as “protest day”. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government has never demanded that doctors should prescribe alcohol. “We are not going to run behind doctors urging them to prescribe. We will not take any action against doctors who are not willing to prescribe,” he said. The order issued in this regard says that doctors need to confirm that a person is showing alcohol withdrawal symptom. The diagnosis will help him seek speial allotment of liquor from excise department. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) has urged all the doctors to wear black badges while on duty on Wednesday. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also urged its doctors not to prescribe alcohol since it is against medical ethics. The state branch of Indian Psychiatric Society, Kerala Government Specialist Doctors Association, KCBC and other associations working in the healthcare sector have come out against the government order. Meanwhile, health minister K K Shailaja said that the government has not insisted doctors to prescribe alcohol. Since suicides are increasing in the state due to the lockdown and non-availability of alcohol, the government explored a possibility on how to solve this issue. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who came down heavily on the government order said such a decision would have severe consequences. Hence the government should immediately withdraw this controversial order, he said. Former KPCC president V M Sudheeran also came out against the government decision. He said the government was compelling doctors into unethical practices which should not be encouraged. He urged the government to immediately withdraw the order and alleged that the government is again showing the world that they are with the liquor mafia. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prescribing-alcohol-unrest-brewing-among-doctors/articleshow/74919545.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bhopal||We will collectively defeat the coronavirus chain, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: With a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Indore, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said a total lockdown would be imposed in the district to prevent spread of the deadly virus.  “Indore is the city of dreams and due to awareness of the residents, it has consistently been ranked the cleanest city in the country thrice. But, now it is fighting the Covid-19 outbreak. We have to defeat it at any cost. Follow the Laxman Rekha advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to break the chain,” said Chouhan in a video circulated through his Twitter on Tuesday.  Chouhan further said, “I know you are festival lovers but, can't you stay at home or in isolation for the sake of your family. I urge you, we will be strict and impose a total lockdown. Those who are detected positive they will be treated and their family members be quarantined. I apologize for the inconvenience but, we are taking strict action for your good, for Indore. Please cooperate. If you face any problem, forgive us. We will collectively defeat coronavirus.”  Chouhan in his appeal said, “When the entire country is fighting Covid-19, some people are not taking the lockdown seriously and are still flouting the rules. Going outside could be dangerous for oneself and the family too so, stay at home. Break the chain of social contact. The administration is trying to provide essential commodities to residents at home. Yes, there are positive cases, but this doesn’t mean it can’t be treated. Some people got cured in Jabalpur.”  The CM also called on Governor Lalji Tandon at Raj Bhavan and briefed him about measures taken by the state government to control the outbreak. Earlier, during the day, he also spoke to social workers and government staff engaged in emergency service and thanked them for their service during these testing times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/we-will-collectively-defeat-the-corona-chain-says-cm/articleshow/74921201.cms||Rajendra Sharma
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No 5-km cordon as promised||AHMEDABAD:“A person died here due to the coronavirus,” says a resident of the Gajanandnagar chawl in Gomtipur, while patting the wall of a green house, which belonged to a 47-year-old scrap dealer, who had died of Covid-19 on March 27. The Gajanandnagar chawl has 82 dwellings, mainly those of daily wage labourers of the Muslim and Scheduled Caste communities. The state and civic authorities had earlier claimed a 5km radius would be cordoned off, to thwart the spread of the infection, but in reality anyone can easily access the house of the deceased, which the authorities claimed was sanitized after the 47-year-old man’s death. Jayanti Vaghela, a daily wage labourer and resident of Gajanandnagar chawl, said that civic body personnel had disinfected the deceased’s house and 15 other houses in the same row. “They (civic workers) come regularly and spray some powder around his house to disinfect the area,” said Vaghela showing patches of gammaxene powder on the ground near the house. On whether anyone else in the neighbourhood had been checked by the health department personnel, Vaghela replied, “No.” Another resident of the chawl, Dinesh Parmar, stated that they were not examined by health department personnel. “Some members of the deceased’s family and his immediate neighbours may have been examined. We live just behind his house, so we placed our scooters and cycles around it so that no one goes close and get infected,” said Parmar, a daily wage labourer. An official of Gomtipur police said that they had cordoned off the area when the death occurred. “We were also told by health officials of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) that a 5-km radius would be closed but it was not done,” said the official. Gomtipur councillor Iqbal Shaikh said all residents of Gajanand chawl should have had medical check-ups but the authorities did not do this. “This is a very congested area where the likelihood of the virus spreading are much greater. The civic body should consider this and sanitize the entire area,” said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-5-km-cordon-as-promised/articleshow/74921344.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Helpline offers psychological salve||GANDHINAGAR: With over 19,000 persons in home quarantine and many more suffering from anxiety because of the lockdown, the psychological counselling helpline of the government drew 250 callers within 15 hours of becoming operational. Among the common problems the callers have been reporting on the helpline are the urge to go out of the house or quarantine facility, feeling of loneliness, gynaecological problems, lack of sleep, feeling uneasy and even the feeling of fear. The CM has announced the launch of the ‘1100 psychological counselling helpline’ after receiving feedback that citizens have been experiencing trauma because of the lockdown or quarantine. State health commissioner Jayprakash Shivhare said the helpline provides 24X7 counselling to callers. “Considering the rush of callers, we are expecting more calls in the coming days,” Shivhare said. To begin with, the state government has made arrangements to handle about 1,000 calls a day, but this capacity will have to be increased, said Shivhare. The helpline first takes primary details of the caller such as gender, age, factors that are causing the person stress or trauma. On the basis of these inputs, the caller is then connected to an expert. “Unlike the 104 helpline, which guides people on COVI-19 symptoms and thus calls are short, in case of the 1100 helpline, the calls last much longer and workflow has been designed accordingly,” Shivhare said. One of the 1100 helpline workers, Surendra, said that people call in to report that they are feeling lonely and want to go out of the quarantine. “In such cases, we divert the calls to psychologists who counsel them.” He added that calls related to physical health are diverted to the 104 helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/helpline-offers-psychological-salve/articleshow/74921230.cms||Kapil Dave
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK worker spreads misinformation, held in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A DMK functionary was arrested on charges of spreading misinformation about Covid-19 in the city on Monday night. The functionary, N J Murugesan, a ward secretary of DMK was produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded to Coimbatore central prison. The DMK cried hoarse alleging that Murugesan was booked because he pulled up corporation authorities for not spraying disinfectants properly. It was to cover up the shortcomings on the part of the administration that the authorities filed a false complaint and got him arrested, DMK MLA N Karthik said. Murugesan was booked four counts of the IPC under section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by civil servant), section 353 (assault of criminal force to deter civil servant from discharging duty), section 270 (doing an act likely to spread an infection dangerous to life) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) based on a complaint from a corporation official. Police said Murugesan told vegetable sellers there was no need to maintain social distancing. He also picked up an argument with the corporation authorities who were involved in anti–Covid activities in the city and threatened them, police said. However, Karthik refuted the allegations and said that Murugesan was questioning the officials for not carrying out the works properly. “Public in his locality had complained about disinfectants not sprayed properly. He raised the issue with the officials and demanded better prevention measures in their locality,’’ Karthik said. He said they would face the issue legally in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-worker-spreads-misinformation-held/articleshow/74921222.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Shut since March 22, OPDs at private facilities now open||In a big relief for city residents, OPD services of several private hospitals, nursing homes, and private clinics were made operational on Tuesday. Several private doctors in the city had shut their OPDs partially or were only running emergency services since March 22 as they didn’t have Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. In view of this, the Indian Medical Association had sought government’s help in providing private doctors with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, which are not available in market. Dr DD Choudhury, state secretary IMA, who attended to around 20 patients at his OPD on Tuesday, told TOI that no private hospital or doctor wanted to shut OPD and that too when the country is grappling with a pandemic but they were concerned abolut their safety as well. “ The chief minister has now assured us that PPE kits would be made available at city shops for private doctors as soon as possible,” he added. According to IMA officials, the clinics and OPDs saw less rush as compared to normal days as people are not coming out of their homes unless there is an emergency situation. Meanwhile, Anoop Nautiyal of city-based NGO Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation, which is documenting Covid-19 cases in Hoimalayan region, said that Uttarakhand is doing better than other Himalayan states in combating Covid-19. “The state has reported seven positive cases so far and two among them have already recovered. Except for Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), which has reported 55 Covid-19 positive cases.the other Himalayan states have relatively lesser number of positive cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shut-since-mar-22-opds-at-private-facilities-now-open/articleshow/74920552.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Meerut||Medical college in Meerut files FIR against suspected Covid-19 patient||MEERUT: A private medical college hospital in Meerut on Monday registered a criminal case against a man suspected to be suffering from novel coronavirus infection, alleging that he posted “misleading” videos on social media platforms to get a separate ward and early discharge. In the video, the patient has alleged that poor quality food was being served to him in the quarantine ward. The medical college authorities said that he was making misleading videos only to get discharged early and get a separate ward, which they said was not possible. The videos show the suspected patient being served chapati and daal in a polythene bag. The patient also alleged that a coronavirus positive patient was accommodated with the suspected ones in the hospital. Dr GP Singh, chief medical superintendent of Subharti Medical College said, “An FIR has been registered against the patient at Jani police station here for misleading people with incorrect claims and for hindering the work of the medical staff here. He is a suspected patient and is being kept under 14-day quarantine. However, he has been asking for a special ward for him and his family. He has also been requesting for an early discharge, which is not possible according to the norms and hence he has adopted this measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/medical-college-files-fir-against-suspected-covid-19-patient/articleshow/74920549.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Avoid panic booking of LPG cylinders: Govt||Jaipur: The government has appealed to the citizens to not go for panic bookings of LPG cylinders during the time of lockdown. In an advisory issued on Tuesday, the authorities have assured that there are enough cylinders to fulfil the requirement of everyone. Rajesh Meena, district nodal officer, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), Jaipur, on Tuesday issued the orders that citizens are advised against going to LPG distributors’ showroom or godowns unnecessarily to book cylinders without any need. If anyone needs to book a cylinder, they can drop a message IVRS/SMS (97852-24365), WhatsApp (7588888824) or book online (IndianOilOne mobile app or log in to http://cx.indianoil.in). Moreover, the citizens have been advised not to use paper currency and go for online transactions. The order specifically mentions that beneficiaries of PMUY will get free LPG cylinders for three months starting from April 1 to June 30, 2020. Under the scheme, every beneficiary will be eligible for one cylinder every month and will not be able to book a new one within 15 days after the delivery of the last cylinder. Thousands of drivers, godown keepers, LGP mechanics and cylinder delivery boys have been working tirelessly on the field. Looking to the risk these people undertake while delivering essential services at homes, the government has decided to give them an insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh if anyone dies after getting infected by Covid-19. In case the spouse is not there, the amount has to be paid to the next of kin of the deceased. This is a goodwill gesture in recognition of the services rendered by the oil marketing companies (OMC) personnel in these trying times to serve the fellow citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/avoid-panic-booking-of-lpg-cylinders-govt/articleshow/74921236.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nurses ask govt to exempt them from salary challenge||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Government Nurses Union has requested the government to exempt health sector workers from the proposed salary challenge for the government employees. Meanwhile all the ministers have decided to donate their one month salary to the CMDRF. The chief minister himself contributed Rs 1lakh. The Kerala Government Nurses Union has urged the chief minister that healthcare workers, including nurses, should be exempted from this salary challenge. Most of the nurses have been involved in the Covid-19 prevention and treatment activities and hence many are under high-risk categories. Several of the nurses are facing isolation in their residential areas and there are also reports that a few of them were asked to vacate their houses since they are involved in Covid-19 care activities. Apart from this, the lockdown has totally disrupted their life and many of them could not stock up essential commodities since they are working for 10 to 12 hours a day in this emergency situation, said K S Santosh, general secretary of the union. Donations from several ministers’ office Most of the staff working at the ministers’ offices have decided to donate their one month salary to the CMDRF. The office of the chief minister, devaswom minister, health minister, excise minister and among others have decided to contribute for the Covid-19 fund. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, on Tuesday alone, the government received contributions to the tune of Rs 5.9 crore to the CMDRF. This included the Rs 1 crore from government secretariat employees cooperative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nurses-ask-govt-to-exempt-them-from-salary-challenge/articleshow/74919559.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Risk of local transmission sends residents panicking||COIMBATORE: Public health department officials on Tuesday said the chances of local transmission of Covid-19 were very high as the virus was contagious. They have also sent resamples of throat swabs and blood from 28 people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi from Mettupalayam and Anamalai, to the Covid-19 testing lab in Theni as the test results obtained from Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) were inconclusive. While seven of them, who are from Anamalai, are admitted to the ESI Hospital, the remaining 21 from Mettupalayam are undergoing treatment at the government hospital in their locality. The officials are also in the process of tracing the people with who the 28 might have had come into contact with after their return to the district a week ago. The officials have started visiting their houses to check if anyone has symptoms of Covid-19. A health department official said, “All the 28 and their family members haven’t shown any symptoms so far. If any of the 28 tests positive, we will test the vulnerable members of their family, especially those above 60 years or with comorbidities.” While health officials in Pollachi and Annamalai have begun contact tracing of the seven patients, who are admitted to the ESI Hospital, they are awaiting reconfirmation of test results for further action. The news about the people, who attended Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, have sent jitters through the district, with many people trying to identify neighbours and others in their area who are likely to have attended the meet or friends who live near them. People who flew back from New Delhi to the city on April 23 and 24, are also a nervous lot. “I think I saw a few people, who belonged to the delegation, on my flight,” said a 25-year-old software developer from Singanallur. “Flights are closed spaces where the virus could spread easily. I am very scared now,” he said while disclosing his plans to room quarantine himself, away from his family. Doctors at the ESI Hospital, meanwhile, have taken throat swabs and blood samples from another 17 city residents, who had attended the meet, on Tuesday. Four others from the city limits also approached the hospital, stating they had also attended the meet. A doctor attached to the ESI Hospital said, “We have sent 21 samples to the CMCH Covid-19 testing centre today (Tuesday). We are also awaiting the test results of the 28 others from the Theni lab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/risk-of-local-transmission-sends-residents-panicking/articleshow/74921239.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Two held with liquor bottles for illegal sale in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: In two separate incidents, the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the city police arrested two men on Monday for possessing more than 470 liquor bottles for illegal sales. Police identified the accused as K Elango, 57, of Vellandavalasu near Edappadi in Salem district and K Perumal alias Kaliyaperumal, 45, of Eluppur in Pudukkottai district. Elango was arrested after a senior regional Tasmac manager, Coimbatore, Parameswari lodged a complaint with the PEW. In her complaint, she stated that while all the tasmac outlets were closed during the lockdown, she came to know that a man was possessing Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) for illegal sales. Immediately, a team led by sub-inspector Kandasamy reached a place on Chinnavedampatti -Athipalayam Pirivu Road at Saravanampatti, where Elango hid the bottles, and arrested him. They also seized 12 beer bottles (650 ml each), 48 bottles of brandy (375 ml each) and 296 bottles of brandy bottles (180 ml each). Meanwhile, the team also arrested K Perumal for possession of liquor bottles for illegal sales at Bharathi Nagar in Saravanampatti on Monday. Police seized 120 bottles of brandy. Both were let off on conditional bail later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-with-liquor-bottles-for-illegal-sale/articleshow/74921231.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: People with disabilities appeal for more government aid||MADURAI: People with disabilities in Madurai has called for better financial assistance from the state government and slammed the Centre’s announcement of issuing mere Rs 1,000 as additional allowance during the lockdown. “It is inhuman to announce such a meagre amount as additional allowance. The government says that it will be split for three months, which would make it around Rs 300 a month. This is extremely depressing,” said S Raja, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Crawling Differently Abled Persons Federation. He further pointed out that most people in the community don’t even have jobs and depend on the special monthly allowance of Rs 1,500. An official at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office, Madurai, said that there is a plan to provide a special allowance of Rs 1,500 for the months of April and May in advance. “This would be helpful for the community. However, so far the state government is yet to announce any additional allowance,” he said. Raja alleged that there were always delays in providing special allowance every month and that all the members from the community are not able to avail it. “We are also eligible for the extra allowance such as the daily wage workers or migrant workers. Only around 6,000 out of the more than 50,000 people with disabilities in Madurai have all necessary documents and can avail the special allowance. The government must bring in some measure to ensure that help is provided to all members of the community,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-with-disabilities-appeal-for-more-govt-aid/articleshow/74921232.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||India||NREGS wages go up, thanks to inflation||NEW DELHI: Thanks to inflation, the Centre has managed to stub the controversy of zero increase in employment wages under the flagship rural job guarantee programme, a source of raging row for last few years. As new rates come into force from Wednesday, the national average wage stands at Rs 202 per day, which is Rs 20 higher than 2019-20. None of the states has registered zero increase while the lowest hike is Rs 13 and the highest Rs 34. The welcome change from past years, ironically, has been possible because of a spike in retail inflation for agriculture labourers -- Consumer Price Index (Agriculture Labour) —on which MGNREGA wages are indexed for annual revision. As inflation remained low in past years, the wage revision resulted in negligible hikes, with certain states even clocking zero. In 2019-20, Karnataka, Goa, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and West Bengal saw no rise in wages. This has been touching off intense criticism from experts and social activists alike for last few years. Given the anomalous situation, the rural development ministry in 2018 urged the finance ministry to shift the index of wage revision from CPI (AL) to CPI (Rural). An internal committee of the RD ministry had recommended the course, arguing that CPI (AL) was an old basket while CPI (R) better reflected the consumption pattern. Crucially, food items account for considerable weightage under CPI (AL) and their prices have registered a sharp decline in recent times, especially because of the Food Security Act. This has kept wage revision under a check. However, the finance ministry has been averse to heed the request of the RD ministry, possibly concerned about the burden on exchequer it will entail. “As the formula for wage revision remained the same, not much was expected in 2020-21 in terms of shift from past years of minuscule or zero hikes. But then rise in inflation came into play,” a top official explained to TOI. As economic activity has ground to a halt owing to coronavirus crisis, the MGNREGA too remains shut for work. However, there may be a spurt in demand once the lockdown lifts and the desperate poor run to seek employment. This week, the RD ministry released Rs 4431 crore to states as part of wage and material arrears for this financial year. The low or zero hikes have been a problem since 2015. In 2018-19, Uttarakhand, Arunachal, Jharkhand and Bihar registered no increase while MP, Gujarat and Maharashtra got a wage hike of Rs 2. In 2017-18, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, UP and Uttarakhand got a hike of Rs 01. This year, Dadra and Nagar Haveli has notched the highest increase of Rs 34, followed by Maharashtra (Rs 32), UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Odisha (Rs 19), Kerala and Assam (Rs 20), Rajasthan (Rs 21) and Punjab (Rs 22). Bihar and Jharkhand have an increase of Rs 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nregs-wages-go-up-thanks-to-inflation/articleshow/74921977.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
April 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Lockdown a double challenge for disabled||MADURAI: Many among those with disabilities in Madurai, especially from the financial backgrounds, have been struggling for survival since the beginning of the lockdown. Despite being a vulnerable group, the community has little help from the government during the difficult times, said people with disabilities in the city. “It is very difficult for us. Both my husband and I are disabled and we have a school-going daughter. My aged mother who stays with us is only getting us groceries. Financially, we don’t know how long we can continue and manage our food,” said Mangayarthilagam M, who resides with her family at Kamarajarpuram. Her husband Muthukumar does repair work for electronic gadgets and earns a salary of Rs 6,000 a month. But, now there is no other means for them to eke out a living. For Jeyaraman M from Nagamalai-Pudukottai area, his physical disability is hurting him and his family far more than ever during the lockdown period. Unable to procure essentials, he is forced to seek the mercy of others to help him and his wife, who is also a disabled person. “We have to beg to our neighbours for getting groceries and are unable to go to the town. I eke out a living by writing petitions for Rs 10-20 in front of the district collectorate. Now, even that is not possible. How can I support my wife and two children?” asked Jeyaraman. For female with disabilities, it is doubly difficult to stay safe during lockdown, said Mariammal R, a disabled woman who is part of a welfare association. “Many of the disabled people, especially women, are staying in rented houses. They are unable to pay rent. They are unable to even get loans and cannot afford to pay them later too with interest. Their future has become uncertain as most of them don’t have regular income and survive on government allowances or pensions,” she said. Though the most recommended preventive measure for Covid-19 is washing hands, people with disabilities ask how they can protect themselves when they use their hands to move around on roads. Meanwhile, an official at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office, Madurai said that a state-wide toll free helpline for people with disabilities (18004250111) is currently functional. “We have two teams of volunteers working with our office. We follow up on the calls we get and provide assistance. As of now, people with disabilities are mainly requesting help for buying essentials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-a-double-challenge-for-disabled/articleshow/74921235.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand allows farmers to work on fields||NAINITAL: Days after TOI reported the crisis faced by farmers across the state due to the country-wide lockdown, the state government has issued a series of guidelines allowing farmers and farm labourers to work on their fields. The guidelines issued by agricultural secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram state, "For agricultural purposes, both farmers and farm labourers will be allowed to go to the fields. However, they will ensure that all precautions are taken to stop the spread of the virus." The month of April is the peak harvesting season for Rabi crops such as wheat in plains while in hills, this marks the beginning of the sowing season. Therefore, several farmers were worried about the availability of farm labourers, machines and the breakdown of supply chain for both fertilizers and seeds. Sundaram added that the farm machinery as well as seeds, fertilisers and pesticides will be made available across all the district. "The shops selling seeds, fertilisers, pesticides will remain open as per the timings decided by the government. Social distancing, however, will be maintained at all these shops and sanitisers will also be kept there," Sundaram said in the letter which has been marked to all the district magistrates as well as SSPs.Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, farmers, who are already facing losses due to untimely rains and hailstorms in February and March, said that they are relieved that the government has allowed the movement of machinery and even opened shops where they can buy seeds. “We don't know how long the lockdown will continue. Therefore, it was necessary that crops like wheat are harvested before they start to fall in fields. Once the harvesting is done, the sowing season will start and we are thinking of buying seeds as soon as possible because there is grave uncertainty over their availability as well,” said Ramzani, a farmer from Kichha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-allows-farmers-to-work-on-fields/articleshow/74920582.cms||Prashant Jha
April 1, 2020||Meerut||8 Indonesians who participated in Delhi’s Jamaat event quarantined in UP’s Bijnor||BIJNOR: Eight Indonesian nationals who attended an event organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin between March 13 and 15 were found staying at a mosque in UP’s Bijnor on Monday. They were quarantined at a government hospital after medical examination, officials said. Later, police booked two clerics of the mosque and three others for not keeping the local authorities in the loop over the foreign nationals’ stay, who had come on tourist visa but were involved in religious activities. According to police, the foreigners were staying at Nagina town’s Jamunwali mosque. They came to India on a 6-month tourist visa and visited Odisha and Delhi, where they participated in the religious event. They came to Bijnor on March 21 and had plans to leave for Delhi on March 25, before the lockdown was imposed. Superintendent of police (rural) Sanjay Kumar said, “The foreigners were taken to district hospital for medical check-up. They all are in isolation ward of the hospital for 14 days. “The Indonesians have admitted that they had taken part in Delhi’s religious event. Police have asked all the people coming in their contact to quarantine themselves.” The SP added, “We have registered a case against five persons, including two clerics and three members of the mosque.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/8-indonesians-who-participated-in-delhis-jamaat-event-quarantined-in-ups-bijnor/articleshow/74920568.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 25,000 migrants are stuck in 103 camps at 65 locations across districts in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With no income over the last fortnight, migrant workers are stuck between a rock and a hard place — they neither have shelter nor can they return to their homes in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. On Tuesday, the government identified 65 locations across 30 districts in the state where such workers are stuck. More than a 100 camps have been set up at these locations to accommodate more than 25,000 workers (see graphic), but the exercise of identifying more such workers is a work in progress. Officials in the know said the number could even cross one lakh. N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary (revenue) and the nodal officer for migrants, has instructed all DCs to “register each migrant who requires board and lodging and also collect data on number of family members, name and destination where they intend to go”. This data was used to group them in the same location. All camps have been provided with medical assistance. So far, 25,433 migrants have been identified. Of these, more than 14,000 are in Bengaluru’s Mahadevapura zone. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said there could be more than 60,000 migrant workers in BBMP limits and Bengaluru rural. “...According to the labour department, there are at least 67,000 in BBMP and rural limits. But we are trying to do an on-ground assessment and we should have the accurate number soon. We’ve already identified 200 choultries for this,” he said. BBMP special commissioner D Randeep said five community halls in Mahadevapura have been requested, but so far no worker has been placed there. “As of today, we have identified people and are supplying food packets to them. So far there appears to be no problem with shelter for them as they are living in their respective labour quarters or makeshift places they already use,” he said. 22L construction workersAlthough the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has said all migrant workers must remain in their present locations and the state government must provide food and shelter, there could be lakhs of people who are outside the ambit. While there is no requirement for states to register inter-state migrant workers, identification of such people during a crisis is a difficult task. Labour secretary P Manivannan told TOI: “There are about 22 lakh construction workers registered with us (across Karnataka), most of who are migrants. About five lakh of them have provided details of their work so as to avail benefits from us.” While construction workers register with the government, most other migrants — such as those employed in the hospitality sector or working as security guards, do not register with the government. One estimate suggests Bengaluru alone has nearly 80,000 security guards from other states, while 40% of the 1.4 lakh people working in the 7,000-odd licenced hotels and restaurants are also from other states. Census data suggests at least four out of 10 people in Bengaluru have registered their mother tongues as other than Kannada. It’s about 18% across Karnataka. However, a majority of non-Kannada speakers are those who’ve settled here many years ago, which makes it difficult to ascertain if they are migrants or settlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-25k-migrants-are-stuck-in-103-camps-at-65-locations-across-dists/articleshow/74922977.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Over 25,000 migrants are stuck in 103 camps at 65 locations across districts in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With no income over the last fortnight, migrant workers are stuck between a rock and a hard place — they neither have shelter nor can they return to their homes in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. On Tuesday, the government identified 65 locations across 30 districts in the state where such workers are stuck. More than a 100 camps have been set up at these locations to accommodate more than 25,000 workers (see graphic), but the exercise of identifying more such workers is a work in progress. Officials in the know said the number could even cross one lakh. N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary (revenue) and the nodal officer for migrants, has instructed all DCs to “register each migrant who requires board and lodging and also collect data on number of family members, name and destination where they intend to go”. This data was used to group them in the same location. All camps have been provided with medical assistance. So far, 25,433 migrants have been identified. Of these, more than 14,000 are in Bengaluru’s Mahadevapura zone. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said there could be more than 60,000 migrant workers in BBMP limits and Bengaluru rural. “...According to the labour department, there are at least 67,000 in BBMP and rural limits. But we are trying to do an on-ground assessment and we should have the accurate number soon. We’ve already identified 200 choultries for this,” he said. BBMP special commissioner D Randeep said five community halls in Mahadevapura have been requested, but so far no worker has been placed there. “As of today, we have identified people and are supplying food packets to them. So far there appears to be no problem with shelter for them as they are living in their respective labour quarters or makeshift places they already use,” he said. 22L construction workersAlthough the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has said all migrant workers must remain in their present locations and the state government must provide food and shelter, there could be lakhs of people who are outside the ambit. While there is no requirement for states to register inter-state migrant workers, identification of such people during a crisis is a difficult task. Labour secretary P Manivannan told TOI: “There are about 22 lakh construction workers registered with us (across Karnataka), most of who are migrants. About five lakh of them have provided details of their work so as to avail benefits from us.” While construction workers register with the government, most other migrants — such as those employed in the hospitality sector or working as security guards, do not register with the government. One estimate suggests Bengaluru alone has nearly 80,000 security guards from other states, while 40% of the 1.4 lakh people working in the 7,000-odd licenced hotels and restaurants are also from other states. Census data suggests at least four out of 10 people in Bengaluru have registered their mother tongues as other than Kannada. It’s about 18% across Karnataka. However, a majority of non-Kannada speakers are those who’ve settled here many years ago, which makes it difficult to ascertain if they are migrants or settlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/over-25k-migrants-are-stuck-in-103-camps-at-65-locations-across-dists/articleshow/74920577.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||To fight Covid-19, 201 doctors hired for government hospitals||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Medical Service Selection Board recruited 201 doctors for several government hospitals across the state on Tuesday. The recruitment is meant to strengthen healthcare services of the state in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Confirming the hiring of doctors, National Health Mission director Yugal Kishore Pant told TOI that all the new appointees have been allotted nearest centres so that they can join their service immediately. “These new doctors will surely help in strengthening the healthcare system in government sector. We are also planning more appointments in the days to come,” said Pant. The recruitments come a week after CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced that doctors can be hired for government medical institutions through walk-in interviews. Incidentally, the newly recruited doctors were working on an ad-hoc basis in different facilities till now. The state, at present, has around 3000 sanctioned posts for doctors but only 1600 doctors are permanent appointees. In a response to an RTI query filed by Haldwani-based activist Hemant Guaniya in August 2019, the state government had stated that Uttarakhand has just 48 gynaecologists against 171 sanctioned posts, 60 child specialists against 140 sanctioned posts, 53 pathologists against 146 sanctioned posts, 37 eye surgeons against 137 sanctioned posts, five skin specialists against five sanctioned posts, 33 general surgeons against 134 sanctioned posts, 40 orthopaedic surgeons against 101 sanctioned posts, and 37 radiologists against 137 sanctioned posts. Meanwhile, the health department on Tuesday received Covid-19 test reports of 63 patients and all were found negative. On the day, 35 new samples were sent for test. The state has quarantined 9,650 people in the last 15 days and has tested 513 suspected patients for the disease so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-fight-covid-19-201-docs-hired-for-govt-hosps/articleshow/74920559.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Distribution of free ration from April 1||Thiruvananthapuram: Food and civil supplies minister P Thilothanan on Monday said that the state had foodgrain reserve for three months. Distribution of free foodgrain, announced as part of the fight against Covid-19, would begin on April 1, he said. Special arrangement is being put in place in ration shops for hassle-free distribution of grains. As per plans announced by the government, all ration card holders would get a minimum 15kg foodgrains, irrespective of their being among the priority category or otherwise. For priority sector cardholders, ration would be distributed in the forenoon hours and for non-priority categories in the afternoon. Distribution of the special free ration would be completed by April 20 and after that, the free ration announced by the central government would begin, the minister told reporters here on Monday. Distribution of food grains would be carried out in conformity with the social distancing norms. There can’t be a queue of more than five people in front of the ration shop at any time. The shopowner can introduce a token system. Service of people’s representatives and health volunteers can be availed for the purpose. If someone has been unable to visit the shop to collect their allocation, ration shops may send it through volunteers. Those who don’t have ration cards would also be eligible for free ration. To avail this, such persons would have to submit an affidavit mentioning their Aadhaar number and phone number. If such persons are later found to have conned the government, they would be fined. Distribution of food kits to 87 lakh families would also begin this week. SupplyCo has started preparing the kits at 56 depots. Pulses for the kit would be collected from central government agency Nafed. The estimated cost for the free distribution of provision kits is Rs 756 crore. Those who give up the benefit on their own and families with high income earning members would be removed from this beneficiary list.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/distribution-of-free-ration-from-april-1/articleshow/74900434.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ajmer||Cancer patient walking from AIIMS Delhi to Ajmer rescued||JAIPUR: Vishakha from Pushkar in Ajmer district, who had gone to Delhi for cancer treatment, was suddenly discharged from hospital due to corona scare. She was left with no option as all modes of travel had been stopped. Left with no option, the family decided to walk all the way to Ajmer from the national capital, a distance of more than 500km. This came to the notice of the administration and the chief minister immediately ordered for the stay and transportation of the woman. Officials said Vishakha was admitted to AIIMS and was discharged from the hospital during treatment as the OPD was closed due to the outbreak of corona. Since there were no vehicles available due to the countrywide lockdown, she left for Pushkar along with her family members on foot. The matter came to chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s notice and he immediately gave instructions to officials based in Ajmer and Delhi to take action. On the directions of chief minister, commissioner of Delhi-based Rajasthan Foundation Dheeraj Srivastava established contact with Vishakha and her family. He arranged for their night’s rest and meals. After talking to Delhi police commissioner and AIIMS director, he ensured complete arrangement for treatment of the woman. He ensured of further follow up treatment on consultation with the doctors and officials of AIIMS administration. Dheeraj Srivastava, after talking to the Ajmer District Collector, immediately arranged for an ambulance and sent medicines to Vishakha in Ajmer by arranging medicines etc. with the cooperation of the State Government. Vishakha is again called to Delhi after two months by AIIMS physicians for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-rescues-cancer-patient-walking-to-pushkar-on-being-discharged-from-aiims-delhi/articleshow/74921268.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Family attacks ASHA worker for Corona survey; 4 held||MEERUT: At a time when all-out efforts are being made to stop the coronavirus from spreading, city residents here allegedly attacked a health team that had gone for a coronavirus survey in Kankerkhera area’s Dayampur village on Tuesday. Four people have been arrested. The incident took place after an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker of the two-member team - who also belongs to the same village - inquired about two members of a family who had returned from Noida and Ghaziabad a few days ago. Protesting why they should reveal the whereabouts of the two, the family allegedly slapped the ASHA worker. They also allegedly attacked her husband and brother-in-law when they intervened. Four people have been booked and sent to jail. Anita Verma, the ASHA worker, claimed, “I had gone for coronavirus survey at the home of one Daata Ram. According to norms, we were asked to note down names and phone numbers of those who had returned from any other district to Meerut in the past few days and get them to undergo a routine check-up from a doctor. However, when I asked for details of the two youngsters who had returned from Noida and Ghaziabad, their slapped me and abused me." Anita said Daata Ram's family allegedly also attacked her husband and brother-in-law, injuring them on the head. Vijender Rana, station house officer, Kankerkhera police station, said, “Anita's husband and brother-in-law sustained major injuries on the head after which they were sent for a medical. A case has been filed against Daata Ram, Rohit, Saurabh and Gaurav under various IPC sections, including attempt to murder. All four of them have been arrested and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-attacks-asha-worker-for-corona-survey-4-held/articleshow/74920599.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 1, 2020||Kozhikode||M’luru hosp provides 5 dialysis machines||Kannur: With the Karnataka government remaining mulish on denying entry to patients from Kerala to the state even if they are in critical condition — which has led to the death of at least five patients — Kasaragod MLA N A Nellikkunnu has procured five dialysis machines from a hospital in Mangaluru, which would be installed in a private hospital in Kasaragod for those who need regular dialysis. The machines are given by Yenepoya Medical College and it would be installed in Kasaragod till the Covid-19 fear is over, said the MLA, who received the machines in Thalapady on the border on Tuesday. “I intervened because the travails and wailings of those who are undergoing dialysis are beyond anybody’s imagination, but the apathy on the part of Karnataka government has affected their medical thus putting their lives at stake,” he said. Since the treatment of Covid-19 patients and those under surveillance has taken the centre stage, the regular treatment of other patients, including those in critical condition, has been affected, he said. Though the dialysis patients require continuous treatment, and many from Kasaragod depend on the hospitals in Mangaluru for that, the Karnataka government has refused them permission to cross the borders, said the MLA. Though the hospitals in Mangaluru are willing to admit such patients, they are helpless and hence this hospital offered five machines, he said. Though he had contacted the officials here to get the facility arranged in some government hospital, he hasn’t got any response so far, and he decided to install it in a private hospital. Only those who undergo regular treatment in Mangaluru hospitals would be provided the service, which would be free, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mluru-hosp-provides-5-dialysis-machines/articleshow/74919577.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||No positive case for third day in a row||VADODARA: Medical teams and district administration in Vadodara received some more relief as Vadodara city and district did not witness any fresh COVID-19 positive case for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. With a 49-year-old patient getting discharged from the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital, the number of COVID-19 positive patients currently under treatment at the ward has come down to six from seven. Condition of two out of the remaining six patients is improving as their samples have tested negative twice. Two other infected persons are currently under treatment at GMERS Gotri Hospital. Tuesday did witness a 35-year-old female from Savli being admitted to SSG Hospital as a suspect patient of the virus. Reports of her samples are being awaited. But the hospital did not witness inflow of more such patients even as it screened 43 individuals. District health officials informed that by Tuesday evening, a total of 108 samples were tested in Vadodara city and district of which 97 tested negative, nine positive while samples of two persons were rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-positive-case-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/74919316.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Shortage of personal protection equipment kits worries doctors||COIMBATORE: Many private hospital doctors on Tuesday said they were facing acute shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. This is when district collector K Rajamani has asked them to start admitting Covid-19 patients. Some hospitals said sourcing of PPE kits has been becoming difficult and more expensive, with distributors charging massive premiums as demand has overshot supply. Many doctors, who have been consulting fever patients in private hospitals, said they were provided with just three-ply masks, and some plastic aprons and gloves. The picture isn’t much different in some government hospitals, which are also facing shortage of PPE kits. However, ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital said they were not facing any shortage. A young general medicine doctor, who works with a private hospital in Gandhipuram, said she hadn’t told her family that she was asked to handle the fever ward once every four days for a period of eight hours. “This is because they will become paranoid. They know that my hospital has given us no personal protective equipment, except a plastic apron, a three-ply mask that ensures no protection from infectious droplets and gloves. Our hands from wrists to elbows are exposed, so are parts of our face, eyes and neck. A proper PPE kit is a hazmat suite that covers us from foot to hair, including shoes and socks.” Another private hospital near Neelambur that has created an isolation ward to handle Covid-19 patients said they were facing an 80% shortage of PPE kits. The hospital administrator said, “Including the supplies that we expect in the near future, we have very few PPE kits. So, we have allocated hardly 25 to 30 staff, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, to handle fever patients and Covid-19 patients that too in three shifts. We have requested them to use the PPE kits sparingly.” He said their suppliers were overcharging them owing to the high demand for kits. “Due to lockdown, we are also facing difficulties in getting supplies from vendors in other parts of the country.” Another hospital on Avinashi Road has, meanwhile, turned down the request to provide PPE kits to some health workers, citing shortage. It has, however, offered to connect them to its distributor. The government hospital in Mettupalayam is also facing shortage of PPE kits. The hospital that houses nearly 21 patients whose Covid-19 tests were inconclusive has only 15 PPE kits. They have a doctor and four nurses handling the ward. Hospital dean Dr Seralathan said, “The government has placed an order for more kits. Anyway, the patients will either be shifted to ESI Hospital or discharged once their results come. So, we are not panicked.” Meanwhile, a group of youngsters in Chennai are raising funds to procure N95 masks and coverall protective suits for doctors and nurses. They have managed to find someone who could procure a suit at Rs 175 and masks at Rs 60.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shortage-of-personal-protection-equipment-kits-worries-doctors/articleshow/74921273.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Udaipur||Despite permits, cops strip, thrash 3 travellers in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Three men travelling from Surat to Punjab via Udaipur were stripped and thrashed by the police. They had to spend a night in the lock-up in spite of having valid travel permissions from two states and a pass issued by local SDM. Aggrieved by humiliation, the victims have complained to the SDM who further reported the incident to police authorities. Vikas Mod and Shashikant Agarwal of Sikar and Anuj Gupta, a resident of Punjab, had gone to a chemical factory in Surat. They were returning to Sikar via Udaipur and had e-permissions from both Punjab and Gujarat governments. When they reached Udaipur on Sunday night, they met Anil Kumar, SDM of Kherwada block, who issued them permit to travel to Sikar. When the trio reached Parsad check-post, police stopped them and misbehaved with them. Despite repeated requests and showing their permits, the cops took them to police station where they allegedly thrashed them. They were stripped and put in the lock-up. A case was lodged against them under Section 151 of CrPC, the men told media. Vikas had requested SHO Subash Parmar to speak to the SDM to verify their permit but he paid no heed. “One of the three men called me over phone past midnight and said that the police was thrashing them. However, the SHO didn’t speak to me. I could hear the police hurling abuses and hitting the men. Police shouldn’t misbehave with people who have valid pass,” SDM Anil Kumar said. Meanwhile, ASP Attur Rehman said that the three men had fled the check-post at Rishabdeo. Hence, the police caught them at Parsad. They misbehaved with the cops and tried to make calls despite warnings. So, a case was lodged against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/despite-permits-cops-strip-thrash-3-travellers-in-udaipur/articleshow/74921275.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Police say all movements are being watched||AHMEDABAD: Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha on Tuesday appealed to the people of the state to behave responsibly and stay at home, saying this pandemic represents a difficult time for us, and police are watching lockdown violations. Jha reiterated that cops cannot should not be insensitive and called on his subordinates to behave properly so the khaki uniform earns respect. He was reacting to a video showing police constables upturning handcarts full of vegetables in Nikol. He said that the cops responsible including the police inspector have been suspended. He also said that if possible, those responsible for damaging the carts and ruining the vegetables would be made to pay for the damage. While appealing to people to stay indoors, Jha said police are watching those venturing out and violating lockdown rules through various means. He gave out details of complaints lodged by cops after watching footage of people gathering obtained from drones and CCTV cameras. He said three complaints have been lodged for spreading rumours on social media. “Police is watching social media too,” he said at a press conference. Jha called on people to be sensitive towards and also warned of strict action for misbehaviour especially towards people in the medical profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-say-all-movements-are-being-watched/articleshow/74921336.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||5 Chinese tourists kept in home quarantine||Edited Jaipur: Five Chinese tourists, who were found staying in a house in the Walled City area, have been kept in home quarantine after the health authorities conducted their screening for Covid-19. In the curfew-bound Walled City area, the health department, while conducting door-to-door survey, discovered that some Chinese tourists are staying in a house in Chandi Ki Taxal area. The neighbours told the health department team that they have been staying in the house for the past one month. The health department teams kept asking them to come out of the house, but they did not open the door, a neighbour told TOI. The neighbour said there was one Nepal national, who is accompanying them. However, the health department team called Manak Chowk police, who rushed to the spot and persuaded the Chinese tourists to come out of the house and cooperate with the health authorities. “They reached India on January 29 and landed at Delhi airport. They are Chinese tourists and first they stayed in Delhi and they went to Udaipur and reached Jaipur, one month ago,” said Jitendra Singh, station house officer, Manak Chowk. Police and the health department teams called an ambulance and they were taken to SMS Hospital where the doctors conducted their screening for Covid-19. “In the screening, the doctors did not find anything to worry about. Since they have come from China, the health department have kept them in home quarantine,” Singh said. Police said that they are residents of Henan province, which is 500km away from Wuhan, the epicenter of Covid-19 outbreak. After medical checkup, the health department dropped them at the house, where they will be kept in home quarantine for at least 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-chinese-tourists-kept-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/74921279.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Gudalur government hospital gets new ICU ward||UDHAGAMANDALAM: In the wake of Covid-19 scare, an ICU ward was inaugurated at the Gudalur Government Hospital in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. The ward was set up at a cost of Rs 14 lakh using funds given by Gudalur MLA M Thiravidamani. “Gudalur GH lacked an ICU ward. If any serious case arises, it has to be referred to the Ooty GH. To overcome it, I allocated the money from MLA funds,” Thiravidamani said. Set up in a record time, the ward was opened by collector J Innocent Divya. The MLA also handed over Rs 25 lakh to the district health department for setting up other infrastructure and buying necessary items at Gudalur GH and Pandalur GH to fight the virus spread. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gudalur-govt-hospital-gets-new-icu-ward/articleshow/74921276.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus treatment made free in Maharashtra; Rs 1.5 lakh cover for each family member||MUMBAI: Treatment for Covid-19 will be free in the state from Wednesday under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). The state will bear the cost of treatment of even those who don’t have the MJPJAY card or fall under the BPL category, TOI has learnt. Additionally, the state has extended the insurance cover of Rs 1.5 lakh per family to each member of the household. “As long as a coronavirus patient is admitted to one of the empanelled hospitals, his/her treatment cost will be fully covered by the state. Essentially, we have insured all 12 crore citizens of the state,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. Under the scheme, the state has doubled the number of empanelled hospitals—to 1,000 hospitals up from 492. “We now have over one lakh beds and about 4,000 ventilators,” Tope added. There are around 60 hospitals from Mumbai, though the big trust-run hospitals continue to avoid the scheme. “If people get themselves admitted to Mumbai’s five-star hospitals, we may not be able to support as those hospitals have not joined us. But in empanelled hospitals, we will cover everyone. Even people who don’t have relevant documents or ID proof will be covered,” said Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of MJPJAY. “By Covid patients, we don’t mean those who have tested positive, but the scheme will broadly cover everyone who land in acute respiratory distress syndrome and those who need a ventilator,” he added. Explaining the increased cover for families, Shinde said Covid is extremely contagious that has affected more than one member in many families. In a first, the scheme has also empanelled hospitals outside the state that cater to people in bordering districts such as Sindhudurg and Palghar. “People from Sindhudurg often travel to Goa or those from Palghar to Daman-Diu. We have included such hospitals in the scheme,” he said. The premium the state government will be paying too has doubled. “From Rs 640 per family, we will be paying a premium of Rs 797 per family this year. This will cost the exchequer an additional Rs 330 crore,” said Shinde. He added that at least 230 talukas have been covered under the scheme from the previous 120. The scheme has also done away with 130 less popular packages and included around 170 news ones, including knee and hip replacement and psychiatric illnesses. The rates for certain surgeries, such as fractures, have been increased from Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000. It also said rates for 12 dialysis sessions have been revised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 13,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-treatment-made-free-in-state-rs-1-5l-cover-for-each-family-member/articleshow/74921619.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Naroda doctor’s khichdi treatment||AHMEDABAD: In the times of lockdown, Dr Mohil Patel, who runs a maternity home in Naroda, received a call from a migrant labourer that his wife was to deliver a baby. The doctor rushed to the clinic and immediately made arrangements for the Caesarean operation. After a successful delivery, when the doctor realized that the patient, Arti Thakore, is a migrant labourer and has no money to pay the bill, he decided to do something for her. “In the lockdown situation, Arti and her husband Mahesh are struggling to make ends meet,” said Dr Patel. “I called up the anaesthetist and the pharmacy shop and ensured that they don’t have to pay any amount for the delivery. Patel said that ever since the lockdown was announced, he and a group of his friends have been ensuring that the poor get food. “With the help of a shop owner, we have been making khichdi and distributing food among the needy,” he said. Since March 23, the group has regularly been going to slums to distribute khichdi. Arti Thakore said that the doctor from whom she was regularly taking treatment, refused to conduct the delivery because of the novel coronavirus. “We went to some other hospitals but they too refused to do anything. Finally, we contacted Dr Patel who agreed and to our surprise did not even charge us for the medicines,” said an overwhelmed Mahesh Thakore. Dr Patel said that after some days of the lockdown, other residents too joined them in making khichdi. The group now feeds nearly 12,000 people daily. “People from nearby areas come with their utensils and take khichdi for distribution in slums,” said Dr Patel. He says that the group is becoming bigger and bigger and the activity which began with four people now involves 30-odd people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naroda-doctors-khichdi-treatment/articleshow/74921329.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Traffic ban on city roads till April 14; essential service vehicles exempted||Aurangabad: Police, in order to ensure effective lockdown implementation, have now restricted the movement of all private vehicles and bicycles on city roads from April 1 to 14. The prohibitory orders were issued by Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad on Monday evening under section 144 of the CrPC. For the effective implementation of these orders, new checkposts have been set up on all the important roads of the city. According to sources, the decision was taken after the earlier imposed restrictions failed to keep people indoors. Only vehicles associated essential services defined by the district administration, state and central governments have been exempted from this rule. “We have been compelled to impose fresh set of restrictions after it came to fore that our repeated request to the citizens fell on deaf ears,” Prasad said According to him, those flouting the new orders will not only be booked, but their vehicles will also be seized for the entire lockdown period. Different districts of Marathwada region have already imposed restrictions on movement of vehicles. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya said in the past three days they have already seized around 200 vehicles of which 180 are two-wheelers. “To keep a check on unwanted movement of vehicles, we have installed barricades at all the important crossroads and chowks in Jalna,” he said. Beed police have also imposed similar restrictions and have asked petrol pumps to not sell fuel to private vehicles. “We have seized around 80 vehicles and the process of seizing more vehicles is under way,” superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said. Latur as well as Osmanabad police have also seized hundreds of vehicles in the past couple of days for violating lockdown orders. Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan said police administration has decided to implement lockdown orders in letter and in spirit so that a check on the spread of Covid-19 can be brought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traffic-ban-on-city-roads-till-april-14-essential-service-vehicles-exempted/articleshow/74920612.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||This sanitary supervisor feeds his team members who keep Ooty clean||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A sanitary supervisor, 49-year-old S Manoharan is well aware times are such that sanitation can’t be taken a back seat now. He is equally aware of the woes of his team members, who have to walk long distances that too in the early hours of the day to report for duty that would go up until late in the evening. To ease some burden off them, he has taken the responsibility of serving them lunch on his shoulders. “I can’t bear to see some of the team members starving, while others are having food. So, I decided to arrange a cook and prepare lunch for my team members,” said Manoharan, one of the two sanitary supervisors with the Ooty municipality. He said the workload of sanitary workers has almost doubled with the Ooty municipality stepping up efforts to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “While we report for duty by anywhere between 6.30am and 7am, we call it a day only late in the evening. Of the 42 sanitary workers in my team, 22 are women. Many could not bring lunch, as they have to leave home for work early in the morning. Almost all the women workers have to walk at least 3km to 4km to reach the workplace, as no transportation is available,” Manoharan said. He has been providing lunch for all the 42 sanitary workers under him since the first day of lockdown. While some money is pooled in by workers, a lion’s share is met by Manohar. He also takes the trouble of distributing them lunch at their workplace. “I know the pain of workers. Making arrangements and providing them food give me immense satisfaction, that too in this time of crisis,” he said. He also ensures to drop the workers, who are coming from long distances, at their places in municipal vehicles. The wards he takes care of comprise Garden Road area, Kotagiri Road area, Coonoor Road area and Kozhipannai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-sanitary-supervisor-feeds-his-team-members-who-keep-ooty-clean/articleshow/74921278.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Autorickshaw driver unions demand aid||Aurangabad: The autorickshaw drivers’ unions have asked the state government to provide relief for their members amid restrictions on movement of their vehicles due to Covid-19. Stating that even construction workers have been considered for relief measures, the unions have stressed on the need for similar arrangement for autorickshaw drivers citing financial crunch. Nisar Ahmed Khan, an union leader, said families of autorickshaw drivers are struggling to make ends meet. “The daily income of the majority of autorickshaw drivers has reduced to zero. On the other hand, there is no escape from daily expenses and other liabilities. The government must extend a helping hand to the families of autorickshaw drivers during the current crisis,” he said. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the autorickshaw unions have said that they do not oppose the lockdown, but the government must pay attention to the deteriorating financial condition of auto drivers. Several auto drivers said they were facing unnecessary action even if they ferry passengers as per rules. “The government has imposed a ban on sharing of auto rickshaw by passengers, but couple of passengers can easily travel in case of any urgency. The police standing on streets, however, are deterring our members against such trips as well,” Khan said. An auto-rickshaw driver said he had borrowed money for his daughter’s marriage and now he is no position to repay it. “While banks have been told to delay recovery of EMIs for three months, private lenders are not willing to wait. As earnings have taken a dip, I do not know how to repay the money,” he said. As per official data, Aurangabad city has over 27,000 autorickshaws. State Congress delegate Jitendra Dehade said issues faced by auto rickshaw drivers would be brought to the notice of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/autorickshaw-driver-unions-demand-aid/articleshow/74920618.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC staff to donate to PM CARES Fund||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has decided that all judicial officers in the HC registry and related departments and other officers and staff will contribute to the PM CARES Fund to ‘strengthen’ the government in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Responding to the government’s appeal, in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s functioning style of public participation, the HC’s chief justice decided that judicial officers deputed to HC and its registry may contribute salary of a day’s or two to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund. In a circular, the HC registrar stated, “Extraordinary crisis requires extraordinary measures… this is the time for us to offer something to the state to strengthen its hands.” It further said that many officers and staff of HC the registry expressed wishes before the chief justice that they wanted to donate to the fund for the government to fight the epidemic. Therefore, the chief justice decided that judicial officers on deputation to HC, the judicial academy and legal aid authority as well as Class 1 officers in HC registry will donate two days’ salary, and other staff and officers will contribute their one day’s salary to the fund. Those who wish to donate more are free to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-staff-to-donate-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/74921327.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Salem||Case filed against three for violating home quarantine norms in Salem||SALEM: Police registered a case against three people who were under home quarantine but found roaming in the city on Tuesday. Police also warned them that they would be put behind bars if they repeat the offence in future. As many as 820 people are under home quarantine in the district while 23 people have been admitted to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in the city with symptoms of Covid-19. “Of them, six people have tested positive,” collector S A Raman said. The health department officials have affixed stickers on the houses to identity home quarantined people. They are also keeping a check on those houses twice a day. On Monday evening, the health department officials went to three houses at Shevapet and Kitchipalayam areas in the city. “During our checking, one person from Kitchipalayam and two from Shevapet were missing from their houses,” a senior official from the district health department said, adding that they had gone for a walk and grocery shopping. The Kitchipalayam and Shevapet police registered cases under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous life) of the IPC against them. Police warned that they would take severe action and register cases against those defying norms in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/case-filed-against-three-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms/articleshow/74921282.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown impact: Distressed farmers destroy watermelons, leave them to rot||HUBBALLI: Driven to despair by the consequences of coronavirus outbreak, watermelon growers in Hesaruru and surrounding villages in Mundargi taluk of Gadag district have destroyed their crops to save themselves from incurring further losses. With no takers for their produce in the market due to lockdown, farmers on Sunday ploughed their watermelon fields with tractors uprooting the plants. Speaking to TOI, Vishwanth Gaddad, a farmer in Hesaruru village said, “I had grown watermelon on four acres of land, investing Rs 88,000. A few days before the lockdown, some traders visited my field and agreed to buy watermelons for Rs 10,000 to 12,000 per tonne. We were expecting to get good returns this time as temperature is soaring high. But all our hopes have been dashed after the announcement for lockdown,” he said. “Soon after the announcement, traders called to say that they won’t buy watermelons as markets have been shut down. We waited for a couple more days, but no one came to buy the melons. Finally, we had no option but to destroy the crops. Before doing that we allowed people to take as many melons as they could. Some farmers in the neighbouring villages too destroyed their crops in the same way,” he added. “Only 20% of farmers who had done harvesting before the lockdown managed to sell their produce, while rest of us are now in great loss,” said another farmer. In a neighbouring village, where watermelons grown on about 30 acres of land have been left to rot or destroyed by distressed farmers, said villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-impact-distressed-farmers-destroy-watermelons-leave-them-to-rot/articleshow/74920619.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Let migrant workers go, they will return: Traders||Ludhiana: Amid the Covid-19 crisis and exodus of migrant labourers and workers from Punjab and the neighbouring states back to their home on foot, a large number of Ludhiana businessmen doesn’t seem to be unnerved as according to them factory workers in Ludhiana are still staying in the city, and even if they leave they will return to the city. They said there were several reasons like high earnings and prosperity as compared to their home states and therefore they will return after the situation turns normal. In an unusual request, businessmen are urging the state and the central governments to not stop people who want to leave Punjab and the neighbouring states as they are in panic and stress. If stopped, they would take to more desperate ways to reach their homes. The governments should instead systematically send them to their native places by adopting all the precautionary measures. Giving more information, Harish Kairpal, a leading garment exporter and finance secretary of the Knitwear Club, said, “Panic has gripped the migrants living in Punjab ever since the lockdown started and in a bid to be together with their families at their native places, they set upon journey on foot to their home states. It is a sad situation indeed, but as far as factory workers are concerned, there is a very small percentage of who have left Ludhiana as of now. This is because businessmen are doing their best to help these workers with money, ration and other facilities. Moreover, almost all the factory workers have mobile phones and use social media and they are aware that at this time of the crisis, it is better they stay where they are.” Kairpal also added, “On behalf of our association, we request the central, Punjab and other state governments that instead of stopping the migrants send them to their native states systematically. If this is not done, then consequences will be dangerous as these people can go to any extent to reach their home state.” According to Bobby Jindal, president of the Ludhiana dyers’ association, “There is no harm if migrant labourers and factory workers who want to go back to their native places are sent back by adopting all the precautionary measures. This will reduce their tension and will also do away with the risk of spread of coronavirus among them. The governments should help them in reaching their native states. If we stop them now, it will be a futile exercise as they are in panic. Moreover, these people know that their earnings and chances of prosperity are high in states like Punjab as compared to their home states, and when Covid-19 crisis is over, they will certainly come back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/let-migrant-workers-go-they-will-return-traders/articleshow/74918754.cms||Mohit Behl
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Exodus, transport woes hit food processing sector||AHMEDABAD: As the 21-day lockdown entered the seventh day on Tuesday, manufacturers of edible oils and spices and flour, among other food products, raised concerns over production problems and the consequent shortage of essential commodities. They cite the exodus of migrant labourers as a factor. Left without work in the lockdown, thousands of migrant labourers — a large part of the workforce in factories and in transport and distribution sectors — have returned to their villages in Gujarat and in neighbouring states. Without the workers, manufacturers say they are neither able to operate at full capacity nor keep the supply chain of essential commodities and FMCG running smoothly. Industry estimates suggest that factories are either shut or are operating at 50-60% production capacity against the pre-lockdown period. “Several labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. “Despite automation, one needs manpower for several processes,” Mallick said. “However, with the labour shortage, these processes get slower.” Mallick also spoke of shortage of packaging material faced by manufacturing units. “Cartons used for packaging are in limited stock and are unavailable due to transport constraints,” he said. Samir Shah, president, Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA), said, “Production at factories is getting impacted at units where the raw material stocks are diminishing.” Shah said: “Due to transport constraints, raw materials which are not essential commodities are not getting transported. This is hitting production.” Even as the government has facilitated the transport of non-essential items, transporters are also plagued by a severe manpower shortage with the migrant labourer exodus, thus causing supply-chain problems. “At least 90% of my workforce of drivers as well as labourers is absent and the ones working are unable to reach the transport hub due to the stoppage of public transport,” said Mukesh Dave, president, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exodus-transport-woes-hit-food-processing-sector/articleshow/74921325.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Virus jokes to invite strict action: Cops||Aurangabad: The city police have warned to take strict action against those who are found playing a prank or cracking jokes related to coronavirus on April 1 on social media or even otherwise on account of April Fool’s Day. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We want citizens to abstain from playing any kind of prank related to Covid-19. Those who do so will face legal consequences.” Deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) Meena Makwana issued a public notice under section 68 of Maharashtra Police Act on Monday citing that she was convinced that people may crack jokes related to Covid-19,which may snowball into a law and order situation. She even warned that if any person was found playing a prank, an offence would be registered against him under section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities) of the IPC. Police authorities have even asked administrators of Whatsapp groups to change the settings and restrict posting of any messages related to Covid-19 on April 1. “If need be, police will not hesitate to slap sections of the Information Technology Act, making the offence cognizable and non-bailable,” said a senior police officer. State home minister Anil Deshmukh too has released a video appealing to people to abstain from cracking jokes or playing a prank on friends, acquaintances or relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/virus-jokes-to-invite-strict-action-cops/articleshow/74920627.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen term PPCB’s move a futile exercise||Ludhiana: In a big step taken by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday evening, the department has decided to extend the validity period of various permissions, including consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration and other mandatory regulatory clearances for industry till June 30. This is another booster for businessmen who are desirous of operating their factories under the lockdown. In his order issued on Monday, Karunesh Garg, member secretary of PPCB, said, “In view of the lockdown due to outbreak of the pandemic novel coronavirus, it has been decided that the validity period of the consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration or any kind of mandatory regulatory clearances which comes under the domain of the Punjab Pollution Control Board and having expiry on and after March 15 shall be extended up to June 30, 2020.” However, businessmen are divided over the decision of the PPCB. Garg also added, “This initiative of the state government will help those businessmen immensely who want to operate their factories in the wake of the present lockdown. On behalf of the PPCB, I request the industrialists who meet the eligibility criteria for operating their units laid down by the Punjab government that they should come out in large numbers and make use of this opportunity.” However, it is yet unclear whether this initiative of the PPCB will be able to encourage businessmen to open their units as already a majority of business associations of Ludhiana have refused to avail the offer. Meanwhile, commenting on the decision of the PPCB, Sanjeev Goyal, a manufacturer of auto parts, said, “The PPCB’s decision to extend the existing permissions automatically and auto approval of new permissions till June 30 is commendable and it will prove to be of great help.” According to Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), “The decision of the PPCB to extend the already given necessary permissions is of no use and is a futile exercise. Rather than asking its departments to indulge in wasteful exercises of issuing such orders, the Punjab government should come out with a relief package for us which will be of great help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-term-ppcbs-move-a-futile-exercise/articleshow/74918749.cms||Mohit Behl
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Sale of petrol, diesel goes down from 6,000-litre daily to 1,000-litre||Ludhiana: Due to coronavirus, only essential things are going to be in service for the people. Petrol is an essential thing, but somehow, petrol pumps are not even making their daily sales properly. While talking to Kamal, an employee at a petrol pump near Bharat Nagar Chowk, said, “It is a tensed situation. I used to come to the petrol pump at 9 am daily and I used to fill 100 vehicles per day, but now not even a single vehicle comes to the station because of the curfew.” Deepak, another employee working at a petrol pump on Pakhowal road, said, “The sale is zero, but what to do, we have to be there for people. When there was no curfew, we used to sell around 5,000 litre of petrol and diesel, but now it has come to only 500 litre, including diesel and petrol, which is problematic. We know how we are taking salaries from our employer.” “There are at least 20 persons working at our petrol pump, but due to this problematic time, we just allow 5 persons to work and we change the shift after one day. Earlier it was changing two to three times daily so the employees could take rest, but now the daily service is too low that we don’t need to change fillers as they are not tired. I guess, nearly 1,000 litre of petrol and diesel is being sold daily which was around 6,000 to 7,000 litre earlier,” said Rajesh Sood, manager of a petrol pump near Fountain Chowk. While talking to Palak, a student who was at a petrol pump to get her vehicle filled, said, “The lockdown has left a great impact on people and their earnings. Being from a business-class family, I know how it feels if the sale decreases. Petrol pumps used to sell 6,000 to 7,000 liter petrol and diesel per day, but the lockdown has reduced their sales. The government should take a step towards the petrol pumps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sale-of-petrol-diesel-goes-down-from-6000-litre-daily-to-1000-litre/articleshow/74918758.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Elderly man cycles 110km to bail out nephew in Vadodara||VADODARA: Three days back 66-year-old Rama Panchal received a call from Vadodara Central Jail to inform him that his nephew Sanjay Panchal has been given bail and that the elderly man should reach the jail to pay bail amount of Rs 500. After the call, Panchal was ecstatic that his nephew whom he had brought up like his own son will be back home. At the same time he was worried thinking how he will raise Rs500. On Tuesday, Panchal decided to mortgage his television to his neighbour at Hirapur village in Daskroi taluka of Ahmedabad for Rs1,000 and set off on 110 kilometre journey on his bicycle around 8am. Around 4pm, Panchal, exhausted without food and water reached Chhani octroi post. On seeing his condition, members of NGO Team Revolution stopped him. “We were distributing food packets and on learning that he had cycled all the way from Ahmedabad without food and water, we were left shocked. Our volunteers gave him tea and snacks so that he could get some energy and took him to jail in our vehicle,” said Swejal Vyas of the NGO. Panchal’s problem did not end there. The elderly man suffered a setback on reaching the jail to know that the three-day-old bail order had been cancelled and Sanjay cannot be released anymore. “The man has been left broken as he managed to reach here after so many hardships and will not be able to take his nephew back. We will be taking him to the district collector as the jail officials didn’t even care to inform him again that the bail order has been cancelled,” Vyas said. Panchal said Sanjay, who owns a bicycle repair shop, was arrested three months ago for unknowingly buying stolen tyres from a gang of thieves. Asked why he decided to cycle, Panchal said he could not any vehicle. "There was a car driver who offered to drive me to Vadodara, but he demanded Rs500. But since the money was for bail, I had to cycle down," Panchal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/elderly-man-cycles-110km-to-bail-out-nephew-in-vadodara/articleshow/74919328.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||After brief snag, GMC’s virology lab back on track||Panaji: After a minor snag, the newly set up virology laboratory of Goa Medical College was made functional and 14 swab samples were tested on Tuesday reports of which are awaited. Earlier in the day, four samples that were tested were all negative for Covid-19. The virology laboratory was made functional on Sunday after a trial late Saturday evening. “Earlier in the day four samples were tested and the 14 samples tested in the evening will be ready by 12pm,” health minister Vishwajit Rane said. Rane said head of microbiology department at GMC Dr Savio Rodrigues has informed him that the entire set up of the laboratory is ready. “The laboratory testing facility has been streamlined. Tomorrow (Wednesday), we expect to test 20 to 25 samples,” he said. After the new laboratory developed a problem early Tuesday, 62 samples were sent for testing to the National Institute of Technology (NIV) at Pune. The state government fast-tracked the setting of virology laboratory as it was compelled to rely on facilities outside Goa. It also meant a waiting period of two to three days to receive results. With its own facility now, test reports will be received within a shorter span. Rane said they will get results within a day. Of six samples sent to the GMC laboratory on Monday, four tested negative for Covid-19 while two reports are awaited. As many as 16 suspects were admitted to the isolation ward of GMC and 17 persons were quarantined on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-brief-snag-gmcs-virology-lab-back-on-track/articleshow/74921294.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 may cause lung ailments even after patient recovers||Intishab.Ali@timesgroup.com JAIPUR: Those recovering from Covid-19 have a long battle to win. Chances are high that they will develop pulmonary fibrosis, a group of disorders that cause progressive scarring of lung tissues. Health minister Raghu Sharma announced that 14 persons have already been tested negative for Covid-19 after undergoing treatment in government hospital. Health experts claimed that virus infiltrates into lungs and damages it. Recently, a 69-year-old Italian tourist, who tested positive for Covid-19, recovered from the disease but he died of cardiac arrest. The doctors who treated him told that since he was already suffering from pre-existing lung diseases, Covid-19 further damaged it. Pulmonary fibrosis, is also known as fibrotic scarring, occurs when the lung tissues become damaged and scarred. “Even after a patient recovers from Covid-19, there are chances of developing interstitial lung disease, which will remain throughout his life,” Dr CL Nawal, senior professor (medicine), Sawai Man Singh Hospital, who was treating two Covid-19 patients who were brought from Jhunjhunu after being diagnosed with the disease, said. Both the patients later tested negative for the virus. However, doctors also claimed that the ILD due to Covid-19 is not progressive. “There are western literature available which shows that 80% of patients recover from the disease. However, in 15% of the cases, it damages the lungs and in 5% cases it damages lungs severely,” said Dr Virendra Singh, national coordinator, ILD India Registry, who is based in Jaipur said. Singh said fibrosis was present in swine flu cases too, who required ventilator support. “It is not that kind of ILD, which is progressive in nature. Since it is caused by virus, fibrosis is non-progressive. Once the patient tests negative, the virus will not damage the lungs further,” he said. However, Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor (respiratory disease) SMS Medical College, who is helping Bhilwara doctors in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients said, “People who have comorbidities or underlying diseases such as diabetes, chronic kidney disease or having pre-existing lung diseases should remain careful. Once they are infected with Covid-19, there are high chances of them getting scarring on the lungs due to virus. Among these patients, the CT scan of lungs shows the presence of hazy lung opacity. However, among other patients who do not have comorbidities and underlying diseases, there are very less chances of fibrosis. Those five patients, tested negative in Bhilwara, we did not find any hazy lung opacity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-may-cause-lung-ailments-even-after-patient-recovers/articleshow/74921293.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Focus on Markaz Nizamuddin after rise in Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: With a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the two states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of the disease when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train while a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from Telangana and AP have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to lockdown. As the congregation was held with people sitting and offering prayers close to one another for over three days with infected foreign nationals in an enclosed atmosphere, it led to easy spread of the virus among the delegates. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform on helpline No. 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. While some people on social media are blaming the Markaz event, Moulana Yusuf, a senior official of the Jamaat, issued a clarification that of the 2,500 people who attended the event, 1,500 managed to leave for their home. The lockdown by Delhi government and later by the Centre had forced the remaining 1,000 people to stay back. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic. Throughout its 100-year existence, Markaz Nizamuddin has an unblemished history of cooperating with administration an upholding the rule of law in letter and spirit,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. A majority of people in quarantine in Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts in Telangana had attended the event. Many are yet to be traced in both states. Muslim religious leaders stepped in and and urged people, who attended the Markaz meet, to undergo Covid-19 tests and cooperate with the government officials. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said all those with Covid-19 symptoms have been quarantined. Even relatives and close contacts were kept in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/focus-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/74930869.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on Markaz Nizamuddin after rise in Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: With a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the focus has now shifted to ‘Markaz’ (central office) of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin basti of old Delhi. About 1,800 people from both Telugu states had attended the biannual three-day session, which was held from March 15. Most of the positive cases reported in the two states are either participants at the congregation or their close contacts. All six deaths reported thus far in Telangana are linked to old Delhi. The virus spread among the locals, as some participants came from Covid-19 affected countries, including Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. None of the participants had shown symptoms of the disease when they left the Markaz before the official lockdown. About 1,000 people, including some from the Telugu states, are still stranded at the Jamaat headquarters. Most of them had travelled by train while a few by air. The first victim of coronavirus in Telangana went to Delhi by train and returned to Hyderabad by air after his health deteriorated. According to Jamaat sources, 746 people from AP and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from Telangana and AP have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some are in Delhi and could not reach their homes due to lockdown. As the congregation was held with people sitting and offering prayers close to one another for over three days with infected foreign nationals in an enclosed atmosphere, it led to easy spread of the virus among the delegates. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP, has appealed to the attendees to voluntarily notify themselves before district collectors. “They can also inform on helpline No. 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus,” Rizvi said. While some people on social media are blaming the Markaz event, Moulana Yusuf, a senior official of the Jamaat, issued a clarification that of the 2,500 people who attended the event, 1,500 managed to leave for their home. The lockdown by Delhi government and later by the Centre had forced the remaining 1,000 people to stay back. “Markaz offers the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help authorities tide over the challenge of current pandemic. Throughout its 100-year existence, Markaz Nizamuddin has an unblemished history of cooperating with administration an upholding the rule of law in letter and spirit,” he said. Out of the 40 cases reported in AP, 22 people had attended the Delhi meeting or came in contact with the participants. A majority of people in quarantine in Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts in Telangana had attended the event. Many are yet to be traced in both states. Muslim religious leaders stepped in and and urged people, who attended the Markaz meet, to undergo Covid-19 tests and cooperate with the government officials. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said all those with Covid-19 symptoms have been quarantined. Even relatives and close contacts were kept in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-markaz-nizamuddin-after-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/74920663.cms||Syed Akbar
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Appeal made for waiver of tanker water supply fee||Aurangabad: Party functionaries and civic activists have sought a waiver in the charges taken by the civic administration to supply water through tankers to the areas which don’t have a pipeline connection. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) charges Rs 1,100 in advance for supplying 200 litre water every alternate day to areas like Misarwadi, Jai Bhawani Nagar, Mukundwadi, Bharat Nagar, Vishranti Nagar, Chikalthana, Harsul, Jatwada and Padegaon which do not have tap water supply. In a letter directed to municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, Congress group leader in AMC Bhausahab Jagtap said that many people living in the areas, which have no pipeline connection, were jobless due to the imposition of the lockdown. “The AMC should consider giving them free water supply at least till the lockdown ends,” Jagtap said. A similar demand has also been raised by Aurangabad East MLA Atul Save. A large part of Save’s assembly constituency comprises of gunthewari areas which are dependent on the AMC for water supply. The residents have been pursuing the legislator for piped water supply for long. Civic activist Rahul Ingle has been raising the demand for free water supply in the no-pipeline areas for more than two years. “The tap water users are charged Rs 4,050. The residents using tanker supply pay a whopping Rs 4400 that too for limited supply,” he said. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey told TOI, “The AMC is already low on funds and the tax recovery has also tanked. We can continue to provide essential services when we have some money with us otherwise the existing system will also collapse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/appeal-made-for-waiver-of-tanker-water-supply-fee/articleshow/74920629.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Met issues ‘yellow’ weather warning for rain, hail in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre has issued a fresh yellow-colour weather warning for rain and hailstorm in Uttarakhand, especially in the hills, during the next 36 hours starting from Tuesday evening. The Met centre in Dehradun issued the warning of hail accompanied by lightning and gusty winds in the hills of Uttarakhand and light to moderate rainfall in the plains and foothills on April 1. “The weather has already started changing at several places in the hills, under the influence of western disturbance, on Tuesday itself. Even Dehradun witnessed cloudy weather throughout the day,” said regional meteorological centre director Bikram Singh. Singh added that the wet spell is likely to get fully over by April 2 and dry weather is going to prevail across Uttarakhand from April 3 onwards. Meanwhile, the mercury has increased across Uttarakhand with maximum temperature in Dehradun on Tuesday recorded at 30.1 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, while the minimum temperature remained at 13.5 degrees Celsius. Highest maximum temperature at 32.6 degrees Celsius was recorded at Roorkee, while Mukteshwar remained the coldest place with mercury settling at 9.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issues-yellow-weather-warning-for-rain-hail-in-ukhand/articleshow/74920636.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 10 evacuees from Iran among 14 test positive for Covid-19||JAIPUR: Fourteen people, including 10 evacuees from Iran, were diagnosed with Covid-19 till Tuesday afternoon, taking the total number of cases to 93 in the state. One each case has been reported from Jhunjhunu, Dungarpur, Jaipur and Ajmer. Among the 93, there are 17 who were airlifted and quarantined at Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. In Ajmer, 17-year-old sister of the 23-year-old salesman, who had toured several districts of Punjab before reaching Ajmer, where he was diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 28, has also been tested positive. His other family members, including 57-year-old father, 40-year-old mother and 20-year-old brother, were already found infected with the virus on March 29. His 17-year-old sister was tested negative on March 29, but now she has been found infected with the virus, said hospital sources. In Dungarpur, two persons — a 48-year-old man and his 14-year-old son, were diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 27. They had covered long distance from Indore to Dungarpur by motorbike. Now, the 48-year-old person’s father might have contracted the virus from his son and grandson. Besides, in Jhunjhunu, a 44-year-old person who had recently returned from Dubai has been found infected with the virus. A case has also been reported from Jagannathji Ki Gali in the Walled City area, where a 60-year-old man was found suffering from influenza-like illness. Since his condition was serious, the doctors at SMS Hospital admitted him to the medical ICU. Health department officials said the 60-year-old man came in contact with a Covid-19 patient, who lives in Phhuta Khurra. So far, 13 people have been found infected with the virus in the Walled City area, which is now turning into a Covid-19 hotbed. Besides, 10 more people who were airlifted from Iran and kept in a quarantine facility in Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, tested positive. On Monday, seven evacuees were found infected with the virus. Eight of them are undergoing treatment at SN Medical College, Jodhpur, while nine have been admitted to AIIMS, Jodhpur. “Out of 26 Covid-19 positive cases in Bhilwara, 13 have recovered and tested negative for the disease,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-evacuees-from-iran-among-14-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74921295.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restaurants allowed takeaway orders||AHMEDABAD: Tired of cooking in lockdown days? Well, you may now be able to order food from nearby restaurants. In a major relief to restaurants across the city, the civic authorities have now permitted restaurants to operate, albeit for takeaways only. Industry stakeholders believe the move will benefit restaurant business which was already reeling through a tough time. According to the new provision, restaurants can operate their kitchens and offer home delivery of food; however, special permissions need to be obtained from the civic body’s health department, for facilitating movement of delivery personnel during the time of lockdown. Special passes will be issued by the health department, said industry sources. “The move will indeed benefit restaurants because they will be able to get back in business. In the initial days, orders are less because people are still reluctant of consuming food not prepared at home. However, we are repeatedly reassuring our customers of maintaining due quality and hygiene and therefore, we expect orders to grow as the days pass,” said Rohit Khanna, a city-based restaurateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurants-allowed-takeaway-orders/articleshow/74921320.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Shobhayatra cancelled||Nagpur: After the shobhayatra scheduled on April 2 at the Ram Mandir in Ram Nagar was cancelled, the Poddareshwar Ram Mandir off Central Avenue Road, too, decided to follow suit due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. According to the trustees, a lot of time, money and effort went into making plans and preparations for the annual mega event. “Many people worked hard to make the event a grand success,” said Puneet Poddar. After keeping all precautionary measures in mind, it has been decided to take out the procession ‘tentatively’ on Janki Navami, which comes in April. Though chances of it taking place are remote, the organizers are hoping for the best. The puja and aarti during Ram Navami will be performed in the temple and will be streamed live on Facebook and on UCN between 12.30-1.30pm. “No procession will be taken out until the coronavirus situation is under control. We will positively take out the shobhayatra 15 days after the approval of the government stating that everything has been normalized now,” said Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shobhayatra-cancelled/articleshow/74921639.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government to appoint doctors on contract basis||GANDHINAGAR: The state health & family welfare department for the first time decided to appoint senior doctors as teaching staff in government medical colleges on an 11-month contract basis. This decision has been taken due to non-availability of permanent medical teaching staff in government-run medical colleges across the state. V G Vanzara, additional secretary, health & family welfare department, through a government resolution on Tuesday, said that, “Non-availability of qualified teaching staff at government and allied medical colleges for a long period has an impact on necessary approvals apart from hampering medical education. Government will appoint senior doctors on 11-months contract basis who can either work full-time or work in government colleges even while carrying on with their practice. The government resolution said that the class I grade professors will be paid Rs 1.84 lakh per month for non-practicing full time service while practicing doctors will be given Rs 1.60 lakh per month fixed amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-appoint-docs-on-contract-basis/articleshow/74921299.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||NGOs, volunteers reach out to feed Bengaluru's hungry||BENGALURU: As fear of hunger and starvation sets in among the economically underprivileged because of Covid-19, good Samaritans in the city are rising to the occasion. Several not-for-profits have started delivering rations and cooked meals to the needy — daily wage earners, migrant labourers and old age home inmates, among others. Mercy Mission, a conglomerate of 17 NGOs in the city formed on March 19, has delivered around 9,000 food packets made in its five kitchens and 900 ration kits. It has a team of doctors and nurses that can help people in quarantine and stranded conditions. They have also kept a team ready to help with funerals in case the need arises. The group has also formed a team of volunteers to help the elderly procure daily essentials and another one to raise awareness. From its kitchen at Palace Grounds, the Jain International Trade Organisation has sent out two sets of meals to 14,000 needy people. The group received the list of people from the labour department, police and BBMP and has divided the city into six zones for delivery. With a current budget of Rs 1.5 crore, the group hopes to continue the service till April 14. Apart from giving groceries, the archdiocese of Bangalore of the Roman Catholic church has made arrangements to house the migrants and homeless in different places, including St. Philomena’s School, Railway Colony; St. Joseph’s School, Briand Square and St. Xavier’s School, Shivajinagar. Procurement tough for NGOs tooHowever, some volunteers are finding it difficult to procure goods. “People were extremely generous in contributing money. But to procure items in bulk quantity—like 4,000kg of rice—was difficult as everyone is running out of stock. After we completed procurement and due police procedures, we started distribution, only to face utter chaos. While we were planning to distribute food to 150 families in a community behind Sakra World Hospital, around 600 people thronged us. The levels of desperation were so high. We could not complete the distribution there and had to leave,” said Rizwan Ahmed, community leader, Gubbachi Learning Centre. The centre caters to students of migrant daily-wage workers. Abhyudaya that runs free learning centres in slums distributed 170 grocery kits and plans to give away 200 more. “It was difficult find groceries as big shops remained either closed or ran out of stock,” said a volunteer. Nalini Shekhar, co-founder of Hasiru Dala, which has distributed ration kits to 500 families, says she has never seen such levels of desperation. “I have worked during various calamities. But I have never experienced this level of desperation before. The uncertainty that is looming over us has resulted in a lot of despair, especially among the daily wage earners, whose livelihood is affected,” she said. Hasiru Dala will distribute another 1,400 ration kits on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngos-volunteers-reach-out-to-feed-citys-hungry/articleshow/74920891.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Indore||Indore under total lockdown till Monday||Indore: The Indore administration is preparing for a surge in Covid-19 cases, possibly as high as 150 in the city itself, and the first step was to extend the total lockdown to a week. Till next Monday, everything in the commercial hub of Central India stays shut — medicines, milk supply and print and electronic media being the only things open. “We are anticipating a rise in number of Covid-19 patients up to 100 or 150. We all should be mentally prepared for this. Areas like Ranipura, Nayapura, Daulatganj and Hatipala will need to be contained. We have started a survey in these areas to identify primary and secondary contacts of the Covid-positive cases and they are being shifted to quarantine facilities,” said Indore collector Manish Singh. All 17 coronavirus patients, identified in Indore on Tuesday, were in the quarantine facility in Asrawadkhurd area as they were in close contact of those who had earlier tested positive for the virus, the collector said . The administration is gearing up for the challenge. The required number of quarantine facilities, including those set up in marriage gardens and hotels, have been arranged while hospitals have been classified into different categories for treatment of patients, he added. “Dedicated teams of administrative officials and doctors have been formed to survey suspected cases and for sampling, treatment and inventory management,” Singh said. The collector appealed to Indoreans to stay at home for the duration of the complete lockdown and assured them that arrangements have been made for home delivery of milk, medicines and ration. “Safety of government employees and others involved in battling the Covid-19 outbreak has been ensured,” said collector, adding that all health employees will be insured under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package — Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting for Covid-19 — and are being provided with personal protection equipment. Covid-19 may have spread fast, but it is not as deadly as swine flu as maximum coronavirus patients get cured, he assured. “Indians have resistance power to combat the virus but there are densely populated areas, where we are working to check its spread,” said Singh, adding that Aanganwadi, Asha and ANM workers have been roped in to distribute ‘immunity-boosting medicines’ in different areas. IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said a control room has been set up in AICTSL’s building, where calls are received on suspected Coronavirus patients and information is passed on to rapid response teams for checks. On an average, 100 calls come in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-under-total-lockdown-till-monday/articleshow/74920651.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Two sons of deceased woman run from isolation ward, nabbed later||Ludhiana: Panic gripped the civil hospital on Tuesday afternoon when the medical staff and police authorities came to known that both the sons of the deceased woman ran away from the isolation ward of the civil hospital after breaking the glass of window. The medical staff of the hospital informed the police after they did not find them in the isolation ward. Within a few minutes, the local police initiated action against the two and pitched in a team of the local police for tracking them and bring them back to the civil hospital. As both of them were going towards their locality in Amrapura, people residing in the nearby areas identified them and called the police. The police then reached the spot and nabbed the two brothers and brought them back to the isolation ward of the civil hospital for treatment. Sources in the health department said, “Lack of security arrangements of the hospital authorities has been exposed. The local health authorities admitted the two brothers to the isolation ward of the hospital for conducting sample test, but they escaped from the ward.” A sense of fear has aroused among the medical staff of the civil hospital after they got information about the two brothers running from the isolating ward. The medical staff has demanded to increase the safety of the hospital authorities. Giving information, in charge of the civil aviation police station, Rajinder Singh, said, “After being informed, the local police caught the two within no time as they were roaming in Field Ganj. They were brought back to the isolation ward of the hospital.” Confirming the whole incident, one of doctors in the emergency ward of the civil hospital, on condition of anonymity, said, “There are total four medical staff who were treating the deceased woman infected with Covid-19 when she reached the isolation ward of the civil hospital, but higher authorities are yet to give us exemption from tough duty hours.” He said they made several requests before the higher authorities for placing them under home quarantine for the next five days, but to no avail as they were still in the hospital and getting prepared for another 12 hours tough job.” Family members of all the four medical staff are in fear and have also raised the demand to place them under observation. Sources in the health department said, “Due to shortage of medical staff, the health authorities have refused to home quarantine them for the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-sons-of-deceased-woman-run-from-isolation-ward-nabbed-later/articleshow/74918806.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 1, 2020||Goa||PWD issues IDs for pump operators to ensure supply||Panaji: To ensure continued water supply to the state, the public works department (PWD) has issued identity cards to the department’s pump operators, who are responsible for supplying drinking water. Some areas in the state had experienced shortage of water supply after the nationwide lockdown became effective. PWD officials said that some of the pump operators were afraid to step out or that there may be have been delay in releasing water as some operators had to depend on public transport. “Some of the operators feared action against them if they stepped out. Now operations have been streamlined after the operators were issued cards. We have ensured that supply is not affected to any area during these times,” said an official. With access rainfall during the last monsoon season and additionally with the new 27MLD plant at Opa operational, the state can expect better water supply during this summer, after acute drinking water shortage last year. For residents of Kadamba plateau, however, the struggle for access to water continues. They were expected to get water supply connections for the first time after the treatment plant at Opa was commissioned. But the work of getting the connections is now at a standstill. Residents continue to receive supply by water tankers, whose movement has reduced since the lockdown. It means that Kadamba plateau residents have to ration their use of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-issues-ids-for-pump-operators-to-ensure-supply/articleshow/74921297.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Four booked for assaulting cops, health worker in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police on Monday booked four people, including one who violated home quarantine orders, for allegedly assaulting police and a health worker at Nyatarpu village in Belthangady. Police said that two constables attached to Belthangady police station and a health worker visited the house of a person ordered home quarantine, but noticed him roaming outside without any safety measure. When asked about the violation, the person ordered home quarantine and three others – Masood Ali, Batish Ali and Akbar Ali – abused and assaulted the constables and health worker. A case has been registered under IPC sections 269, 270, 353 504 506 and 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/4-booked-for-assaulting-cops-health-worker/articleshow/74920649.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Identify those in need and then help: Activists||Aurangabad: Social activists and non-government organisations (NGO) have requested people to organise and plan in order to help the needy. The 21-day lockdown amid the outbreak of coronavirus has led to the shutting down of many businesses and industries. This has caused hardship for many daily wage workers, among many others. As a result, many people have come forward to help those in need, despite this many families are unable to take benefit of this. City-based Annamrita foundation is cooking meals for around 1,600 people every day with support many corporate and individual donations. The foundation has a capacity to cook around 2,000 meals per day. The cooked meal is being supplied based on schedule requests and distress calls. Branch manager Sudarshan Potbhare said, "We are able to meet all the requests coming to us. We do not know for how long the lockdown will continue so it is important that the resources are used wisely. We should be able to zero in on persons who are incapable of cooking food or those who depend on eateries for distributing food packets,” he said. Sameer Rajurkar, former corporator, has identified marginalized families in Samarth Nagar area and is providing groceries to them. “Instead of going pan city, it is better to stick to one's own ward, identify those who are poor and cannot get grain from public distribution system shops. This way each of the poor families can be covered," he said, adding that civic administration can also help in the process. When asked, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said it is a good suggestion and the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) can help in coordination. “A meeting of all NGOs willing to help has been called. We have decided that their areas will be divided so that they can focus on their efforts," he said. Pandey has also appealed to all the corporators to adopt 20 families in their respective wards and take care of their grocery needs as a moral responsibility towards the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/identify-those-in-need-and-then-help-activists/articleshow/74920642.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Civil hosp wakes up from slumber after woman, 42, dies of Covid-19||Ludhiana: Panic gripped in Amarpura Mohalla and Shimlapuri, a day after the death of a 42-year-old woman who died of coronavirus. As many as 30 throat swab samples have been taken of the close relatives of the woman and the staff members of the civil hospital. They have also been quarantined. Ever since the first death due to coronavirus, the department has woken up and have divided to separate departments to avoid the scare. Five members have been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital, including two sons of the deceased woman who initially ran away from the isolation ward and were later nabbed, one staff nurse and a class IV employee and person from Afghanistan. The ambulance driver too visited the civil hospital to give his sample. The old building and the OPD block registrations have been divided and the registrations will be done at the mother and child hospital. The doors will be closed from gate no 1 and the entry will be done gate no 2. The infant and the trauma ward and emergency ward have been separated and the blocks in the OPDs have been reserved for isolation ward. Those with flu-like symptoms will be checked at the flu corner and then assisted accordingly. Officials of the health department have asked for the medical records of the deceased woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civil-hosp-wakes-up-from-slumber-after-woman-42-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/74918813.cms||Mehak Jain
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Panic-gripped senior citizens stick to norms||Ludhiana: After a woman passed away in the city due to coronavirus, scare has gripped the residents, but the situation has turned complicated for senior citizens and ex-servicemen, who are bound to sit back at home as they are said to be more vulnerable to this disease. Senior citizens are sticking to the norms of the lockdown and are spending time with their grandchildren. They are also ensuring to take care of their friends and asking about their wellbeing through video calls or a normal phone call. Colonel D S Grewal (retd), president of the Basant Avenue senior citizens welfare association, said, “I am in touch with my other senior citizens in the locality and we have divided the members who call all others and ask them about their wellbeing.” He said they are trying to cheer up the members by calling them and advising them to sit back at home. He said this exercise has helped in keeping the spirit of the old people high at this time. He said they are ensuring that senior citizens should get required supply in time. Meanwhile, Brig H S Arora (retd), president of the Urban Estate Phase III army flats, said he was looking after a complex of 170 families of ex-servicemen by keeping in touch with them personally. “Anybody who comes for delivery of goods is stopped at the main gate of the complex and people are informed,” he said. He said even for walk or sitting in the lawn inside the complex, people get time turn-by-turn. Col Harbaksh Singh (retd), president of the Rajguru Nagar Welfare association, said, “I am keeping myself busy by taking doing some pending works one-by-one. I cleaned my house on the first day of the curfew and sorted my files. I am keeping myself busy this way.” He said he is living with his wife so he helps her in the day chores, whether it is cooking or doing some other work. He said he remains in touch with his friends, children and relatives living abroad through phone calls. Meanwhile, retired professor Gurcharan Singh from Rajguru Nagar said, “I am staying at home with my wife while both my sons are settled abroad. My elder one is in England and younger is in Poland.” He said they were spending time in their home while they remain worried about their sons and they stay connected with them through video calls. He said he had kept stock of groceries and other essential items. Col R S Sohi, president of the ex-servicemen welfare society, said they have collected Rs 10,000 each to help the needy and in case more funds are required, they are ready to pay. He said they use mobile phones and WhatsApp to remain in contact with each other and have conveyed senior citizens not to go out to buy anything as the association will ensure that all the essential items are delivered at their homes. He said he is also staying with his family, especially his grandchildren at home, as it is not advisable to move out. Harbhajan Singh Walia, from BRS Nagar senior citizens welfare association, said, “At the age of 72, not many things are requires, but essential items should be provided. The administration had claimed to provide everything at our doorstep, but the supply is short.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panic-gripped-senior-citizens-stick-to-norms/articleshow/74918824.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Onion growers struggle to sell produce||DAVANAGERE: Many onion growers in Challakere taluk of Chitradurga district are finding it difficult to sell their produce, as all the markets are closed due to the lockdown. The harvested onion has been heaped on their fields, or they have packed them in gunny bags and kept them in stacks, in wait for a purchaser. However, there are no buyers for their produce, as all the markets are closed. Onion growers fear that their produce may decay, if they are not stored in the warehouses of government agencies. There are no transportation facilities available in the region due to the lockdown, and they are hence helpless, said Puttamma, a farmer from Gopanahalli in Challakere taluk. “We have spent over Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 per acre for cultivating onions,” she added. “Even muskmelon and watermelon growers in Challakere and Hiriyur taluks of Chitradurga district are facing the same situation, and their produce is lying in the fields. If the government does not provide storage facilities or purchase the produce immediately, the farmers will sustain heavy losses,” Puttamma observed. A senior official from the Chitradurga horticulture department said that they have issued over 75 passes to farmers through tahsildars, for transporting their produce. “We are buying the produce from farmers through Hopcoms. Onion is being sent to Yeshwantpur Market in Bengaluru, and tomato is being sent to Kolar and Bananan, and is being sold locally there. Tomatoes are also being sent to the Yeshwantpur Market,” the official added. PC: A farmer stores onions in bags on his field in Challakere taluk of Chitradurga district A flowering onion, an indication of approaching decay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/onion-growers-struggle-to-sell-produce/articleshow/74919698.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vismay Shah gets more time to surrender||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday granted more time to Vismay Shah to surrender to prison authorities in connection with the 2013 BMW hit-and-run case in which two youths were killed. Shah has been convicted to five years in jail for the same. After the HC on February 17 upheld the trial court’s order of convicting Shah in 2015, it gave six weeks to the convict to surrender to prison authorities and he could approach the Supreme Court by then for any relief against the HC’s order upholding his conviction. Shah’s advocate Maunish Pathak submitted that because of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, Shah’s case could not be heard in March and he did not have any other remedy against the HC order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vismay-gets-more-time-to-surrender/articleshow/74921319.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||PharmD pupils offer help for non-Covid cases||Aurangabad: The students and graduates of the six-year Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) course have sent a letter to the state and the central health ministries seeking permission to provide healthcare to those patients suffering from ailments other than Covid-19. The health machinery of the country is under immense pressure, compelling the doctors and physicians to work day in and day out for the prevention and management of the pandemic. In letters emailed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and state public health minister Rajesh Tope on March 28, National Doctor of Pharmacy Association’s president Ramprasad Nagare has stated that while all health machinery is focussed on Covid-19, questions arise on the care given to patients suffering from other ailments. “In the rural and underdeveloped communities and in areas plagued by shortage of physicians, pharmacists may be the only healthcare provider who is immediately accessible to patients. Empowering clinical pharmacists to play a bigger role in ambulatory care and emergency triage could allow physicians to focus on the more acutely ill,” stated Nagare in the letters. “There are 42,700 students in different states enrolled in the programme and 29,700 PharmD qualified persons across India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pharmd-pupils-offer-help-for-non-covid-cases/articleshow/74920654.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Jaipur||He doesn’t cheat customers, offers fruits to kids||JAIPUR: While lockdown has slowed down the daily life of many, it is a completely different story for 24-year-old Sahil Qureshi. He used to sell fruits at Johari Bazaar which is under curfew. Now, Qureshi with his push cart covers around 20 kilometre in residential areas like Adarsh Nagar, Jawahar Nagar and Raja Park to earn his daily bread. Life has been difficult for him since the lockdown as business is affected and procuring fruits too is a major task. Previously, fruits would arrive at Mohana Mandi around 6 am. But now, he has to arrive much earlier to pick the produce. “I have to wake up at 3am to procure oranges and grapes from Mohana Mandi. I get a couple of hours to catch up on sleep and by 7 am I am back on the streets,” said Qureshi, who has a family who is the sole bread winner of eight-member family. His father is a gem polisher who has been out of work since the lockdown. “I have four brothers and a sister. None of them work as yet and with a reduction of daily earnings, a decent meal is now a dream,” he said. Despite the challenges, Qureshi has vowed not to overcharge his customers. He said he was shocked to see exorbitant rates that some vendors were charging. “I charge according to the day’s rate and not a penny more. So many people, mostly strangers, have shown concern for me. Many handed me masks, gloves and sanitizers, while some women in colonies provided me with food and water. Everybody is trying to help one another, so how can I be selfish at such times?” he added. He said he has also been provided food packets by the police and civil groups. “It is a very big help for people like me. Earlier, I use to have chai and kachori when hungry but because of lockdown nothing is available,” said Qureshi, who himself also makes it a point to distribute a little fruit among street children. Not charging extra and distributing fruit to needy has made him quite popular among the locals. Qureshi takes all necessary precautions to keep himself and his family safe. “I wash my hands, legs and face with a soap before entering my house every day after finishing the work. Moreover, I take a bath soon after. When out, I wear my masks and keep washing my hands as many times at possible,” he says. All the walking and disturbed sleep has left him tired but he admits he does not have much choice but to continue. “I do wish I can manage an uninterrupted sleeps of 8 hours. But that would be possible only after the lockdown is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/he-doesnt-cheat-customers-offers-fruits-to-kids/articleshow/74921310.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot police resort to garba gait for COVID awareness||RAJKOT: Gujaratis don’t just swoon to garba beats, but also give out social messages.In order to encourage people to follow government’s guidelines to curb the novel Coronavirus spread, the Rajkot police are foot tapping to the rhythm divine. Putting their best feet forward, 21 women cops of city police are seen in graceful garba gait, grooving to a garbi number in a special video made to to spread awareness. Beginning with the troopers riding out on symmetric vehicles, the performers in dapper uniform immediately catch one’s attention enacting the lyrics choreographed to garba steps. The simplicity of the vernacular language further helps in setting the scene and the understanding of the purpose of the parody. Simply penned lyrics that give out the message of thoroughly washing hands, wearing a mask, social distancing, staying at home, strike an immediate chord with the listeners and watchers on Whatsapp where the video is going viral. The garba is sung by local singer Nidhi Dholakiya and lyrics penned by Dt Utpal Jivrajani, a musician from Rajkot. Police inspector Sejal Patel of Mahila police station said, "We completed the shooting of this video song in just one in the police headquarter. In all, 21 women cops who are working in Durga Shakti teams of all police station participated in this garba.” Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), north, SR Tandel told TOI: "Our police commissioner Manoj Agarwal knows the importance of garba in our society, so he floated the idea of garba song to spread awareness about COVID-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-police-resort-to-garba-gait-for-covid-awareness/articleshow/74919708.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Elderly beat lockdown blues, experts advise discipline||Ludhiana: Covid-19 has disrupted everybody’s life, but senior citizens are the most affected. They are prone to infections as their immunity level dips after a certain age. Loneliness is another prominent factor among the senior citizens. The circumstances are not favourable, but some residents have decided to see the brighter side of life. Satish Mahajan, 72, and Chanchal Mahajan, 70, an elderly couple residing in Sector 32, Chandigarh road, are an example of the same. “We understand that the situation is not easy, but we are trying to see things in a positive way. We have worked hard and now we see our children doing the same. It is not daily that the whole family sits together and spends time. Everyone is busy with their life. Meditation and taking care of our diet is another thing that we are focusing on.” There are others too who are braving the adverse conditions on their own. Daljit Kaur, a resident of model town extension, shares her ordeal, “We are managing on our own. Wellbeing of our children in Toronto, Canada, is always on are mind. Our children call us regularly in a day to check on us. My husband is diabetic and he has to go out sometimes for getting essential items. I own a boutique and I miss my work a lot. We are taking care of our health. I practice yoga and meditation every day. Also, we are eating home cooked meals.” Rajinder Mahajan Tony, 62, owner of the M D Mahajan Englineering Works, and a resident of south city, said, “Taking care of ourselves is the only option. Regular exercise, meditation and taking nutritious diet along with precaution is the need of the hour. There is nothing to get scared of.” Experts meanwhile point out that the mortality rate in Italy has been high due to the fact that 23% of the population is above the age of 65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-beat-lockdown-blues-experts-advise-discipline/articleshow/74918818.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Traders apply for permission to run units||Ludhiana: Despite resistance shown by majority of business associations to the decision of the Punjab government to allow factories making non-essential goods to operate in the state, several businessmen have applied for permissions to operate their factories. According to information, two dozen applicants applied for the same on Tuesday. But fearing backlash from the business associations, no one is willing to take chance and let anyone know that they have applied for permission. However, repeated attempts to contact district industries centre where the applications are being filed via email, were made, but to no avail. Meanwhile, several businessmen who have applied for permission are of the view that if they get approval it will prove to be a win-win situation for their workers and them since the workers will get to live with total security, safety and arrangement of food and businessmen will be able to run their factories. Requesting anonymity, a businessman who has filed his application for grant of permission for running his engineering goods manufacturing unit, said, “I have applied for permission on the email id of the DIC and awaiting response. I applied for the permission as I have sufficient arrangements to house workers inside the factory and if I get approval my workers will be able to live inside the factory premise and I will start production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/traders-apply-for-permission-to-run-units/articleshow/74918839.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||How Tumakuru victim spread viral fear among family and mohalla||BENGALURU: The 65-year old man, who died of Covid-19 on March 27 in Tumakuru, had direct contact with 82 people which includes 45 family members comprising 18 children, two wives and others. P60 (patient 60) was a preacher from Sira taluk. Official sources said he had no travel history to any Covid-affected countries but had travelled to Delhi on March 5 by the Sampark Kranti Express. In Delhi, he attended religious activities at Nizamuddin Masjid between March 7 and 11 and stayed at a lodge. He returned to Bengaluru by Kongu Express (S9 coach) on March 14 and took a bus to Sira. He came in contact with 27 relatives and 26 children studying in his madrasa, apart from local followers of his masjid and people in two mohallas in Maraluru Dinne and Sira. Authorities now fear the state will pay a steep price for his negligence. He didn’t disclose his participation at the major event where over 1700 persons were present. His 13-year-old son tested positive on Monday and has been admitted to a Bengaluru hospital. “He moved around till the day before his death and met scores of people in Maralaur Dinne and Sira,” said district in-charge minister J C Madhuswamy. “Only after his death did we realise that he had two more children he had met. He didn’t tell us about them and we heard about it when P60’s son-in-law was speaking over the phone, alleging the government was trying to blame his father-in-law for quarantining the entire mohalla,” Madhuswamy said. Worse, P60 had visited Sira and prayed at the masjid with six others.“We had to pull out CTV footage of the masjid which showed that P60 had a meal with another man from the same plate. This was not disclosed to district authorities,” said Madhuswamy. The Tumakuru district administration announced a red alert in Sira. The district authorities have traced two associates of P60 -- from Tiptur and Hebbur-- and quarantined them. Seven others are from Maralur Dinne and have been quarantined. “While these are only two cases, his other children tested negative in the first round, there is a possibility of the virus affecting people in the mohallas,” said the minister. The government has forcibly home quarantined 2,000 people in Sira Mohalla and 12,000 people in Maraluru Dinne. According to the district health officer, 82 primary contacts and 162 secondary contacts are in isolation in Tumakuru. “We’re tracing tertiary contacts to minimise the damage” he said. 350 outreach workers quarantined Karnataka police on Tuesday said around 300 local Tablighi Jamaat outreach workers and 50 foreign nationals (19 from Kyrghistan, 20 from Indonesia, 4 from South Africa, 3 from Gambia and one each from USA, UK, France and Kenya) have been quarantined in the state. Police said all have been subjected to stringent medical tests. Meanwhile, the 50 foreign nationals who have come to Karnataka have been ascertained as being those who had come to the Markaz in Nizamuddin and later arrived in various parts of Karnataka. According to Tablighi community leaders, the foreign nationals made their way to Karnataka after the lockdown in Delhi and their flights were cancelled. (Inputs from Kiran Parashar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-tumakuru-victim-spread-viral-fear-among-family-and-mohalla/articleshow/74920697.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Amid bias and apathy, show of hospitality to labourers||Kolkata/Behrampore/Bu-rdwan: Two labourers from Bihar were allegedly thrown out of their rented room in New Town by their landlord on Tuesday morning on suspicion of being in close contact with Covid-19 patients from their state. The duo sought help from Techno City police station, whose personnel convinced the landlord to let the workers stay. “Our officers cleared the air that they had neither been to Bihar nor been in contact with anyone from their district recently,” said an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Also on Tuesday, 42 migrant workers — 19 from Jharkhand and 23 from Murshidabad — were found on highways in East Burdwan’s Katwa and Murshidabad’s Beldanga. The 19 from Jharkhand, who lost jobs in two Kolkata units in the lockdown aftermath, were seen resting at Bhabta in Beldanga. Locals served them food after finding them exhausted. The 19 continued their journey on foot. Police in Murshidabad feigned ignorance about the workers. Incidentally, CM Mamata Banerjee had only on Monday reprimanded police for not stopping migrant workers who entered Bengal via the Gazole border during lockdown. Meanwhile, 13 masons who worked in Howrah’s Domjur were abandoned in Katwa while on their way home to Lalgola on board a pick-up van. The pick-up driver apparently feared police action for driving during lockdown. Katwa MLA Rabi Chatterjee arranged for their stay and meals at a local school. He arranged for another 10 migrant workers, returning to Sagardighi from Odisha, to stay in the same school. Their bikes were seized by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-bias-and-apathy-show-of-hospitality-to-labourers/articleshow/74921641.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus outbreak: Haryana gets highest cases in a day||CHANDIGARH/HISAR/SIRSA: Haryana recorded the highest rise in Covid-19 positive cases in a day on Tuesday, with the figure rising by seven, from 22 to 29. Of the seven persons who tested positive, two are children. The state health department’s bulletin confirmed this in the evening. The new cases included a Sirsa woman and her two children, a Hisar woman, two from Faridabad and a nurse from Panchkula. One of the cases from Faridabad is of the husband of a woman from Surajkund, who tested positive on Monday. So far, Gurugram has the highest number of cases, 10, among districts. It is followed by Faridabad (6), Panipat (4), Sirsa (3), Panchkula (2), and Hisar, Palwal, Ambala and Sonipat, from where a case each has been reported. Seven of the 29 patients have been discharged as they tested negative after treatment. Besides, a patient has been shifted to Punjab. In Sirsa, the woman and her two children, aged 6 and 8, who have tested positive do not have any travel or contact history. Sirsa civil surgeon Viresh Bhushan said 13 other members of the family had tested negative. Both children have been shifted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, for treatment, he said. The district administration has declared Bansal Colony, where the trio lives, as a containment area and nearby areas as buffer zone. The woman had organised a kitty party, and 28 women who attended the event and their families have been quarantined. The 59-year-old woman of Hisar, who tested positive, had returned from the US on March 17, after meeting her son and daughter-in-law. Hisar civil surgeon Yogesh Sharma said the resident of Sector 16-17 tested positive on Monday night. “The woman was kept in quarantine on her return. She has been admitted to Agroha medical college. Her husband, a retired army officer, has been kept in isolation at Hisar general hospital. His sample has also been sent and the report is awaited,” Dr Sharma said. In Panchkula, the nurse had been deployed in isolation ward and she had acquired infection from a woman from Kharak Mangoli village. Her case was confirmed on Tuesday morning, said the Panchkula civil surgeon. A government official said the Surjkund woman’s husband worked for an MNC in Noida. His colleagues had tested positive for Covid-19. Since then, the office had been closed down and employees and families quarantined. The other Fardabad resident who tested positive had returned from abroad and had been quarantined at a hospital in New Delhi. “We have put the contacts of those testing positive under observation. Health of all patients is fine. The first woman who tested positive has been discharged,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-gets-highest-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/74921312.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Unseasonal rain continues to lash parts of Marathwada||AURANGABAD: One person lost his life while another sustained injuries in lightning-related incidents as unseasonal rainfall and strong winds lashed many parts of Marathwada, including Aurangabad, Beed, Nanded and Parbhani, in the 24-hours that ended on Tuesday morning. Rupesh Kale (30), a resident of Pimpalgaon-Nawale village in Majalgaon taluka of Beed district, died on Monday evening after being struck by lightning. Narendra Kulkarni, tehsildar associated with the disaster management department, said, “Jinat Kale, a resident of Beed, also sustained injury in lightning-related mishap. One cattle from Nanded district also died due to lightning.” Ganesh Lokhande, divisional disaster management officer, said the family of deceased would get relief from the government as per rules after panchanama. “The local authorities have been asked to assess the damage, if any, in the region,” he said. As per official data, among all the districts, Parbhani and Hingoli reported the highest 6 mm rainfall. The latest showers, which was third such spell of untimely rainfall in the region, has taken the tally of rainfall received in March to 15 mm – over 200% of the average expected rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which had predicted untimely showers till around April 3, has forecast clear skies ahead over Aurangabad and many parts of the region. The maximum temperature in the city, which has dipped to 35.7 degrees celsius, is likely to increase gradually further over a period of the next few days. Aurangabad reported a minimum of temperature of 19.4 degrees celsius. The minimum temperature is also likely to go up in the next few days. Meanwhile, farmer activists have accused the government of not taking any serious steps for farmers who have incurred crop damage due to the unseasonal rainfall. “The standing rabi crops, including chick pea, wheat and maize, witnessed damage due to unseasonal showers. The orchard cultivating sweet lime, papaya and bananas have also faced the wrath of the nature. The government is not paying any heed to the agricultural crisis amid the outbreak of Covid-19,” farmer activist Deepak Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unseasonal-rain-continues-to-lash-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/74920666.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Sahab, hame ghar jane dijiye, say homesick migrants from other states at Agrasen shelter home||Nagpur: A pale looking Nirmalabai is sitting quietly at one corner. When anyone comes inside the temporary shelter home at Agrasen Bhavan near Ravi Nagar Square, where she has been lodged along with 195 others, she has only one question to ask when she would be able to go home and when would this lockdown end. A resident of Gwalior, Nirmalabai has four children, all of them staying with her husband in a village there. She came to the city as a labourer to work at Gorewada Zoo. After the lockdown, she has been stuck in the city with no money. This is the common fate of all 196 homesick inmates who hail from various states like Rajasthan, Haryana, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Though no one complains about food and facilities, the feeling of being kept behind bars has crept in. While a majority of them had attempted traversing on foot to their native place, some were caught sitting in cramped spaces in trucks and other vehicles which were intercepted by the cops. “We were going back home when the authorities caught us and brought us here. They are not telling how long we will be kept here. We don’t even have mobiles to get in touch with our kids and relatives. We’re using mobile of a man from our village who was working with us,” says Padmabai, who hails from a village in Rajnandgaon in Madhya Pradesh, pleading “Sahab, hame ghar jane dijiye.” Mother of two, Padmabai was working with Nirmalabai at Gorewada Zoo. Another woman from Gondia also has same tale to tell. According to her, both her kids have become upset over their mother’s absence. Like these three, there are 12 other women from various states who have been kept separately on the first floor of the building, which is being guarded by cops outside. Some of the labourers from Rajasthan had started their journey from Telangana where they were working as daily wagers. They were caught by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), police and other agencies and brought to this shelter home. “After walking some distance, we were helped by a truck owner, who brought us till Nagpur. But the cops intercepted and took us here. We badly want to go home as our families are waiting for us,” says Sukharam. Echoing the same sentiments, another inmate Shakti Singh said, “Around 600 labourers from Nagaur in Rajasthan and working in Telangana had to leave immediately after the lockdown was imposed.” “While most of them have reached home, we’re stranded here for the last couple of days. For no reason, they’ve detained us,” he says. Many of the inmates were working as daily wagers in some factories in MIDC in Hingna and Butibori and were returning after the lockdown was announced. “We were working with a rolling steel plant. Our contractor has fled, leaving us with no money. He’s not picking up the calls,” said Vikram and Nitish Dahiriya, who hail from Chhindwara. The younger siblings badly want to go home to meet their ailing parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sahab-hame-ghar-jane-dijiye-say-homesick-migrants-from-other-states-at-agrasen-shelter-home/articleshow/74920661.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 1, 2020||Goa||Agri dept ask farmers to follow safety norms||Margao: The agriculture department has started issuing travel permits to farmers as well as those involved in procuring and supplying farm produce. The state’s agriculture officers have, however, drawn farmers’ attention to central guidelines for the sector during lockdown period. Veterinary hospitals, agencies engaged in procurement of agriculture products, ‘mandis’ operated by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee or as notified by the state government, farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field, custom hiring centres related to farm machinery, manufacturing and packaging units of fertilisers, pesticides and seeds, intra and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing-related machines, like combined harvester and other agriculture/horticulture implements, are exempted from the lockdown as per the circular issued by the Centre. Department officials expressed concern over the safety of the farmers in view of the ongoing harvesting season and advised farmers to adopt simple measures that include social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene by washing hands with soap, wearing face masks and protective clothing, and cleaning implements and machinery. All transport vehicles, gunny bags or other packaging material should also be sanitised, too, farmers have been told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-ask-farmers-to-follow-safety-norms/articleshow/74921317.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab units want to make low-cost ventilators||CHANDIGARH: As the number of coronavirus cases mount in the state and increase the demand for ventilators, industrial units in Punjab are working to help the state government by developing low-cost ventilators. As Covid-19 patients in critical condition develop respiratory distress, ventilators are vital for their treatment. The virus has so far claimed four lives in Punjab, all elderly patients, and infected 41 people. The Punjab government has been approached by four units, three in Mohali and one in Chandigarh, for permission to develop prototype of low-cost ventilators. The government has granted permission to Mohali-based Andel India and the process for giving permission to other two Mohali units is underway. The Chandigarh administration has been approached to give permission to the city-based unit for starting work on the prototype. Hi-tech ventilators are available in the range of Rs 2-5 lakh per unit in market, Andel India, which has been manufacturing medical equipment from past 22 years, claims its ventilator will cost about Rs 5,000 per unit, and its prototype is expected to be ready in the next couple of days. Explaining the functionality, Anu Bhutani, managing director of Andel India, said their mechanical bag valve mask ventilator will have all required clinical functionality. “The ventilators available are imported and have fancy features which are not required. Whereas our ventilator meets all the basic necessary requirements,” said Bhutani, who urged the state and central governments to launch a financial scheme to help small-scale industries in manufacturing indigenous medical equipment to fight coronavirus. Once complete, the prototype will be tested by a team of doctors of state health department. For getting a nod, the prototype must meet the specifications issued by All India Institute for Medical Sciences for ventilators in wake of outbreak of coronavirus. If the prototype get the approval, the company will start producing 10,000 units per month. Sibin C, director industries and commerce, Punjab, said it is heartening to see Punjab industrial units coming forward to help the state government. “The industrial department is providing them all the required support. They are being helped in providing necessary approvals and passes for their teams to work during lockdown,” said Sibin C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-units-want-to-make-low-cost-ventilators/articleshow/74921318.cms||Vinod Kumar
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 death: Samples of 40 persons to be collected||Thiruvananthapuram: The capital district is caught in a strange transmission scenario at Pothencode where source of infection remains a mystery even after three days of confirmation of Covid-19. The investigation team of health department prepared a list of around 40 persons who had arrived from Middle East and had attended the marriage ceremony at Pothencode in which Abdul Azeez , who died of Covid-19, also took part on March 2. Sample collection of these persons is expected to begin on Wednesday which will kick off a massive screening exercise. This is again based on assumption that one of them could be a source. The police will also lend a helping hand in cases where there have been resistance to co-operate. It is learnt that police will directly pick persons suspected as sources of infection from their homes. However this again is a small part of the picture; as there are persons with travel history who attended the marriage and reside in other districts and it needs to be verified whether they have flown back or not. A call made from the control room to one person in the district went unanswered forcing health authorities to seek police help. The team had to source wedding videos and collect information on invitation list of families of bride and groom to make a list of probable persons with travel history. Besides a chain of contacts was established to probe further, however the results are still considered premature. Till now, the district has dealt with sporadic cases alone; one or more cases imported or locally acquired as per WHO guidelines. However the case at Pothencode can't be categorised as a sporadic case, because source of infection remains unknown. Th next possibility is clusters of cases which means most cases of local transmission linked by chains of transmission. If at least 10 out of 40 samples being collected on Wednesday turn positive, this would create a condition of community transmission which are outbreaks with the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases. While minister Kadakampally Surendran keep repeating that all contacts have been traced and everybody has been quarantined, the need to go for a blindshot by shutting down an entire panchayat for 21 days is enough indication that clues are nil regarding probable sources that could be linked to the patient. More details keep emerging which add to the task. The route map mentioned about funeral, wedding, prayer, visit to sub-treasury office, however local bodies had to chip in with additional data that the person had attended PTA general body meeting at Government LPS, Thachappaly on March 5 and visited KSEB office on March 10. If everybody had been quarantined going by minister's words, the missing links in the route map would tell a different story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-death-samples-of-40-persons-to-be-collected/articleshow/74919734.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Teacher gets police pass, hires taxi to send MP labourer family home||Nagpur: Amid heart-wrenching tales of people stranded on the Maharashtra border after the lockdown, a schoolteacher’s efforts helped an ailing 50-year-old labourer woman and her family return home to Rewa in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. They even got a taxi, unlike many others walking hundreds of kilometres to reach home. The ailing woman, Dhanrajawa Patel (50), accompanied by four family members, had come to Nagpur on March 18, days before the lockdown. Having complaints of chronic headache, she was prescribed EEG and MRI tests on the same day. She was also advised to stay back in Nagpur as doctors wanted to monitor her condition after she took the prescribed medicines. As the family is of poor economic background, they went to a relative’s place in Mankapur slums. Their stay increased after she complained of drowsiness and again went to see the doctor at a private hospital in Dhantoli. Her medicines were changed and her condition improved. By the time she was allowed to leave the city, the family had ended up spending all its money here. Meanwhile, the countrywide lockdown was announced, leading to closing of all borders on both sides. The family, mostly labourers, went back to the relative’s place at Mankapur slums, but after two days they too asked them to make alternate arrangements. The relatives too was labourers and didn’t have enough to feed their own family. The Rewa family too had no money left, and almost lost hopes of returning home. It was then that teacher Sapan Nehrotra, who is also divisional secretary of Shiksha Bharati organization, came to know o their plight. “One of my ex-students, Biresh Kumar Patel, sought my help. They are his distant relatives. I asked the purpose of their visit to Nagpur. When I came to know it was a medical emergency, I decided to help them,” he said. Nehrotra had to convince the private hospital to issue a certificate. “Their relatives here too were unable to host them because of financial crisis. I went to the hospital where she was treated. Initially, they were not willing to give a certificate. I reminded them that the prime minister has asked to help our poor citizens. I took the letter and went to Dhantoli police station to get them a pass,” he said. On Sunday, the family finally reached Rewa in a taxi hired by Nehrotra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teacher-gets-police-pass-hires-taxi-to-send-mp-labourer-family-home/articleshow/74920700.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||More equipment, kits to help fight Covid-19: Eatala||With a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus positive cases and six deaths in the state, Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the district administrations and health department have already started identifying the people who participated in the religious meet at Nizamuddin, in Delhi. The process would be completed by Tuesday evening. Here are some excerpts from the interview with Koride Mahesh. n During lockdown, aren’t new cases a cause of concern to the government? Though new cases are a cause of concern, there is no need to panic. Our chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that plans are in place and arrangements were made to treat as many as 12,000 people in various hospitals. A three-pronged approach of home quarantine, isolation and treatment is being implemented, depending upon the situation and requirement. They have yielded good results also. n How many persons had gone to Delhi for the religious programme?  People from almost all the districts went to Delhi and final figures are yet to come. District collectors, health department officials and other departments are in the process of identifying them, their family members and primary contacts. Once all the persons are identified, they would be shifted to isolation wards in the respective district hospitals and tests would be conducted. Positive cases would be referred to Hyderabad for treatment. Family members of those who test positive will be put under home quarantine as per the protocols. n There were reports that many who went to Delhi have not come forward to inform the government? Though people have not reported that they are symptomatic, the government has begun identifying them and their primary contacts. Government will provide free treatment to those who test positive. I appeal to them to cooperate with us and not risk their and their families’ lives. n Do we have sufficient beds and wards, if the number of cases surge?  Over 4,000 beds are ready in 12 hospitals in the city, including 1,000 beds in Gandhi hospital alone. As of now, treatment would be given only in Gandhi hospital. New cases will be referred to Gandhi. Later other hospitals such as King Koti hospital, ESI hospital at SR Nagar and Gachibowli stadium will be utilized, if required. n What is the status of Covid-19 testing facilities and medical kits?  The Centre has permitted six coronavirus testing laboratories such as Gandhi hospital, Fever hospital, NIMS, IPM and MGM at Warangal. Though the central government has permitted Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) where 800 to 1,000 people can be tested a day we are not utilizing their services immediately. n What about the availability of healthcare equipment?  The state government had indented 500 ventilators and 45 have already arrived. We are expecting more in a week’s time. There is no dearth of medicines and other equipment. The health department has already begun the process of identifying and preparing a pool of retired doctors and other supporting staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-equipment-kits-to-help-fight-covid-19-eatala/articleshow/74920687.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Experts launch drive to boost morale of sanitation staff||AURANGABAD: With sanitation and hygiene assuming significance against the backdrop of the outbreak of coronavirus, the sanitation workers, whose services fall under the “essential” category, have the responsibility of collecting waste and keeping the city clean even during the lockdown. This makes the sanitation workers more susceptible to infection. At such a time, the Centre for Applied Research and People’s Engagement (CARPE) and Civic Response Team (CRT), in association with a host of industry partners and experts, have come up with a special adoption movement for the affected families called ‘Aurangabad Corona Relief Initiative’ “Given the current scenario, the adoption initiative aims at checking with the sanitation staffers every couple of days, sending them motivational messages and supporting them and their family in whatever way we can,” stated a release issued by the organisers. A special Google form https://forms.gle/zg1F9G3L7vyfzLZN8 has been created for registration as part of the adoption drive. According to Carpe, around 2,500 sanitation staffers are stepping out every day to keep the city clean and hygienic even during the lockdown. “It is our responsibility to support, acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of the sanitation workers and make their lives safer. All we need is your time and empathy during the proposed adoption initiative,” said the organisers. The experts have also appealed to citizens not to litter or throw waste in the open as it only increases manual labour. Citizens are requested to segregate garbage into dry, wet and hazardous waste in order to reduce the burden on the sanitation workers. “Greet the sanitation workers with a smile and thank them for being on the frontline in this fight against coronavirus. Citizens are also encouraged to take a photo with sanitation workers and post it on social media. Citizens can tag us at @CRTAURANGABAD with the hashtag #MAJHICITYSWACHHCITY and #CARPE,” said the organisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/experts-launch-drive-to-boost-morale-of-sanitation-staff/articleshow/74920684.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Fish graces South Goa plates once again||MARGAO: Six days after having had to make do without fish, the favourite component of Goans’ staple diet was available aplenty at several parts of South Goa. Though fish markets remained closed, enterprising youths did brisk business by purchasing fish in bulk from trawler owners at the Cutbona jetty and selling it in cities and villages. Many fishing vessels, which were out at sea when the lockdown was announced, have begun returning to the jetties to unload their catch. As Tuesday was the last day for them to do this, bumper sale of fish was witnessed at the Cutbona jetty on Tuesday. Sources said that mackerels and kingfish as well as assorted varieties of small fish (korbott) was sold at reasonable prices at various places in South Goa. However, as people rushed to buy fish, social distancing norms were observed largely in the breach. In some places, as the stock soon exhausted, it had to be replenished by making another trip to the Cutbona jetty, which was also soon sold off. The department of fisheries has directed that the fishing activities will be completely stopped from Thursday until further intimation, and this explained the rush of people to stock on supplies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-graces-s-goan-plates-once-again/articleshow/74921322.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Adequate supply stabilises prices of vegetables||PUNE: The prices of all vegetables would be stable at least for the next two days with adequate produce reaching the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard on Tuesday. “There was surplus supply of vegetables on Tuesday. So, their prices came down within the budget of common people,” said Dttatray Kalamkar, the head of the vegetable division of the market. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard on Tuesday received 13,700 quintals of vegetables, higher by 1,300 quintals when compared to the last bazaar day on Sunday. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) officials stated that the five sub-markets in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad also received more vegetables than expected at 6,290 quintals. Thus, prices of all vegetables, including leafy vegetables, and staples like tomato, cabbage, cauliflower and ladies finger stabilised. Tomato was sold in the range of Rs8-12 per kg, ladies finger for Rs10-20 per kg and green chilli for Rs20-35 per kg. Garlic was sold for Rs80-140 per kg in the wholesale market. “The vendors will sell these vegetables at a little higher rates, but people don’t need to panic and stock vegetables. They would not have to pay very high prices as there is adequate supply of all vegetables,” Kalamkar said, adding that holding market on alternate days was one of the reasons behind the increased supply. Last week, some retail vegetable shops in Shivajinagar sold tomatoes at Rs80 per kg, while people had to shell out Rs350 for a kilo of chilli. The wholesale prices of leafy vegetables, too, crashed to as low as Re1 per bunch of coriander. “A bunch of coriander, fenugreek and spinach was sold in the range of Re 1 to Rs6. The retail vendors are selling these leafy vegetables in the range of Rs5-10 per bunch,” said Kalamkar. About 190 quintals of vegetables were not sold in the open auction at the Market Yard. “The quality of some produce was substandard and there were selected traders in the market. Eventually, this produce was also sold at low prices,” said an APMC official. “This would again maintain the prices at reasonable level in the retail market,” Kalamkar said. An APMC official said more supplies would come to the market on Wednesday onwards as the commission agents would open their shops from April 1. “Farmers are worried that their produce will get damaged because of the rain in the district. Since there is no market every day, they are bringing their produce in large quantity. But it may have an adverse impact on the supply in the coming days,” Kalamkar cautioned. Chief administrator Balasaheb Deshmukh said the Market Yard would not allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables from Wednesday onwards. “We have taken the decision to maintain the required social distance and avoid mass gathering,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adequate-supply-stabilises-prices-of-vegetables/articleshow/74921334.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||20 farm owners booked for lockdown violation||RAJKOT: As many as 20 farmers were booked for allowing labourers to leave their farms amid the coronavirus lockdown order in Amreli district on Tuesday. “We detained 100-odd labourers who were walking on the roads. The labourers were from farms in Amreli, Rajula, Damnagar and Vadia talukas of Amreli district,” said an official from the Amreli police. The labourers were asked to return to their farms and owners of the farms were booked under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Apart from farm owners, Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai has instructed all the hotels, roadside restaurants, ginning mills and units in the GIDC of Amreli district to keep their labourers confined to their respective places till the lockdown period is over. “The owners of the establishments and farms have been instructed to provide food, lodging and boarding to their labourers during the lockdown,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-farm-owners-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/74919732.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot’s first COVID-19 patient on recovery path||RAJKOT: The first COVID-19 positive case of Rajkot seems to have recovered. The 32-year-old man from Jangleshwar, after being under treatment since March 19, tested negative on Tuesday. He was under treatment at Rajkot civil hospital. Dr. Pankaj Rathod municipal health officer said, “The first coronavirus positive case of Rajkot has tested negative. His second test will be conducted on Wednesday. If two consecutive samples are negative then the person is termed asymptomatic and discharged.” There were total 14 COVID-19 suspects from Rajkot, including three children, but all the of them tested negative, Rathod said on Tuesday evening. The four suspects from Jamnagar, two of Morbi, one from Devbhoomi Dwarka and 12 from Bhavnagar have also tested negative on Tuesday. Till date 10 have tested positive in Rajkot city in last 12 days and 54 people are under observation in quarantine facilities created by district administration. There are a total of 1,211 people in home quarantine out of that 896 have completed the two-week incubation period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkots-first-covid-19-patient-on-recovery-path/articleshow/74919767.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘My responsibility is to ensure items reach people, I won’t go out for photo shoot’||Ludhiana: After drawing flak from city residents over his ‘disappearance’ amid the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, Ludiana MP Ravneet Bittu on Tuesday took a dig at those who were trying to hog limelight by pretending to provide essential commodities to residents. City residents have been raising queries about Bittu and many had also taken to the social media asking about his whereabouts. When TOI reached out to him, Bittu said his job was to ensure that essential supplies reached city residents and for this there wasn’t need for him to be seen on roads. “I am not interested in getting some bags of grocery along and gather people in large numbers for clicking pictures. My job at this moment is to see whether the administration is performing its duty,” said Bittu. He said he had already given authority to deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal to utilise Rs 5 crore of his MPLAD funds. He also claimed that a fund of Rs one crore too would be released shortly. Bittu claimed that he was sitting at home, but refused to disclose his location saying his disclosure at this moment may prompt people to visit him, which he wanted to avoid at this moment. “If being an MP I do not follow the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and advisory on coronavirus lockdown, then how he will ask others to comply?,” he asked. “The situation is becoming serious now, so all the residents should follow the instructions and sit back at home. I had already conveyed the deputy commissioner and the commissioner of police to take strict action against violators so that we can control the outbreak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/my-responsibility-is-to-ensure-items-reach-people-i-wont-go-out-for-photo-shoot/articleshow/74918789.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur collector gets pat from Union minister||The Tirupur district administration is winning appreciations from various quarters for promptly delivering essential commodities to people left stranded due to lockdown. On Tuesday, collector K VIjayakarthikeyan came for praise from Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan. The BJP leader tweeted appreciating the district administration’s gesture to provide provisions to a group of Odisha guest workers who were stuck in the textile town without essential supplies. A day ago, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had tweeted appreciating Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan for responding to an online request for providing essential commodities to a group of people. Apparently, the teams constituted by Vijayakarthikeyan had reached out to the group of stranded guest workers within 60 minutes after the issue was highlighted on Twitter. When he was informed about a group of 16 disabled people in Palladam unable to go out and purchase provisions, VIjayakarthikeyan ensured that the teams formed by the district administration supply vegetables and provisions at the doorsteps of their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-collector-gets-pat-from-union-minister/articleshow/74920701.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Two clerics booked for violating lockdown orders||AURANGABAD: Two clerics have been booked by police in Aurangabad and Beed after more than four people were found gathered at the mosques. The first offence was registered on Sunday in Aurangabad, while the second came to be registered in Ambejogai on Monday. In the offence registered with the City Chowk police station, 64-year-old Maulana Habib Khan has been booked after he allegedly led prayers for a group of about two dozen people on Sunday evening. The congregation was noticed by special branch sleuths following which a complaint was lodged by head constable Azimuddin Inamdar. In Ambejogai of Beed district, 10 people had gathered for offering prayers at Fareed Madrassa Masjid Pensionpura following which the policemen belonging to the special branch alerted the area police station. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said the police action is aimed at ensuring social distancing and effective implementation of the lockdown. “Stepping out of your house, without any valid reason, is itself a violation of the lockdown orders. There are specific instructions to people from across all communities to abstain from gathering for any kind of social or religious events,” he said. The suspects have been booked under section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by government authorities), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the IPC along with section 51-B of National Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, around 58 people were booked by city police on Tuesday for violating lockdown orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-clerics-booked-for-violating-lockdown-orders/articleshow/74920695.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Attendees say no curbs at meeting||HYDERABAD: Participants at the Tablighi Jamaat from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said there was no ban on mass gathering when a meeting of Telugu states took place. Jamaat held a state-wise discussion in which representatives of the two Telugu states, at the rate of two per mandal attended Isthema/Mushara to discuss religious aspects between March 14 and 17. Sources in the Intelligence Bureau said the delegates were supposed to elect a new amir as the previous amir had died on February 26. After the delegates of Telugu states met at the Nizamuddin Jamaat, meetings of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu took place. Participants said there were delegates from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands too. Moulana Saleem alias Nepal Saleem of Bilal Masjid at Seethammadhara in Visakhapatnam, told TOI that they were quarantined in TB Hospital. “Fourteen from Visakhapatnam went to Nizamuddin. The authorities have taken samples from us,” he said. Saleem’s father migrated from Nepal long ago and since then, has made Vizag his home. “On March 12, most of us left by train to Delhi and I returned on an Indigo flight. We have given the information about our stay to the authorities,” he said. Anil (25), a resident of Kurnool, who also visited Nizamuddin, said he was quarantined at Rayalaseema University. “I went to Delhi on March 13 and returned on March 18. I travelled by AP Sampark Express. I have provided all details to the authorities,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attendees-say-no-curbs-at-meeting/articleshow/74920716.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Norms violation by do-gooders worries officials||Nagpur: The private NGOs, groups and individuals rushing with cooked and uncooked food to help the people in distress during the national lockdown have raised the eyebrows of the government agencies. With the threat of community transmission looming large, many citizens and NGOs are going berserk in their zeal to serve and distribute food to the needy. This often sends social distancing, hygiene and cleanliness norms for a toss at several places. Around 65 organizations from different communities and groups have come forward to distribute food following an appeal of the police department. Even a social media group, a call-centre for food and other facilities have been started by the police with the initiative of Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and others. Through the group, police have managed to reach out to more than one-lakh population across the city and in the outskirts. The group members also coordinate with each other to locate the needy and reach out to them with prepared food, ration kit and other materials. Bharne, who attributed the success of the group to the top brass including CP BK Upadhyay and Joint CP Ravindra Kadam, said every community had come forward and joined hands with each other to distribute food to the needy. “We have made every one aware of the need of social distancing and hygiene and are trying to improve upon the practices,” he said. TOI has pointed out aberrations in the functioning of the groups who on many occasions were found flouting the social distancing norms and hygiene while preparing food, packing and distributing it. A group member left many cops red-faced after she admitted using banned plastic to distribute water in social media. There were also images of people packing food packets on the floor close to walls stained with tobacco spitting. District collector Ravindra Thakare said the agencies, police, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and his district administration, had brainstormed over the enthusiasm of private groups distributing food compromising with cleanliness and hygiene. “We have issued directions to all to maintain hygiene and follow social distancing,” he said. “We have prepared Google spreadsheet among us with the lists of the NGOs, groups and individuals distributing food. This would help in better coordination and avoid duplication,” said Thakare. He also extolled the police department for channelizing and roping in groups to distribute food in such numbers. “We have also instructed the NGOs or individuals not keeping well to refrain from offering services,” he said. NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe has also appealed to the groups and individuals to avoid coming together in a large number at one place and follow the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/norms-violation-by-do-gooders-worries-officials/articleshow/74920713.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka government to launch portable PDS to ease migrant crisis||MYSURU: In a bid to prevent thousands of workers fleeing cities, facing hunger and distress in the aftermath of the coronavirus lockdown, the state government has decided to introduce portable public distribution system (PDS) across all districts. Launched last year by the Centre, portable public distribution system (PDS) was to be a boon for beneficiaries who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate. According to the state government’s plan, migrants will receive two months’ quota of food grains — both April and May — together at the local fair price shops in the state for the cards issued in their native states. The move, the authorities hope will prevent families from returning to their native villages due to food shortage. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said these migrant families have been divided into two categories — families with PDS cards of their native states/ districts and those without any cards. “For those families which have cards issued in any district of the state or any state of the country, two months’ quota of food grains will be distributed at the local fair price shops. Those who don’t have card will receive food kit containing all essential items,” he said. According to sources in the department of food and civil supplies, the biggest hurdle to successful implementation of the scheme is poor publicity among the migrants. Publicise the initiative widely, say activists Several activists backed the move and said the need of the hour is popularising the scheme among the migrants. “This is a good initiative. But most migrant families travelling back home on foot are not aware of this. The government agencies must ensure that all the families gets this message,” said Kannan G Sukumar, a consumer activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-to-launch-portable-pds-to-ease-migrant-crisis/articleshow/74920705.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Ferrying people is God’s work, says driver-conductor duo||BENGALURU: The lockdown has halted Bengaluru in its tracks. But a few Bengalureans are on the move, providing the city and its denizens with essential services. Meet BMTC driver Muthyala Raghavendra, 43, and conductor Ramesh RP, 39, who have been ferrying hospital staff and employees involved in other essential services for the last three days between their workplace and home. Both Raghavendra and Ramesh are from the Koramangala BMTC bus depot. While the former is a resident of Koramangala, the latter lives in Ejipura. Every day, they complete at least 7-8 trips between Koramangala depot and Shivajinagar bus stand and their route covers important spots like St John’s Hospital, MG Road and St Philomena’s Hospital, among others. Raghavendra, who earlier worked as a truck driver, told TOI when his department asked him if he’d be willing to work for the special hospital BMTC services, he did not think twice before saying yes. “I had observed hospital staff trying to get to their workplace on foot and I felt terrible about it. When this chance came, it was like a calling from God and whatever we are doing is God’s work,” says Raghavendra. Though their families are scared as they have to step out of home every day, Raghavendra and Ramesh say they are armed with gloves, sanitisers and masks. “We also make sure to take all necessary precautions while on duty and even later,” says Ramesh. “There is no question of fear. I comfort my family saying we are doing a job that will help hundreds of people. I feel fortunate to have this chance to serve my country at this time of need,” adds Raghavendra. The duo is also greeted with some heart-warming gestures from people they meet while on duty. “Several of our passengers have thanked us for continuing to work and helping them travel across the city. Some were even teary-eyed on seeing us stop for them,” Raghavendra says, adding that they only allow passengers with passes and on average have 30-35 people travel the whole day in their bus. ‘Duty lot less stressful’Even with the Covid-19 scare, they says their duty is a lot less stressful and even fun. “My mood has improved on watching the empty roads. I can feel the dip in pollution level when I breathe, I can see trees. Generally, there is a certain calm in the surroundings,” says Ramesh, adding that it’s a welcome change from spending the entire day within the four walls of his home. Raghavendra adds that driving on empty roads is a joy. “However, we have been directed to drive slowly and make sure we don’t miss out on passengers on the way. Even though the roads are empty, I drive between 30-40 km/hr,” he says. Just as they leave for their third trip of the day from Shivajinagar to Koramangala at 11am, the two say that everyone has a role to play in the fight against Covid-19 and they are happy to be a part of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ferrying-people-is-gods-work-says-driver-conductor-duo/articleshow/74920721.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Family sticks to quarantine norms, stays at home||Thiruvananthapuram: She chose responsibility over emotion on a day she lost her husband to a pandemic. In the early morning hours of Tuesday, when the death of Abdul Azeez from Pothencode was confirmed, the medical college authorities rang up his family and gave an option to come to the hospital and have one final look at him. There was also a reminder that they were under home quarantine and sample results were being awaited and usual advice is to stay isolated. The family replied that they would stick with home isolation and wouldn't want to see his lifeless intubated body through the window. The hospital authorities then shot a video and sent it to the family. That was their way of parting, watching him lying motionless on a screen. At the mosque, medical college principal, superintendent and head of forensics accompanied the body. There was no one to receive the body and jamaat secretary Nujum signed on the papers and received the body for burial. A few minutes later, one of the relatives of the deceased arrived at the mosque. He was not under quarantine and he watched the burial from the top of the mosque building. ``We are shattered, this is too much to take in. We are not even able to give him a proper farewell, but we have to be responsible,'' the relative said. Jamaat president Hasheem said that the family was very co-operative when they were briefed about the protocol to be maintained for burial. ``They didn't raise any objection, understood the protocol,'' he said. A four member team made the burial pit and jamaat had no trouble summoning people to dig the pit and to handle the body. `` I have been doing this all these years, why would I not do it now?'' asked Jaleel, who made the burial pit as per the instructions. Unlike the six feet pit, the burial pit was dug at 10 feet. It was made in two levels with first level for placing wooden planks. ``We have been taking all precautions right from the time we started hearing news about the outbreak. The Friday prayer was stopped weeks back. There is a scare among our residents and it is understandable, we never thought we would have to face a day like this when we lost one among us to this disease,'' said Nujum. The prayer prior to burial usually held inside mosque was cancelled and it was done near the burial pit. The entire rites was over in 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/family-sticks-to-quarantine-norms-stays-at-home/articleshow/74919779.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 1, 2020||Goa||After goofup, Goa Medical College sets up policy for discharge of Covid-19 cases||PANAJI: After last week’s blunder, in which Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital discharged a patient who turned out to be positive for coronavirus, the hospital has now drafted a discharge policy. The document says all coronavirus suspects will be kept in isolation at the medical facility until their laboratory results are declared, and will be treated symptomatically in accordance with the guidelines. Patients who test negative for coronavirus will be discharged vis-à-vis a provisional or confirmed diagnosis. His discharge from hospital will be decided by the physician treating him, guided by the patient’s clinical condition. Even after discharge, the patient will be monitored for 14 days from the date of arrival in India or last exposure, whichever is later. However, if the patient tests positive for Covid-19, he will be treated according to protocol, states the policy. Such a patient would only be discharged after evidence of chest radiographic clearance and viral clearance in respiratory samples after two negative Covid-19 tests within a period of 24 hours. A GMC doctor said that the hospital would treat any case as suspect if the patient suffers from acute respiratory illness and has a history of travel to a country or area detected with local transmission of coronavirus, 14 days prior to the onset of symptoms. Also, the hospital will consider healthcare workers as Covid-19 suspects if they suffer from any acute respiratory illness and came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients 14 days prior to the first evidence of their symptoms. The GMC doctor also said that any patient with severe acute respiratory infection who requires hospitalisation (with no explanation for this serious condition) will be automatically treated as a coronavirus suspect. He said that policy was required in black and white to avoid any kind of confusion while treating suspects. “Even a small mistake can prove costly if utmost care is not taken at this critical juncture,” he said. Similarly, the policy defines contact, high-risk contact and low-risk contacts. The doctor said that even vehicles used to transport essential supplies and services to GMC will be disinfected. “Procedure has also been laid down to be followed if any Covid-19 patient dies. In such an event, the state will conduct the last rites of the deceased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-goofup-gmc-sets-up-policy-for-discharge-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/74921340.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 1, 2020||India||Act on EMI reprieve, Congress urges govt||NEW DELHI: Saying that banks have not yet issued orders to defer the EMIs, Congress Tuesday urged the government to look into the issue and ensure a notification at the earliest even as it demanded interest subvention for those paying EMIs. It also questioned the controversial bleaching powder bath to displaced persons in places like Bareilly and sought an immediate bar on the inhuman practice that underscores the difference between “Bharat and India”. Speaking to reporters, AICC spokesman Manish Tewari said the Centre needs to seriously increase the number of tests to arrive at a realistic picture about the state of coronavirus spread in the country. He said India was conducting only 32 tests per 10 lakh persons while the number stands at 2,600 in the US. He said the Centre should give more contracts for manufacturing of coronavirus testing kits, underlining that it recently gave a green signal to four companies while turning down 13 others for want of procedural approvals. Tewari said while the finance minister should nudge the banks to immediately extend the facility of EMI deferral to account holders, he argued that interest on accumulated EMIs of three months would be a big burden on people. “The government should look at giving an interest subvention,” he added. The spokesman refused to take questions on the government’s decision to import safety equipments from China or on its “slow” response to the corona threat. “This is not the time to ask questions. Nothing should distract from the fight against coronavirus. There will be a time in future to ask questions and like in any democracy, we will go through the issues with our 6/6 vision,” he said. Tewari rubbished a query on “government’s intent” in the wake of discovery of corona positive persons in Nizamuddin and claims of organisers of the concerned Muslim congregation that they had necessary approvals from authorities. “The government’s intent should not be questioned … even if some government department had given an approval, the organisers should have exercised caution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/act-on-emi-reprieve-congress-urges-govt/articleshow/74922027.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Addicts to get door-delivery of medicines||Panaji: With addicts unable to travel to the Drug Treatment Centre (DTC) due to police action during the lockdown, the facility, located at Mapusa district hospital, has started dispensing medicine at the patients’ doorsteps every two days. The methadone is handed over to the patient’s family, in order to prevent abuse of the replacement therapy. Patients under treatment for opioid addiction have had trouble travelling to the facility , despite the centre issuing them letters stating that they need to visit DTC everyday between 9am and 12pm to take their medication, and that the police should not stop them. Some patients were beaten up and sent back home by police . A few were taken to the police station and their bikes were damaged, said nodal officer at DTC , Dr Rajesh Dhume. “This is an essential service to them,”Dhume said in his social media post appealing to Goa police to allow their clients to visit the rehablitation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/addicts-to-get-door-delivery-of-medicines/articleshow/74921346.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘All residents will have to remain at home’||Thiruvananthapuram: A panchayat with just about 40,000 population will go entirely into home quarantine for 21 days. With the death of Abdul Azeez, who was infected with Covid-19, minister Kadakampally Surendran said that everybody in the panchayat will have to remain at homes for 21 days with strict home isolation for 2 weeks followed by another week.  It means that residents in all the 18 wards in the panchayat and those residing on the borders of Mudakkal, Manikkal, Vembayam, Andoorkonam, Mangalapuram, Kattaikonam corporation area, Mohanapuram,Koythurkonam, Aryottukonam will have to remain at homes for 21 days.  At present Pothencode panchayat has 185 persons under home surveillance of which 140 came from foreign countries and 45 came from other states and their districts. Ensuring 21-day home quarantine in 18 wards along with borders of nearly 10 other local bodies will be a joint task for police and respective local bodies. Even though people have been asked to stay at homes, there have been requests for relaxation like going to banks, going to ration shops and vegetable shops. Pothencode panchayat president K Venugopalan Nair said that vegetable shops would be open for one hour. A volunteer team of 200 members would deliver supplies at home. Police will conduct a route march announcing strict restrictions against leaving houses on Wednesday. `` We are taking all measures to ensure that people remain at homes. Mild relaxations will be allowed,'' said Nair. The panchayat undertook an extensive cleaning exercise on all the places the deceased had gone during the last few weeks. The path leading to his house and surroundings were also cleaned. The primary health centre where the patient had visited was disinfected on Tuesday and the staff were advised to go under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-residents-will-have-to-remain-at-home/articleshow/74919810.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||124 arrested for flouting lockdown order||RAJKOT: A total of 124 people were arrested for allegedly flouting the coronavirus lockdown order in Rajkot city and Jamnagar district on Tuesday. According to police sources, in Rajkot city, 34 people were caught venturing out of their homes and in Jamnagar district, 84 people were arrested for the same offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/124-arrested-for-flouting-lockdown-order/articleshow/74919804.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Home-grown crops to the rescue of rural Goa||KERI/QUEPEM: In these times of food shortage due to the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, it is the villages of Goa that still continue their agrarian traditions that are least affected as they turn to their home-grown produce. Farmers from these villages are sustaining their neighbours by either providing them with fruits and vegetables freshly sourced from their fields or bartering produce like in ancient times. In mining-ravaged Cavrem-Pirla, a village nestling in the foothills of the Sahyadris, locals said they can manage their resources and sustain themselves for long periods. “Since the lockdown, things have been going on as usual and not a single package of essentials has been supplied here by authorities,” deputy sarpanch of Cavrem-Pirla panchayat, Tolyo Gaonkar said. Mining was a major activity here, but villagers sustained their agricultural practices and some are bulk suppliers of vegetables to the Quepem Sunday bazaar and surrounding areas of Sanguem and Salcete talukas. In Pirla in Quepem, Vitthal Khandeparkar has been growing coconuts, betel nuts, various spices and bananas among other horticulture and agriculture crops on the banks of the Kushavati since his retirement. He also has Gir cows. All of this means he has ensured his day-to-day food needs even as in parts of the state, especially the urbanised sectors, people are struggling to meet their needs for essential commodities. “I follow the practice of organic cultivation and it is helping me to live happily. People come to my farm to buy vegetables, fruits and other crop. I receive good demand for milk and cow urine, too,” Khandeparkar said. Another village also on the banks of a river, Sal, grows a variety of seasonal crops — vegetables, onions, chillies and cowpeas. Dilip Desai from this village on the banks of the Colvale says, “Our village is blessed by Bhumka-Mahadev. We have traditionally been growing seasonal vegetables like amaranthus, radish and brinjal among others. In this food crisis, we are helping each other by exchanging various commodities.” Explaining that villagers believe in community over individualism, local activist Ravindra Velip from Cavrem-Pirla said, “Villagers provide a helping hand to their co-villagers, mostly during such crisis, which is characteristic of their unbreakable community bond.” In Keri, situated at the foothills of Western Ghats, Prashant Rane has begun growing vegetables. “People in our vicinity are aware that we grow organic vegetables and buy from us,” he said. “This is the season for jackfruit and mango among other fruits. Raw mango pickle and vegetables cooked with jackfruit provide us with sustenance,” wildlifer Vitthal Shelke from Keri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-grown-crops-to-the-rescue-of-rural-goa/articleshow/74921348.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Viral video: Man from Pithoragarh arrested for telling Covid-19 ‘treatment’||PITHORAGARH: A 28-year-old man was held by city police on Tuesday for uploading a video on social media in which he is explaining the “treatment” for coronavirus. In the video uploaded on Facebook, the accused Santosh Kumar suggests people to dig a hole on the left side of the door of their home. He asks people to keep digging till they find a “coal-type thing” and then rub that material on their forehead. “Kumar claims that rubbing that coal thing will protect people and their families from the deadly coronavirus,” Priti Priyadarshni, SP Pithoragarh, told TOI. The official added that the cyber cell traced Kumar, a resident of Jhulaghat’s Kanadi village, after the matter came to the fore. A case under sections 188, 269 of the IPC and 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act has been lodged against Kumar at Jhulaghat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/viral-video-man-tells-covid-19-treatment-held/articleshow/74920719.cms||Prem Punetha
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Disinfection drive may trigger water scarcity||Kolkata: It is a catch-22 situation for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) brass. While the demand for disinfection drive is forcing KMC’s solid waste management to roll out more vehicles to reach more localities, ‘wastage’ of nearly 2 lakh litre precious filtered water in the clean-up activity is forcing civic authorities to do a rethink. According to a department official, the civic body began the disinfection drive 10 days ago as advised by a section of public health experts after a couple of Covid-19 cases. Initially, five vehicles loaded with filtered water mixed with sodium hypochlorite (the disinfecting agent) did the rounds of south and central Kolkata. Demand for the drive escalated after it was applauded by residents of localities where it had been carried out. Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan’s tweet praising KMC’s initiative fuelled pressure on the civic body to not only continue the drive but also extend the coverage. Now, KMC has deployed 20 vehicles for the disinfection drive. But there is demand for more. “We are flooded with requests from councillors, MLAs and even celebrities to disinfect their localities. We are also getting calls from housing complexes,” the civic official said. However, civic bosses are worried over shortage of filtered water as the temperature soars and demand for drinking water shoots up. According to a KMC official, each vehicle that is being used for disinfection drive carries 9,000 litres of filtered water. “Every day, we need to fill up all the vehicles at booster pumping stations. At this rate, it will not be possible to meet the demand for drinking water. We have to then curtail this disinfection drive as providing adequate drinking water is priority,” he explained. The civic brass is assessing whether to continue washing major thoroughfares with disinfectants or concentrate only on specific localities from where positive cases have been reported. “It makes sense to actually carry out the drive in slums where density of population makes social distancing difficult, and hence, vulnerable to the virus,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/disinfection-drive-may-trigger-water-scarcity/articleshow/74921349.cms||Saikat Ray
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ikya Vedika: Move Will Hit Staff Badly||Hyderabad: The state government’s decision to cut the salaries of its employees and pensioners has irked the employees’ associations. The Telangana State employees, teachers, pensioners, public sector and contract employees Ikya Vedika on Tuesday strongly condemned the decision to impose salary cuts and demanded that the GO on deferments be withdrawn immediately. They said that it is hard to believe that the state is facing a financial crunch and added that even if there is an issue, the government should first seek assistance from the Centre or focus on other sources of revenue generation. “The state went into lockdown only nine days ago. It is hard to believe that we are already facing a financial crunch. This move of the government will have an adverse effect on the morale of employees, who are working hard to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation. Telangana Joint Action Committee (JAC) chairman Karam Ravinder Reddy and secretary general V Mamata urged the state government to reconsider its decision to cut salary of employees in view of dwindling revenues. The JAC leaders met chief secretary Somesh Kumar and said the government should pay complete salaries of employees. “There is a huge variation between gross pay and net pay. If they deduct 50% from gross salary, we will be left with nothing. How are we going to survive with a few thousand rupees?” questioned Ch Sampath Kumar Swamy, state president, Telangana Employees Association. Pensioners said that they hardly get any money as pension and said most of them are worried that the amount would not even be sufficient for medical expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ikya-vedika-move-will-hit-staff-badly/articleshow/74920720.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Phone battery dead but not their spirit as migrants march home||Nagpur: The smartphone that Shyam Singh, a painter, purchased by saving his two months’ wages has paid off. As part of the lockdown exodus, Shyam and two others-- Hiren Kumar and Arjun Singh— set off from Hyderabad for their village in Hamirpur district of Uttar Pradesh, over 1200 kms away. Clueless about the route, the tech savvy migrant workers started GPS on their phones and reached till Nagpur. The last phone’s battery died just as they reached Nagpur. TOI spotted them around 12 km from Mansar on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway. Wanting to reach Sagar and Madhya Pradesh, they planned to enter Jhansi from there and then to Hamirpur. From Nagpur, however, they taken a wrong road. They were on the Nagpur Jabalpur road while the Nagpur-Chhindwara road leads to Sagar and then to Jhansi. “When we got the job, we went by train to Hyderabad, and did not know the how to get back by road on foot. We got rides only for short distances throughout Telangana, so the GPS came in handy and we could reach Napgur,” said Shyam. In Hyderabad, for four months, they could not understand Telugu language. They got a ride a little away from the city and were on foot again. As the trio waited on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway, waving at trucks, none stopped. In their 20s, the three have studied till high school and said conditions back in the village forced them to quit studies. “We keep looking for work and this time we got it in Hyderabad. The contractor gave us Rs 12,000 a month but no salary was paid for the month of March. The contractor was also not traceable. Finally three of us moved out,” said Hiren Kumar. “A little can be saved, money has to be sent home too. We do it through internet at the nearby shop. Staying back would have left us starved,” he said, the stock reason every migrant gave for moving out. Shyam said he had bought the phone for Rs 11,000 saving from his wages for two months. But his phone lasted only till Nagpur. “Mine went off long ago,” said Hiren Kumar, “I sent Rs 20,000 home,” said Arjun when asked if he had a smartphone too. Asked if they knew that the Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had annouonced all migrant workers will be fed, Shyam quipped, “they are giving rice, we can’t eat that.” Soon another trio that had started from Hyderabad came there searching for the road to Bhopal. “Nobody is ready to take us,” said Ashok, showing his blistered feet. This was the third group of long distance hikers TOI found. On March 31, TOI reported about a group that had set off from Visakhapatnam to Karuaili in Rajasthan, a distance of 1600 km. They were stopped and put in a shelter home here. On Tuesday, TOI continued to find groups of labourers walking back to their native villages. On Amravati road, a group of Korku tribals including four women was heading towards their village in Melghat hills, more than 300 kms away. Another group engaged in constructing Samruddhi Expressway walked from Pulgaon towards Lakhnadon, also over 300 kms away in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/phone-battery-dead-but-not-their-spirit-as-migrants-march-home/articleshow/74920729.cms||Shishir Arya
April 1, 2020||Goa||Citizens throng supermarkets for supplies on Day-7||Panaji/Margao: With many retail grocery shops finally opening following the government’s directions to that effect, Day-7 of the 21-day lockdown was marked by a sense of reassurance among people. In Panaji, ever since the lockdown, only medical stores across the city were kept open in addition to a few vegetable stores. On Tuesday, however, milk booths and vegetable vendors opened from 6am onwards. Each of the grocery stores that were open had a long queue outside the shop, wherein people maintained social distance on their own. Even Modern Bakery had a queue, with people lining up to purchase bread and snacks. Over the past week, a serious shortage of eggs and chicken had driven most locals to a vegetarian and pulses diet. Royal Foods opened in the Panaji market and drew a crowd of eager shoppers who purchased two to four chickens at a time. Even the superstores kept their doors open for people to purchase basic commodities while the police kept vigil to ensure there was no crowding. These were Vishal megamart in Panaji, Magsons supercenter at Taleigao and Shenaz supermarket in St Inez. The Panaji municipal market however remained shut. In Margao, home delivery service offered by a couple of stores has been getting encouraging response. Fair price shops in various parts of South Goa began distributing ration to card-holders for April. Sugar and oil have also been made available to ration card holders in addition to rice and wheat. Though vegetables were sold at horticulture outlets at many places across South Goa, the stock failed to reach several outlets, sources said. Coconuts were also seen being sold in vehicles at many places in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-throng-supermarkets-for-supplies-on-day-7/articleshow/74921343.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||High time fund-starved corporation increased its revenue sources||COIMBATORE: At a time when the wait to avail the central government’s fund continues for the civic body due to the absence of council and a final decision pertaining to the property tax hike is yet to be taken, the city corporation’s financial backbone does not seem to be strong this year. It is high time the corporation should take steps to increase its revenue sources, say activists. The corporation has proposed budget for the financial year 2020-21 with meagre Rs 1.14 crore as surplus revenue on Monday. Its estimated revenue for the upcoming year is Rs 2,156 crore and expenditure Rs 2,155 crore. If only the corporation had not proposed to obtain a loan worth Rs 223 crore – Rs 158 crore from the state government and Rs 64.58 crore from Housing and Urban Development Corporation Limited (HUDCO), the budget would have gone deficit this year. It has been four years since the corporation had presented a deficit budget. Last year, excited by the state government’s move to hike the property tax, the corporation had eyed to increase the tax revenue by 73%. But, a few months ago, the state government had withheld its decision and directed the local bodies not to collect revised tax until further notice. The revised tax revenue for the financial year 2019-20 has come down as Rs 308 crore against the projected estimate of Rs 501 crore. As per the revised estimates, the corporation’s surplus revenue has come down from Rs 4.75 crore to Rs 82,000 for the financial year 2019-20. This year, the corporation aims to earn as much as Rs 326 crore as tax revenue. “We could not say that the corporation is financially strong. But there are avenues to increase their revenue and it is high time they take necessary measures to increase their revenue,” said K Kathirmathiyon, a city-based activist. The corporation should revise the rent of its shopping complex to increase its revenue and should slap penalty against the defaulters, he added. The pending tax amount that the corporation projects to collect this year stands close to Rs 96 crore. He said the corporation should take steps to renovate and modernize its community halls so that people from different social sectors would also come forward to use it and it in turn would increase the revenue for the civic body. The budget shows nothing but how weak the corporation is financially, said DMK MLA N Karthik. Pointing out how the corporation has been struggling even to settle bills to the contractors, he said that it is high time corporation ensures transparency in its work. Ever since the council was dissolved, the civic body is neither uploading its resolutions in its website nor ensuring transparency in its work, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/high-time-fund-starved-corpn-increased-its-revenue-sources/articleshow/74920717.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Sale of coffee allowed, but border will remain closed: Minister||MADIKERI: The sale of coffee will be allowed during exemption hours in Kodagu, district incharge minister V Somanna said on Tuesday. However, the border with Kerala will remain sealed, he said. He was speaking at a press meet in Madikeri after conducting a meeting of district-level officers and public representatives at zilla panchayat hall to review the measures taken in Kodagu for containing Covid-19. The minister announced that coffee growers are allowed to sell their own coffee between 6am and 12 noon on Monday, Wednesday and Friday during the exemption time provided for people to purchase essential commodities like groceries and vegetables. All growers have to sell their products as per pre-fixed price. The pre-fixed price is Rs 1,000 per 50 kg bag of Robusta Cherry, Rs 2,000 for Arabica Cherry, Rs 3,000 for Robusta Parchment and Rs 5,000 for Arabica Parchment. Further, ginger and pepper grown by the farmers in Kodagu can be marketed and the farmers will be permitted to sell their products in other states also crossing the border areas. However, the Kodagu-Kerala border will not be opened by the administration. Other routes can be used for transporting the products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sale-of-coffee-allowed-but-border-will-remain-closed-minister/articleshow/74919798.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Officials check godowns for hoarding||Panaji: Teams of inspectors from the department of civil supplies and consumer affairs, commercial tax and legal metrology began inspecting godowns of suppliers and wholesalers on Tuesday to ensure that there was no hoarding and to ascertain reasons for many keeping their shutters down. The teams of three for each taluka led by the inspectors from the civil supplies department visited several wholesalers and advised them to keep their business running and avoid hoarding. “We inspected the stock together with the police and asked them about difficulties they are facing to keep their godowns open. Wherever necessary the official from civil supplies provided them with curfew passes for their staff. Once they have the passes, it is the owner’s lookout to ensure that they report to work and keep the supply chain running,” an inspector from legal metrology told TOI. After inspections of wholesalers are completed, the teams will begin inspecting retail shops. “Once wholesalers begin functioning, the retailers will automatically keep their shops open,” the inspector from the team said. “Those who insist on being closed can face suspension of licence,” he said. The directorate of civil supplies and consumer affairs on Monday constituted the special teams after it received complaints that retail stores and suppliers purposely kept their businesses closed to create hoarding and escalate prices. “Retail stores, andstockists and wholesalers must to keep their premises open, failing which stringent action will be initiated,” director civil supplies Siddhivinayak Naik stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-check-godowns-for-hoarding/articleshow/74921354.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Workers building Quepem mkt complex left in lurch||QUEPEM: Around 39 migrant labourers working at the under-construction Quepem municipal fish market complex have been left to fend for themselves for nearly ten days since the janata curfew was announced, in view of the Covid-19 threat. All the men have been living in the building’s underground basement since construction commenced. Of these, 15 hail from Odisha, nine from Jharkhand, six from Kolkata, five from Bihar and four from Madhya Pradesh. “We were without food for the last three days. We do not have money to buy essential items. After one lady approached us and heard our plight, we received one bag of rice and dal,” Monoj Gopal, a native of Odisha, said on Tuesday. The Rs 7.8 crore four-storey market complex is coming up at the existing place, and the contract was bagged by Shivam Infratech. Quepem resident Patricia Fernandes told TOI that when she apprised Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam of the issue on Monday, he replied that it is the contractor’s responsibility to look after the well being of the labourers. Later in the evening, the deputy collector directed Quepem municipality to supply rice and dal on priority for the migrant workers. “Two days after the lockdown was imposed, we called the engineer up and sought his help to provide us food and money, but he told us the situation would normalise after four days. Now it has been 10 days since the lockdown, neither the engineer nor the contractor has come here to check on us,” said Anil Singh, who is a native of Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/workers-building-quepem-mkt-complex-left-in-lurch/articleshow/74921351.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stay shave, stay home: No barber? Go bald||AHMEDABAD: With barber shops remaining shut as a result of the lockdown, an Old City-based businessman found a remedy for unkempt and overgrown hair. Getting hold of a razor, he shaved off the hair of his head along with those of his two sons. Rajesh Patel, 39, who has a business of making aluminium frameworks for offices and homes, says he resorted to this method as hair of his sons – Heet (10) and Jaksh (4) had grown very long and needed a haircut urgently. Besides, with schools not expected to re-open before June, their hair will grow back in three months. “I was considering giving them a haircut when the lockdown was announced and all barber shops were closed down. Cutting their hair at home would require some expertise and the better option was to shave their heads and mine bald,” said Patel, who spent over an hour carefully tonsuring the head of himself, along with those of Heet and Jaksh. Patel, who stays at Rabari Colony area of Ahmedabad, says that there is a fair chance that the lockdown period getting extended.  “Even if it is not, there is going to be a huge rush at barber shops after the lockdown ends. So this was the most viable option,” Patel said. He added that it is the first time that he used a razor to shave off the hair of one’s head and he did it with caution and patience, as he did not want to injure his sons or himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stay-shave-stay-home-no-barber-go-bald/articleshow/74921368.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt staffer among virus suspects||Hyderabad: Among those who attended religious prayers in Delhi and did not inform officials is an employee working in the Secretariat. The section officer working in the animal husbandry department at Telangana secretariat attended the religious congregation in Delhi and came back to Hyderabad last week. He has been attending office for the past few days. Officials got to know about his travel to Delhi on Tuesday during their identification exercise and informed police. The police took him to Gandhi Hospital. He was in Delhi from March 13 to 16. The department secretary has asked the officials to conduct all medical investigation of the section officer. Similarly, a couple of persons, who had gone to Delhi, have been found resuming work at Singareni Colleiries in Mancherial. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-staffer-among-virus-suspects/articleshow/74920724.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lifeline in lockdown: Milk train leaves Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A special train with 396 tonnes of milk products loaded in 16 wagons bound for Kolkata and three wagons bound for Raipur left Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Pradeep Sharma, the railway PRO, said that the train will halt at Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Paldi, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Nagpur, Raipur, Bilaspur, Tatanagar and Kharagpur. Those wanting to send parcels or goods can book in advance. Deepak Kumar Jha, the divisional railway manager, said that this is the first such train from Ahmedabad and more trains will be flagged off from Bandra terminus on April 1, April 3, April 6, April 8, April 11, and April 13. These trains will leave Bandra at 8pm and reach Ludhiana on the third day at 11.30am. Jha said that the parcel trains from Bandra will cover 1,705km and halt at Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand, Ahmedabad, Ajmer, Jaipur, Delhi, and Ambala. The parcel service can be booked from any of these stations, he said. To ensure that the supply of essentials is not affected during the lockdown, the Western Railway has introduced parcel express facilities to transport milk products, edible oil, spices, groceries, and biscuits from the Kankaria terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lifeline-in-lockdown-milk-train-leaves-ahmedabad/articleshow/74921375.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: People throng corporation school to avail aid tokens given by government||COIMBATORE: Defying the social distancing norms, people thronged the corporation higher secondary school at Ratinapuri in the city on Tuesday to get aid tokens to avail the state government’s cash support and essential commodities free of cost. The aid tokens are supposed to be distributed at the doorstep of every ration cardholder. However, at some places in the city, including at Ratinapuri, beneficiaries were asked to collect their tokens at the respective corporation schools in their locality. Raja Mohammed, a social worker who has been working along with government officials at Ratinapuri, said, “There are five ration shops in the locality. Whenever officials from a particular shop reach a street, almost all of them living in that street surround the officials. It is to avoid such a situation that we have asked the public to collect the tokens from the officials at school.” The school premise is spacious enough to accommodate cardholders of five shops and we have ensured that people follow the social distancing norms while collecting the tokens, he said. But, people were seen moving in closer contact at the entrance of the school premises and the crowd was dispersed only after the intervention of police. Ration shop authorities said that they would take necessary steps to ensure that people don’t crowd in front of the school. The district administration is to distribute Rs 1,000 along with essential commodities to 9.76 lakh rice cardholders in the district. Officials from the office of district supply officer (DSO) have already started to distribute token to the beneficiaries. A senior official said that they had deployed salesmen of the ration shops to distribute tokens at doorstep of the beneficiaries to avoid thronging the shop during distribution. Considering that it would take at least 10 minutes to distribute the commodities to a beneficiary, we have decided to distribute around 100 tokens per day, the official said. The date and time a beneficiary should visit the ration shop will printed on the token itself. The aids would be distributed from April 2 to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-throng-corpn-school-to-avail-aid-tokens-given-by-govt/articleshow/74920734.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hubballi||Facing losses, vendors throw away 2,000 litre milk||BELAGAVI: Facing huge losses, vendors from Raybag taluk flushed over 2,000 litres of milk into a water channel on Tuesday. The lockdown clamped to fight the Covid-19 pandemic has sent milk prices crashing in the unorganised sector, for those who sell raw milk to larger dairy traders. According to vendors who supply milk to Pune, Mumbai and many areas of Belagavi, agents of big dairy traders are demanding milk for a pittance of Rs 10/l. In normal days, buffalo milk is sold at Rs 32/l and cow’s milk at Rs 22. This is the situation since a week On Tuesday morning, around three to four vendors gathered near Ghataprabha irrigation channel at Palabavi village at Raybag in Belagavi, and threw away 2,000l of milk from over 40 cans. Hazrat Ali, a milk vendor, said that he and his colleagues had no option in this regard. “We sell milk to agents in Pune, Mumbai, Kuduchi, Terdal and Bagalkot. Now the supply of milk has taken a blow due to borders being closed, although the government has relaxed norms for the trading of milk.” Ali said that cashing in on the crisis, the agents of large dairy traders are refusing to buy milk at the market price. Another vendor said that citing trouble faced during transportation, these agents are asking for milk at Rs 10/l. He said that selling milk at Rs 10 /l will result in a huge loss, and milk, which is a perishable item, cannot be stored. Hence, we were forced to throw the milk away. The police have tightened security at the Maharashtra border, and travelling between districts is also restricted. Karnataka Milk Federation(KMF) manager Jayaprakash Manneri said earlier 2 lakh litres milk was being sold, and now it has come down to 50,000 litres. KMF supplies milk to Goa and Pune. He also said that police action on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border has reduced trade in milk drastically. He said that the Goa government has ordered not to supply milk to them. The KMF was supplying 35,000 litres milk to Goa and 45,000 litres milk to Maharashtra. PC: A vendor throws away milk in Rayabag||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/facing-losses-vendors-throw-away-2000l-milk/articleshow/74920732.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mysuru||Two more positive as Nanjangud town slips off grid||MYSURU: Temple town Nanjangud, the centre of a cluster outbreak of Covid-19, resembled a ghost town on Tuesday, a day when two more employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, tested positive, increasing pressure on the authorities. So far, a dozen from the pharmaceutical company have been infected. Even owners of medical shops were afraid to conduct business, but eventually opened after much persuasion by authorities. Stocks of medicines and groceries though were fast depleting. Given that the town is a containment zone, supplies are not easy to come by. District officials are making efforts to ensure a steady supply of essential goods. Fuel bunks too are running dry while clinics and secondary hospitals are wary of treating fever cases as doctors allege some of those advised quarantine have rubbed off the seal. While plans are afoot to shift family members of positive cases to government hostels as a precautionary measure, it is being opposed by locals, who fear infection. While the 12 positive patients have been moved to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Mysuru, 753 other employees of Jubilant Life Sciences have been ordered to stay indoors. They are being tracked by the police to ensure they don’t jump quarantine. Industries in both Nanjangud and Tandavapura industrial stayed closed. Meanwhile, authorities are still trying to achieve a breakthrough in finding the source of the infection. Police are scanning CCTV footage to check primary and secondary contacts of employees, while employees are also being questioned. None of the patients have travelled abroad recently or met a person who tested positive. Sources say the 35-year-old youth who first showed Covid-19 symptoms (P52) isn’t disclosing details, which has put authorities in a fix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-more-positive-as-nanjangud-town-slips-off-grid/articleshow/74920750.cms||HM Aravind
April 1, 2020||Pune||65 education officials to monitor quarantine facilities in Pune district||PUNE: Altogether 65 officials from the primary education department will administer and monitor quarantine facilities in Pune district. The state education commissioner has been appointed the nodal officer by the Pune divisional commissioner to oversee these facilities with the help of the department employees. Commissioner of education, Vishal Solanki, the nodal officer for quarantine facilities, said that considering the future requirement to fight Covid-19, groups of three employees have been formed. They will coordinate with the civic bodies, taluka-level officials and other departments to manage, supervise and administer quarantine facilities. As many as 65 education department staffers have been divided into 21 squads and given important responsibilities. The officers will monitor the requirements at the current quarantine facilities, compile all the information related to patients from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and other talukas and submit it to the health department. They will also coordinate with the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/65-education-officials-to-monitor-quarantine-facilities-in-pune-district/articleshow/74921360.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||No functions to deck up, flower markets wear a sombre look||PUNE: The coronavirus lockdown has hampered flower trade at wholesale and retail markets. The city’s wholesale flower market will continue to remain shut for trade until the next 15 days. The traders said there has been a sharp drop in demand for flowers due to absence of public functions, wedding and other celebrations as well as temporary closure of all places of religion. A lull in the market has prompted authorities to suspend trade during the lockdown. The wholesale trade of flowers is held in the Gultekdi Market Yard area. “The space marked for flower trade is very congested and overcrowding in the area would defy social distancing norms. The trade can’t be held at another location or in open market since flowers are delicate produce,” a trader explained. Retailers in the city market said that most flower shops have been closed since the past week. “March onwards, we usually get enquiries for decorations for marriage functions but with the shut down all functions have been postponed and there is absolutely no demand for flowers, said Sachin Shinde, a flower trader. Sanjay Satav, who supplies marigold and other flowers to the city market, said that he hadn’t been able to supply flowers to the city for the first time in years. “The market was shut and there were no buyers for marigold. Like me, many faced financial losses because of the drop in demand and the ongoing restrictions over trade,” Satav said. Ramesh Wachal, who runs a flower shop near Mandai, said that flower markets usually witness a lot of trade around Gudi Padwa, followed by Ram Navami and other religious festivals. “The flower trade during Gudi Padwa was almost nil. At the moment, revival looks difficult for at least the next couple of weeks,” Wachal said. The officials from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee said that the trade of flowers was expected to resume after April 15. “We will take stock of the situation before taking a call on resumption of trade,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-functions-to-deck-up-flower-markets-wear-a-sombre-look/articleshow/74921358.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 1, 2020||Goa||Posters circulated to tarnish our reputation: MLAs||Panaji: The three MLAs who were reported to be ‘missing’ on social media said the posters were terribly out of place and circulated only to tarnish their reputation. Thivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar, Mapusa MLA Joshua D’ Souza and Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida all said they have been doing enough during the coronavirus pandemic. “This message has been circulated on social media by opposition and those who are drunk. If I am not doing any service for the people then I am ready to resign as MLA”, said Halarnkar, adding that he started distribution of essential commodities as soon as the Janata Curfew was announced. Almeida, the Vasco legislator, said he was in constant touch with government officials and booth-level officers to ensure that the food chain in his constituency is not disturbed. “Whatever post is circulated on social media needs to be verified. A lot of things get circulated but that needs to be verified,” Almeida said. In Mapusa, Joshua may not be seen out in the open, but the legislator said whenever there is an emergency, he’s not one to stay locked indoors. “I am monitoring and ensuring that food supply is maintained. This is a political trick (to show him missing). We should not play politics over this issue,” he said. Son of former deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, Joshua said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message was for everyone to stay indoors, so that the spread of the deadly virus that has brought the world to a standstill, is contained. “We are not fighting a food crisis. Our battle is against Covid-19. As appealed, we must stay indoors and must maintain social distancing. “We have supplied essentials not only to our voters but also migrants, stranded foreigners and others. We have completed one week (of the lockdown) and there are two more weeks to stay inside. If all of us stay indoors, then only we will be able to step out of our houses at the earliest,” said the Mapusa MLA, who took to social media to say they are doing the best to “reach out to everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/posters-circulated-to-tarnish-our-reputation-mlas/articleshow/74921361.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||115 Europeans stranded in Kolkata return home by special AI flight||KOLKATA: An Air India Dreamliner aircraft carrying Europeans took off from Kolkata airport at 10.10am on Tuesday. The flight was part of nine sorties that AI will run between Tuesday and Thursday to repatriate Germans, British, French, Italian, Dutch, Danes and other citizens of EU nations stranded in India. On Monday evening, an Atlantis Armenian Airways flight had airlifted 68 Armenian students from the city. The flight made a technical halt at Ahmedabad airport to refuel and then headed for the Gulf en route to Armenia. The 115 flyers that departed on Tuesday morning included many British citizens of Indian origin who had come to India to visit their extended families and then got stranded. The German government inked an agreement with AI to operate nine chartered flights, including the one from Kolkata, to enable them to travel back to their homes. The flyers began arriving at the airport in buses since early Tuesday morning after spending the night at a hotel in New Town. British deputy high commission Nicholas Low, whose office was coordinating with the flyers, was at the airport to see off passengers. After clearing mandatory check, they waited for the flight. The aircraft touched down at 8.30am. When the 236-seater plane pulled out, there were only 115 passengers on board. Though there were more than 250 applications from people stranded all over eastern India and desperate to board a flight home, the passenger count was deliberately kept low to ensure social distancing between passengers. Among the passengers were four persons from Denmark. “They were asked to submit necessary documents with the German consulate office. They will fly to Frankfurt and then catch another flight to Copenhagen,” said Smita Bajoria, honorary consul general of Denmark in Kolkata. The Germany embassy in India has thus far arranged two flights by Lufthansa from Delhi to Frankfurt to evacuate 750 Germans and 250 nationals of other EU countries. Other countries that have sought help to repatriate their nationals include Malaysia, Ukraine, Peru and Afghanistan. The government had last week extended the visa period — till April 15 — of all foreign visitors who are unable to leave the country due to travel restrictions in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/115-stranded-europeans-return-home-by-special-ai-flight/articleshow/74921362.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation closes temporary market at new bus stand||COIMBATORE: After Ukkadam fish market, the city corporation has sealed the temporary market that was set up at the new bus stand on Mettupalayam Road here on Tuesday. The decision was taken after people failed to adhere to the physical distancing norms. A senior city corporation official, meanwhile, made it clear the temporary market at Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School on Alagesan Road in the city would continue to function. The civic body also appealed the residents to ensure that only one of the family members was sent to the markets to facilitate physical distancing. Earlier, the city corporation had shifted some of the shops from Anna market to the new bus stand and the school four days ago to ensure strict adherence to physical distancing norms at the farmers’ market by decongesting that. Of the 300 shops at the market, 40 were shifted to the bus stand and another 160 to the school premises. The city corporation had also equipped the two premises with water and lighting facilities, besides marking slots for customers at every 1m gap to ensure physical distancing. However, most of the shopkeepers, who were allotted space at the school, have been selling vegetables at the bus stand, congesting the premises, the official said. “On Tuesday morning, they closed the shops before 7.30am, forcing many customers to look for other options. And they eventually crowded other shops.” Following the directions of corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar, the temporary market at the bus stand was subsequently sealed. The city corporation is also planning to merge meat shops that are functioning in its limits after people crowded them on Sunday, throwing physical distancing norms to the wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-closes-temporary-market-at-new-bus-stand/articleshow/74920746.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: A day not enough, say boat owners on March 31 deadline||PANAJI: With the fisheries department giving them only until Tuesday to unload their catch at jetties, boat owners are worried about the fate of the vessels that are still at sea. Fishing activities will stop from April 2 onwards till further intimation as per the government order. “Unloading was done after all boats arrived and anchored. Any leftover vessels may arrive late in the night, but they will be stuck within the jetty since the gates are locked,” boat owner from Malim jetty Francisco Fernandes said. These are big boats that had left before the lockdown was announced and out at deep sea it is difficult to communicate with them even by wireless. The North Goa collector’s office sealed the jetty on Tuesday morning, Fernandes said. “Some trawlers have therefore started throwing their fish out because fish like tuna, horse mackerel, catfish, etc, are not eaten by Goans and the fishmeal plant is closed,” he said. General secretary of the All Goa Purseiners’ Association Sebastiao Cardozo said that unloading cannot stop for at least the next three to four days since some boats are still at sea. “Locking the jetty entirely is very bad for boat owners. The boats that have gone earlier must be allowed to unload because fish is a perishable item. The natural resource will be wasted,” he said. The latest order signed by fisheries director Shamila Monteiro reads, “All the vessel owners are hereby informed that after unloading their catch from the fishing vessels, shall leave jetty with crew members to safe zones offshore and vessel should remain anchored. They will not be allowed to return on the jetty till lockdown period is lifted by government.” However, at Cutbona jetty, boats unloaded their catch, but fishing activities do not seem to have come to a halt. “There is a ban on fishing activities from April 2 onwards, but some trawlers are preparing to venture back into the seas. The fisheries department must take action against these violations,” president of the Cutbona boat owners co-operative union Savio D'silva said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-day-not-enough-say-boat-owners-on-mar-31-deadline/articleshow/74921364.cms||Nida Sayed
April 1, 2020||India||‘Stranded in India’: New govt portal to help foreign tourists||NEW DELHI: Union tourism ministry on Tuesday launched a ‘Stranded in India’ web portal that can also be accessed through the Incredible India website, to reach out to foreign nationals stranded in India owing to the 21-day country-wide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The effort, the government said, will help disseminate factually correct information to stranded persons and help allay fears and confusion. It will also help contain the spike in fake news and enable smooth evacuation of stranded tourists in coordination with their respective governments. The information portal, the ministry said, has been built in order to disseminate information to foreign tourists about how to stay safe and is targeted at those who are here for long durations, or who were unable to return to their countries of residence. It is aimed, ministry officials said, to be a single window solution that grants foreign tourists access to all the information they may need and the services that they can avail in order to continue to live in India, safely. In a statement assuring all possible assistance and support to foreign tourists stuck in India, the ministry said, “The world is facing an unprecedented situation. The ministry of tourism is with you in these difficult times....If you are a foreign traveller stranded anywhere in India due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we can help you get in touch with the concerned authorities.” The website contains numbers for the COVID-19 helpline, the Bureau of Immigration, as well as information about the control centres set up by state and Union Territory administrations, which tourists can contact for assistance. Separately, the website also allows the tourists to submit details of where they have travelled from and where they are currently stranded, for the ministry to reach out to them. In a tweet, the ministry also said it will provide information related to the tourists’ safe travel back home. The website also furnishes the details of officers assigned to help tourists from specific countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stranded-in-india-new-govt-portal-to-help-foreign-tourists/articleshow/74922029.cms||Swati Mathur
April 1, 2020||Rajkot||He just hung his boots, not the zeal to serve mankind||Rajkot: The adversities seem to be bringing out the true colours of men in khaki, with yet another policemen, that too, a retired ASI volunteering to do honorary services, merely to help his brethren in times of crisis.Our lockdown warrior, Hamir Lunasia (58), had retired as an assistant sub-inspector from Upleta police station in Rajkot district on January 31, this year. “With the entire Saurashtra under the grip of Coronavirus, I felt that sitting idle at my home would be shirking away from my responsibility. Therefore, I offered my honorary services to Upleta police station inspector, V M Lagaria. He asked me to don my uniform and resume duty from March 25,” Lunasia said, while talking to TOI. Lunasia has been provided with a police van, which he drives through the streets of Upleta, enforcing lockdown orders strictly. “I have got three persons arrested and five vehicles seized for allegedly violating lockdown orders,” said the man, who is also a firm believer in humanity. Lusania on Sunday also caught 35 labourers from Madhya Pradesh walking to their native after abandoning their worksite for lack of necessary resources and amenities. After he came to know that they were hungry, Lusania provided them meals at his own expenses before dropping them back at their working sites asking them to stay put for the time being. He also shows leniency. “I don’t misbehave with people. I request them to stay indoors and take precautions prescribed by the government to stop the further spread of Coronavirus,” he explained, adding that firm handling is needed as Upleta so far does not have a single COVID-19 positive case recorded, but nobody should be lax. Lunasia had joined the police force in 1986. In his 33 years of services, he had served in Dhoraji, Padadhari, Gondal, Vichhiya, Patanvav and Jamkandorana of Rajkot district and Maliya-Miyana of Morbi district. For the past five years before his retirement, Lunasia had been serving at Upleta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/he-just-hung-his-boots-not-the-zeal-to-serve-mankind/articleshow/74919887.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Kalyani Group pledges Rs 25 crore to PM relief fund||PUNE: City-based Kalyani Group on Tuesday pledged Rs 25 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund to fight the Covid-19 spread. Besides, a host of industrialists and individuals, including Indian cricket test team’s vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane, have partnered with the Mahratta Chambers of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) to help local administration meet the shortfall of ventilators, masks and personal protection equipments. Rahane has made an undisclosed amount of contribution to the MCCIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kalyani-group-pledges-rs-25cr-to-pm-relief-fund/articleshow/74921369.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Stigmatising of patients hampers contact tracing||HYDERABAD: Even as number of coronavirus-positive cases is rising in Telangana, finding the first contact persons for the patients has become a herculean task for officials thanks to the uncalled for stigma people are attaching to coronavirus patients. Till Monday afternoon, the health department had traced 1,030 first contact persons, including the immediate family members, with the 70-odd coronavirus cases. According to highly-placed sources, the number of highest first contact cases was 130 for one patient, who was discharged on Monday. “This explains the extent we need to go and take care that the virus does not spread. We apply various methods — right from taking their travel history to finding the list of people who had contact with the patient within one-metre distance,” said a top source in the government. Among the 1,030 first contact people, nearly 600 completed quarantine period. “About 100 of them have been tested to see if they were infected with the virus,” sources said. As soon as the test comes positive for any person, the surveillance team gets in touch with the family and seeks their details. “Since the patients are sent to isolation wards, it becomes tough to track the first contact persons. Some times, they refuse to share details. Most people do not understand the importance of first contact persons,” sources said. The most common reason for many not willing to share the details is the stigma these days with the families, friends and first contact persons. Reportedly, a highly educated couple who tested positive also did not reveal their family details initially. In the official statement, it was mentioned that they had travelled to Delhi and had contacted the virus from there, but later it was found that one of them met a friend from the UK and had visited several areas in Hyderabad. In the case of a three-year-old boy who tested positive, officials could not get first contact details of the boy despite trying for one whole day. After collecting the journey details, officials are also seeking the details of other passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stigmatising-of-patients-hampers-contact-tracing/articleshow/74920805.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Class X boy writes to PM, asks him to seek temple donations||DEHRADUN: Making a passionate appeal, a Class X student of a city school wrote to PM Narendra Modi urging him to get 80% of “god money” from religious institutions to fight Covid-19 across the country in times of the inevitable economic slowdown. The student, identified as Abhinav Kumar Sharma, wrote a mail to the PM on March 26 asking him to request all religious institutions to donate 80% of their wealth to the PM relief fund. The student added that religious institutes get tax exemption under 80G and must donate now to save people’s lives and make the country’s financial condition stable at a time when this health emergency will lead to economic instability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/class-x-boy-writes-to-pm-asks-him-to-seek-temple-donations/articleshow/74920748.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 1, 2020||Goa||Costly veggies irks buyers in villages||Saligao: In many parts of the state, reports have emerged of vegetables being sold at highly inflated prices. In Saligao, irked locals allege that while they are being purchased at wholesale rates, the horticulture outlets in the village are selling vegetables at higher prices. Vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower, cluster beans, French beans and onion, potatoes, tomatoes and chillies were being sold at Rs 60 per kg in Parra. “In some villages, vegetables are being sold at wholesale prices, but here in Parra, they are very expensive,” one resident, Benedict D’Souza said. Prices of eggs too have risen sharply. “While the market rate is Rs 60 per kg, here eggs are being sold at Rs 105 a dozen and a tray at Rs 210,” another villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/costly-veggies-irks-buyers-in-villages/articleshow/74921372.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighi Jamaat meet alters Covid-19 combat strategies of Telugu states||HYDERABAD: The Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi has changed Covid-19 scenario in the two Telugu states, resulting in a spike in deaths and positive cases.  Of 1,030 attendees from Telangana, six have died. At least 22 attendees and 19 of their family members have tested positive. In AP, 19 attendees and two of their family members tested positive. An attendee died, but officials said the sample from the body came negative for Covid-19. A couple related to some attendees also died, however, their test results were awaited. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendra told TOI, “ Most delegates returned home by March 20. The 14-day window period for symptoms to show up would get over for 80% of them is tomorrow. Of them, 22 are severely affected, and 19 of their family members tested positive. Four deaths — two at Gandhi Hospital and one each at two private hospitals — were reported . Regarding deaths at Nizamabad and Gadwal, we didn’t collect the samples as they went to Delhi and had similar symptoms. They suspect they too died due to Covid-19.” Andhra Pradesh principal secretary health K S Jawahar Reddy told TOI the two deaths were looked into. “In the first death, the test result was negative for Covid19 and in the second case samples have been sent for confirmatory tests. Öf 17 positive cases reported in AP on Tuesday, 14 were linked to the Nizamuddin meet. AP director-general of police Gautam Sawang told TOI, “We have obtained the list of organisers. Kurnool has the highest attendees with 252 followed by Nellore 72 and Guntur and Kadapa .” “Of 20,846 foreign returnees, 18,633 are covered by an app. If they move 50 metres out, they will be caught. Around 384 are still missing. There were positive cases among those who returned from Mecca and the UK and their primary contacts. Now, with those from the meet, the numbers increased,” Sawang added. An Intelligence Bureau official said, “The couple who died was diabetic. They had respiratory issues too. It took three days to get them admitted to hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tj-meet-alters-covid-combat-strategies-of-telugu-states/articleshow/74920820.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guest workers are hosts in this kitchen||Thiruvananthapuram: A group of voluntary service activists in the city has launched an initiative showing feasible ways to help guest workers run their own community kitchen. The initiative has been launched by the members of Rights, a human rights organisation, and Oxfam India, an NGO. On Tuesday, they launched an initiative by funding a small group of guest workers residing at Poojapura in the city to set up their own community kitchen. V B Ajaykumar, executive director of Rights said even though there are many community kitchen initiatives by various government agencies and organisations to provide food to guest workers, letting the workers handle their own kitchens was the most effective way to ensure that these workers remain happy. ‘’They come from different parts of the country and their food habits are very different from ours. Their staple diet is not like ours, which is unfortunately being prepared in these kitchens,” Ajaykumar said. Hence, the easiest way to ensure that the guest workers remain happy is to let them cook their own food. Rights and Oxfam provided essential commodities to a group of 25 guest workers residing in Poojapura. Their representatives were invited to a margin-free supermarket in the locality and were told to purchase whatever commodities they needed for the next 10 days. “Surprisingly, it turned out to be very cost-effective too,” Ajaykumar said. The entire purchase cost only Rs 12,000. This means three meals of a person for a day cost us only around Rs 50. Besides this, letting these labourers run the kitchens in small groups instead of rallying them to large camps will also ensure the cause social distancing. He added that they will be launching similar initiatives in more places from Wednesday. They have already identified other similar small groups of guest workers dwelling in different parts of the district. They will also be launching similar measures in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts where they have sufficient strength of volunteers. Meanwhile, district labour office started operating a call centre where executives have been employed to speak to migrant labourers in their native languages, Hindi, Oriya, Assamese and Tamil. All queries regarding availability of food and camps will be addressed here. Phone no: 0471-2783942 854765525||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guest-workers-are-hosts-in-this-kitchen/articleshow/74919919.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 1, 2020||Goa||Costly veggies irks buyers in villages||Saligao: In many parts of the state, reports have emerged of vegetables being sold at highly inflated prices. In Saligao, irked locals allege that while they are being purchased at wholesale rates, the horticulture outlets in the village are selling vegetables at higher prices. Vegetables such as cabbage, cauliflower, cluster beans, French beans and onion, potatoes, tomatoes and chillies were being sold at Rs 60 per kg in Parra. “In some villages, vegetables are being sold at wholesale prices, but here in Parra, they are very expensive,” one resident, Benedict D’Souza said. Prices of eggs too have risen sharply. “While the market rate is Rs 60 per kg, here eggs are being sold at Rs 105 a dozen and a tray at Rs 210,” another villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/costly-veggies-irks-buyers-in-villages/articleshow/74921377.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||CM Trivendra Singh Rawat donates 5 months’ salary; police officers pledge 1 day pay||DEHRADUN: To help step up the fight against Covid-19, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced that he will donate his five months’ salary for the cause. His wife Sunita Rawat also donated Rs 1 lakh whereas his daughters collectively pledged Rs 52,000. All IPS and PPS officers of the state have also pledged to contribute one day’s salary to help in the fight against Covid-19. Earlier, on Monday, governor Baby Rani Maurya had announced she will contribute her one month salary for the PMCARES fund. The legislators in the state have also given Rs 15 lakh each from their MLALAD funds for ensuring effective health arrangements in their respective areas. The members and employees of Uttarakhand Subordinate Services Selection Commission have already announced to provide their two-day salary to CM Relief Fund. In addition, a number of government employee organisations, teachers’ associations and schools have also contributed to the CM Relief Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-donates-5-months-salary-police-officers-pledge-1-day-pay/articleshow/74919889.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s 1st coronavirus victim, 42, cremated||LUDHIANA: The city’s first coronavirus victim, a 42-year-old woman of Amarpura, was cremated in the wee hours of Tuesday. Her two sons and some cops attended the cremation ceremony. Her body reached Ludhiana from Patiala late on Monday night. After the police asked her family to cremate it without any delay, the body was taken to the nearby Gaughat cremation ground in an ambulance. Her family members were not allowed to touch the body. The ambulance assistants who were wearing personal protective equipment brought it out of the vehicle after which the last rites were performed. Earlier, as soon as the administration received information about her Covid-19-positive status, the police sealed the entire Amarpura locality. The lane to her house was barricaded. On Tuesday morning, cops sealed areas near Amarpura Mohalla, too, including Ajit Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Division 3 chowk, Gaushal Chowk and Suffian Chowk. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapur said, “Her cremation was performed with all precautionary measures. Areas near her locality have also been sealed. The samples of her contacts have been taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-1st-coronavirus-victim-42-cremated/articleshow/74918973.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Alcohol withdrawal symptoms may increase in coming days||Visakhapatnam: So far, there have been fewer cases of alcohol withdrawal cases in Vizag city and other parts of Andhra Pradesh as compared to neighbouring Telangana. There have been scores of cases of people showing alcohol withdrawal symptoms as liquor shops, bars and toddy shops have been closed in view of the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. However, experts say that the number of cases in Andhra Pradesh may increase in the coming days. In Vizag city, so far only three cases have been reported at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) in the past week. Speaking to TOI, Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent of GHMC, Vizag said that alcohol withdrawal is the changes the body goes through when a person suddenly stops consuming liquor after prolonged use of the liquor. “There are three types of symptoms (mild, moderate and severe) of alcohol withdrawal, which including trembling, insomnia, anxiety and other physical and mental symptoms. Fortunately, so far only three persons approached the GHMC with alcohol withdrawal symptoms,” she added. Sources said that over 140 cases of alcohol withdrawal symptoms have been reported at the Institute of Mental Health in Erragadda in Hyderbad, Telangana in the past week. Dr Uma Mahendra Raj of Greenvalley Foundation in Vizag, which deals with substance-addicted patients, said that she has been receiving at least two to three phone calls related to alcohol withdrawal symptoms. “Since it is difficult to run the de-addiction centres during the lockdown, I have been suggesting them to visit GHMC,” she said. Psychiatric consultants are available in all the district hospitals also in case required, she added. Hundreds of alcohol addicts may suffer in the coming days and hospitals may need to open additional de-addiction wards as the many people may approach psychiatric consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/alcohol-withdrawal-symptoms-may-increase-in-coming-days/articleshow/74919897.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Police using drone cameras to check, restrict people’s movement in Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: Police are using drone cameras to keep an eye on people’s movement, especially in the densely populated areas, during the lockdown period. In Rishikesh, multiple drone cameras are being utilised by police to keep an eye on people’s movement and to prevent any type of gathering to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, officials said. Ritesh Shah, in charge of Rishikesh police station, said, “Government has sealed district borders, so police are using the drones to keep an eye on the movement of people to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown order.” Through the drone cameras, police are also watching the movement of four-wheelers, which have been banned from running on roads. Only a two-wheeler, that too without pillion rider, is allowed to move in the morning hours. According to police, people caught strolling without any valid reason are being booked under section 188 of IPC, while vehicles are being seized under Motor Vehicle Act. Special vigil is being kept on the district border so that there is no inter-district movement into Dehradun or people going to Tehri or Pauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-using-drone-cameras-to-check-restrict-peoples-movement/articleshow/74920752.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 1, 2020||Agra||Suffering from fever & cold, man in Mathura kills self to ‘save the entire village’||Agra: A 36-year-old farmer, who was suffering from fever and cold, committed suicide in Mathura district to “save his entire village from being infected with coronavirus”. According to the relatives of Mahendra Singh, he had “assumed” that he was suffering from novel coronavirus. Singh lived in Mundesi village under Highway police jurisdiction. His body was fished out from a well on Monday morning by local policemen. His nephew Hakim Singh said, “For the last couple of days, my uncle was suffering from fever and cold. Amid the news about coronavirus, he assumed that he too was suffering from it. In order to save the entire village from the virus, he jumped into well on Monday morning at around 3am.” Circle officer of the area Varun Kumar said, “The victim committed suicide out of coronavirus fear. His post-mortem report is yet to be received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/suffering-from-fever-cold-man-in-mathura-kills-self-to-save-the-entire-village/articleshow/74919915.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||MERC increases tariff more than MSEDCL sought||Nagpur: Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has increased power tariff for all categories but has claimed that it has reduced it. In fact, MERC has increased the tariff much more than that demanded by MSEDCL. For example MSEDCL had sought a reduction in wheeling charge from Rs1.28 per unit to Rs1.15 per unit. Commission has increased it to Rs1.45 per unit. The energy charge for 0-100 units domestic slab was proposed to be Rs3.30 per unit. MERC has increased it to Rs3.36 per unit. This has been done for all slabs and all categories. Consumer activist Pratap Hogade has slammed the commission for misleading consumers. “If MERC has increased the tariff it should say so. Consumers will realize that tariff has increased when they receive bills for April. The Commission has claimed a reduction by adding fuel surcharge (FAC) to the existing tariff, which is not correct,” he told TOI. According to power expert RB Goenka while there is an increase in tariff, consumers may benefit due to lower fuel surcharge. This however, depends on whether the surcharge is negative in some months. MERC has set up a FAC fund of Rs1,500 crore for 2020-21 to ensure that fuel surcharge is either zero or on the lower side. This money is to come from negative FAC. Fuel surcharge in some months is more than Rs1 per unit and hence the power bill is far higher than that according to the prevailing tariff. According to the order the FAC fund will increase by 3% for next four fiscals and hence fuel surcharge will continue to be on the lower side. Low fuel surcharge is very important for industrial consumers as they know beforehand what will be their power bill for a particular month. Fluctuations in surcharge create problems in pricing their products. Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) has wholeheartedly welcomed the tariff order stating that all its suggestions were accepted by the Commission. Goenka said that three months moratorium period has been provided for paying demand charges for commercial and industrial consumers under the circumstances of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. “As against additional requirement of Rs60,313 crores projected in petition of MSEDCL which was almost 13% increase in total ARR (annual revenue requirement), Commission has determined negative ARR i.e. minus Rs22,242 crores which ultimately resulted in reduction of tariff to the tune of 5% in residential category, 12% in commercial category, 10% in LT and EHV industries,” said the expert. While MSEDCL officials are not happy with the order, they are satisfied that MERC has finally accepted their proposal for kVAh billing. Only HT consumers will be billed in this fashion while other consumers’ billing system will remain as it is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/merc-increases-tariff-more-than-msedcl-sought/articleshow/74920760.cms||Ashish Roy
April 1, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Free LPG cylinder a month for Ujjwala beneficiaries till June 30||PUNE: As many as 1.4 lakh liquefied petroleum gas customers in the district enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) will get a free cylinder each month from April to June, oil marketing companies said on Tuesday. The number of beneficiaries is expected to be 40 lakh-plus in Maharashtra, a senior oil marketing representative told TOI. The Union government had announced free refills for all PMUY consumers for three months, from April 1 to June 30. Eight crore beneficiaries in India will be entitled to free 14.2kg LPG cylinders. The oil companies said it has been decided to transfer the full retail selling price of the refill cost for April in advance to the linked bank accounts of Ujjwala beneficiaries with the purpose of utilising the amount to purchase free-of-cost cylinders. The free cooking gas cylinders was part of the package announced by the Union finance minister to deal with the economic impact of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. “A PMUY customer is entitled to a cylinder per month. The beneficiary can book the next refill only after 15 days of receipt of the last refill. The booking of refill must be done through Interactive Voice Response (IVRS) calls or registered mobile numbers. Refill acknowledgement can be one time password-based/undertaking, cash memo signature and blue book entry,” an oil marketing company official said. The oil companies are also encouraging the customers to make digital payments wherever possible to avoid unnecessary handling of currency notes in the time of COVID-19. Since the lockdown, there has been a surge in LPG cylinder bookings and deliveries may have been delayed. But officials said the issue was being resolved. “LPG distributorships are functioning normally under the advisory of the state government/local administrations. The LPG distributorships are well-stocked for the lockdown period and there is no shortage. Customers are advised not to panic or resort to hoarding and panic-buying,” an official said. Ex gratia to oil marketing company personnelAn ex gratia amount of Rs5 lakh each has been announced in case of death of any oil marketing company personnel, such as LPG showroom staffers, godown-keepers, mechanics and delivery boys, retail outlet customer attendants and truck drivers, who are risking their lives to ensure delivery of fuel to customers and citizens, due to COVID-19. The amount will be paid to the spouse of such personnel. In the absence of the spouse, the payment will be made to the next of kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-free-lpg-cylinder-a-month-for-ujjwala-beneficiaries-till-june-30/articleshow/74921384.cms||Neha Madaan
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Power bill payment period extended||Kolkata: There is some relief for those who are anxious about their power and cable lines being disconnected due to non-payment of bills because of the lockdown. In an order issued by the state government, multi-service operators and local cable operators have been asked not to disconnect services on account of non-payment of subscription fee. Payment of cable bills have to be made in advance to view channels. CESC that supplies electricity to Kolkata, Howrah and parts of Hoohgly has extended the deadline for payment of the bills, which had due dates between March 22 and March 31, till April 4. While people can pay bills online, the utility has also put in place drop boxes at the exit of the 26 Spencer’s stores in the city. “Since our cash offices are shut, we have put drop boxes at Spencer’s outlets that are spread across the city,” said an official. The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd (WBSEDCL) that provides electricity to Salt Lake and rest of the state has also extended the payment period of bills from April 14 to April 30. Apart from online payment, 532 cash offices are also open five days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-bill-payment-period-extended/articleshow/74921391.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Man consumes harmful chemical, dies||Eluru: Facing alcohol withdrawal symptoms owing to liquor stores remaining shut owing to the ongoing lockdown, a 22-year-old man from East Godavari consumed a harmful chemical and died on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Naveen Murthy Raju. Two others who accompanied him— Veeresh and Venkatesh— are in the hospital. Sub-inspector of Irgavam, Satish said that three friends who were addicted to alcohol opted for an alternative after failing to procure alcohol in the midst of the lockdown. Police said that Veeresh, who works in a chemical firm, suggested that they drink Isopropyl alcohol. Veeresh brought the chemical and the trio drunk the same after mixing it with a soft drink. While Naveen from Velupur village passed away, Veeresh and Venkatesh are in the hospital and are yet to regain consciousness. —Samson Raj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-consumes-harmful-chemical-dies/articleshow/74919925.cms||Samson Raj
April 1, 2020||Agra||AMU to donate a day’s salary to PM relief fund||Agra: The teaching and non-teaching staff of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has decided to donate a day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 relief fund as a contribution to the crisis that country is facing and may face in future. More than Rs one crore is likely to be donated, said officials. The decision was taken in a consultative meeting of the AMU Teachers Association representatives, elected members of the executive council and representatives of the non-teaching staff under the chairmanship of the vice-chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor. “It is our duty to stand with our country and its people in these challenging times,” VC said. Meanwhile, JNMC’s cardiology department has started a helpline number, 7599050505, for people who may face cardiac problems during the ongoing countrywide lockdown. “Patients can make brief calls or send WhatsApp messages on the helpline number. The calls will be attended by the doctors of the department and the patients will be duly attended," chairman department of cardiology Prof M U Rabbani said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-donate-a-days-salary-to-pm-relief-fund/articleshow/74919942.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Navratra rituals hit as sale of puja material disallowed||DEHRADUN: With the 21-day lockdown announced by the central government on March 24 coinciding with the week-long Chaitra Navratra (March 25 to April 2), several residents say they are unable to purchase puja samagri (items needed for rituals), as these don’t qualify as essential items. Shivani Kaushik, a resident of Lunia Mohalla, said, “My mother performs puja during the Navratra every year. But this time, due to the shops being closed, we could not get most of the material required for the puja.” Shopkeepers selling puja samagri at Paltan Bazaar said they were staring at heavy losses as goods worth several lakhs, most of which were perishable, are just gathering dust. Talking to TOI, Prashant Sundriyal, who owns a puja samagri store in Paltan Bazaar, said, “I understand the lockdown is in the interest of the country, but worship items should have been made part of essential commodities. Our phones haven’t stopped ringing since the lockdown was announced. Families ask for items to perform cremation rituals as well and we help them with whatever stock we have left. I had bought some supplies especially for Navratra worth Rs 1.5 lakh, which are just dumped inside my shop now.” Aman, a trader at Hanuman Chowk, had the same concerns. “We are not allowed to open our shops and vehicular movement inside the market is completely banned, with the only exception being vehicles meant for loading goods. I had bought items exclusively for the Navratra but managed to sell only a few pieces before the lockdown was announced. Now, material worth several lakhs is dumped in my shop, which will be of no use for the next few months,” he said. Many residents said that they were facing problems as the items needed for cremation have become scarce. Rajeev Jain, a resident of Raipur Road, said, “I lost my father on Sunday and had gone to Hanuman Chowk to buy some of the items necessary for his last rites, only to find all the shops closed. Finally we managed to get a few items with the help of a priest, who somehow performed the rituals.” Rohit, a priest at Lakhi Bagh cremation ground, said, “These days, I keep getting distress calls from families who fail to find puja samagri and request us to arrange for the items somehow. With short supplies, the costs of such items have also skyrocketed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/navratra-rituals-hit-as-sale-of-puja-material-disallowed/articleshow/74919928.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||2 assailants on bike snatch Rs 30,000 from gas agency worker||LUDHIANA: Two motorcycle-borne assailants robbed an employee of an LPG cylinder supplying agency at gunpoint on Kakowal Road on Tuesday evening amid strict security arrangements in the ongoing curfew. The accused also attempted to loot an employee of another gas agency minutes earlier. However, that employee somehow managed to flee from there. Rajesh Kumar of Rachna LPG cylinder suppling agency said he was delivering cylinders on Kakowal Road. Meanwhile, two bike-borne assailants intercepted his way. One accused pointed a gun at him, and snatched Rs30,000 from him before fleeing. Minutes earlier, the same accused tried to rob Saurav Kumar, a worker in Thaman agency. Owner of Thaman gas agency, Amit Thaman, said his worker was delivering LPG cylinders on Kakowal Road in a pick-up van, when the accused intercepted his way. They also vandalised windowpanes of the van to threaten him. They asked for money, but Saurav drove away from there. He ihmmediately rushed to the police station and lodged a complaint. Sub-inspector Arshdeep Grewal, SHO at Jodhewal police station, said, “It seems a toy pistol was used in the crime: checkposts are also established on main roads. The accused seems to be from a nearby locality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-assailants-on-bike-snatch-rs30k-from-gas-agency-worker/articleshow/74918976.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant tales: Some marching on, some sent back by the police||Nagpur: Forced to walk hundreds of kilometres just to reach their homes following sudden lockdown, it is harrowing time for migrant labourers in the country. On a trail of such groups, TOI on Tuesday moved on Nagpur-Bhandara road (NH6) only to find pathetic Madavi and Raut family walking with young kids and household goods towards Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh. These eight family members including three youths, three women and two small kids, one 4-year-old girl and 6-year-old boy, had started from Besa and were heading towards their native place at Salebardi in Balaghat district. At 1 pm, the family had reached HB Town. They were offered food by some social workers at Kharbi Chowk. Durgesh Madavi (30) said, “Two weeks ago we were brought by our contractor for civil works in Besa. Owing to lockdown, we became jobless and planned to return. We were not forced to return and contractor also paid wages for work. We will do farming in our village.” On delay about return, Shushil Raut (25) said, “We waited for the lockdown to get over till March 31, but as it was extended till April 14, there is no point in staying here.” All the men and women were determined to walk around 200km if they do not get any alternative transport to reach home. Their contractor Dharmendra Turkar from Temnhi Tumsar said, “I pleaded with all the eight people to stay put. I was also ready to make arrangement for their food but they did not listen. My other group of labourers from Gondia is still in Besa.” A kirana shop owner Surendra Dhawgale in Mahalgaon Kapsi confirmed the exodus of these labourers from Chhattisgarh and MP was going on since March 23 when the lockdown was announced. “They are taking a short-cut to Kamptee and from there reaching the MP border,” he said. Some traffic policemen at the Kapsi post too said many took lift from the outer ring road and had already left. They said three days ago one group had walked 275km from Akola to reach here and was headed to Raipur. Some also went on bicycles. Whether the Rauts and Madavis reach Balaghat or are detained will be a different story but there were others who were picked up from Kamptee a day before and left at their rented place in Minimata Nagar slums. Anil Uikey (18) and nine of his family members from Chhapra in Seoni had come to Nagpur a month ago for working as labourers. “Due to lockdown, on March 30 we decided to return and walked up to Kamptee but were stopped by police. Some Muslim community members offered food. There were over 150 people like us. By evening, the gathering turned into 1,500. However, all were sent packing by evening,” Uikey said. Uikey said, “Ten of us were left in Minimata Nagar while eight others from Lakhnadon were dropped in Manewada. We are still wanting to go and waiting for right opportunity. We will do farming on half acre land at our native place.” Then there were young labourers like Tanju Rishimunim (20) from Madhepura in Bihar and Ramsingh Tekam (24) from Pandharwani who vowed to go back walking if lockdown continued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-tales-some-marching-on-some-sent-back-by-the-police/articleshow/74920764.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Think twice before stepping out: 60 curfew violators land up in open jail||Ludhiana: The police lodged 60 curfew violators in an open jail at Guru Nanak Stadium on Tuesday. From Wednesday, the violators will be booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which will entail one-year imprisonment. The police stepped up checks after a 42-year-old coronavirus-positive woman, a resident of Amarpura, Ludhiana, succumbed.The cops not only increased their presence, but were also stricter with violators. Instead of punishing them with sit-ups, they either challaned them or lodged them in the open jail. Till afternoon, as many as 60 violators were rounded up after they failed to give a valid reason to step out. They were boarded on buses and sent to the jail. In the past two days, the city police were a little lenient and allowed residents in need to go out. People who wanted to buy medicines, vegetables and grocery were not stopped.But when the first death of a Ludhianvi due to coronavirus was reported on Monday, the cops directed the residents to stay indoors else they will be put up in jails. The message was uploaded on Ludhiana Police social media handles too. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “People were asked to stay indoors. Those in need can approach police on helpline numbers to get essential goods or order those online. But those who are roaming around without a reason will not be spared. Such violators are being put up in open jails.” There are four open jails here. The ADCP-ranked officials are deputed as those jails’ superintendents. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapur said, “I was on roads for four hours and found about 500 violators. Some of them had passes, but they were told that all passes had been canceled. A man carrying a tea kettle and six glasses had a pass to serve langar.”“Those roaming around unnecessarily have been lodged in jail. From Wednesday, we will book curfew violators under Section 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under which the accused would get one-year imprisonment.” Nine vegetable vendors arrestedSalem Tabri police on Tuesday arrested nine vendors, who had gone to the main vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass for selling vegetables. The district administration had on Monday issued directions to shut down the vegetable market to contain the spread of coronavirus.Those arrested are Kewal Singh, Iqbal Singh, Jatinder Singh, all residents of Moga, Ram Lal of Haryana, Mohammad Sarif of Sangrur, Sandeep Kumar of Bahadur Ke Road, Ludhiana, Darshan Singh of Dharamshala, and Gufan of Sagrur. A case has been registered against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Kanwaljit Singh said, “Despite the curfew orders, these nine vendors were selling vegetables outside the main market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/think-twice-before-stepping-out-60-curfew-violators-land-up-in-open-jail/articleshow/74918985.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 1, 2020||Goa||CMC begins delivering supplies||Chairperson of Canacona Municipal Council Nitu Sameer Desai said the council has allotted two volunteers for each of the 10 wards to deliver essentials. She said the items are bought from Goa Bagayatdar and sold to the locals. “If anybody is unable to pay, then we bear the cost,” she said, adding that they also deliver LPG cylinders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cmc-begins-delivering-supplies/articleshow/74921385.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vadodara||Cheers greet Vadodara’s first Covid survivor’s homecoming||VADODARA: “If I would have not been in India, I would have never fully recovered.” This was Vadodara’s first Covid-19 positive patient’s reaction upon returning home victorious on Tuesday. Amid thundering cheer, clapping and banging of thalis by his eager neighbours along with residents of Makarpura area, Chirag Pandit (49) acknowledges he was frightened at first. “When I was told that I was infected by the deadly virus, I was frightened,” said Pandit, the coronavirus survivor, who walked home after 14 days in the isolation ward of the state-run SSG Hospital, where he was admitted since March 17. Pandit has his business interest in Spain and therefore was there between February 27 and March 7, and had landed at the Mumbai airport on March 8. His family is based in Spain. After staying in Mumbai for two days, Pandit had reached Vadodara on March 10. “I had fever and headache. But the doctors and the staff at SSG Hospital kept motivating me to stay positive assuring me constantly that I will return home healthy,” said Pandit, who also got a call from Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani himself who assured Pandit of getting all required support from the state government. Before he was discharged from the isolation ward, Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal too assured Pandit of all support through a video call. Pandit termed his experience at the hospital as the best medical treatment he could have thought of. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cheers-greet-vadodaras-first-covid-survivors-homecoming/articleshow/74919348.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 1, 2020||Surat||Production comes to a halt in Bharuch||Bharuch/Surat: Limited manpower has not only brought production to a halt in most industries with combined investment of more than Rs1 lakh crore in Bharuch district, but also put their safety at risk. Most of these are large chemical and pharmaceutical units, prone to accidents. Though private security personnel have been deployed, a feeling of inadequacy prevails which gets further worsened when the district authorities only issue one or two car passes even for Rs1,000 crore project, sources said. Vilayat Industries Association president Mahesh Vashi urged authorities to issue passes on case-by-case basis to industries considering their criticality in national scheme of things. Most of the units in Bharuch are closed even those permitted either due to non-availability of raw material or manpower, he said. Kamlesh Udani, executive director of J B Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, told TOI, “Many pharmaceuticals companies have been granted permission to operate as they manufacture important medicines, but lack of raw material and unavailability of manpower have made things difficult for them. There are hardly 20 per cent employees in the pharmaceutical companies. We have appealed to our workers that they should return to work as it is a service to society.” About 100 small, medium and large pharmaceutical companies are operational at Ankleshwar, Panoli, Jhagadia and Dahej.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/production-comes-to-a-halt-in-bharuch/articleshow/74919800.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||‘Don’t bank on summer, remain alert’||WHO special envoy for Covid-19 David Nabarro tells TOI testing is key to fighting coronavirus, but adds that India is doing the right thing by using the lockdown period to enhance its capacity to break the chain of transmission. Excerpts:Q: Do you think the onset of summer will slow the spread of novel coronavirus in India?A: I hope so. This is a new virus. It’s only 4 months’ old and we are learning as we go. And there has been transmission in countries like Singapore. We don’t think there will be an absolute reduction in transmission intensity. India’s heat is dry. It may be that transmission intensity will be less and interruption easier. But we can’t assume it will be easier for India. We have to make sure that alertness for Covid-19 is established across the country during this period of lockdown. Q: India is testing very few people compared to South Korea and Germany. Does this help?A: WHO’s point is that this is a fight against a virus and it’s quite hard to fight an unseen enemy…if you don’t have tests to tell you who is infected. And so WHO does say that testing is a key part of the strategy to fight Covid-19. But if you got to ramp up testing, there are three important things. First is the test…for virus and not antibodies. Second is the protocol for how the tests are going to be used. And then you got to have people ready to administer the tests in ways that are safe for them and for people coming to be tested. The point is that you could very easily attract people with Covid to a test centre and they could infect the workers and each other. We are basically saying get the system right. And I think the strategy is correct. That the lockdown period is being used to put in place all that’s necessary, including building local capacity, to ensure that those with symptoms can get a test done. This is not a simple process given the size of India and complexities involved. Q: India says ‘sporadic’ cases of Covid-infected not knowing how he/she got it but not enough to be described as community spread. Correct assessment?A: Difficult to say that but as somebody who has done this sort of work earlier, the most important thing is to detect these outbreaks early…when you have chains of transmission you can identify. From what I’m hearing, there has been early work in India to identify these chains of transmission. India is on an important cusp of still being able to find chains of transmission before widespread community spread occurs. Prevention of the emergence of widespread community transmission, and suppression of outbreaks as they begin, through a high state of alertness is the way to go about it. India seems to have learnt from European countries and I’m pleased it’s giving top priority to it Q: How long before India can think in terms of easing the lockdown?A: I saw the photographs (of people returning home). I don’t know but I’ll say the following. Locking down early when you have only a few cases and using it to become Covid-ready across the country is a very skilful strategy. If you can get it right, it will reduce the period of lockdown. If you lock down late and don’t have the capacity to interrupt transmission, then the lockdown will go on longer. I’m hopeful that this strategy will lead to the shortest possible lockdown. The protection of the vulnerable people is a very important part of the lockdown management and I am seeing signs that this thought is there in the minds of those concerned. The solidarity of Indian people that I know exists will hopefully help India demonstrate the ability to resist big outbreaks and damages that might have occurred if things had been done slowly. Q: How do you look at the criticism WHO has been facing for allegedly giving a long rope to China?A: I am an independent person asked to act as an envoy. I prefer to look forward. There are many people looking backwards but I focus on the health of individuals, economy and society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-bank-on-summer-remain-alert/articleshow/74922033.cms||Sachin Parashar
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy To Join Hands With Cops To Enforce Lockdown||Visakhapatnam: City police commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena on Tuesday said that around 1,000 personnel from Navy, forest department and RTC and would join hands with the police to maintain lockdown in the city from Wednesday. Mostly people less than 45 years would be deployed at various spots in the city and the police department would monitor them. Most of the Navy personnel would be deployed at the harbour, Malkapuram and Sriharipuram, said Meena. The senior cop said they are yet to identify 70 foreign returnees. The district collector had earlier said that around 470 persons were to be identified as per the list sent by the central government. Out of 2,507 foreign returnees, 2194 are under home quarantine, said Meena. All the 41 passengers from Delhi, including 14 from the city and three from Visakha rural who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin, were admitted in the Chest hospital and their samples sent to Kakinada. The test results are likely to come by Wednesday. People who have been stranded at various places in the city are given food at five dhabas on NH-16 stretch from Lankelapalem to Anandapuram. Around 1,600 food packets were distributed by CRPF and the police. Meena said they would increase the number of dhabas that will serve food to 21. If anyone willing to distribute food, they can distribute through cops in the city, he said. He said the situation in the city would be monitored by the higher officials from the command control center through CCTV network. The city has around 2,500 CCTV cameras at more than 600 junctions in the GVMC limits. “We are using our 3,000-strong force in the city for the duties and deployed those who are above 55 years for administrative work. Around 347 teams were formed and there were deployed at 91 static points and 19 check posts, said the senior cop. He said cops were assigned in three shifts of eight hours, apart from a reserve force. “There have been no untoward incidents. Our force is sufficient to handle the situation and people should support us,” he said. “We are only imposing traffic fines to create fear among the public not to venture out. If we apply Section 188 , then they would end up in jail. And we want to avoid it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-to-join-hands-with-cops-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74920116.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Trains to be turned into shelter homes in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: GVMC commissioner Gummalla Srijana said on Tuesday that the civic body is now taking three rakes from the Waltair railway division to convert them into shelter homes. Three rakes would mean around 45-60 bogies which would be turned into shelter homes. These will be made operational within a day or two. The GVMC commissioner who resumed duties following her maternity leave said that the city’s civic body is has been maintaining eight shelter homes. Five more have been added recently, Srijana said while adding that 630 people are taking shelter in these homes. “We are planning to set up five more shelter homes where people would be given a blanket, pillows and three meals a day. We have already requested Waltair railway division DRM for three rakes (trains). We have to accommodate more people. The rakes will be required in a day or two. The DRM has assured three trains for the purpose,” the GVMC commissioner said. Talking about rythu bazaars, the GVMC commissioner said that the civic body is monitoring and maintaining rythu bazaars. She said that at present there are 87 rythu bazaars in the city including 13 regular, 30 additional and many mobile rythu bazaars. “We are planning to increase the number of mobile rythu bazaars with not just vegetables but groceries as well from Wednesday,” she said. As part of the door-to-door surveillance, GVMC has formed 6,000 teams with 18,000 staff including volunteers, officials of the town-planning wing, GVMC revenue wing and teachers. The teams will survey across 5.97 lakh households in Greater Visakhapatnam. The GVMC commissioner added that apart from regular sanitation, the civic body is spraying disinfectants with its own machines and is also using fire engines and fogging machines from Visakhapatnam Port for spraying in roads and containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/trains-to-be-turned-into-shelter-homes-in-vizag/articleshow/74920155.cms||Siva G
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Mental care hospital to house isolation facility||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 17 new Covid-19 positive cases detected in the state in one day, doctors expect the number of cases to rise over the coming week. Consequently, the requirement for isolation and quarantine facilities will increase. Therefore, the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) has prepared a 100-bed quarantine facility in its family ward centre and has shifted family ward patients to the main hospital building. The Government Hospital for Mental Care is located only a few hundred metres away from the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), where all Covid-19 patients and suspected cases are being currently kept in the Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH) block. Dr S Radha Rani, medical superintendent of GHMC said, “Since ours is the only tertiary mental care hospital in the whole of AP, we cannot close the outpatient department. Nor can we discharge in-patients during the lockdown. Moreover, we are functioning with a limited number of doctors.” “Every day one or two schizophrenic or psychosis cases keep coming. Currently, we have around 86 close ward patients (those accused in criminal and civil certified cases) and around 30 chronic unruly cases that cannot be managed at home. In the current situation, cases are likely to go up in future too,” Dr Rani said. The medical superintendent further said, “However, our hospital’s family ward has been turned into a 100-bed quarantine centre for Covid-19. Since it is situated just beside GHCCD, patients can be easily shifted to the Government Chest Hospital when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mental-care-hosp-to-house-isolation-facility/articleshow/74920179.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Philanthropists ensure city’s destitute are not forgotten||Visakhapatnam: Several individuals and organisations in the city have come forward to extend a helping hand to migrant workers, the destitute and orphans to help them tide through the 21-day lockdown. Members of the Sikh community have come forward, with a kitchen in a dhaba in Siripuram preparing around 500 packets of lunch for distribution to the poor while organisations such as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Association are distributing breakfast to patients and their attendants in King George Hospital. On converting City Punjab Dhaba into a kitchen and food distribution point, proprietor Balwinder Singh said, “First few days, from my end I prepared around 450 packets of rice-based lunch plus water bottles, which was distributed in Railway Station area, Beach Road and upto Gajuwaka by some volunteers on two-wheelers. From Wednesday, Gurudwara Scindia and Gurudwara 104 volunteers are also going to assist us and we will be preparing over 500 packets per day,” said Balwinder. At Seethammadhara, the Gurudwara Sadh Sangat has received a request from the district administration to provie packed lunch for 500 persons every day from March 31. “The government vehicles shall pick up the food from Gurudwara Sahib,” said a member of the Sadh Sangat. V Ravi Kumar of Sai Pooja Foundation and Shree Sai Santhosh Catering are also providing food to the homeless, orphans and sanitation staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/philanthropists-ensure-citys-destitute-are-not-forgotten/articleshow/74920202.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 1, 2020||Surat||Free sanitizing is his ‘service to society’||SURAT: This is the right time when he actually could have earned maximum profit by disinfecting homes, offices and wherever that requires his services. But for Muzaffar Rangwala, 47, who is into pest control business for two decades now, lives and safety of people matter more than money. And thus, Rangwala chose to sanitize all religious places of worship, police stations, government offices and housing colonies — all for free — almost his way of performing Zakat, a Muslim religious obligation! For the last two days, he and his team of 15 workers have been scouting different parts of the city carrying their sprayer equipment, disinfectant material and hunting for places that need cleansing – be it of worship, police stations, government buildings or even private societies. Till now, they have sanitized three masjids, three police stations and a police housing colony at Lal Darwaja and work is going on in around nearly 25 other masjids located in Rander and Adajan areas. “While other pest control agencies are minting money with rising demand for sanitization due to the spread of COVID-19, I don’t want to earn money in the time of crisis. We are also flooded with sanitisation orders from the private parties, mostly residential societies and are offering free services at all the places,” said Rangwala, a resident of Begumpura area. He also is aware of the risks he is undertaking everyday as the job of sanitizing involves going to masjids located in Rander town where two positive COVID-19 cases have been detected. On Monday, when the second positive case was detected from Rander town, his team was sanitizing the Kinara Masjid, which is located a few hundred metres away from the residence of the COVID-19 positive patient. “There are more than 70 masjids located in the Rander town itself. Residents in the entire town are living under fear as two COVID-19 positive cases were detected. Even my team is afraid of walking down the lanes and locating the mosques, but we are firm in our decision. We will sanitize all the mosques and other places in the area, come what may,” he said, adding that people’s blessings will protect them. Appreciating his social responsibility of providing free sanitisation service, the head of the insecticide cell of SMC, Jaysukh Vagadia told TOI, “We appreciate the free service of sanitization provided by Rangwala’s pest control agency. To make their work smoother, we have issued authorisation letter to help them sanitize mosques, temples, and government properties unhindered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/free-sanitizing-is-his-service-to-society/articleshow/74919852.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Migrant workers trek home on railway tracks||Visakhapatnam: Just as it’s happening across the country, migrant workers from the Port City too have started hiking across to reach their homes as all transport has been shut to stem the spread of Covid-19. On Tuesday, a group of workers were seen walking near the Simhachalam North Railway station. Railway sources said that they saw a group of migrant workers walking towards the Srikakulam railway line. According to a railway employee, people are walking on the railway tracks because railway lines are usually shorter than the road network. Moreover, those walking will also find access to water at railway stations, the employee said. B Narayana from Visakhapatnam, who recently helped an old woman reach home after seeing her walking along the deserted NH-16 a few days ago said, some people like her don’t even know of the lockdown. “She was waiting for a bus,” he said. Pragada Vasu, president of the Association of Urban Tribal Development said that there are more than 5 lakh workers in the city who come from various parts of state work in Visakhapatnam. GVMC (Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation) officials said that the civic body has earmarked certain shelters for migrant workers where they can stay and will also be given food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrant-workers-trek-home-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/74920251.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 1, 2020||India||From vaccines to ventilators, India and US ramp up ties in fight against Covid-19||NEW DELHI: From vaccines to ventilators, India and the US are ramping up cooperation as both countries tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Among the development that will determine the course of the cooperation is a study on the clinical trials of Remdisivir, the anti-viral drug by Gilead Sciences, which is currently undergoing tests and a study should be out by mid-April. The findings will determine whether the drug can be used on Covid-19 patients. Given an ongoing cooperation with Gilead in India, the government hopes for a deeper relationship. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe second issue is the US FDA approval for use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine for Covid patients. The US has asked India to relax the export ban on both and New Delhi might do it for the US. Besides, officials says both countries are looking for ways to work together for vaccine development. India’s strength lies in its long experience in dealing with infectious diseases. According to official sources, the US’ National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases, headed by Anthony Fauci, is cooperating with Gurgaon-based Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, headed by Gagandeep Kang, on virus and vaccine research. The Centre for Disease Control (CDC) and Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR) have already moved an existing cooperation programme into a higher gear. On diagnostic kits and ventilator machines, India is depending on US companies for bulk supplies which, Washington has said, would be available to friends. Abbott, GM and Sanofi Pasteur are all producing equipment that India wants to procure as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the MEA is pulling out all stops to procure protective personal equipment (PPE) and ventilators from around the world. According to a statement by the ministry of health and family welfare, MEA is buying medical equipment from a number of places. “A Singapore-based online platform has been identified which can supply 10 lakh PPE kits and an order has been placed through MEA to procure them. Another supplier based in Korea, which has tie-ups with production companies in Vietnam and Turkey, has been identified with daily production capacity of over 1 lakh PPE kits. Orders are being placed on this company through MEA for supplying 20 lakh PPE kits,” it said. MEA has placed orders for ventilators with companies like Hamilton, Mindray and Draeger. India has also ordered 10,000 ventilators from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-ramp-up-ties-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/74922064.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 1, 2020||Business||ITC turns HP perfume plant into sanitiser mfg unit||Kolkata: In order to meet an unprecedented spurt in demand for hand sanitiser, ITC has changed its production line at its newly installed perfume plant in Himachal Pradesh to a sanitiser manufacturing unit. Sanitisers saw a 100% jump in demand in the last fortnight as it is being widely prescribed by medical professionals in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. “In order to serve a larger national priority during these challenging times, ITC’s state-of-the-art perfume manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh has commenced production of Savlon sanitisers to cater to the soaring demand due to the coronavirus pandemic,” the company has said. Commissioned recently in November 2019, the factory at Manpura in Himachal Pradesh is a facility designed to produce premium fine fragrances. According to industry experts, the sanitiser market in India used to be worth only Rs 114 crore. But in February 2020 itself, there was a sales surge of 50% compared to February 2019 and in March so far, the spike in demand is almost 100%. “Amid the global health crisis and the unprecedented surge in demand for hand hygiene products like sanitisers, ITC, on a war-footing, repurposed this world-class perfume facility to help produce an additional 1,25,000 litres of Savlon hand sanitisers,” the company added. It has pointed out that in line with the government order and the public interest, the FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco major has also reduced prices of Savlon sanitisers and is working overnight to reach the new stocks with the revised prices to the market. Commenting on it, Sameer Satpathy, chief executive (personal care products), ITC, said, “Addressing a larger national requirement during the coronavirus pandemic, ITC has repurposed its recently commissioned perfume manufacturing facility in Manpura, Himachal Pradesh, to manufacture Savlon hand sanitisers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-turns-hp-perfume-plant-into-sanitiser-mfg-unit/articleshow/74921567.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||2 of 5 Pak men who returned home via Attari test positive||AMRITSAR: Two of the five Pakistani men who returned home via Attari land border after a medical check-up at a private hospital in Noida, UP, tested positive for Covid-19 at Lahore, sources said. Mohammad Khalid and Yasir Mukhtar, who were part of the five-member group to cross over to Pakistan through Attari border on March 29, have been confirmed with Covid-19 and admitted to the isolation ward of Services Hospital, Lahore, sources said. Test reports of 15 people released by Services Institute of Medical Sciences on March 31 show that two suspected patients, serial number 13 and 15, were confirmed to be virus-positive, while Nighat, serial number 14, tested negative. No tests were conducted on the other two members of the group, Muhammad Ashfaq and Muhammad Asif, as they did not have any symptoms, sources said. Ashfaq and Nighat, who had liver ailments, went to a private hospital in Noida for check-up. Nighat, supposed to have a liver transplant on this visit, was advised against it by the Noida doctors owing to his poor health. Nighat’s donor, Muhammad Khalid, who accompanied him on the trip, has tested positive. Talking to TOI, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said the department had got details of the driver of the ambulance that had brought the Pakistan nationals to Attari and the two customs officers who handled their papers. “We sent the name of the driver and his vehicle number to the UP government and advised the two customs officers to self-quarantine for 14 days,” Dr Johal said, adding that the department has written to the state government about their movement so that further preventive measures may be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-of-5-pak-men-who-returned-home-via-attari-test-positive/articleshow/74922072.cms||Yudhvir Rana
April 1, 2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat Covid-19 case divides the internet||NEW DELHI: The case of Corona virus positive patients being detected from the Tablighi Jamaat international congregation at Nizamuddin divided the internet on Tuesday. The incident evoked sharp response from politicians, historians and activists. Hashtag NizamuddinMarkaz was the top trend in India on Tuesday attracting nearly 107k tweets. Several AAP leaders took to Twitter and asserted that the congregation was at fault as the lockdown in Delhi had begun before pan-India restrictions were announced. AAP MLA Atishi tweeted, "The 'iztema' happened much before the dates mentioned in this statement, from 13-15th March. On 13th, Delhi Govt issued an order banning gathering more than 200 people. Why did Markaz not stop the event? Why did @DelhiPolice not take action when police stn is next to Markaz?" The Delhi police works under the Central government. BJP’s East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir blamed the organisers and members of the congregation. "What were these people gathering at Nizamuddin thinking? Is it a joke that the entire country is under lockdown? One wrong action by anyone of us can lead to a disaster of gigantic proportions! Listen to the Government for heaven’s sake!" Several people pointed out that the congregation happened much before the nation-wide curfew was imposed. And some lamented at the communal twist being given to the incident. Around 3pm, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted, "Now the #TablighiJamat will become a convenient excuse for some to vilify Muslims everywhere as if we created & spread #COVID around the world." Historian S lrfan Habib posted, “#TablighiJamat in Nizamuddin did something stupid and criminal in organising the Ijtima. Amazing that these Jamatis failed to get the message or deliberately ignored the crises going around the world.” He later said, “It would have been advisable to postpone the Jamat ijtima to avoid the consequences. However its communalisation now is even worse. Islamophobia beats all others fears.” Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted the press note frim Tablighi Jamat, which stated that they had approached their local police station for help. "Read the actual facts about the Nizamuddin Markaz covid cases. There was an Int Conference going on there when the lockdown was suddenly announced. They kept the authorities informed at all times & kept requesting them to allow the visitors to be escorted out. Unfair to blame them," he tweeted around 12pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tablighi-jamaat-covid-19-case-divides-the-internet/articleshow/74922075.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||How Tablighi movement split into two groups two years ago||MUMBAI: Tablighi Jamaat, the Islamic revivalist missionary movement, headquartered at Nizamuddin in Delhi, split into two factions two years ago following a dispute over the running of the organization. While the bigger faction is headquartered at Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin, the breakaway faction runs from a mosque in Nerul near Mumbai. Founded by Maulana Mohammed Ilyas in 1926, the global Tablighi movement ran smoothly till Maulana Inamul Hasan was its Amir or head. Hasan, in his lifetime, set up a Shura or apex consultation body, for major decisions in the Jamaat. After Hasan’s death in 1995, his son Maulana Zubairul Hasan and another senior Tablighi member, Maulana Saad, co-led the Shura. After Maulana Zubairul Hasan died in March 2014, Maulana Saad became its sole head. “After this, there were allegations of Maulana Saad taking decision arbitrarily which angered some senior members in the organization,” said a Mumbai-based cleric who has observed the Tablighi activities for years. Two years ago, the differences led to a rift in the Tablighi movement dividing it into two factions. While Maulana Saad continued to head the main faction headquartered at Nizamuddin, the breakaway unit is being run by Maulana Ahmed Lad and Ibrahim Deola from a mosque at Nerul near Mumbai. Different cities have zonal Markaz or centres which identify mosques to facilitate the stay of visiting Jamaats or groups. Normally a visiting group stays at a mosque for three days before they leave for the next destination or mosque. Mumbai has four centres located at four different mosques (Chuna Bhatti, Khar, Jogeshwari and Kurla Pipe Road). After clashes were reported at some mosques in Mumbai two years ago, the two factions began to take greater care in keeping their members away from each other to avoid clashes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-tablighi-movement-split-into-two-groups-two-years-ago/articleshow/74922079.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Some quarantined after Centre orders are non-Muslims, have no travel history||Nagpur: While rounding up and quarantining people as per orders of the home ministry — a fallout of the Tablighi Jamaat meet — the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has found that all are not Muslims. A few have not even toured New Delhi or any other place in the last one month. The civic body, with the help of police, has quarantined 104 people in government rest houses in the last two days here. Results of swab samples taken on Wednesday are expected today. On Wednesday, the Union government blamed travellers who had attended the Jamaat at a Delhi mosque in February-March for the sudden rise in those testing and dying of Covid-19. The Centre had sent a list of names and mobile numbers to state governments which segregated it by districts and then sent it to special branches of the police. The police shared it with the civic bodies. The numbers were identified on the basis of their cell tower location in the are and the period when the Jamaat was held. The NMC received a list of 68 persons on Tuesday, a copy of which is with TOI. The government note reads: “The need is to trace and quarantine all of them as they are suspected patients. They had come in contact of positive persons of New Delhi.” The names and address, as registered while the SIMs were purchased, is also mentioned in the list. As per the list with NMC, 13 were from rural parts of Nagpur district, two from Pune and one from Yavatmal. The remaining 52 are from city. All 52 were traced. Four claimed they had never travelled either to New Delhi or any other place in the last month. Some of the remaining 48 said they had travelled with family members. The NMC quarantined all 54 (48 + 6 members) at the MLA Hostel on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe in a video release said, “54 who attended the Delhi congregation were traced and quarantined.” In the evening, Mundhe had to change his statement as some of them turned out to be non-Muslims. A scrutiny of the list of 68 reveals that 37 are non-Muslim names. However, as directed by the Centre, the NMC has quarantined all of them. TOI spoke to one of the quarantined non-Muslim who is a resident of Civil Lines, a tony locality of Nagpur. “I am a practising Supreme Court lawyer. The SIM card of mobile number mentioned in the list available with the NMC is in the name of my father. When officials came to my house I told them that I am Delhi resident and not my father. So they have quarantined me.” This lawyer’s office is at the Sunder Nagar Market and residence at Lajpat Nagar in Delhi. “I use the Nizamuddin flyover at least twice a day. I suppose that’s how my number came on the list. I returned to Nagpur on March 18 by air. I had no symptoms in the past and now. Also, its more than 14 days since I returned from New Delhi,” he said. On Wednesday evening, the NMC received another list of 207 persons from the Centre with directions to trace and quarantine all. Not all are Muslims. A 124 are city residents and the remaining from other parts of the district and state. The NMC has traced, taken swab samples and quarantined around 50 taking the total to 104. “18 people are untraceable as the numbers are switched off. NMC and police teams are trying to track others,” an NMC official said. Similarly, the Nagpur Rural Police is tracing people in their jurisdiction. As reported by TOI on Thursday, Abdul Bari Patel, the secretary of the Tablighi Markas in Nagpur, only seven members from city attended the international conference in New Delhi. One of them had taken ill and was treated for urinary tract infection and pneumonia. “He was tested for coronavirus and the result was negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-quarantined-after-centre-orders-are-non-muslims-have-no-travel-history/articleshow/74946898.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 1, 2020||Surat||One km radius in Rander quarantined after two cases||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will quarantine an area of one km radius in Rander town from where a 67-year-old man, the second form the same area, had tested positive for Covid-19. "Besides disinfection activity in and around the area where local transmission is feared in Rander, we are quarantining one km radius as a precautionary measure and it will be a mass quarantine. Red signage will be put up in the area for public notice,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, said. The 67- year-old man has no travel history and SMC fears that he may have come in contact with many people in and around Rander. The civic body has already shifted 30 people in his contact to quarantine facility. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old male from Singanpore having travel history to Dubai tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was admitted in the SMIMER Hospital after he developed suspected symptoms of the virus on March 30. He had come in the contact with the Covid-19 positive patient from Ghod Dod Road on March 15. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city touched eight. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “About 17 close contacts of this patient have been shifted to the quarantine facility at Samras Hostel.” About seven new suspected cases were admitted in the isolation ward of the NCH and SMIMER on Tuesday. Barring one, none others have travel history. A 37-year-old male from Nanavat had travelled to South Africa and returned on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-km-radius-in-rander-quarantined-after-two-cases/articleshow/74919880.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Man posing as BSF officer nabbed in southeast Delhi||NEW DELHI: A "Border Security Force officer" reached Badarpur to take stock of the measures being taken to enforce the lockdown. He even hauled up the cops for not taking appropriate measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. However, to the local residents' surprise, the "BSF officer" turned out to be an imposter. He was later identified as Gaurav Mishra (25), a call centre employee and a resident of Faridabad. He wanted to join the force, but had failed to clear the competitive exams. According to DCP (southeast) RP Meena, ASI Bhagwan Sahai and constable Vikram were on patrolling in Molarband Extension when about 9pm, they found the suspect doing an inspection in the area. When the cops asked for his identity card, he could not show it. He could not even tell anything about his unit. "The arrested accused had even lied to his father that he had cracked the exam of asstt. commandant of BSF. He had purchased the uniform from Tigri Camp Khanpur," the DCP added. He would walk around in his and his girlfriend's colonies to impress people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-posing-as-bsf-officer-nabbed-in-southeast-delhi/articleshow/74922084.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Two held for Rs 50 lakh subpar masks, sanitisers in Mumbai||Mumbai: Crime branch unit 7 and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials on Monday raided two godowns in Nagpada and Sakinaka and seized inferior quality face masks and sanitisers worth Rs 50 lakh. Akhib Ansari was arrested for the masks in Nagpada, and Dilip Chamaria (32) for the sanitisers in Sakinaka. Both were selling the inferior quality products at inflated prices. This was the sixth such raid carried out by the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-held-for-rs-50-lakh-subpar-masks-sanitisers-in-mumbai/articleshow/74922090.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 'Rescue animals stranded in pet shops'||NEW DELHI: Days after Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) wrote to chief secretaries of states, asking them to vacate and rescue animals from pet shops across the city- Delhi Society For Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), animal husbandry department and Delhi Police have begun freeing the animals and sending them to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC) where they will be kept temporarily. The birds will be sent to Delhi zoo.  An animal husbandry department official said, no dead animals were found at 20 shops searched so far. "In most cases, the animals were hungry. They were first fed and then transported to the locations," he said.  While there were over 300 pet shops in Delhi, the animal husbandry department said it had no 'list' of registered shops as the new pet shop rules had only come into effect last year. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the department asked all district level officers to begin a crackdown in their respective districts and submit an action taken report at 5:30 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-rescue-animals-stranded-in-pet-shops/articleshow/74922092.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 1, 2020||Noida||Covid-19 beds almost full, Noida waits for new unit||NOIDA: It was good fortune that helped the Noida administration avert a crisis on Tuesday, a situation where there would be no beds in its hospitals for Covid-19 to accommodate a new patient. The city, which has emerged as UP’s hotspot with 41 cases so far, was lucky to record three positive cases on Tuesday after averaging seven a day since Saturday. Only seven free beds now remain available in its two isolation wards — five, effectively, as one of the units has to sanitise its beds for two days — and there won’t be any additional ones till at least Thursday morning when the new one at Sharda Hospital becomes functional. Noida’s coronavirus infections have predominantly come from a single contact chain of Cease Fire employees — 29 of the 38 so far. It has spread to Ghaziabad, where one more Cease Fire employee tested positive on Tuesday, and as far as Bareilly, where five new cases on Tuesday were linked to the chain. Preparations have begun on a war-footing to have a 100-bed Covid-19 unit ready on the Sharda campus but the oxygen pipeline there is still being installed. During the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s visit on Monday, Sharda University, which runs the hospital, was asked to install a separate oxygen pipeline for the isolation ward. “We are trying our best to get the facility ready as soon as possible. Everything except the oxygen pipeline is in place. Once installed, we can take in new patients from Thursday morning,” a spokesperson for Sharda University told TOI. Noida’s healthcare apparatus was overwhelmed by a sudden spike in novel coronavirus cases since March 24. Asked how additional patients will be managed if there are over five patients on Wednesday, district magistrate Suhas LY, who has just taken charge, told TOI, “I’m sure we will be able to manage something.” He said the administration was trying to get the new 100-bed facility functional. “We have still not had any patient who would need an oxygen cylinder. In case we do, there are over 20 cylinders. The pipeline work is also being done at the new hospital on a war-footing and we are trying to get it ready at the earliest,” he added. For Covid-19 patients, there are two hospitals in the district with 20 beds each — Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and the child PGI (SSPHPGTI) in Sector 30 of Noida. As of now, after discharging five patients, GIMS has 18 occupied beds while child PGI has 15. However, GIMS will not be able to take in more patients for the next two days. That leaves five beds at PGI. None of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida on Tuesday was linked to Cease Fire. They included a woman and her son in Sector 37 — the son’s uncle had recently returned from Switzerland. The third case was an 81-year-old man in Sector 28 with no travel history. The Cease Fire employee who tested positive in Ghaziabad is a resident of Duhai in Muradnagar. He is the third Cease Fire employee to test positive in the district. (Additional reporting by Aditya Dev in Ghaziabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/covid-19-beds-almost-full-noida-waits-for-new-unit/articleshow/74922110.cms||Snehil Sinha
April 1, 2020||India||Jump in corona cases due to lack of community support, says govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre said on Tuesday that the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases was mainly because of lack of support from the wider community in certain areas, coupled with delay in reporting of cases, even as it responded to the Nizamuddin situation by saying that this was not the time for finding fault and the country needed to work together to find a solution. Around 227 new cases and three deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. One death each was reported from Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. India has reported a total of over 1,250 confirmed cases and 32 deaths so far. Sharing the case numbers, Agarwal reiterated that full implementation of the lockdown and social distancing measures were essential to break the chain of transmission, and urged people to follow the prescribed guidelines and protocols. “Even if one person fails to comply, we will be back to stage zero,” he said. Responding to questions on models showing a range of cases, Agarwal said none of these took into account India’s decision to enter a 21-day lockdown. “When this was a surprise decision, how can models predict numbers,” he asked. Elaborating on identification of hotspots, the ministry said that any place with even a single case was treated as a hotspot because it was dealing with an infectious disease. However, when any particular area witnessed a large number of cases, the government’s intervention and containment strategy was scaled up accordingly. Agarwal was responding to questions on how many hotspots were being monitored. He said that there might be a lag in reporting numbers but not by much. The ministry’s focus was on acting quickly to zero in on new cases and take up contact tracing, he added. The government was using cluster-containment strategies and doing rigorous contact tracing in these hotspots to check the virus from spreading, he said. “The situation is very dynamic. A success story today can become a hotspot tomorrow. Since we are dealing with infectious disease management, a single case can develop into a hotspot,” Agarwal said. The ministry maintained that prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 was being monitored at the highest level and various actions had been initiated in collaboration with states. Meanwhile, a group of ministers headed by health minister Harsh Vardhan met on Tuesday and reviewed various issues related to implementation of the lockdown, the issue of migrant labourers, containment measures in emerging hotspots and ensuring adequacy of essential items such as personal protective equipment, masks, ventilators, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jump-in-corona-cases-due-to-lack-of-community-support-says-govt/articleshow/74922102.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 1, 2020||India||Kids’ helpline gets 3L calls since lockdown||NEW DELHI: Since the lockdown kicked in, Childline 1098, the 24x7 helpline across 569 districts for children in distress, has seen a spike in calls. Nearly three lakh callers have reached out to the helpline for help and information on the coronavirus as against the weekly average of about two calls received by the helpline call centres. Childline India Foundation — the nodal agency of the women and child development ministry managing and operating the 1098 service has been reaching out to callers with food for the hungry and helping transport sick children to a health facility. “There have been eight to 10 such calls a day pertaining to children who needed medical assistance,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kids-helpline-gets-3l-calls-since-lockdown/articleshow/74922132.cms||Ambika Pandit
April 1, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant, ailing cops withdrawn from strenuous lockdown duty||Nagpur: City and district police have decided to send the pregnant and ailing cops on leave relieving them from the strenuous round-the-clock duty imposed to enforce Section 144 across the district. Police personnel are playing a crucial role in enforcing the lockdown and compel citizens to remain at home. City police have relieved the personnel who are undergoing chemotherapy including one traffic cop who was on duty despite suffering from blood cancer till earlier this week. Cops suffering from cancer have been also sent on leave by district police chief IG, range, KMM Prasanna in four districts of Wardha, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Nagpur rural. District police have gone a step ahead to ensure all cops aged 55 years and above are sent on leave while ones aged 50 years and more were kept on reserve duty to save them from getting infected. Dr Sandeep Shinde of police hospital at headquarters informed that a 24-hour helpline and his service were available for assistance related to Corona-like symptoms and related health issues. “We are going through the third phase of the pandemic cycle in which the community spread is the common feature. Hence every precaution is being taken to safeguard the sizeable police force,” he said. “Cops, especially the pregnant ones, elderly and ailing ones, are susceptible to infection as they are exposed to the masses all the time,” he said. Dr Shinde has also started visiting the nakabandis across the city to raise awareness among the cops deployed there. “I have told the personnel to avoid touching the barricades repeatedly and also the documents shown to them by the public. They should have meals before leaving home and clean themselves and clothes after returning,” said Shinde who was at Manewada junction on Tuesday to meet the police on duty. “I have also told them to maintain social distancing and not to go close to the people for checking. They should also stop using sanitizers from unknown persons as it may trigger allergy,” he said. City police chief BK Upadhyay too is learnt to have now allowed the in-charges of different units to send their personnel on medical leave unlike in the past when doctor’s certificate was a must. Despite the health hazards and rising outside temperature, city police showed resilience throughout the day stepping up the checking and seizing activities. City police have taken actions against 3,286 persons on Tuesday which included penalizing 3,148 vehicle owners for violations. In all 11 cases, including one for spreading rumour, were registered against violators. City police also detained 123 people for loitering on the streets. In the districts, police have so far taken action against 152 violators starting from March 24. Maximum action was taken by Chandrapur police (67) under SP Maheshwar Reddy. Police personnel were left in a shock when a message had surfaced that state government had decided to cut salaries of employees to meet corona-related expenses. However, it was short-lived as it was clarified that police, healthcare, and other workers dealing with the crisis were exempted from the cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-ailing-cops-withdrawn-from-strenuous-lockdown-duty/articleshow/74920703.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 1, 2020||India||J&K man may have infected 100s, family says not the case||SRINAGAR: The family of J&K’s first Covid-19 casualty, a 65-year-old preacher, has contested claims by health officials that the deceased may have put hundreds of people at risk by attending two religious gatherings last week and concealing his travel history in the past fortnight. Four people he was in contact with have already tested positive for Covid-19. The man attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin travelled by air, train and road to Delhi, UP and back to J&K before dying of Covid-19, PTI quoted officials as saying. He also went to Jammu, where he visited several mosques. Among his possible victims is a doctor battling for life in a Jammu hospital. After the businessman preacher from Sopore died on Thursday, officials drew up a 400-plus list of primary contacts with whom he had interacted in the days preceding his death. Officials said the Kashmiri businessman left Delhi on March 9 and took a sleeper coach of a train for Deoband, where he attended a meeting at the Darul Uloom seminary. Two days later, on March 11, he took another train to Jammu. Officials said many of his copassengers have been tracked and quarantined. “My father had no recent international travel history. Contrary to allegations that he ran away from hospital, he was advised home quarantine,” said the man’s son. However, sources said the preacher first visited Jhelum Valley Medical College and Hospital in Srinagar on Saturday after having difficulty in breathing. A preliminary screening revealed Covid-19 symptoms but he allegedly fled the hospital on being referred to SKIMS Medical College in Soura, the nodal centre for coronavirus cases in J&K. National Health Mission director Bhupinder Kumar appealed to everyone who might have come in contact with the preacher to volunteer for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-man-may-have-infected-100s-family-says-not-the-case/articleshow/74922137.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 1, 2020||Pune||Sinhagad Road woman, Pune's first critical Covid-19 patient, taken off ventilator; to go home in a week||PUNE: The first critical novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infected patient in Pune has recovered and will go home in a week's time. The 42-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, with no history of foreign travel, was put off the ventilator after 11 days of aggressive treatment at a private hospital in Pune on Tuesday. Her throat swab sample has tested negative twice in 24 hours for the contagion. "She is breathing on her own. She also had some soup in the morning. We will discharge her in a week. She is perhaps the first patient who was critically ill with acute respiratory distress syndrome and has recovered successfully. Her recovery has given us hope that seriously ill patients can come out of complications," Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati Hospital told TOI. The woman was being treated at the hospital since March 16 and her condition worsened three days later. She was then intubated and put on ventilator support on March 20. The hospital sent her throat swab sample to rule out swine flu, but it tested positive for Covid-19 and negative for swine flu. "We administered her aggressive treatment on ventilator support. We used all medication, including antiviral drugs, meant for the treatment of swine flu, malaria and HIV. Skilled intensivists and round-the-clock ICU nursing pulled her off the critical ARDS state which is a fatal complication of Covid-19 and other respiratory viruses," Lalwani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sinhagad-road-woman-punes-first-critical-covid-19-patient-taken-off-ventilator-to-go-home-in-a-week/articleshow/74922140.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 1, 2020||India||Month’s salary ‘cut’ in Maha, Telangana||MUMBAI/HYDERABAD: Maharashtra has deferred paying a part of this month’s salary to its employees while Telangana announced cuts as a temporary measure given the sharp slide in tax revenues and stalling of economic activity due to the 21-day lockdown. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar clarified that the salaries being cut this month would be paid in two installments over the next few months. Chief minister Uddhav Thakceray said, “There is no question of slashing anyone’s salary.” Maharashtra ministers and all MLAs will be paid 40% of their salaries for March. Class I and II employees will be paid half their salaries and Class III 75% of their salaries. But Class IV employees will get their full salaries. In Telangana, all ministers and legislators will see a 75% cut in their salaries, those in alll-India services will get a 60% cut while all other state government employees will see their’s cut by 50%. Class IV staff, outsourced employees and contract workers will face a 10% cut in their salary. Government pensioners will get only 50% of their pension. Class IV retired employees will get 90% their pension amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/months-salary-cut-in-maha-telangana/articleshow/74922142.cms||---
April 1, 2020||India||Irda relief on 3rd party premium payment likely||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Amid reports of many vehicle owners having not yet renewed their third party insurance cover due to the lockdown, the insurance regulator, Irda, is working on some relaxation. Sources said it may allow grace period of one month for premium payment for insurance renewal. Irda has already given relief to vehicle owners announcing that third party vehicle premium for next financial year starting Wednesday will remain same as 2019-20. It will later notify whether the rates would be revised or the same will continue. TOI has learnt that the Irda has taken up the issue with the department of financial services and there could be some announcement in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/irda-relief-on-3rd-party-premium-payment-likely/articleshow/74922148.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 1, 2020||India||PM shares his yoga clip; wonderful, says Ivanka||NEW DELHI: PM Modi on Tuesday shared a video of a Yoga ‘asana’ practised by him as he encouraged people to stay fit during the lockdown. “Whenever I get time, I practise Yoga Nidra once or twice a week. It furthers overall well-being, relaxes the mind, reduces stress and anxiety,” the PM tweeted, suggesting that one can find many videos of ‘Yoga Nidra’ on the net. US President Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump was the first among those to appreciate the video shared by Modi. In his latest “Mann Ki Baat” radio address, Modi had promised to share fitness videos, in response to a question how he was keeping fit during the 21-day lockdown. “This is wonderful. Thank you,” Ivanka Trump tweeted and followed it with #TogetherApart. Sharing YouTube yoga videos on Monday, Modi had said he was neither a fitness nor medical expert. “Practising Yoga has been an integral part of my life. I am sure many of you also have other ways of remaining fit, which you also must share,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-shares-his-yoga-clip-wonderful-says-ivanka/articleshow/74922152.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thane||Mobile app to track those in home quarantine in Thane||THANE: People from Thane who have been home-quarantined will be tracked through digital surveillance. For this, the Thane civic body has devised a system to keep tabs on the movement of such people and through a mobile application. This app will throw up timely updates to the municipal control room specifying a quarantined person's location when the app is installed in the person's cellphone. Given the averge size of a flat in the city, a breathing margin of 20-metre radius has been given. If the quarantined person oversteps the prescribed limit, the control room will be alerted. At least 1,800 people in Thane have been advised home quarantine currently and tracking each one's movements is impossible, said officials. A senior municipal official said that this move will indirectly help reduce the strain on the medical workforce that would otherwise have to keep vigil on those who have been advised home quarantine. "The app would help mitigate the chances of people venturing out of home as they would then face isolation," said this official. "Currently, civic staff cannot do the rounds of homes to ensure compliance." In the same vein, officials pointed out that the system has its downside. "If the person leaves the phone at home and steps out, there is no way to know this," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mobile-app-to-track-those-in-home-quarantine-in-thane/articleshow/74922161.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Noida woman stuck in city hospital after nervous breakdown||Kolkata: Efforts have beg-un to send a 32-year-old IT professional back to her home in Noida from MR Bangur Hospital, where she was admitted after a nervous br-eakdown at Kolkata airport.After her samples tested negative for Covid-19, permission was obtained from Kolkata Police for a vehicle to transport her to Jamshedpur, where her relatives stay.“My sister had travelled to Kolkata for personal work on March 20. She turned up at the airport for a return flight to Delhi on the day all domestic flights were grounded. When told there was no way she could return, she seems to have lost her cool and behaved in an abnormal manner. She was also disturbed as her phone was not working. We seek your assistance to get her back home,” her brother wrote to the UP chief secretary. The brother learnt of West Bengal Radio Club and its secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas, who have been instrumental in reuniting several lost people with their families. In his letter, he authorised Nag Biswas to have his sister sent home.“I got in touch with the woman’s brother and spoke to doctors. It seems people at the airport gave her strange looks and clicked her photos after the scrap with authorities over a return ticket to Delhi. She spent a couple of days at the airport till somebody reported her as a vagabond. There are some acquaintances in Kolkata, but they don’t wish to take charge. The only option is to send her to Jamshedpur. We are in touch with her relatives there,” Nag Biswas said. The challenge Biswas’ team will face is in crossing the inter-state border. While the woman has a certificate, the driver and his associate may not be allowed across. Efforts are on to get in touch with the Jharkhand police to work out a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noida-woman-stuck-in-city-hospital-after-nervous-breakdown/articleshow/74921636.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||3 cured, return home to a warm welcome||Kolkata: When the state’s first three Covid-19 survivors stepped out of Beliaghata ID hospital on Tuesday, they were apprehensive about the reception they would get in their localities once they returned home. But in an exemplary gesture, neighbours, friends and relatives of all three gave them a warm welcome for conquering a deadly foe, erasing the trauma of stigmatisation they had faced just a fortnight ago when they had tested positive for coronavirus. In Ballygunge, residents of an upscale condominium stood on their balconies waving and cheering a 53-year-old businessman, who had contracted the virus from his UK-returned son, as he got off his car and walked into his apartment smiling and acknowledging the waves. In Habra, neighbours of the 23-year-old survivor came out on the road, briefly breaking lockdown protocol, and blew conch shells to welcome the woman who had fallen ill after returning from Scotland. The members of the residents’ association of the EM Bypass apartment complex where the city’s first Covid-19 patient, an 18-year-old Oxford University student, lives also welcomed the family home and took steps to ensure they are not victimised or harassed. As per protocol, all three will have to stay in home isolation for the next 14 days to avoid chances of recurrence of the disease. “I am happy to be back home. The doctors were very motivating and always asked me not to panic. Back home, I am touched by the reception,” the 23-year-old Habra resident said. Members of the residents’ association of the Ballygunge condominium had sent text messages to all flatowners to ensure the 53-year-old Covid-19 survivor wasn’t victimised or bothered. The businessman had tested positive on March 22, two days after his 22-year-old London-returned son became the city’s second coronavirus patient. The businessman, his son, wife and domestic help were all undergoing treatment at the ID hospital for the last two weeks and he was the first to recover and return home. “Since the time we learnt he has been cured and is returning home, we have been sending text messages to all residents to ensure that no one harasses him. I have been constantly trying to raise awareness in the forum that those who contract the disease are victims and not criminals. Our complex is like a big family and we want to keep it that way,” said the president of the resident’s association. Another member of the association added that since the businessman now needs to stay in home isolation for 14 days, if needed, the association would take the responsibility of fetching essentials and keeping these outside his door. The city’s first Covid-19 victim and his parents are also preparing to head back to their condominium off EM Bypass after the 18-year-old was released on Tuesday evening. The parents have sent a mail to the resident’s association informing about their arrival and seeking permission to disinfect their. The teen, who tested positive on March 18, was shamed on social media along with his parents for allegedly violating the 14-day home quarantine protocol after his return from UK and visiting a number of places, including the state secretariat Nabanna. The youth had allegedly even received death threats. “None from our complex ever misbehaved with them. Now that the boy is cured and his parents have also tested negative, they are more than welcome to come back home. We will ensure no one harasses them,” said the secretary of the association. A Covid-19 patient has to test negative to the virus in two consecutive tests conducted within 24 hours during the process of treatment. “Once this is over and we are satisfied with the infection control part they are ready to be discharged. We are happy that we could send the three patients home. We are hopeful of sending many more patients home in the coming days,” said the doctor leading the core Covid-19 team at ID hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-cured-return-home-to-a-warm-welcome/articleshow/74921688.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Noida woman stuck in city hospital after nervous breakdown||Kolkata: Efforts have beg-un to send a 32-year-old IT professional back to her home in Noida from MR Bangur Hospital, where she was admitted after a nervous br-eakdown at Kolkata airport. After her samples tested negative for Covid-19, permission was obtained from Kolkata Police for a vehicle to transport her to Jamshedpur, where her relatives stay. “My sister had travelled to Kolkata for personal work on March 20. She turned up at the airport for a return flight to Delhi on the day all domestic flights were grounded. When told there was no way she could return, she seems to have lost her cool and behaved in an abnormal manner. She was also disturbed as her phone was not working. We seek your assistance to get her back home,” her brother wrote to the UP chief secretary. The brother learnt of West Bengal Radio Club and its secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas, who have been instrumental in reuniting several lost people with their families. In his letter, he authorised Nag Biswas to have his sister sent home. “I got in touch with the woman’s brother and spoke to doctors. It seems people at the airport gave her strange looks and clicked her photos after the scrap with authorities over a return ticket to Delhi. She spent a couple of days at the airport till somebody reported her as a vagabond. There are some acquaintances in Kolkata, but they don’t wish to take charge. The only option is to send her to Jamshedpur. We are in touch with her relatives there,” Nag Biswas said. The challenge Biswas’ team will face is in crossing the inter-state border. While the woman has a certificate, the driver and his associate may not be allowed across. Efforts are on to get in touch with the Jharkhand police to work out a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noida-woman-stuck-in-city-hospital-after-nervous-breakdown/articleshow/74921633.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Midnapore drags feet on Covid patient||Daspur: It has taken the West Midnapore administration four days to get its act together and begin contact tracing of a 30-year-old man from the district who has tested positive for Covid-19. The man, who works at a jewellery store in Mumbai, returned home to Nizampur in Daspur by train on March 22 and was advised to follow quarantine protocol. On Ma-rch 28, health workers found he had fever. He was taken to a primary health centre, which referred him to Ghatal Superspecialty Hospital. The man was soon shifted to Midnapore MCH and tested on March 29. After the report came positive, the hospital sent a sample to NICED, Kolkata, that day. The report that came on Monday night was also positive. The patient was shifted to Beliaghata ID Hospital on Tuesday, jolting the administration out of slumber. CMOH Girish Chandra Bera said there was standing instruction on home quarantine for anybody coming to the district . “We have asked the railways to provide us details of co-passengers who travelled with him between Mumbai and Kharagpur,” Bera added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midnapore-drags-feet-on-covid-patient/articleshow/74921635.cms||Sujay Khanra
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt traces 40 who attended Delhi meet||Kolkata: The Bengal government on Tuesday traced 40 persons, including several foreign nationals, staying in mosques in Kolkata and elsewhere in the state who had been to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters in Delhi earlier this month. All of them are being shifted to a facility near the airport where a special isolation unit is being set up; the entire band of 40 will be tested on Tuesday itself and quarantined for the next two weeks. The hectic activity in Kolkata coincided with a central input, which said 73 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi might have come to Bengal. Eight of those traced are now in a mosque near New Market and all of them are Delhi residents. Mosque secretary Mohammad Nooruddin told TOI that the group reached the mosque on March 22, the day of the janata curfew, and were supposed to leave for Bangladesh three days later. “But, then, the lockdown was declared and everyone was told to stay where they were. So they could not return. They have been staying in the mosque since then,” Nooruddin said. “They are in good health. We are getting in touch with the state government right away to help isolate them till they can return home,” Nooruddin said on Tuesday morning. State health department officials said later on Tuesday that the process of shifting these eight people had already started. “A lot of people have got in touch with us. We have already identified 40 people who are being shifted to the facility that has been earmarked for this purpose. Cops are coordinating the entire process. We will conduct the necessary tests on Tuesday and, if they they are found to be fit after the quarantine, we will help them reach home,” a Bengal Haj department spokesperson said. “All those from Bengal who participated in this event (Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi) are being identified and will be immediately tested for Covid-19 and put in the mandatory 14-day quarantine,” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay confirmed on his Twitter handle. Officials said the central inputs that came on Monday night had alerted the Bengal government about the possibility of several Thai, Indonesian and Malaysian nationals being part of the 73 who came to the state. The Bengal government then put together a core team, including a senior MP, to coordinate with the administration and sent out a message to all imams across the state to alert it immediately if they came across any such persons. “The response has been very good and we are still receiving information,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govt-traces-40-who-attended-delhi-meet/articleshow/74921713.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s worst day so far: 3 more coronavirus deaths take toll to 5; total cases jump by 15 to 37||KOLKATA: Three deaths — two in Howrah on Monday and another at NRS Hospital on Tuesday — were declared to be because of Covid-19. The three death pronouncements brought the number of fatalities over the last 48 hours to four and Bengal’s toll to five so far. Tuesday also saw as many as 15 people testing positive — the highest single-day jump in cases — taking the total count of affected people to 37. The Howrah woman’s positive report was released a day after her death, even as health workers at Howrah State General Hospital, where she was under treatment, sounded the alarm, alleging isolation protocols hadn’t been maintained. They alleged she had been admitted to a general ward before being moved into isolation at the ICU, exposing dozens of others. According to the nurses, none of them wore protective gear while attending to her. Cops have directed her family to be in home isolation. The person who died at NRS was later found to be Covid-positive. Three of Tuesday’s 15 fresh cases were relatives — the wife, daughter and son — of the Army doctor who had tested positive on Sunday. The fourth positive case is a woman who recently returned from Italy. She is being treated in isolation at a private hospital in Dum Dum. While a 51-year-old Salt Lake resident tested positive at AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, a 52-year-old NGO worker from Tollygunge was detected with the virus at AMRI, Dhakuria. A 52-year-old man from Belgharia in North 24 Parganas — under treatment at a private hospital — also tested positive, along with a 30-year-old from Daspur in West Midnapore, who is now admitted at Midnapore Medical College Hospital. No details have yet emerged about the other five people who tested positive. On the brighter side, Bengal’s first three who had tested positive — the 18-year-old student, the father of a Ballygu-nge youth and a woman student who had returned from Scotland — were declared cured and released from the Beliaghata ID Hospital. They will have to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. The Ballygunge youth is also well on the way to recovery, sources said. It was later found out that the man admitted at AMRI Salt Lake had hosted a visitor from the US at his home on March 17. He had also attended a party on March 19, in which the US visitor was present. The NGO worker admitted at AMRI Dhakuria had visited Odisha recently. The 30-year-old from Das-pur had returned to Kharagpur from Mumbai by train on March 22. He had taken a suburban train to Panskura, from where he travelled back to his Daspur home by car with his father. The 30-year-old has been admitted to Midnapore Medical College Hospital, while six members of the youth’s family have been quarantined. He was admitted to the hospital on March 28 and a swab sample tested positive. It was confirmed by NICED, whose report reached on Monday night. Three hundred have been put in isolation in West Midnapore on Tuesday. At Belgharia’s Rathtala, a 57-year-old owner of a fast food outlet tested positive. A diabetic who has been on dialysis, he developed breathing trouble on March 23 and fever the next day. Since his breathing distress did not ease, he was admitted to a nursing home on March 26. His swab sample was sent for testing on Monday. It was revealed that his brother-in-law had recently returned from Mumbai and was put in isolation. Two doctors, three nurses and two health workers of the hospital are now in quarantine. The man’s breathing distress persists and his condition was stated to be serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-worst-day-so-far-3-more-deaths-take-toll-to-5-total-cases-jump-by-15-to-37/articleshow/74921679.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: More than a lakh told to go for home isolation in 24 hours||KOLKATA: As many as 1,03,391 people have been asked to go on home isolation just on Tuesday when the home quarantine figures stood at 47,301 on Monday, a West Bengal health bulletin released by Swasthya Bhawan states. People sent on home isolation forms a major part of the total 1,03,419 people enlisted for observation on Tuesday. However, collection of swab samples from suspected Covid-19 patients decreased on Tuesday. The state health bulletin says 62 swab samples were collected on Monday while only 24 were collected on Tuesday. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the state health department has beefed up the corona management system in terms of social distancing and treatment. Swasthya Bhawan has formed a seven-member critical care committee for treatment of patients at Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata, that has thrown open its emergency ward for Covid-19 patients. The committee includes, Tamal Kanti Ghosh (special secretary), Asutosh Ghosh (CCU in charge SSKM), Bibhuti Saha ( HOD, School of Tropical Medicine), Saugata Dasgupta ( CCU in charge RG Kar), Monotosh Sutradhar (SSKM), Suparno Paul (RG Kar) and Soma Sil (technical officer). The state has also extended the tenure of house staffs in government hospitals by another month till April 30 in a bid to meet the deficit in the doctors’ pool. Swasthya Bhawan has arranged for isolation facilities with a total of 1,317 beds across 100 hospitals in Bengal. The state bulletin mentions that 27 swab samples, of the total 543 suspects sent for tests, have tested positive. CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday went to the Lalbazar to give a boost to the policemen on duty. “Have all of you got masks? You are not maintaining the minimum distance while on duty. You are at the forefront,” the CM said. She also wrote personally to all frontline healthcare staff. lauding their efforts, she urged them to take care of their family and be careful. She also provided each of these officers the CMO contact details to reach out should they need any help for them or their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-a-lakh-told-to-go-for-home-isolation-in-24-hrs/articleshow/74921402.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: LPG situation gets a bit better in some areas||MUMBAI: The LPG cylinder situation seemed to have improved in a few areas on Tuesday though people continued to stand in queues in some parts of the city. In Parel, Dharmesh Sangoi from Matoshree Pride building said the one-km queue had reduced to a 200m one on Tuesday. He said some had got messages from the local HP Gas dealer stating they were working to provide doorstep delivery. In sector 5 at Charkop in Kandivali, Ganesh Mayekar said the situation was improving and deliveries had begun in a few buildings. "It was a tough experience waiting in a queue for one to two hours and then having to lug home a heavy cylinder. Nearly 15 societies in our area are keen to switch to piped gas and we will expedite the process once the lockdown ends," he told TOI. In parts of Ghatkopar, Kurla, Bandra-Khar, Bhandup-Mulund and Goregaon, the dealers sent delivery boys with the small vans to deliver the LPG cylinders either to the doorstep or near the building gates. After TOI took up the issue of senior citizens and the disabled being left in the lurch, state government officials assured they would take up the matter. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad from D Ward on Monday met a few gas supply agencies. "Suppliers (in the ward) have assured they will make every effort to provide gas cylinders. I have also requested home delivery of cylinders to senior citizens," he later mentioned on social media. Several senior citizens in this ward stay in highrises in Napean Sea Road and Breach Candy. For a senior citizen couple, aged 74 and 69 years, residing in Madan House, Prarthna Samaj, in South Mumbai, it was a daunting task convincing the local gas dealer to deliver. Their daughter, Jaishree Mistry, who stays separately, said there should be a mechanism to address the problems of senior citizens. In a statement to TOI on Tuesday, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd chairman and managing director D Rajkumar said, "Our distributors are making all efforts to deliver Bharatgas cylinders at the doorstep of our consumers. We will ensure cylinders reach your home."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lpg-situation-gets-a-bit-better-in-some-areas/articleshow/74922178.cms||Somit Sen
April 1, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu lead spurt, 315 cases on Tuesday as total crosses 1600||NEW DELHI: In a massive surge in fresh cases led by 82 in Maharashtra and 57 in Tamil Nadu, 315 new coronavirus infections were reported in the country on Tuesday — nearly double the previous day’s number — taking the total number of cases detected in India galloping to 1,618. The number of deaths among Covid-19 cases too rose by nine to 52 so far. As many as 626 new cases have been reported in the past three days, accounting for nearly 40% of all cases so far. Delhi, which has become one of the worst affected states with at least two major hotspots, Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden area of the city, confirmed 23 new cases taking its total tally to 120. This, however, doesn’t include any fresh case of Covid-19 among the people taken out from Nizamuddin mosque as the government claimed their test reports were awaited. Read AlsoCoronavirus: State govts race to curb spread as hundreds from Tablighi meet show symptomsGovernment authorities are tackling a logistical nightmare as they try to map the movements of thousands of people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation end-February and early March in New Delhi and then dispersed, many carrying the novel coronavirus to states across the length and breadthThe Delhi government said, of the 23 new cases, eight had travel history, seven had come in contact with infected persons and the details of eight others were under investigation. Sources said the Delhi figures may shoot up exponentially in the coming days as 441 out of 1,548 followers members of Tablighi Jamaat, who were taken out from the mosque on Sunday and Monday, are highly symptomatic of Covid-19. With the rush of new cases on Tuesday, Maharashtra now has recorded 302 Covid-19 infections, the third hundred for the state coming in two days as opposed to the first hundred that took a fortnight and second that took six days. The state also reported two more deaths, one from Mumbai and the other from Palghar, taking the total toll to 12. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesWith tens of new infections linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi earlier in the month, Tamil Nadu’s count of coronavirus cases nearly doubled in a single day, going from 67 to 124 on Tuesday. Apart from Tamil Nadu, three more states — Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka — joined Maharashtra and Kerala in registering more than 100 cases so far. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn Maharashtra, of the cases reported on Tuesday, 59 were from Mumbai, 13 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region, five from Pune, three from Ahmednagar and two from Buldhana. The state attributed the sharp single-day spike to book-keeping adjustments and said that reports from private laboratories received over the last few days had been added to the count. With 151 cases, Mumbai now is on the top of the state list, followed by 48 cases in Pune rural and city and 25 cases in Sangli. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAlso, Jharkhand and Assam which had remained untouched from the Covid-19 crisis so far, reported their first cases. A Malaysian woman, 22, who was found staying at Badi Masjid at Hindipri locality in state capital Ranchi as part of Tablighi Jamaat group, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Read AlsoTablighi Jamaat meet: 250+ foreigners under watch as 20 test positive in past 10 daysOver 250 foreign nationals have been quarantined or admitted to isolation wards in various states in India following the revelation that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregations in Delhi. At least 20 of these foreigners tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 10 days, including aIn Assam, a 52-year-old man admitted to Assam’s Silchar Medical College in Assam tested positive for the disease. He is a cancer patient and had returned from Delhi recently. State authorities said the man is suspected to have attended the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat. As many as 17 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore on Tuesday, more proof that Central India’s commercial hub is also Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus hotspot. With 19 more patient testing positive for Covid-19, Madhya Pradesh’s total cases shot up to 66 on Tuesday. Indore alone accounts for nearly 70% of MP’s tally, officials said. Total five Covid-19 deaths have been confirmed in the states, including two deaths confirmed one Tuesday. West Bengal also reported three more deaths and 15 new novel coronavirus cases. The death toll in the state has now risen to five. In Bihar, a 35-year-old man from Gopalganj in north Bihar tested positive for Covid-19 virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 16 in the state. Gujarat reported only six new cases of Covid-19, taking the state tally to 74. Ahmedabad, its capital, has been identified as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the country with 23 cases. Noida and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Bhilwara in Rajasthan, and Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra are the other hotspots along with the Kasargod district of Kerala. UP confirmed seven new cases, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to 103 on Tuesday. Five of the new cases were reported from Bareilly, while one each from Noida and Ghaziabad. J&K Government on Tuesday said six new positive cases of Covid-19 had been recorded taking their tally to 55. Watch Cases of coronavirus cross 1600 in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-india-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-lead-spurt-315-cases-on-tuesday-as-total-crosses-1600/articleshow/74921742.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court rejects bail pleas of two accused in Elgar case||MUMBAI: A special court on Tuesday rejected the interim bail pleas of two accused in the Elgar Parishad case, P Varavara Rao (80) and Shoma Sen (61), who had sought relief citing the coronavirus pandemic and their advanced age. Special judge RR Bhosale said the directive allowing undertrials to be released on bail in light of coronavirus excluded, among others, offenders under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). "Thus, the accused are not entitled to interim bail on that ground," the court said. While Rao is in Taloja jail, Sen is lodged at Byculla jail along with another accused, Sudha Bharadwaj. Rao's defence lawyer R Satyanarayan had told the court he was suffering from multiple ailments and could contract coronavirus due to his vulnerable condition. Sen's lawyer Sharif Shaikh had submitted that she suffered from osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure. Older people and those with underlying medical conditions were more likely to develop coronavirus, Sen's defence argued. Both Rao and Sen sought their release on temporary bail for a period decided by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-two-accused-in-elgar-case/articleshow/74922186.cms||Rebecca Samervel
April 1, 2020||Noida||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922223.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922204.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Nizamuddin's Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 19 from Ghaziabad and Gurugram quarantined||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: At least 19 persons from Ghaziabad and Gurugram, who had attended the religious congregation organised at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin this month, have been quarantined in different hospitals. The Noida administration, too, has identified 16 persons who had participated in the congregation. The Ghaziabad administration swung into action after scores of people who had attended the congregation started testing positive for coronavirus. Thirteen suspected patients have been kept in the isolation ward of MMG District Hospital. Sources said six more from Loni were being screened. According to officials, 15 persons from Masuri and three from Muradnagar had gone to attend the congre gation on March 16. While the others returned, five elderly persons stayed back. These five are admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Their test reports are awaited. In Noida, police have identified 16 persons who had attended the Nizamudin congregation and 5 others who had participated in other such events. Six persons from Jalpura in Haldoni have also been identified. From Jewar, at least five persons are believed to have attended the Jamaat. In Gurugram, a group of six persons reached the Civil Hospital from Ferozepur Jhirka village on Tuesday morning. All of them had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin and told doctors they had been showing virus-like symptoms ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nizamuddins-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-19-from-ghaziabad-and-gurgaon-quarantined/articleshow/74922222.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||32 foreigners, 127 others quarantined in Haryana||CHANDIGARH/AMBALA: Haryana police and health officials on Tuesday raced to track people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi earlier this month at its Nizamuddin West headquarters, which has turned into a novel coronavirus hotspot. As many as 159 persons, including 32 foreigners, with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were quarantined across Haryana during the day-long drive. The search operations for people linked to the Jamaat were carried out throughout the state. Punjab has identified nine and Himachal 17 people who attended the congregation. However, Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who also holds the charge of health ministry, said the state had no definite numbers as yet but he had asked the state home secretary to compile details of persons from Haryana linked to the Jamaat. "Our teams are working and we are hopeful of getting a clear picture by Wednesday evening, The home secretary too has been directed to compile the records," said Vij.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/32-foreigners-127-others-quarantined-in-haryana/articleshow/74922208.cms||Manvir Saini
April 1, 2020||Business||Donation to PM CARES eligible for 100% tax sop||NEW DELHI: Any donation made to the PM CARES Fund shall be eligible for 100% deduction under section 80G of the I-T Act, according to the Ordinance which was promulgated on Tuesday by the government. This amended the provisions of the Income Tax Act to provide the same tax treatment to the PM CARES Fund as available to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. According to a finance ministry statement, the limit on deduction of 10% of gross income shall also not be applicable for donation made to the PM CARES Fund. This special fund — ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)’ — has been set up for providing relief to those affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The date for making various investment/payment for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of the I-T Act, which includes section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC, etc), 80D (mediclaim), 80G (donations), has been extended to June 30, 2020. Hence the investment/payment can be made up to June 30 for claiming the deduction under these sections for 2019-20, according to the provisions of the Ordinance. The government has unveiled several measures to ease the compliance and regulatory burden on common citizens and companies. It has extended the date for Aadhaar-PAN linking to June 30 from the earlier March 31 among several other steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/donation-to-pm-cares-eligible-for-100-tax-sop/articleshow/74922209.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Business||Missing two instalments may add 10 months to loan||NEW DELHI: Hit by the lockdown and faced with uncertainty, many people are looking to avail of the repayment relief that banks are offering. Although banks are yet to announce the details of the relief package and how it will work out, we do know that this is only a grace period and they are likely to charge interest for the unpaid amount. Missing two instalments could extend your loan by 6-10 months, or increase the EMI amount by 1.5%. The borrower may be given three options by the lender: Read AlsoBanks to roll out EMI waiver options soonBanks will soon come out with the operational procedure for retail borrowers to avail a 3-month moratorium on their loans. Most lenders plan to send out text messages and emails allowing borrowers to avail the facility. The bank told customers that if an EMI was debited and they wish to avail theOption I: One-time payment in June of the interest that accrues in April and May Option II: Add the interest to the outstanding loan and increase EMI for remaining months Option III: Keep the EMI unchanged but extend the loan tenure. The number of additional EMIs will depend on the age of the loan Let us assume a borrower took a home loan of Rs 50 lakh at 9% for 20 years. The EMI comes to Rs 44,986. If he wants to skip the next two EMIs (April and May), the table given here (see graphic) shows how the moratorium will impact his repayment schedule. Clearly, the longer the remaining tenure, the bigger is the impact. This is because the interest accounts for a larger portion of the EMI in the early years and progressively comes down. Even after the first year, the interest accounts for almost 80% of the EMI. But in the 19th year, the interest portion is less than 10% in the EMI. So, people with older loans taken 10-15 years ago will not feel the burden as much as someone with a new loan taken 2-3 years ago. Ironically, people with older loans may not really need the moratorium as much as those with younger loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/missing-2-instalments-may-add-10-mths-to-loan/articleshow/74922212.cms||Babar Zaidi
April 1, 2020||Amritsar||Coronavirus: Two Pakistani men who went home via Attari land border tested positive||AMRITSAR : Two of the three Pakistani nationals who had returned home via Attari land border after a medical check-up at a private hospital in Noida, UP have tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, Mohammad Khalid and Yasir Mukhtar, who were part of the five-member group that crossed over to Pakistan via Attari international border on March 29, have been confirmed Covid-19 to have and admitted in the isolation ward of Services Hospital, Lahore. According to a medical test report of 15 persons released by Services Institute of Medical Sciences at 1 pm (Pakistan time) on March 31, two suspected patients -- serial number 13 and 15 -- were confirmed to be virus-positive, while Nighat -- serial number 14 -- tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/coronavirus-two-pakistani-men-who-went-home-via-attari-land-border-tested-positive/articleshow/74922216.cms||Yudhvir Rana
April 1, 2020||Business||Sunil, Lakshmi Mittal companies commit Rs 100 crore aid each||MUMBAI: As India continues to face the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, a fresh set of names from the world of business are stepping in to help those in need. On Tuesday, Sunil Mittal-led Bharti Enterprises committed Rs 100 crore to relief and recovery initiatives related to Covid-19. Beyond this, Bharti said it will match the amount contributed by its employees towards India’s fight against the coronavirus onslaught. On similar lines, Steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal said his Indian ventures will contribute Rs 100 crore to the ongoing relief efforts countrywide New Delhi-headquartered Jindal Steel & Power, Piramal Group, IFFCO — a fertiliser company owned by a cooperative society, and component maker Bharat Forge donated Rs 25 crore each to the PM Cares Fund, which was introduced last week by the Centre for Covid-19 relief efforts. While Mumbai-based Indiabulls gave Rs 21 crore. Companies have been closely monitoring the situation and coordinating with local authorities and NGOs to bolster disease prevention and resilience efforts. They have been providing medical kits that include surgeon gowns, hood caps, shoe covers and infrared thermometers to the hospitals. Some consumer durable makers have also been offering air purifiers, refrigerators and water purifiers to medical centres. Oil PSUs — ONGC and IOC — contributed Rs 300 crore and Rs 225 crore, respectively, to the PM Cares Fund. ONGC’s contribution makes it the biggest PSU donor to the PM’s relief fund. Other PSUs — Power Finance Corporation, NTPC and NHPC — have put in a total of Rs 1,125 crore. SBI employees pledged Rs 100 crore to the PM CaresFund. The 2.6 lakh employees will contribute their two days’ salary. This is perhaps one of the biggest commitments by employees of an organisation. Last week, the PSU bank had announced a commitment of 0.25% of its FY20 profit in support of Covid-19 control. Tata Group, which announced a commitment of Rs 1,500 crore, tweeted that it will allocate Rs 500 crore to the newly formed relief fund by the Centre. The government has allowed companies to contribute from their CSR funds to the PM Cares Fund. Rules require companies with a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore or profit of Rs 5 crore to contribute 2% of profit for CSR. A significant chunk of the pledge by companies have gone to the PM Cares Fund. Xiaomi India pledged Rs 15 crore to various Covid-19 relief initiatives, while digital solutions provider for capital market transactions CDSL, Jyothy Labs and Care Ratings contributed Rs 7 crore, Rs 5 crore and Rs 2.5 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sunil-lakshmi-mittal-cos-commit-100cr-aid-each/articleshow/74922219.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Central Railway to turn 482 coaches into isolation units||PUNE: The Central Railway will convert 482 coaches of trains into isolation facilities across its divisions, as the number of Covid-19 cases increases. "The work to make the makeshift isolation facilities has started at sheds such as Parel and Matunga. Similar work will also be carried out in various coaching depots," a Central Railway (CR) official said on Tuesday. The Pune division of the Central Railway is yet to get orders from its higher-ups on the work. "The prototypes for the initiative have been prepared by the authorities at the Northern Railway and North Frontier railway authorities. We will start the work once the official instructions reach us," an official with the Central Railway's Pune division said. The Indian Railways on Monday said plans were afoot to modify 5,000 passenger coaches into isolation facilities across the country. The aim is to meet the requirement of any possible exigency of keeping some coronavirus patients in isolation as and when required by the government. Officials privy to the development said each of the coaches can accommodate 10 patients and will have separate cabins meant for doctors and nurses. Once ready, the coaches will be stationed at various railway stations. The middle berth of the three-tier coaches will be removed to ensure keeping two patients in a way that the social distancing norms are maintained. On both ends of the coaches, there will be a washroom for the patients. Of the 125 railway hospitals across the country, 70 of them would be kept ready for any contingency with dedicated Covid-19 wards or floors. Around 6,500 hospital beds are being prepared to meet the possible needs of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-central-railway-to-turn-482-coaches-into-isolation-units/articleshow/74922226.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 1, 2020||Chennai||450 delegates of Tablighi Jamaat from Tamil Nadu admitted in Delhi hospitals||CHENNAI: Fifty people who attended a three-day Tablighi Jamaat conference at a mosque in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday triggering alarm across the country. Tuesday saw the state’s Covid-19 count rise by 57 to 124 cases, the third highest after Maharashtra and Kerala, highlighting the threat of infection originating from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. The Centre and the governments of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are scrambling to prepare a national grid and map the footprints of at least 2,500 Tablighi Jamaat members who headed to their homes after two conferences, the last of which ended on March 23. Though most of them travelled to the southern states, these potential Covid-19 carriers have fanned out across the country, posing a nightmare for healthcare authorities. The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to trace and quarantine those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conferences. State health secretary Beela Rajesh said 300 of the 1,500 delegates from TN who went to the Delhi mosque were untraceable. She appealed to those ‘missing’ to come forward for screening. State chief secretary K Shanmugham said these people had switched off their phones and so the police were trying to trace their addresses. “We are doing all we can. About 400 people have remained in Delhi and the government there has screened and quarantined them,” he said. The Greater Chennai Corporation has sent 30 people, from various parts of the city, who took part in the conference, to hospitals for testing. District authorities all over the state too are identifying and screening those who went to the Delhi meet. At least eight of those who went to Delhi have died of the infection — six from Telangana, and one each from Tamil Nadu and New Delhi. Authorities believe they could have been infected by several missionaries from Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, who transited through the TJ headquarters in west Nizamuddin and spread out across the country, including Tamil Nadu, on a religious mission in February and March. The Telangana and AP governments have mobilized their health workers to track down 1,500 Muslims who participated in a threeday conference held earlier at the same Banglewali Masjid in west Nizamuddin from March 14. Sources in the Union government said these 1,500 delegates from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana took trains and flights back home. Mapping their journey and tracing those with whom they came in contact besides their families is a logistical nightmare. At TJ’s Nizamuddin headquarters, teams of health staff and police set about fumigating the area. “All the 450 Tamil delegates are in hospitals in Delhi,” said the TJ HQ spokesman Thamin Ansari. There were 800 others from UP, Jharkhand, Haryana and Andaman & Nicobar Island. “While some are in hospitals, others have been housed in private apartments and schools,” said Ansari. In Kashmir, 855 people (at least 167 attendees as well as people in contact with them) were being traced; only nine had been found. Nearly 300 people from across Karnataka attended the congregation, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday, creating a “dangerous situation” in the state. Only 26 of the delegates (all from Bidar) have been traced, which leaves the remaining attendees and a vast network of their contacts. A Tumakuru preacher who attended the meet is learned to have had direct contact with at least 82 people, including 45 family members. The 26 delegates who were traced all tested negative, state health minister B Sreeramulu tweeted. In UP, police in 18 districts had tracked down 128 of the 157 people from the state who had attended the congregation. While 120 were found to be quarantined in Delhi, eight were traced to their native villages and cities and have been quarantined at home. A search is on for the remaining 29. The police also traced 95 others who had attended Jamaat event and were not on the list of 157 from UP shared by the Delhi police. A total of 185 people from Maharashtra had attended the congregation, officials said. Maharashtra minority development minister Nawab Malik, however, said he had learned “from the media” that 109 people from his state had attended. “I have asked officials to find out how many actually attended it. We are also talking to members of the Tablighi Jamaat to find out,” he said. The Ahmednagar district administration later said it had found 35 returnees, mostly foreign nationals. At least 20 villages across Bandipora, Pulwama, Shopian and Budgam in J&K have been identified as red zones and the administration has prepared a 50-page list of people from the UT who either attended the event at the Tablighi Jamaat markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West or had been on contact with attendees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/450-delegates-of-tablighi-jamaat-from-tamil-nadu-admitted-in-delhi-hospitals/articleshow/74922220.cms||Jaya Menon
April 1, 2020||Business||Government eases procurement, spending guidelines||NEW DELHI: The government eased rules for procurement and spending to help a clutch of key departments and ministries engaged in the fight against the dreaded Covid-19 virus outbreak. The department of expenditure unveiled fresh guidelines and eased procurement rules, making it clear that procurement may be undertaken from more than one source if the entire quantity required is not available or is not immediately available from one source. It said such procurement may, if unavoidable, be at different rates. Guidelines said procurement may be undertaken through Indian missions overseas and prices shall be fixed by the mission in consultation with the ministry or department. It said rates for logistics shall be fixed by logistics committee that has been set up by the government. The expenditure department said the prevailing health emergency requires immediate procurement of items in quantities that may not be available with a single seller or within the time frame that they are needed. The department also relaxed spending guidelines in case of absence of sufficient budgetary allocation in the relevant budget provisions. It said in case a department or ministry has sufficient funds as per revised expenditure of 2019-20, they shall utilise the savings for expenditure arising out relief operations for Covid-19. This for expenditure on or before March 31, 2020. Post-facto approval can be received from the expenditure department for such expenditure by April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-eases-procurement-spending-guidelines/articleshow/74922233.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu orders deferment of loan dues by 3 months||As Covid-19 cases soared in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a slew of measures, including extending payment deadline of crop loan dues of cooperative societies, housing cooperative societies, TN housing board and handloom cooperative societies till June 30.  In a statement, Palaniswami said the payment of property tax, water charges, loan repayments to Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) and soft loans availed from State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (Sipcot) and payment of maintenance expenses to units operating in such industrial estates has also been deferred for three months. According to the chief minister, a special fund of 200 crore will be operated for funding the urgent needs of micro, small and medium-sized units. The period of renewal of driving licences and obtaining fitness certificates for vehicles has also been extended till June 30, 2020.  Palaniswami, who met governor Banwarilal Purohit Palaniswami along with chief secretary K Shanmugam and DGP J K Tripathy, explained to him the steps taken by the state in implementing the directives and containment plan of the Centre. P4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-orders-deferment-of-loan-dues-by-3-months/articleshow/74922238.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Leopard 'sighting' in Sector 45 sparks panic||CHANDIGARH: A search operation for a leopard allegedly spotted in Sector 45 on Tuesday triggered panic in southern sectors even though the wild cat was not traced till the filing of this report late night. The sighting comes just a day after a leopard had strayed into a house in Sector 5 and rescued after more than five hours. On Tuesday, police control room received a call at 4.45 am from Sector 45 about the presence of the leopard. The police department alerted the forest and wildlife department. UT's chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said they will continue the search operation Deputy conservator of forests Dr Abdul Qayum, said they had received calls from various sectors 45, 44, 31, 39 and 51. The department even found pugmarks of an animal on the dividing road of sectors 34 and 44, which was close to the Sector 45 location from where the first alert was received. They have taken help of forensic experts to confirm whether these pug marks were of leopard or not, he said. Qayum said police teams are also conducting checks through drone cameras. The police are also make public announcements in southern sectors. A cage was set up to trap the animal in Sector 43.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-leopard-sighting-in-sector-45-sparks-panic/articleshow/74922239.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Thane||Kalina pocket sealed, death in Worli; Dombivli ups curbs||MUMBAI/KALYAN: An area in Kalina was sealed off after a man back from Italy infected others and Dombivli (east) saw restrictions imposed on public movement amid a rise in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. In Worli Koliwada, which was sealed two days earlier, a man in his 60s succumbed to Covid-19. In a video address, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi announced the restrictions in Dombivli (east). He announced the total lockdown after 14 positive cases were reported in the Kalyan-Dombivli region, with four of these being people who had gone to a wedding attended by 1,000 people on March 19. Jamblipada area in Kalina was sealed on Tuesday. Several policemen were deployed there to ensure that none of the residents entered or left the area. A 37-year-old from Kalina who had returned home on March 18 from Italy, where he had been working on a tourist ship, had tested positive for coronavirus. Later his doctor and the doctor’s son, also tested positive for Covid-19. “The area has been barricaded from all sides and the BMC licence department staff has been instructed to provide groceries to the residents,” local corporator Tulip Miranda said. “There will be no entry or exit from the area. it has been decided.” Worli Koliwada also reported three new cases, taking the positive count there to 12. A BMC official said one of the three cases was a technician who worked with a doctor in Charni Road and two others were of two nurses who also worked with a doctor who had tested positive for Covid=19. The official said the death in Worli Koliwada occurred on Monday when the man was admitted to Nair hospital. “His swab sample was collected and late on Tuesday we found that he was a Covid-19 positive patient. Accordingly, immediate contact tracing of those who he interacted with has begun,” the official said. The official said that of the 12 cases so far the had managed to trace 95 high- and lowrisk contacts. Locals said that even shops selling essentials like groceries had pulled down their shutters and medical stores in the area did not have all the medicines that were required. Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society said that he had a seven-monthold daughter and on Tuesday had stepped out to get medicines for her. “I managed to get a few medicines at a local medical store but then the store did not have all I required. Cops were not allowing us to step outside as well. The only medical store open had a queue,” he said. In an interaction with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on Twitter, several Worli residents asked him when the essential commodities shops would reopen. Singh said: “With the cordination of the health officers and the BMC we are arranging the essential goods like milk, vegetables and other grocery things for the residents.” The police said that there was no certainity about when they would open the area for the people to go and buy essential commodities. Sources said it will take two or three days to reopen stores. “Anyhow, the lockdown order is still in force and in the wake of this the joint committee of the health department of the BMC is carrying out a survey of possible spread of the virus. It will take a call. We will see that from tomorrow milk service will be available,” an official said. (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalina-pocket-sealed-death-in-worli-dombivli-ups-curbs/articleshow/74922247.cms||Richa Pinto
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Kalina pocket sealed, death in Worli; Dombivli ups curbs||MUMBAI/KALYAN: An area in Kalina was sealed off after a man back from Italy infected others and Dombivli (east) saw restrictions imposed on public movement amid a rise in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. In Worli Koliwada, which was sealed two days earlier, a man in his 60s succumbed to Covid-19. In a video address, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi announced the restrictions in Dombivli (east). He announced the total lockdown after 14 positive cases were reported in the Kalyan-Dombivli region, with four of these being people who had gone to a wedding attended by 1,000 people on March 19. Jamblipada area in Kalina was sealed on Tuesday. Several policemen were deployed there to ensure that none of the residents entered or left the area. A 37-year-old from Kalina who had returned home on March 18 from Italy, where he had been working on a tourist ship, had tested positive for coronavirus. Later his doctor and the doctor’s son, also tested positive for Covid-19. “The area has been barricaded from all sides and the BMC licence department staff has been instructed to provide groceries to the residents,” local corporator Tulip Miranda said. “There will be no entry or exit from the area. it has been decided.” Worli Koliwada also reported three new cases, taking the positive count there to 12. A BMC official said one of the three cases was a technician who worked with a doctor in Charni Road and two others were of two nurses who also worked with a doctor who had tested positive for Covid=19. The official said the death in Worli Koliwada occurred on Monday when the man was admitted to Nair hospital. “His swab sample was collected and late on Tuesday we found that he was a Covid-19 positive patient. Accordingly, immediate contact tracing of those who he interacted with has begun,” the official said. The official said that of the 12 cases so far the had managed to trace 95 high- and lowrisk contacts. Locals said that even shops selling essentials like groceries had pulled down their shutters and medical stores in the area did not have all the medicines that were required. Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society said that he had a seven-monthold daughter and on Tuesday had stepped out to get medicines for her. “I managed to get a few medicines at a local medical store but then the store did not have all I required. Cops were not allowing us to step outside as well. The only medical store open had a queue,” he said. In an interaction with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on Twitter, several Worli residents asked him when the essential commodities shops would reopen. Singh said: “With the cordination of the health officers and the BMC we are arranging the essential goods like milk, vegetables and other grocery things for the residents.” The police said that there was no certainity about when they would open the area for the people to go and buy essential commodities. Sources said it will take two or three days to reopen stores. “Anyhow, the lockdown order is still in force and in the wake of this the joint committee of the health department of the BMC is carrying out a survey of possible spread of the virus. It will take a call. We will see that from tomorrow milk service will be available,” an official said. (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kalina-pocket-sealed-death-in-worli-dombivli-ups-curbs/articleshow/74922245.cms||Richa Pinto
April 1, 2020||Business||World economy will go into recession, says report||NEW DELHI: The world economy will go into recession this year with a predicted loss of global income in trillions of dollars and this will spell serious trouble for developing countries, with the likely exception of China and the possible exception of India, a top UN agency has said. “The economic fallout from the shock is ongoing and increasingly difficult to predict, but there are clear indications that things will get much worse for developing economies before they get better,” UNCTAD secretarygeneral Mukhisa Kituyi said. The report said in two months since the virus began spreading beyond China, developing countries have taken an enormous hit in terms of capital outflows, growing bond spreads, currency depreciations and lost export earnings, including from falling commodity prices and declining tourist revenues. “On most of these measures the impact has cut deeper than in 2008. With domestic economic activity now feeling effects of the crisis, UNCTAD is not optimistic about the kind of rapid rebound witnessed in many developing countries between 2009 and 2010,” the report said. Prices of commodities, on which many developing countries heavily depend for their foreign exchange, have also dropped precipitously since the crisis began. The overall price decline has been 37% this year, according to the report. In recent days, advanced economies and China have put together massive government packages which, according to the Group of 20 leading economies (G20), will extend a $5 trillion lifeline to their economies. This represents an unprecedented response to an unprecedented crisis, which will attenuate extent of the shock physically, economically and psychologically, it said. The full details of these stimulus packages are yet to be unpacked, but an initial assessment by UNCTAD estimates that they will translate to a $1 trillion to $2 trillion injection of demand into the major G20 economies and a two percentage point turnaround in global output. UNCTAD proposed a fourpronged strategy that could begin to translate expressions of international solidarity into concrete action. This should include a $1-trillion liquidity injection, a kind of helicopter money drop for those being left behind through reallocating existing special drawing rights at IMF and adding a new allocation that will need to go considerably beyond the 2009 allocation made in response to the global financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/world-eco-will-go-into-recession-says-report/articleshow/74922249.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Driving licences expired from February 1 valid till June||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Tuesday announced that all driving licences, registration and fitness certificates and other motor vehicle documents that expired from February 1 will now be valid till June 30. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the decision was taken after the Centre's advisory due to countrywide lockdown. Accordingly, all these documents which could not be renewed due to the lockdown will be treated valid till June 30, he said. In an advisory, the ministry of road transport and highways had asked all states and union territories to consider documents like driving licences, permits and registration papers as valid till June 30. A week into the lockdown, the decision was taken to facilitate people facing difficulties in renewing the validity of these motor vehicle documents due to closure of the state-run transport offices. The documents include permits, driving licence, registration or any other document issued under the Motor Vehicle Rules, according to the advisory. The Centre had requested all states to implement the advisory in 'letter and spirit' so that people, transporters and organisations providing essential services do not get harassed. The administration has also ordered to shut the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) office in Sector 17 till further orders. Earlier, the closure orders were till March 31. The RLA authorities have already suspended regular driving test at Children Traffic Park in Sector 23. In 2019, 41,528 vehicleswere registered at the RLA. A senior RLA official said on an average they auction four series of vehicle registration numbers in a year, along with leftover number of previous years. In one series there are 10,000 numbers. So, on an average, around 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles are registered every year in Chandigarh, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-driving-licences-expired-from-february-1-valid-till-june/articleshow/74922253.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 1, 2020||Thane||First Thane patient recovers after 3 weeks in hospital||A 35-year-old man, the first Covid-19 patient from Thane, was discharged after three weeks in Kasturba Hospital on Tuesday. The Kasarvadavli resident tested positive two days after returning from France on March 8, but had taken precautions at home and so his wife, four-month-old son and five-year-old daughter were not infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/first-thane-patient-recovers-after-3-weeks-in-hospital/articleshow/74922275.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: First coronavirus death in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Tricity’s first Covid-19 death was confirmed on Tuesday. The 65-year-old Nayagaon resident, who had no history of travel or contact, tested positive at PGI on Monday and was on ventilator in the isolation ward. PGI director Jagat Ram, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, and UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida all have confirmed and doctors have certified it—Punjab’s fourth coronavirus victim, Tricity’s first suspected case of community transmission, died around 1pm. Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, had referred him to PGI. Before the institute isolated him, he was in the emergency medical OPD of PGI since March 25, with the 80-odd other serious patients. 31 contacts isolatedThirty-one contacts of the man have been placed under home quarantine. The man lived on rent in a colony of Nayagaon with his wife, son, daughter-in-law, and granddaughter. Besides, 18 other contacts, all residents of Mohali, of the eighth Covid-19 patient of Chandigarh have also been put under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-first-coronavirus-death-in-tricity/articleshow/74922287.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 1, 2020||Chennai||30 scientists find a home in deep sea on four Chennai-based ships||CHENNAI: Nearly 100 crew members, including 30 scientists, who have been on scientific missions on board ocean research vessels have decided to stay put till the 21-day lockdown in the country ends. They are on board four ships belonging to the Chennai-based National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) which set sail more than three weeks ago to map the seabed, study samples and deploy tsunami warning systems on the east and west coasts. NIOT director M A Atmanand said scientists on Sagar Nidhi, Sagar Manjusha, Sagar Anveshika and Sagar Tara have been collecting different kinds of data. "Staying there is safer than coming to land. We have instructed all our four ships to return around April 14," he said. One of the ships has two scientists from the US, who would continue with their research as they cannot fly back to their country due to the suspension of flights. Sagar Nidhi was expected arrive in the Goa coast on Tuesday, and the other three ships were to return on Thursday. Sagar Nidhi, carrying 25 scientists, had deployed the tsunami system in the Arabian Sea. D Rajasekhar, head, vessel management cell, NIOT, said. "The other ships are stocked with supplies till mid-April. Even if they are to come to land, the crew members will have to go into quarantine for 15 days. So, it's better to be there," he said. Onboard tools mapping seabedS agar Manjusha and the recently commissioned Sagar Anveshika are carrying out scientific measurements and collecting data in the Bay of Bengal as part of various projects. The onboard instruments have been mapping the seabed besides gathering and testing water samples. Sagar Tara, another new ship, is carrying out bathymetric surveys (mapping underwater features) for setting up desalination plants in the Lakshadweep Islands. “Recently, we supplied three of our ships with rations and water in the outer anchorage of ports in Chennai and Beypore in Kerala,” Rajasekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/30-scientists-find-a-home-in-deep-sea-on-four-chennai-based-ships/articleshow/74922290.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 1, 2020||Mumbai||Spike in numbers bound to happen, want to minimize severity: Maharashtra minister||Public health minister Rajesh Tope was in conversation with Bhavika Jain and Sumitra DebRoy on Tuesday on Maharashtra's preparedness to tackle the coronavirus crisis. Excerpts: As on Tuesday, the state has recorded 235 cases and 10 deaths, and the numbers seem to be growing every day. Has the government drawn up any projections? We are expecting numbers to spike, it is bound to happen. We are working so that severity of cases can be minimised. There are 1,500 ventilators and nearly 7,800 beds in government hospitals kept aside for Covid-19 cases. Besides, the state can take over private hospitals and use their facilities, if such a situation arises. There have been several cases now where patients don't seem to have a travel history or a contact. Are these instances of community transmission? It's true that in some cases, we have not been able to reach the source of infection. But we can't say that community transmission has begun. I am sure these people came in contact with someone with a travel history which detailed contact tracing would have revealed. Do you think we are going the last mile to trace contacts and quarantine them? Kerala has quarantined over a lakh while the state has only 20,000 under observation. There is room for improvement. Now that we have locked down the state, our focus is on contact tracing. We have pooled in people from all health programmes to join hands with ASHA workers. We now plan to include even 4,000 volunteers who work towards malaria prevention. Unlike states like Kerala that has tested over 7,500, Maharashtra has barely tested 6,300 people despite reporting the second highest number of cases in India. Currently 21 laboratories, including 13 government and eight private, are testing 700-800 samples every day. The existing labs have not reached their optimum capacity, which is nearly 2,300 samples. Reason our numbers are less is that we are sticking to the Centre's testing protocol, where only people with travel history, primary contacts and those with symptoms are tested. The state plans to scale up testing, but how will laboratories come up overnight and where will manpower come from? We plan to start testing in all government medical colleges, for which the Indian Council of Medical Research's permission has been sought. As for manpower, we have got on board microbiologists who are being trained by the National Institute of Virology, Pune for 3-4 days. Aurangabad and Dhule, for instance, have already started labs. Nanded, Solapur and Gondia will soon follow. Doctors and nurses in many government hospitals have spoken of shortage of protective gear like PPEs, masks and gloves. Does the state have enough? We have adequate PPEs for those directly treating coronavirus patients. However, complaints of shortage are coming as doctors and nurses from other departments have started demanding PPEs. If that's the situation, we will never have enough. The medical fraternity should be assured that we are procuring more. We are also looking at airlifting them directly from a factory in China. New York has extended the lockdown by a month, even the UK Prime Minister has hinted that it may be extended. Are there talks to extend the lockdown in the country? So far there have been no talks about extending the lockdown. Even if a decision is taken, it will be from Delhi after considering the number of cases in the country on April 14. In case Prime Minister Modi takes a decision to extend the lockdown, we will have to follow his decision and may not be able to deviate from it. What's your message to doctors? It's important that non-Covid patients don't flood hospitals, especially when the flu season is around. If they don't have access to N95 masks, doctors can use three-ply masks which are recommended by the scientific community and continue to treat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spike-in-numbers-bound-to-happen-want-to-minimize-severity-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/74922297.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighis tested, jack up Covid-19 cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/ VIJAYAWADA: Coronavirus positive cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh saw a sharp spike on Tuesday with the two state governments aggressively tracking down all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in mid-March. While Andhra Pradesh reported 21 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 44, Telangana's tally jumped by 15 to 97. This is the highest number of positive cases recorded in a single day in the two states thus far and all of them had either attended the meet in Delhi or were relatives of those who had returned from the meet. According to the Jamaat sources, 746 people from Andhra Pradesh and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes after the sudden lockdown. Besides reaching out to Tablighi members, mosques in both states asked Jamaat members to voluntarily report at government hospitals if they had attended the Delhi meet. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP said, "They can also inform on helpline 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus." Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendar too appealed to the people who had gone to Delhi for prayers to get tested in government-run Gandhi Hospital. Sources said about 300 samples have so far been tested in Telangana and more clarity would emerge on the numbers after further tests on Wednesday. The two governments have also tracked down many of the contacts of those who had returned from Delhi and asked them to go into home quarantine. Disinfection drive taken up near patient’s home, localityIn Andhra Pradesh, the initial hint of the Old Delhi connection to the spread of the disease came when a 52-year-old tobacco businessman from Guntur district tested positive for the virus on March 24, followed by several other cases. Two other patients from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh are close contacts of a Karnataka man, who had returned from Mecca. One of the cases is from Peddapuram in East Godavari district. He also has a travel history to Mecca, before the Saudi government stopped issuance of visas for pilgrims to the country. East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela told TOI that medical authorities sent the 18 family members, relatives and neighbours of the Peddapuram patient to an isolation ward on Tuesday. In addition to this, they also carried out disinfection activities in the vicinity of the patient’s house. “Nearly 100 close contacts of the two patients from Kakinada and Rajahmundry, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after attending the religious meeting in Delhi, were admitted to hospital. We have been tracing other contacts of the patients,” said Dr Suseela. Telangana on Tuesday had highest number of Corona cases in single day with a total of 15 people testing positive. These are the people or their family members who went to Delhi for prayers in Marqaz Nizamuddin mosque With this, total number of cases have gone to 97 in Telangana. Till now 14 people are discharged from the hospitals and six deaths are reported in the state. Four of the victims had gone for the prayer meet in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tablighis-tested-jack-up-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/74922300.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Tablighis tested, jack up Covid-19 cases in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/ VIJAYAWADA: Coronavirus positive cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh saw a sharp spike on Tuesday with the two state governments aggressively tracking down all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in mid-March. While Andhra Pradesh reported 21 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 44, Telangana's tally jumped by 15 to 97. This is the highest number of positive cases recorded in a single day in the two states thus far and all of them had either attended the meet in Delhi or were relatives of those who had returned from the meet. According to the Jamaat sources, 746 people from Andhra Pradesh and 1,030 from Telangana attended the congregation at the century-old Markaz. Most of those who attended the meeting from the two Telugu states have been traced and kept under isolation, while about 300 are yet to be contacted. Some of them are in Delhi and could not reach their homes after the sudden lockdown. Besides reaching out to Tablighi members, mosques in both states asked Jamaat members to voluntarily report at government hospitals if they had attended the Delhi meet. Mohammed Ilyas Rizvi, principal secretary, minorities welfare, AP said, "They can also inform on helpline 104 immediately in their own interest as well in the best interest of society to stop the spread of the virus." Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendar too appealed to the people who had gone to Delhi for prayers to get tested in government-run Gandhi Hospital. Sources said about 300 samples have so far been tested in Telangana and more clarity would emerge on the numbers after further tests on Wednesday. The two governments have also tracked down many of the contacts of those who had returned from Delhi and asked them to go into home quarantine. Disinfection drive taken up near patient’s home, localityIn Andhra Pradesh, the initial hint of the Old Delhi connection to the spread of the disease came when a 52-year-old tobacco businessman from Guntur district tested positive for the virus on March 24, followed by several other cases. Two other patients from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh are close contacts of a Karnataka man, who had returned from Mecca. One of the cases is from Peddapuram in East Godavari district. He also has a travel history to Mecca, before the Saudi government stopped issuance of visas for pilgrims to the country. East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela told TOI that medical authorities sent the 18 family members, relatives and neighbours of the Peddapuram patient to an isolation ward on Tuesday. In addition to this, they also carried out disinfection activities in the vicinity of the patient’s house. “Nearly 100 close contacts of the two patients from Kakinada and Rajahmundry, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after attending the religious meeting in Delhi, were admitted to hospital. We have been tracing other contacts of the patients,” said Dr Suseela. Telangana on Tuesday had highest number of Corona cases in single day with a total of 15 people testing positive. These are the people or their family members who went to Delhi for prayers in Marqaz Nizamuddin mosque With this, total number of cases have gone to 97 in Telangana. Till now 14 people are discharged from the hospitals and six deaths are reported in the state. Four of the victims had gone for the prayer meet in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tablighis-tested-jack-up-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/74922347.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Nizamuddin congregation: FIR registered against maulana, others of Tablighi Jamaat||NEW DELHI: An FIR has been registered against maulana Saad Kandhalvi, head of a faction of Tablighi Jamaat, and other members of the organisation for violating government directions by holding a religious meet. Crime Branch, which is investigating the case, is also analysing an audio clip in which Saad is allegedly heard asking people not to fear novel coronavirus, calling it a conspiracy against Islam. After conducting a health check-up, police reprimanded some of the Jamaat members after they were found spitting while being taken to the buses. It was found that 3,400 people had attended the religious meet between March 11 and 13 and then left for different parts of the country. Eight men from Kyrgyzstan were found staying at a guesthouse in northwest Delhi. They have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Sultanpuri. Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said that a case under Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) has been lodged. Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against the maulavi of Jama Masjid, Wazirabad after 12 foreigners who had attended the programme in Nizamuddin were found staying inside the mosque. Police will soon quarantine them. A case has also been lodged against the owner of the house in Bharat Nagar where the Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying. The Jamaat members on Tuesday defended themselves by citing a letter written by them in response to a notice issued by ACP Lajpat Nagar. They claimed that the evacuation of Alami Markaz had to be stopped midway due to the lockdown and its members were stranded because trains were suddenly stopped. However, officials pointed out that long before the lockdown, Delhi government had called for suspending all gatherings. In fact on March 24, a day after the lockdown was announced, police had taken 1,200 Jamaat members to the airport. Despite being asked to stop the programme, another 1,000 people regrouped at the mosque between March 24 and 29 without anyone’s knowledge. Police said they weren’t given any information about people falling sick inside the mosque. No medical check-up facilities or doctor was available there. When the area SHO visited the mosque on March 23 to serve a notice asking the organisers to vacate the building, he was told that it was a religious event being held behind closed doors after adopting proper quarantine measures. It was only on March 28 when a WHO team and the area SDM reached Alami Markaz that they discovered that people inside the mosque were also symptomatic of infection from the virus. Ashraf, a spokesperson of Tablighi Jamaat, claimed that they never violated any provision of law. It did not let the visitors, who came to Delhi from different states and nations, violate the medical guidelines by thronging ISBTs or roaming on the streets. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Jamaat said: “Markaz Nizamuddin would like to humbly offer the entire premises as a quarantine facility to help the authorities tide over the challenge of the current pandemic.” Delhi Police has written a letter to Delhi Government seeking immediate action against Tablighi Jamaat members, including 157 foreigners, who are currently staying at various places and mosques in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-registered-against-maulana-others/articleshow/74920881.cms||---
April 1, 2020||Lucknow||128 of 157 from Uttar Pradesh who had attended Tablighi meet traced||LUCKNOW: After a 24-hour search for 157 people from the state, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, police in 18 districts managed to track down 128 of them. While 120 were found to be quarantined in Delhi, eight were traced to be at their native places and have been home-quarantined. The search of he remaining 29 is on. The police, however, traced 95 others, who had also attended the Jammat event and were not on the list of 157 from Uttar Pradesh shared by the Delhi Police. 11 Bangladeshi nationals who were staying in a Bhadohi mosque after Tablighi meet have been quarantined DGP: Cops from 18 dists roped in to trace membersThe UP Police had received the list after Jammat headquarters in Delhi's Nizamuddin, which hosted a congregation early this month, was found to be hotspot for the spread of coronavirus. Out of these 95 people, 51 were foun in Mathura and 14 in Meerut. Besides, Jaunpur police found 30 people from other states, who had attended the Jamaat event and were coming back from Delhi, travelling in a bus. DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said that police chiefs of 18 districts had been given the task to trace the people who had visited the Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi. The 157 people who had attended the event were from Ghaziabad, Bahraich, Bhadoi, Bijnor, Baghpat, Barabanki, Prayagraj, Muzaffarnagar, Lucknow, Mathura, Agra, Sitapur, Shamli, Saharanpur, Meerut, Balrampur, Hapur and Varanasi. Senior police officials said that eight of them were found at their respective homes in various districts and have been asked to remain home quarantined after their samples were taken for further pathological tests. Sleuths with the help of surveillance and contact addresses provided by the Delhi police are now on the lookout for the remaining 29 of the 157. Police with the assistance of surveillance and health officials is tracing the 29 others. Maximum 28 persons who attended the markaz were from Muzaffarnagar, followed by 18 from Lucknow. “We have identified all of 18 who went to Nizamuddin even in Delhi, and have been quarantined by authorities in Delhi only,” said Lucknow joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora. Of 11 others -- eight from Mauaima (Prayagraj) and three from neighbouring Pratapgarh district -- who attended the Jamaat congregration in Delhi have also been traced to Delhi. They have been quarantined in a hospital by the authorities, said the SSP Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj. Similarly, in Baghpat of the four who went to attend, three were traced but one was missing. Likewise, in Mathura, of the two who attended one was in Delhi while sample of another one was taken by health authorities, despite no signs of flu or fever. In Sitapur, of the eight who attended, seven were foun quarantined in Delhi, while one was in Sitapur. He was tested and was found negative for any virus. The district administration of Barabanki also confirmed that of all the 14 who visited the markaz while Saharanpur administration found its three natives had been quarantined in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/128-of-157-from-uttar-pradesh-who-had-attended-tablighi-meet-traced/articleshow/74922304.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
