April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Residents now take to watching birds from their balconies||With air quality improving and quiet being the new normal, more birds are coming back to our neighbourhoods, making it an ideal time for us to listen to their chirpy tales. The ‘Lockdown Birding Challenge’, which is seeing many takers across the country, is all about bonding with these feathered creatures. Ashwin Vishwanathan — Scientist at Nature Conservation Foundation and a part of the Bird Count India initiative — says, “The goal is to pique people’s interest in going back to nature and identifying urban wildlife in the vicinity of their homes amid the lockdown. This challenge requires one to observe a bird for at least 15 minutes, twice a day, and share information about its physical characteristics — including details about the bird’s colour, beak and feathers — along with a picture on the website or app. Different time slots are assigned to take up the challenge — 4-6 am, 6-9 am, 4-7 pm and 7-10 pm.” Extra details about the bird feeding on a flower or a fruit can also be included, along with recordings of it chirping. According to Shylajesha S, an avid bird-watcher, birding activities can help soothe our mind amid all the uncertainty due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “This can also make for an engaging family time. I have recorded details of as many as 25 birds from my house so far,” he adds. Bird-watching also makes one a lot more patient, says another enthusiast, Guru Prasad. “And during this confinement, being calm and patient is what we need the most,” he adds. Commonly spotted birds in south India Common Myna  Purple-rumped Sunbird   White-cheeked Barbet  Pale-billed Flowerpecker  Blyth’s Reed Warbler  Ashy Prinia  Black Kite  Large-billed Crow  Rock Pigeon  Red-whiskered Bulbul  Rose-ringed Parakeet  Asian Koel  Common Tailorbird  Spotted Dove Greater Reed Warbler  Green Warbler  Purple Sunbird  Oriental Magpie-Robin  Pied Bushchat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-now-take-to-watching-birds-from-their-balconies/articleshow/74937176.cms||Vinay Lokesh
April 2, 2020||Chennai||Meet Baskaran, the star shoemaker for Chennai's cricketers||At first glance, Baskaran’s street-side shoe-repair shop, right outside the Chepauk Stadium in the city, looks quite ordinary. Take a deeper look and you will see the cobbler sitting amidst decorated newspaper clippings, mending cricketing armour with an unassuming smile. He is the self-anointed official cobbler for cricketers in the city, with his customers including the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, MS Dhoni (who he fondly refers to as MS in the conversation), Dwayne Bravo and David Warner. “I stitch and fix the cricketing gear of basically anybody who plays inside the stadium,” Baskaran notes matter-of-factly. For the past 28 years, the Chepauk stadium has almost been a second home to Baskaran, who is the go-to shoemaker for any cricketer on ground. ODIs and test matches aside, Baskaran is also the cobbler for players featuring in Ranji trophy matches. “Whenever any match happens at the stadium, I am called inside,” he says, adding that during peak hours, he would need to run in between different dressing rooms to mend cricketing gear. Right from helmets and gloves to knee pads and shoes, Baskaran is at the stadium for all of the players’ cricketing needs. While there is no dearth of new kicks, the players always prefer their old gear for its sentimental value, he says. “MS for example wears his lucky yellow shoes and knee pads when he plays for CSK (in the Indian Premier League). Players have a few particular helmets and shoes that they consider lucky. This is where I come in.” It is essential to pack light tools when inside, he recalls, adding, “Whenever they have any emergency in the middle of a match, I repair and mend immediately within 10 minutes and give it to them before they enter the ground.” Baskaran, who joined the trade in 1993, took on the baton from his father-in-law, shortly after the latter’s demise. Soon after, he joined the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association. “Once I moved to open my own streetside shop at Chepauk, a friend, who was the room in-charge of the stadium at the time, suggested my name for the job. I haven’t looked back ever since,” he recalls. His ‘Hello Machi’ moment with MSD In his 28-year-old career, Baskaran has worked with many players. But a few memories do stand out. “Whenever MS is at the stadium, he calls out to me by name or would greet me with a ‘Hello, machi’. Often, he would sit beside me and even tell me how he wants me to mend his shoes. I would do just as he said. Once he was satisfied with my work, I felt happy,” he says. Shoe-making in the times of Corona “Ever since the lockdown due to the virus, there are no local matches happening. While I make do with the gear that I get from my regular customers, my wish is to open a brick-and-mortar store in Chepauk one day,” he says. Why Chepauk? “This is where it all began,” he grins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/meet-baskaran-the-star-shoemaker-for-chennais-cricketers/articleshow/74936858.cms||Sruthi Raman
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||19 foreign-delegates of Tablighi picked up from a city mosque||BENGALURU: Ten Indonesians and nine Kyrgyzstan nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in February-March and were allegedly hiding in a mosque in Goripalya, off Mysuru Road, were picked up on Tuesday evening by officials involved in identifying contacts of Covid-19 patients. These 19 foreigners had visited the Tablighi Jamaat conference held at Nizamuddin, Delhi, which has been described as a cluster of Covid-19 cases. The foreign nationals flew to the city from New Delhi on March 13, said a source familiar with the operation to track the Tablighi followers who attended the conclave and are suspected to have arrived in the city. “We got the information from intelligence and other sources about 19 foreigners holed up in the mosque. We sent our health officers to inspect the place,” the source said. The three-floor mosque had housed the Indonesians on the first floor, the Kyrgyzstan nationals on the second floor and 12 Keralites on the third floor. All the 31 people were residing in the mosque since March 16th and surviving only on bread. Health officials later spoke to the head cleric of the Masjid who later allowed them to enter the place and take all the 31 people to a public quarantine. “We had feared we could land in a law and order situation given that it was a densely populated area. We entered the Masjid through the backdoor and ferried the 31people in two ambulances directly to a hospital in CV Raman Nagar,” added the source. “We were unable to converse with the foreigners because of the language barrier. They also tried to escape as they were worried about their safety. They also declined to eat the food we gave them and started shouting and beating us,” the source said. “We later managed to convince them and gave them bread and biscuits which they ate,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/19-foreign-delegates-of-tablighi-picked-up-from-a-city-mosque/articleshow/74939138.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 2, 2020||India||FCI steps up to ensure no shortage of foodgrains to poor||NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked states to lift one month’s additional foodgrain of 35.5 lakh tones, which will be provided to the nearly 81 crore beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act. This will be provided free of cost over and above the monthly entitlement that these beneficiaries get. The Centre on Wednesday also allowed states to directly purchase a fixed quota of wheat and rice from state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) depots without participating in an e-auction under the open market sale scheme (OMSS) to meet additional requirement of foodgrains amid COVID-19 outbreak. According to an official statement, the FCI has allocated a fixed quota of 79,027 tonnes of wheat for eight states and 93,387 tonne of rice for six states for this purpose. The allocation has been made to meet any requirement over and above the NFSA and additional allocation under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. In normal cases, the FCI sells wheat to empanelled bulk consumers and state governments through e-auctions under OMSS to ease the supply constraints in the market. “In view of outbreak of COVID-19, apart from regular e-auction, district magistrate/ collectors have been authorised to lift directly from the FCI depots at OMSS reserve price to cater to the needs of roller flour mills and other wheat product manufacturers,” the food ministry said. Meanwhile, official data show that rice will have the major share of the additional monthly allocation that has been made by the government. Out of the total 35.5 lakh tonnes, 32.21 lakh tones is rice and the rest is wheat. Food ministry also said that the FCI has been able to meet the increasing demand of foodgrains by using the freight trains. It has moved 352 trains carrying 9.86 lakh tonne of food grains since the lockdown on March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fci-steps-up-to-ensure-no-shortage-of-foodgrains-to-poor/articleshow/74939746.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 2, 2020||India||Centre redefines domicile for J&K, extends it to those living in UT for over 15 years||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR: In a major decision, the Centre on Tuesday notified changes in domicile rules for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir providing that anyone residing in J&K for 15 years or more will be eligible for government jobs, immediately raising the hackles of Kashmir parties like National Conference and PDP which said it added insult to injury and is akin to rubbing salt into wounds. The domicile rights are also extended to all migrants who have been registered by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner in the erstwhile state whose status dramatically changed when its special status under Article 370 was rescinded on August 5 last year. The new domicile rules, notified in the gazette and made applicable from Tuesday, further provides that anyone who has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th or 12th examination in J&K is eligible for domicile certificate of the UT. All such people can obtain a domicile certificate from Tehsildar of their area of residence. "Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts and attention should be focused on the Covid-19 outbreak, the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” former CM and NC leader Omar Abdullah said in a tweet. Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the… https://t.co/B6umRJuBO2— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1585729230000The change in rules, though only for lower-end government jobs, is politically significant as state government employment was previously in accordance with the definition of permanent residents, seen as central to the Article 370 scheme. In conjunction, Article 35A had also operated to ensure that categories such as women who marry outside the state were not eligible for domicile benefits. The current notification does not include land ownership but will be seen as the thin end of the wedge by Kashmir parties with even the newly formed Apni Party voicing opposition. The rules have been changed with regard to appointment in government services by amending the J&K Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act. The notification further provides that central government officials, including those working in public sector undertakings, banks and central universities, who have served for 10 years in J&K and their children will now be eligible for domicile certificates. The announcement was condemned by political parties in Kashmir. While the National Conference (NC) called it “hollow and unacceptable”, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) termed it “frighteningly ambivalent, irresolute and akin to rubbing salt on people’s wounds”. In a statement, PDP general secretary Surinder Choudhary said the change in rules is “ill-timed, very badly drafted and outcome of confused and chaotic bureaucracy”. Both NC and PDP questioned the timing of the notification when the entire UT, like the rest of the country, is under a lockdown battling outbreak of coronavirus. Abdullah also demanded that the government could have instead released PDP chief and former CM Mehbooba Mufti. “You can imagine how hollow the domicile law is.. even the new party created with Delhi’s blessings, whose leaders were lobbying in Delhi for this law, have been forced to criticisze it,” the NC leader said. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari sought that the domicile order be put in abeyance till the Covid-19 pandemic is over. “It is most unfortunate that such an important order has been issued at a time when the whole country is battling for its survival and is under strict lockdown,” Bukhari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-redefines-domicile-for-jk-extends-it-to-those-living-in-ut-for-over-15-years/articleshow/74939900.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||You can’t buy justice with money, SC tells wealthy convict||NEW DELHI: "You cannot buy justice with money," the Supreme Court said on Wednesday and dismissed Vismay Amitbhai Shah's appeal against his conviction and five-year sentence for causing death of two students while rashly driving his BMW car in Ahmedabad in February 2013. In a stark reminder of the rich displaying money power to silence victims' families, as was the modus operandi adopted in the hit-and-run cases involving Sanjeev Nanda and Alister Anthony Pereira, Shah's lawyers attempted to persuade a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah that the families of the two victims were paid Rs 1.50 crore and they had settled their grievance against Shah. This brazen display of money power did not go down well with the judges and they said, "You cannot buy justice with money." It went on to dismiss Shah's special leave petition challenging Gujarat High Court's February 17 decision, which had upheld an Ahmedabad trial court's Jury 13, 2015, judgment. The trial court had held Shah guilty of rash and negligent driving that caused the death of two students who were travelling in an autorickshaw. Both students were sole children of their parents. The HC's Justice Sonia Gokani had rejected Shah's appeal against the trial court order despite Shah's lawyers producing settlement deeds with the parents of the deceased. The HC had asked Shah to surrender within six weeks to serve the remainder of the five-year sentence awarded by the trial court. The students — Rahul Patel and Shivam Dave — had died in the hit-and-run accident caused by Shah's BMW, which he was allegedly driving at 120 kmph around midnight in Ahmedabad. During pendency of the appeal against the trial court verdict, the HC had released Shah on bail. When the appeal was taken up for hearing, Rahul's father filed an affidavit before the HC stating that he did not want to pursue the case against Shah any further as both sides had arrived at a compromise — Rs 1.50 crore paid to each family by Shah as compensation. The state prosecution had strongly objected to such a settlement between parties and said it should not be permitted in serious cases involving death of two young men as there was enough evidence on record, rightly appreciated by the trial court, to nail Shah for the crime. The state had sought enhancement of Shah's sentence, a plea which was not accepted by the HC though it had enhanced the fine amount imposed on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/you-cant-buy-justice-with-money-sc-tells-wealthy-convict/articleshow/74939966.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 2, 2020||India||Govt looks to expand testing in high risk zones following migrant exodus||NEW DELHI: Keeping in view the urgent need to check migrant workers who left cities for their homes in the hinterland for Covid-19, the government is modifying its testing strategy to test all symptomatic cases in high risk zones or 'hotspots' reporting large number of cases. The decision was taken by the empowered group, one of 11 formed to consider various aspects of the Covid-19 crisis, that is looking at disease surveillance, testing and availability of hospitals and isolation beds on Wednesday and a notification is likely to be issued on Thursday. “The details of the modifications in the testing protocol are being worked out and we will probably notify it tomorrow,” an official said. The move comes in the wake of a large number of migrant workers heading out of the cities to various villages and districts across the country with areas where they have returned in high numbers being marked as risk zones. Besides, the recent spread of the infection through the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin has led to concerns about a potential spurt in transmission of the virus to remote areas as well. At present, symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in last 14 days, symptomatic contacts of positive Covid-19 cases and symptomatic healthcare workers are tested for Covid-19. Apart from this, on March 21 the government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) revised its strategy to include all hospitalised patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) for testing. “It is important to review the methodology of screening. We are looking at making modifications in the testing protocol so as to ensure that high risk zones are covered under the screening. However, we will have to do it strategically to ensure the healthcare worker in the frontline is not unnecessarily exposed to the risk factor,” the official told TOI. The government and ICMR has been criticised by a section of experts who are of the view that India is testing too less and lack of diagnosis may pose a challenge for the government to detect community spread in time. However, the Centre and ICMR have so far maintained that unnecessary testing will lead to panic and wastage of resources. Instead, the government has insisted on stringent implementation of lockdown and social distancing measures to break the chain of transmission. ICMR has also said that there are adequate capacity to ramp up testing at any point if required, even as aggressive testing will not lead to any solution. According to the official, even the group has not favoured aggressive testing or mass testing. “It is important to take a graded approach,” the official said. According to Dr R R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable disease at ICMR, India has so far tested 47,951 samples for Covid-19. While there are 126 public labs, it has utilised only 38% of the total capacity. Besides, 51 private labs have also been approved by ICMR till Wednesday. The group has also identified around 200 Covid-dedicated hospitals across the country for treatment of patients. These hospitals include those under public, private and those under defence, railways, Coal India, Steel Authority of India (SAIL) and other private medical colleges. The idea is to have dedicated facilities separated from usual hospitals to avoid risk of cross-infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-looks-to-expand-testing-in-high-risk-zones-following-migrant-exodus/articleshow/74939993.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 2, 2020||India||Trace all Jamaat attendees on war footing: Centre to states||NEW DELHI: Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Wednesday asked states to complete contact tracing of all Tablighi Jamaat members who attended events at the outfit’s Nizamuddin headquarters on a war footing and highlighted the risk it posed to efforts for containment of Covid-19.  In a meeting held via conferencing with chief secretaries and police chiefs of states, Gauba asked state police to initiate action against foreign Tablighi Jamaat preachers for having violated their ‘tourist’ visa conditions by indulging in ‘missionary’ work. They were also advised to take action against organisers of Tablighi conferences/sermons in their respective jurisdictions. Read AlsoCoronavirus in India: 389 linked to Tablighi meet test positive, number risingThe number is likely go up further as test results of nearly 8,000 TJ followers and people who came in contact with them after the gathering at Nizamuddin mosque is still awaited. Also, government data shows, 16 people connected to the TJ meet — three foreigners and 13 Indians — have died inGauba sensitised the chief secretaries and DGPs about intensive contact tracing of Tablighi Jamaat participants, which included 824 foreign preachers who have been on tour across several states and could be carrying the Covid-19 virus. This list of 824 was prepared on March 21 and shared with states after some Covid-positive cases in Karimnagar were traced to Tablighi Jamaat, followed by further advisories on March 28 and 29 asking states/UTs to locate, screen, quarantine and, if need be, hospitalise both foreign and Indian Tablighi Jamaat participants. The home ministry had said on Tuesday that around 2,137 Indian Tablighi Jamaat members had been located and screened so far. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesApart from 824 foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers on preaching duty in various parts of the country, 216 foreign nationals were staying in the Nizamuddin markaz. In addition, over 1,500 Indian Tablighi Jamaat workers were also lodged in the markaz while around 2,100 were touring different parts of the country for missionary work. The cabinet secretary on Wednesday asked states to implement the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana within the next week. This shall involve large cash transfers to beneficiaries and should be organised in a staggered manner to ensure social distance, Gauba directed the chief secretaries. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe meeting noted that the lockdown was being implemented effectively all over the country. States were asked to ensure that intra-state movement of goods was allowed without any hindrance, while maintaining social distance. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsManufacturing of essential goods and maintenance of their supply chains should be ensured, Gauba told the chief secretaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trace-all-jamaat-attendees-on-war-footing-centre-to-states/articleshow/74940010.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||In TN, 190 from Tablighi cluster test positive||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19-positive cases soared to 234, with 190 among them being Muslim pilgrims who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi recently. On Wednesday alone, 110 from the TJ cluster tested positive. The massive exercise to draw out the hundreds of TJ delegates yielded results with 1,103 of them coming forward for screening across the state. On Tuesday, the state government had appealed to the 300 "untraceable" Muslim attendees to come forward. At least 1,500 from TN had participated in the three-day conference at the TJ markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 21 The 190 who tested positive include foreign missionaries who transited through the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, said TN health secretary Beela Rajesh. "Many people came to the health facility as soon as we made an appeal on Tuesday. So far, 1,103 of 1,131 people have come for testing. They are in hospital isolation wards (across the state) and are being tested," she said. Since Tuesday evening, 588 people had volunteered for testing, the health secretary said. "We have got more than what we thought. We have been trying to reach out to more people through religious leaders, police, revenue and district health authorities," she said. Samples have been drawn from 658 people from the cluster so far, she said. The 110 people are from 15 districts in the state. The state is making special containment zones around the houses of people who tested positive from this group. Containment and buffer zones are being drawn up. These areas have been cordoned off, preventing entry and exit. "If close contacts or those in the containment zone are affected, they should approach the health department," said the officer. The state police had constituted 50 special teams to trace all the Muslim delegates, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. The first case in the cluster tested positive on March 21 when the two Thai nationals were brought to IRT in Perundurai with symptoms of a cough and cold. "We have been screening people at domestic airports and railway stations since then," said Beela, denying any delay. "It is not something that happened in one day. They met at the conference in Delhi and they have been moving around in the state," she said. At least 400 Muslims who attended the conference are still in Delhi. "Many of them were tested there. There are positive cases," she said. Earlier in the day, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami issued an appeal urging the Muslim pilgrims to submit themselves for screening. "There was reluctance, and even apprehension, among the Muslim participants, considering the attacks on us on social media," Hafiz Mohammed Noorulah, imam of the Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar masjid near Perambur, told TOI on his way to the Omandurar multi-specialty hospital in Chennai. He was among the 70-odd Chennai participants in the TJ conference. At least 15 of them remained in Delhi. The delegates who returned were screened over the last few days and many have been admitted to government hospitals across Chennai for testing. In Delhi, authorities set about fumigating the Banglewali masjid in Nizamuddin in Delhi where the conference was held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-tn-190-from-tablighi-cluster-test-positive/articleshow/74940016.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 2, 2020||India||Coronavirus: 7 more die in Mumbai, India cases double to 2k in 4 days||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 count in the country continues to rise sharply, with each day’s fresh cases surpassing the previous day’s high. As many as 388 new infections were reported on Wednesday — up from 315 on Tuesday — as Tamil Nadu registered a three-figure number for the second straight day and Andhra Pradesh more than doubled its count of cases overnight. India’s Covid-19 count stood at 1,996 at 11.45pm on Wednesday, having galloped from close to 1,000 to nearly double that number in four days. Mumbai recorded as many as six covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours on Wednesday although local authorities have confirmed only two. Coronavirus infections also rose sharply in Delhi to a new single-day high of 32 while the spread of the virus appeared to slow a bit in the worst-hit state, Maharashtra, which reported 33 fresh cases, down from 82 on Tuesday. Rajasthan (27), Kerala (24) and MP (20) were the other states to report big single-day numbers. At least nine more people died of the infection in the country in the past 24 hours. The spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi is fuelled mainly by many of the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members and their contacts, who have been put in quarantine in various hospitals, testing positive for the disease. The state has recorded 152 Covid-19 cases till date. Of this, data shows, 53 (35%) cases are linked to the TJ meet. Officials said the number of cases is likely to go up further as 536 TJ members and their contacts who are admitted in hospitals are highly symptomatic. At least six doctors in the state have also been found to be positive for Covid-19. Most of them have travel history or contact history, sources said. Meanwhile, Assam reported a surge of 12 new infections just a day after the first case was detected in the state. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the country has gone up to 57, as per data shared by various states. Of this, the health ministry has confirmed 41 deaths. Maharashtra has now recorded 335 positive cases so far and 16 deaths, the highest in the country. Telangana reported 12 new cases Covid-19 cases and one death on Wednesday, taking the state’s total count to 104 cases and seven deaths. Most of them are linked to the TJ meet in Delhi. Gujarat on Wednesday recorded the sharpest spike in coronavirus positive cases with 13 being reported, eight of which were from Ahmedabad, two each were from Surat and Porbandar and one from Panchmahal, the first for the tribal district. A 25-year-old youth from Basti district in UP turned out to be Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, almost 48 hours after he died at BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur. This is the first coronavirus death in UP and perhaps the youngest person to die because of the infection. The state reported another death on Wednesday. In Madhya Pradesh, 19 more patients have tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore, taking the state’s tally to 63. Indore, which is in total lockdown, accounts for 73% of MP’s tally of 86. In West Bengal, two persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 died on Wednesday. In Bihar, a 35-year-old man from Nalanda and a 40 year old woman from Gaya — both with travel history to the UAE—tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the state to 24. The two had recently returned from Abu Dhabi and Dubai respectively. Seven more fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir on, taking tally of patients to 62 across J&K. "Covid-19 cases have risen to 62 with 58 active cases in J&K. Out of 62 active cases, 50 cases have been reported in Kashmir division, 12 are in Jammu. 17041 people are under active surveillance,” said government spokesman Rohit Kansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-more-die-in-mumbai-india-cases-double-to-2k-in-4-days/articleshow/74940021.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 2, 2020||India||Covid-19 puts immunisation, ante-natal check-ups on hold||Citing the need to take precautions against Covid-19 infection, several states have curtailed outreach services for immunization and maternal health services such as ante-natal check-ups. Public health experts have warned that such a move could lead to an increase in maternal mortality and further lower the already low immunization levels in most states. In Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Kerala and Karnataka, governments have suspended outreach programmes like organizing of vaccination days or door-step services. Ante-natal check-up for pregnant women too has been suspended. Most states are offering vaccination in primary health centres, district hospitals, medical colleges etc. However, most health facilities are too far away and difficult for people to access, especially with the transport lockdown. “If parents could bring their children to hospitals for vaccination, what was the need to provide these services at the village level till now? A large number of children have already missed out on immunisation in the month of March and more will miss them in the coming days. This is unacceptable and we have demanded that state government restore services,” said Chhaya Pachauli of Prayas in Rajasthan. An estimated 26 million children are born in India each year, which is more than 71,000 babies each day. Curtailing immunization services even just for a couple of weeks would mean lakhs of newborns not receiving the required vaccines during this crucial period. Similarly, lakhs of mothers would be deprived of ante-natal care, one of the most important measures to reduce maternal mortality. Even in states where vaccination work has not been formally suspended, the additional Covid work imposed on ASHAs and assistant nurse midwives (ANMs) could effectively throw it out of gear. In Madhya Pradesh, for instance, immunization and maternal services have not been suspended, but ASHAs have been asked to track migrants from outside the state through home visits to check for symptoms of Covid-19. “Where will they have the time for immunization work and taking pregnant women for delivery and ante-natal check-up if they are doing house-to-house surveys?” asked Amulya Nidhi, co-convenor of Swasthya Adhikar Manch. Tamil Nadu is among the states that has suspended outreach service of vaccination. However, apart from asking parents to bring their children for vaccination to the nearest PHC, special vehicles have been organised to ferry mothers and babies on all Wednesdays. “We have the list of children due for vaccination. If they don’t turn up, we will be calling them,” said Dr A Somasundram, joint director state NHM. Similarly, the state’s close tracking of pregnant mothers means health officials know that 1.5 lakh pregnant women are due to deliver in the next two months and the state is ensuring that all maternal services are available for them. But few, if any, states have such systems. According to Unicef, during the outbreak of Ebola in Congo, while 2,000 died of the epidemic outbreak, double that number died of measles as immunization services were affected. There is apprehension in the public health community in India now that Covid might similarly end up leading to greater maternal and infant mortality. (with inputs from Pushpa Narayan in Chennai and Preetu Nair in Kochi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-puts-immunisation-ante-natal-check-ups-on-hold/articleshow/74940038.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 2, 2020||World||Coronavirus: Australia team begins potential vaccine test||The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), Australia’s national science agency has commended the first stage of testing potential vaccines for Covid-19. The testing, expected to take three months, is underway at the organisation’s high- containment biosecurity facility, the Australian Animal Health Laboratory (AAHL) in Geelong. To prepare for disease outbreaks, last year CSIRO partnered with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a global group that aims to derail epidemics by speeding up the development of vaccines. In January, CEPI engaged CSIRO to start working on the virus SARS CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. In consultation with the WHO, CEPI has identified vaccine candidates from The University of Oxford (UK) and Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc. (US) to undergo the first pre-clinical trials at CSIRO, with further candidates likely to follow, the CSIRO told TOI. The TOI was the first to report that a team at CSIRO — led by Prof SS Vasan an Overseas Citizen of Indian (OCI) — was the first to grow a batch of the virus outside China in sufficient stocks for pre-clinical studies. Professor Vasan, team leader, CSIRO Dangerous Pathogens Team and the principal investigator of the CEPI projects, told TOI: “We have designed a staggered challenge study to get timely information on vaccine efficacy, initially with just the prime dose, followed closely by prime and boost. With the Oxford candidate, we are exploring if intranasal administration induces tissue resident immunity to help clear the infection more readily or rapidly.” And, the latest milestone builds on CSIRO’s growing work to tackle the pandemic, which has included scaling up other potential vaccine candidates at its biologics production facility in Melbourne. CSIRO chief executive Dr Larry Marshall, said: “Beginning vaccine candidate testing at CSIRO is a critical milestone in the fight against Covid-19, made possible by collaboration both within Australia and across the globe. CSIRO researchers are working around-the-clock to combat this disease which is affecting so many — whether it’s at the Australian Animal Health Laboratory (AAHL) or at our state-of-the-art biologics manufacturing facility— and we will keep working until this viral enemy is defeated." CSIRO is testing the vaccine candidates for efficacy, but also evaluating the best way to give the vaccine for better protection, including an intramuscular injection and innovative approaches like a nasal spray. Professor Trevor Drew OBE, director of AAHL and leading the organisation’s vaccine work said: “We have been studying SARS CoV-2 since January and getting ready to test the first vaccine candidates as soon as they are available.” He said that the team is carefully balancing operating at speed with the critical need for safety in response to this global public health emergency, adding that theirs is the only high biocontainment facility in the southern hemisphere working with highly dangerous and exotic pathogens. Elaborating on the work that’s happened so far, Marshall said: “CSIRO was the first research organisation outside of China to generate sufficient stock of the virus —using the virus strain isolated by the Doherty Institute — to enable pre-clinical studies and research on Covid-19. In February, we successfully established a biological model, the first in the world to confirm ferrets react to SARS-CoV-2. Researchers have quickly progressed to studying the course of infection in the animals – a crucial step in understanding if a vaccine will work.” He added that CSIRO researchers confirmed, after studying SARS CoV-2’s genomic sequence, that the virus is presently changing into a number of distinct ‘clusters’ and are now starting to look at how this may also impact on the development of a vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/australia-team-begins-potential-vaccine-test/articleshow/74940087.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 2, 2020||India||Military ready with 9,000 beds, 8,500 docs & staff||NEW DELHI: The armed forces have kept over 9,000 hospital beds ready to treat Covid-19 patients, along with more than 8,500 doctors and support staff to extend necessary assistance to civilian administrations, even as military aircraft have transported around 25 tonne of medical supplies around the country in the last three days. Having already supplied around 1.5 lakh litres of sanitisers to different organisations, the DRDO is also making five-layered nano technology N99 face masks and PPE (personal protective equipment) on a war-footing now. Taking stock of the efforts being made by the Army, Navy and IAF as well as DRDO, defence PSUs and Ordnance Factory Board in terms of evacuation, medical care, quarantine facilities and production of medical equipment, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday asked them to “redouble their work” and closely coordinate with other ministries in the national endeavour to fight the coronavirus outbreak. DRDO chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy said his organisation had already made 10,000 N99 masks and their daily production would be ramped up to 20,000 soon. “DRDO has also supplied 40,000 other face masks to the Delhi Police. A DRDO lab has also made arrangements to make 20,000 PPE per day. We also engaged in minor modification of ventilators so that one machine can support four patients at the same time,” he said. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, in turn, told the minister that 28 military hospitals, with over 9,000 beds, have been earmarked to exclusively deal with military and civilian Covid-19 patients. Over 1,000 evacuees from countries like Italy, Iran and Malaysia are quarantined at military facilities in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Chennai, Manesar, Hindon and Mumbai. Their quarantine period will end by April 7, he said. Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said warships were on standby to extend assistance to civil administrations. The IAF, on its part, has airlifted nearly 25 tonnes of essential medical supplies from Delhi, Surat and Chandigarh to Manipur, Nagaland, J&K and Ladakh. “Regular airlift of Covid-19 test samples from Ladakh to Delhi is also being carried out. IAF is adequately geared up to meet all the emerging demands, with aircraft like C-17s, C-130Js, AN-32s, Avros and Dorniers being tasked as and when required basis,” said Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. Army chief General M M Naravane, in turn, informed Singh that over 8,500 doctors and support staff are ready to extend necessary assistance to civilian administrations. In keeping with the defence minister’s direction that help should be provided to neighbouring countries, assistance to Nepal in the form of medical equipment will be delivered shortly, he added. Director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services Lt-General Anup Banerji said necessary equipment has been procured and dispatched to various hospitals. While retired health professionals have also been kept in readiness to volunteer their services, around 25,000 NCC cadets are being mobilised to provide necessary local assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/military-ready-with-9000-beds-8500-docs-staff/articleshow/74940104.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||All med devices now classified as ‘drugs’: Govt||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns related to rise in prices of essential commodities and pharmaceutical products in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Centre on Wednesday notified all medical devices sold in the country as ‘drugs’ from April 1, bringing them under the purview of price control and prohibiting companies from increasing prices of these products by more than 10% annually. “Medical device intended for use in human beings or animals have been notified as drugs with effect from April 1, 2020, all medical devices shall accordingly be governed under the provisions of Drug Price Control Order, 2013,” an order by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), issued on Tuesday, said. Following this order, all medical devices used to treat a patient — be it syringes, needles, cardiac stents, knee implant, digital thermometers, CT scan, MRIs, dialysis machines — will be under government regulation. As per the notification, four medical devices — cardiac stents, drug eluting stents, condoms and intra uterine devices (Cu-T) — are scheduled medical devices for which ceiling prices have been fixed. The objective of the order is to ensure that no manufacturer or importer increases the price of a drug by more than 10% of the MRP during the preceding 12 months. NPPA said the price control order was “a major tool in the fight with the emerging situation due to Covid-19”. NPPA has also asked states to ensure availability of essential medical commodities, including personal protection equipment, masks, sanitisers, gloves, testing kits etc. In a letter to chief secretaries, the NPPA head asked states to assess stock situation of essential commodities for the next two months and also inform the Centre about production and availability details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-med-devices-now-classified-as-drugs-govt/articleshow/74940123.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 2, 2020||Business||Cooking gas price cut by Rs 61.5 per cylinder||NEW DELHI: Natural gas prices fell 26% on Wednesday to their lowest level since a globally-benchmarked pricing formula was implemented in November 2014, a development that will lead to cheaper CNG and PNG services for consumers and lower fuel cost for the industry at a time when the economy has been hit by the lockdown. Simultaneously, state-run fuel retailers also reduced the price of non-subsidised 14.2-kg LPG refills, which households buy after exhausting the quota of 12 subsidised cylinders a year, by Rs 61.50 to Rs 744 in Delhi, in tune with the fall in global rates. The cost of a 19-kg LPG cylinders, used by commercial establishments, came down to Rs 1,285 from Rs 1,381.50. The price of natural gas produced from domestic fields has been pegged at $2.39 per unit (million British thermal unit) for the six-month period beginning April 1. The price of gas produced from difficult fields such as deepsea, too, has been cut to $5.61 per unit from $8.43. This is the second reduction in six months in natural gas prices and will hit producers such as ONGC and Reliance-BP by rendering projects, especially their $5-billion ventures each in the Krishna-Godvari basin off the Andhra coast, unremunarative. Sources said ONGC, which pumped up gas volumes to record levels in 2019-20, is estimated to lose Rs 3,000 crore in revenue. Besides CNG and PNG, natural gas is used as feedstock for fertilisers and fuel by industry. Cheaper supplies reduce the government’s fertiliser subsidy and lowers cost burdens for the industry. Lower prices also put gas-based power plants, which account for about 8% of the total generating capacity in the country but are mostly idling, back into play and save them from becoming bad assets. The formula implemented by the Narendra Modi government’s first term uses prevailing prices in gas-surplus countries to fix domestic rates, even though India is the world’s fourth-largest importer of gas. Under the formula, prices are revised every six months on April 1 and October 1. The formula was adopted in 2014 soon after the $4.2 a unit price fixed for Reliance’s KG-D6 gas for five years expired. The rates at the first revision were $5.05 when in the subsequent six-monthly reviews kept falling till they touched $2.48 for April-September period in 2017. Subsequently, they rose to $3.69 in the April-September period of 2019 before being cut in October 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/natgas-lpg-price-cuts-amid-lockdown-bode-well-for-economy-but-will-hurt-producers/articleshow/74940126.cms||Sanjay Dutta
April 2, 2020||Business||Just a week’s stock of adult diapers, pads left||MUMBAI: Shortage of workers and truck drivers along with other supply chain bottlenecks have resulted in non-availability of feminine hygiene products and adult diapers, even after these were classified as essential products in a circular dated March 29. With no improvement in supply chains, consumers — in particular senior citizens — are facing the brunt of the shortage. If conditions do not improve, products like sanitary napkins could vanish from store shelves in a week or so with companies holding thin inventories, despite the Centre adding these to the essential products’ list only a few days ago. Tapan Mishra, co-founder of Seniority, a platform that sells goods for senior consumers, said there’s a big disconnect between the Centre, the states and local level authorities as to whether an item is essential or not. “We own warehouses, but are dependent on third-parties to deliver products tailored for our senior citizen customers. Earlier, we had discontinued taking orders of non-essential products. But because of the inordinate delays by third-party delivery firms to start their services, we have now stopped taking orders for essential products as well from Monday. We are now working on technological modules to see how we can deliver within city limits,” said Mishra. In addition to adult diapers, which the Centre has classified as essential products, Mishra said a lot of products that are sold on Seniority are vital for a senior citizen — be it their health supplements, silicone gloves for washing utensils in the absence of a maid, and personal products for bed-ridden patients, among others. Kamal Johari, managing director of Nobel Hygiene, which makes Friends adult diapers, said all activities have come to a standstill, thus upsetting monthly and annual targets. “Whatever was dispatched pre-lockdown, more than 40% is stuck in the pipeline and is yet to reach the distributor warehouses.” Another factor that has impacted the company is lack of manpower. Johari said the company’s factory is operating with merely 20% workers. “They are not coming due to lack of confidence and security,” he said. With regard to feminine hygiene products, industry sources said with companies currently holding inventory levels of around a week, if the supply chain situation does not improve quickly, consumers would have to face severe constraints. Rajesh Shah, president of Feminine and Infant Hygiene Association of India (FIHA), said the inventory (of finished goods) which is normally for a month is now getting over. After the central government’s notification on March 29 declaring them as essential goods, it is now up to the state governments to see that the order is implemented, and speedy clearances are given for approvals and logistics. “It will still take up to a fortnight for the factories to restart and normalise production, and the finished products to reach warehouses, stockists and retail stores,” said Shah. In India, 15-20% of feminine hygiene products are usually imported, mainly from China. So, imports too have stopped two months ago following the coronavirus outbreak. For adult diapers, the imports are 5-10%. Johari of Nobel Hygiene, however, said he is hopeful that in the next few days, stocks will start flowing out from local distributors to retail shelves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/just-a-weeks-stock-of-adult-diapers-pads-left/articleshow/74939693.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 2, 2020||Business||Missing 2 instalments may add 10 mths to loan||By Babar Zaidi Hit by the lockdown and faced with uncertainty, many people are looking to avail of the repayment relief that banks are offering. Although banks are yet to announce the details of the relief package and how it will work out, we do know that this is only a grace period and they are likely to charge interest for the unpaid amount. Missing two instalments could extend your loan by 6-10 months, or increase the EMI amount by 1.5%. The borrower may be given three options by the lender: Option I: One-time payment in June of the interest that accrues in April and May Option II: Add the interest to the outstanding loan and increase EMI for remaining months Option III: Keep the EMI unchanged but extend the loan tenure. The number of additional EMIs will depend on the age of the loan Let us assume a borrower took a home loan of Rs 50 lakh at 9% for 20 years. The EMI comes to Rs 44,986. If he wants to skip the next two EMIs (April and May), the table given here (see graphic) shows how the moratorium will impact his repayment schedule. Clearly, the longer the remaining tenure, the bigger is the impact. This is because the interest accounts for a larger portion of the EMI in the early years and progressively comes down. Even after the first year, the interest accounts for almost 80% of the EMI. But in the 19th year, the interest portion is less than 10% in the EMI. So, people with older loans taken 10-15 years ago will not feel the burden as much as someone with a new loan taken 2-3 years ago. Ironically, people with older loans may not really need the moratorium as much as those with younger loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/missing-2-instalments-may-add-10-mths-to-loan/articleshow/74921519.cms||Babar Zaidi
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Mukhyamantri daal-bhaat centres serve free food||Ranchi: The state government on Tuesday began free distribution of food from the mukhyamantri daal bhaat centres across Jharkhand by waiving off the prescribed charge of Rs 5 for a plateful of meal per time to prevent hunger deaths in times of the nationwide lockdown. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday also launched the CM community kitchen — set up jointly by the Ranchi district administration and Roundtable India, an NGO, at the state capital’s Tribal Research Centre in Mohrabadi. Soren said, “The state government is trying ensure no one stays hungry during the uncertain times. Through various initiatives, we are trying to extend meal services to all daily wagers, homeless and others. Those from other states living in any part of the state too shouldn’t worry as the government is there to take care of everybody.” After the state recorded its first Covid-19 case, Soren appealed people to not panic and refrain from rumour-mongering and follow all advisories by the government to prevent any further spread. “Don’t panic or fear. Get tests done in case of any suspicion and also cooperate with the administrations so that together we all can ensure everyone’s safety,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mukhyamantri-daal-bhaat-centres-serve-free-food/articleshow/74930168.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||30 Siwan villages sealed as 4 test positive for corona||PATNA: The Siwan district administration has sealed nearly 30 villages under three blocks in the district after four residents of the area tested positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday night. The infected persons had returned from Middle East countries recently. The borders of the villages the victims belonged to were also sealed and any movement of the residents in the 3km radius was banned. While two victims were stated to be residents of Barharia, one each hailed from Darauli and Hasanpura blocks. Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey said the protocol for the Covid-19 victims was being strictly followed. Barricades have been erected on all entry points of the villages concerned. Police personnel have also been deployed there. The health department officials have been asked to examine the inhabitants on a regular basis and send reports to the headquarters. “The residents have been told not to venture out from their houses. The essential commodities, including medicines, will be provided to them through the PDS dealers and by the agents of the firms engaged for the distribution works,” he told this newspaper over phone on Wednesday. The test reports of the four victims — Raja Kumar, Sah Manoj, Bhola Sharma and Md Meeraj Hussan — came from IGIMS, Patna on Tuesday night following which the family members were put under quarantine at the Sadar hospital. The four had come to Siwan from Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Sharjah and Bahrain respectively on March 22. While Raja and Manoj had landed at Mumbai airport and Bhola and Meeraj at Delhi airport. They later reached their respective villages under Barharia, Jamobazar, Pachrukhi and Darauli police stations. Siwan SP said besides police personnel, village chaukidars have been deployed in the villages under containment zone to keep a vigil on the inhabitants or the visitors. “Those found to be flouting the order will be booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of IPC,” the SP said, adding that patrolling in those villages had been intensified to ensure that those under home quarantine didn’t venture out of their houses. The people in containment zone were made aware of the restrictions through public address system. Siwan ADM Raman Kumar Sinha said mukhiyas and panchayat functionaries besides ASHA workers and Jeevika didis have also been roped in for surveillance. Earlier, a resident of Nautan block in the district was tested positive for coronavirus. At least 25,000 population under Darauli Mathia, Akabarpur, Dumarhar Bujurg, Marauli, Chakri, Belao Kumti Mitauli panchayats were under surveillance. The state health society had earlier issued a circular in this connection. Similarly, borders of eight villages under Thave block in neighbouring Gopalganj district have been sealed after a 35-year-old youth was tested positive for coronavirus a few days ago. Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said 19 members of the infected youth were sent to the quarantine centre and their samples had been sent to Patna for further examination. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said Rapid Action Force were deployed on the borders of Bedu Tola, the native village of the victim. “All shops, business establishments and public places have been sealed. Medical teams have been deployed at the villages to conduct regular health check-up,” he added. The restrictions imposed by the district administration has, however, not gone down well on the inhabitants. “First we were subjected to ‘janata curfew’ and then total lockdown. Now we have to follow guidelines for home quarantine. We don’t know how long the people’s ordeal will continue,” said Sanjay Pandey of Thave. Reports of people tested positive and subsequent sealing of the affected villages have also poured in from Begusarai, Lakhisarai, Munger and Nalanda districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30-siwan-villages-sealed-as-4-test-positive-for-corona/articleshow/74937021.cms||Ramashankar
April 2, 2020||Patna||‘State export will take 6 mths to get back on rails’||PATNA: Even as it is only the sixth day of the nationwide lockdown imposed due to coronavirus outbreak, the industry circles have started fearing that its continuance would give a hard knock to the export of non-petroleum merchandize from Bihar to other countries and even their transportation to other states for sales and accompanying returns. Incidentally, a report by Export Import (EXIM) Bank in November last year noted the high potential for Bihar export sector, pointing out that its output in 2017-18 was US$1.35 billion, with the potential to increase up to US$2 billion on short-term basis. In fact, the industry circles fear that it would take six months to a year to overcome the negative impact of lockdown on the state economy, because the supply chain and labour employment and market have been disrupted. They also wanted the Centre to spell out the recovery route for both the export and industry sectors. “We are hoping that PM Modi will soon make a big announcement with regard to the export and industry sectors. The delay will shake the confidence and worsen the situation further,” former Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president K P S Keshri said and added: “The export and industry circles want long-term visionary approach.” Keshri further said: “God forbid it — if the lockdown continues for a longer more, it would push our economy back by five to six years. The export will be badly hit, when its revival will be the basis for the recovery of the country’s economy.” He said Bihar has been neither a manufacturing state nor even a big player in the exporting sector. “Yet, whatever export there is, the impact is hard,” Keshri said. The export of petroleum products from the Barauni refinery to Nepal would not be impacted, as it has been listed among essential commodities. Export of petroleum from Barauni accounts for 78% of the total exports from the state. However, the lockdown will hit hard the export of non-petroleum (or non-oil) items, such as high quality maize produced in eastern Bihar districts (Khagaria, Bhagalpur and Katihar and exported to Bangladesh, Thailand and Vietnam), ‘makhana’ and fruits (’shahi litchi’), besides Mithila and Manjusha paintings and handicrafts used for decorative purposes. These items, along with banana, mango, Bhagalpuri tussar silk and handicraft items, are also transported to the metropolitan centres for sales. Recently, even PM Modi had mentioned the mulberry silk produced by a Jeevika group in Purnia district and sold in Dilli Haat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-export-will-take-6-mths-to-get-back-on-rails/articleshow/74937466.cms||Abhay Singh
April 2, 2020||Patna||Lockdown cuts city waste by half||PATNA: Amid the lockdown, Patna is not only witnessing an improvement in air quality but also cleaner roads free from litters. Even the waste generation here has decreased by around 53%. Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that garbage generation in the city has dropped by 700 metric tonnes per day. The plunge in trash generation has been attributed to the closure of food joints (restaurants, hotels and roadside eateries) and commercial establishments like shopping malls, supermarkets, industries and factories, educational institutes etc. Patna Mayor Sita Sahu said on Wednesday, “On an average, the city generates around 1,300 metric tonnes of garbage. However it has now come down to 600 tonnes following the lockdown. The shutdown of food joints has reduced wet garbage, while dry garbage generation has also gone down as offices, factories and industries among other commercial establishments are closed.” She also added that due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the number of sanitation workers has educed by 20% as some used to travel miles to come for the work. Empowered standing committee member and ward councillor of ward number 48, Indradeep Chandravanshi, said, “At present, there are 3,800 daily wagers, 2,000 outsourced workers and 1,300 permanent group D employees of the municipal body. They are engaged in door-to-door garbage collection, manual and machinery road sweeping, sanitisation drive and cleaning of drains.” “The garbage collected from Patna City, Kankerbagh and Azimabad circles are directly disposed of at a landfill site at Ramchak Bariya, whereas waste collected from other three circles— Bankipore, New Capital and Patliputra —are first dumped at Bakri Bazaar near Patna Junction. On alternate days, it is disposed of at landfill site,” said Patna Nagar Nigam Staff Union president Chandra Prakash. Kankerbagh circle executive officer SK Mishra also said that since all commercial set ups and other establishments are closed, garbage generation has sharply reduced. “Even if sanitation workers do not sweep the road for two consecutive days, the city still remains clean. There is no litter and bins placed on roadside are not full. In fact, many of the bins remain empty in residential areas as people prefer to stay indoors and come out only to purchase essential commodities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-cuts-city-waste-by-half/articleshow/74937362.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 2, 2020||Varanasi||Bhadohi police lodge case against 14 Bangladeshis found staying in mosque||Varanasi: Bhadohi police has registered a case against the 11 Bangladesh nationals they had found living in the guest house of a mosque under appropriate sections of Foreigners Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. SP Bhadohi R B Singh told TOI on Wednesday, “All the 11 Bangladesh nationals, who were caught staying in a mosque’s guest house and sent for screening on Tuesday, had violated the norms and had not informed police about their stay anywhere in the district and hence legal action was taken against them. They were also booked under sections of Epidemic Disease Act.” On Tuesday, Bhadohi police had found 11 Bangaldeshi nationals staying in a mosque after taking part in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. They were quarantined at Maharaja Balwant Singh Hospital as a precautionary measure, although none of them were found having Covid-19 symptoms at present, said Singh. During investigations it was found that the men had left Dhaka on February 24 on a tourist visa and reached Delhi on February 27. They attended Tablighi Jamaat and left Delhi by Varanasi-Manduadih Express on the same day. After reaching Bhadohi, they stayed at a mosque in the town, said Singh. On Tuesday, Jaunpur police had arrested 14 Bangladeshis and two Indians from a house in Saraikhwaja area where they were staying after they had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Police had lodged an FIR against them. Saraikhwaja inspector Satya Prakash Singh said, the arrested persons were identified as Haji Hafijurrehman Ima, Rafikul Islam, Mainuddin Naeem, Ismail, Nuruddin Sahil, Aminul Islam, Mahboob Rehman, Arimul Islam, Roshan Ahmad, Alameen, AK Faizul Haq, Aquib Hassan Mahboob, Firdaus and Saiful Islam of Bangladesh. Apart from them Yasin Ansari of Jharkhand and Mohd Abul Motalib of West Bengal, who were accompanying them were also arrested. They all were booked under appropriate sections of Epidemic Disease Act, Passport Act and Foreigners Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhadohi-police-lodge-case-against-14-bangladeshis-found-staying-in-mosque/articleshow/74937718.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||Citizens offer properties for quarantine facilities||Vadodara: At a time when the district administration is making efforts to create as many quarantine facilities in the city as possible to tackle greater number of Coronavirus patients, a few individuals and a group have voluntarily offered their vacant properties to the government to convert these into quarantine facilities.Vishal Shah, a businessman, has offered three of his 3BHK apartments in Akota to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation to be used as quarantine facilities if needed. Shah, who is in the construction and IT services business, said, “I had read somewhere that the civic body is looking for places to increase its capacity of quarantine facility. These three apartments were vacant right now and so I decided to let these out without taking any charges.” “I am sure if the VMC will use my apartment they will hand it back after proper sanitization and fumigation and therefore, I am not worried about that aspect at all,” Shah added.Shah has been approached by a few doctors who are facing ostracization in their own societies. “The neighbours of these doctors feel that they carry the virus since they are treating patients. One of them has decided to move in on Thursday,” Shah told TOI.Harish Arora, an engineer working with Electrical Research and Development Association (ERDA), too has offered his 2BHK in Manjalpur for converting it into a quarantine facility. “If hospitals will get full with patients then the administration can use my apartment since it is lying vacant and I do not let it out on rent,” he said.Atmanand Jain Samaj (AJS) is also offering its ‘dharamshala’ at Ghadiyali Pol for the similar purpose. “When our country is going through difficult times we should offer every resources that we have at our disposal. Our ‘dharamshala’ has 12 rooms and two halls. Therefore, the government can decide how they would like to utilize it,” said Jayesh Chudgar, secretary of the AJS’s Vadodara unit.The district administration has so far zeroed in on Samras Hostel in Sama and hostels of resident and intern doctors of GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri for converting them into quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/citizens-offer-properties-for-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/74938021.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 helpline service launched for Roorkee residents||ROORKEE: City administration launched an online helpline service for public on Wednesday. The service will help people on several issues relating to coronavirus outbreak. The online helpline service “COVID-19 Helpline” can be reached at crcroorkee.in , officials said. “Through this service, any city resident can ask for help during this lockdown,” Namami Bansal, joint magistrate, Roorkee, told TOI. Besides safety guidelines and details of the shops that provide home delivery, one can also find emergency contacts on this helpline, added the official. Meanwhile, a WhatsApp group has also been created for providing day-to-day information on lockdown to mediapersons. “It is an effort to provide information to the media for dissemination to public as a lot of developments, arrangements and directions from our side are being put in place on a daily basis during this ongoing lockdown,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-helpline-service-launched-for-roorkee-residents/articleshow/74938986.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 2, 2020||Business||Sensex down 1,203 points on global cues, weak auto sales||Mumbai: A renewed global selloff due to coronavirus, US futures indicating a sharply lower open on Wall Street on Wednesday and disappointing March auto sales numbers in India combined to pull the sensex down by 1,203 points, or 4.1%, to 28,265. A trading holiday on Thursday on account of Ram Navami prompted marketmen to liquidate their speculative positions and this added to the negative sentiment. On the NSE, the Nifty too lost 4% or 344 points to close at 8,253 points — below the crucial support level of 8,350. The rupee also lost 71 paise to close at 76.34 on Wednesday. Of the 30 sensex stocks, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Kotak Bank and TCS contributed more than half of the index’s slide, while buying in Hero Moto and Bajaj Auto cushioned the fall to some extent. The day’s slide also left investors poorer by Rs 3.3 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at about Rs 109 lakh crore. Foreign funds continued to sell on the Indian bourses with a net outflow of Rs 1,117 crore. To market players’ surprise, even domestic funds have now pressed the sell button in a big way and recorded a net selling figure of Rs 450 crore, BSE data showed. According to Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra, the market witnessed a sharp decline on Wednesday as participants took note of a sudden surge in the coronavirus numbers in India and weak auto sales numbers. “Additionally, feeble global cues combined with continuous outflow of foreign funds also weighed on sentiments” he wrote in a note. “Investor’s confidence is continuously being impacted due to mounting fear of global recession, rising cases of Covid-19 infection and weak macros, leading to selling in the global markets, including in India. Further, in the near term, there are no fresh positive triggers that can boost investor sentiment.” Among passenger and commercial vehicle makers, Maruti closed 1% lower, while Tata Motors lost 4.4%, M&M 4.3% and Ashok Leyland was down 4.5%. Almost all the automakers showed a drop of more than 40% in March sales volumes. On Wednesday, around the world, Nikkei in Japan closed 4.5% lower, while the Hang Seng in Hong Kong lost 2.2% and in the UK, the FTSE ended 3.8% lower. In the US, in early trades, the Dow Jones was already down more than 4.1%, while the S&P500 was down 4.3%. Brokers warned that when Indian markets will open on Friday, it will have to account for two trading sessions in the US market since Thursday is a trading holiday. For Nifty, the next support is at around 7,500, a report by Prabhudas Lilladher pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-down-1203-points-on-global-cues-weak-auto-sales/articleshow/74939551.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||RBL deposits hit 8% due to state government withdrawals||MUMBAI: Ratnakar Bank (RBL) said that it lost nearly 8% of its deposit base following a decision by some state government undertakings decision to withdraw. This is the second lender to attribute withdrawals to a state government. Earlier this week, IndusInd Bank had said that its deposit base fell 11% following a state government decision to withdraw funds. Earlier this month, the Maharashtra government said that it had directed all departments and undertakings to close accounts with private banks. The Maharashtra government’s decision came in the wake of the crisis at Yes Bank, which was placed under a moratorium for nearly two weeks before being bailed out by SBI and other lenders. The large-scale deposit withdrawal by the state government has resulted in the share prices of private banks coming under pressure. In a stock exchange filing, RBL said that despite losing 8% of its deposits in the fourth quarter it saw a strong operating profit growth path. On the Covid-19 impact, the bank said that a detailed review of its portfolio is being undertaken to assess the potential impact. “Recent de-bulking exercise has helped significantly reduce concentration risk in the portfolio,” the bank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbl-deposits-hit-8-due-to-state-govt-withdrawals/articleshow/74939719.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Already booked for fraud, jeweller faces forgery case||NAGPUR: Sadar police have registered a case of forgery against a jeweller who forged signatures of a lawyer to show that he had repaid money owed by him. The police action came following an inquiry ordered by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. The accused, Hemant Zawre, had already been booked for fraud following a complaint filed by the lawyer, Manish Deshraj, after the former did not return the latter’s money. According to police, Deshraj had kept 1.45kg gold worth around Rs 38.85 lakh with Zawre under a scheme in 2015 for which he was to get 2% interest every month. When Zawre stopped payment, a case of fraud was lodged in 2018. Another offence of fraud was registered against Zawre under sections of IPC and Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. When the case reached the high court, Zawre made an agreement with Deshraj that he will pay back the money. Zawre paid a few instalments but again stopped the payment, said police. Zawre’s lawyer later produced 10 cheques and payment receipts with signature of Deshraj. But Deshraj claimed that the signatures were forged. Vehicle thief nabbed Tehsil police arrested an alleged thief and recovered a stolen bike worth Rs 15,000 near Guard Line dargah on Tuesday. 46-year-old hangs self Rakesh Shende, 46, hanged himself at his house at Jat Tarodi on Tuesday night. Police are yet to ascertain the reason behind the suicide. Rakesh was found hanging. His family members rushed him to GMCH but to no avail. \||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/already-booked-for-fraud-jeweller-faces-forgery-case/articleshow/74939558.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Help pours in after daily wager’s ‘Cha khabo na?’ plea||KOLKATA: ‘Amra ki cha khabo na? Cha khabo na  amra? (Will we not have tea?)”. Before March 22, 2020, Mridul Kanti Dev had no idea that this simple question would change his life so much. The daily wage labourer from Jadavpur, who was filmed having a cup of tea at a road-side stall during the ‘janata curfew’ on March 22, became the face of lockdown memes in the city after his muted plea to have tea spawned thousands of videos on social media. Initially trolled on social media, Dev has now found support from citizens. Although both the state and central governments have been urging people to stay indoors during the lockdown to prevent spread of the novel coronavirus, Dev’s empathetic neighbours ended up inviting him over to their houses for tea. There they also introduced the fifty-something Dev to the world of social media, where he has become famous. His son Ajit, who had to drop out and start working to support the family, made an impassioned plea to netizens to come forward to help his father instead of trolling him. Till Wednesday evening, several people had donated money to Dev’s bank account. Dev works at construction sites assisting masons and does not own a smartphone and has no social media accounts. “On the day of the ‘janata curfew’, I went to a tea stall in Sree Colony Bazar before going to a construction site to work. While I was having tea, a woman came up to us and demanded to know why we were there when there was a curfew all over the country. I just asked her if we could’t have tea. She filmed the interaction on her mobile phone. That very evening, my son showed me that my pictures were all over social media. Some people had even added music in the background. I got very scared,” said Dev. Ajit said he was very sad, angry and scared at the same time after seeing his father go viral on social media. “It was very painful, but it was not possible for me to do anything,” he said. Some of the neighbours then invited Dev to their houses for cups of tea and made Facebook videos. “He is a very simple and needy person. He may have not done the right thing by going out during the ‘janata curfew’, but some people went overboard making fun of him on social media. I request everyone to come forward and help him instead,” said one of Dev’s neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/help-pours-in-after-daily-wagers-cha-khabo-na-plea/articleshow/74939129.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur cops make use of drones to enforce lockdown||BHAGALPUR: Police are using drones to keep an eye on violators of the 21-day nationwide lockdown aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19 virus. The Bhagalpur police claimed that the flying devices controlled by remote or through software-controlled flight plans are being used to monitor large areas, including places of worship, from where reports of lockdown violations are being reported. According to sources, the police have received information about congregation of people at some places, including at makeshift places for worship, in violation of the lockdown. “We have started taking the services of drones for strictly enforcing lockdown and ensuring social distancing among people, even during times when people come out for buying essential commodities,” Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti told this newspaper on Wednesday. The district administration has stepped up the process of identifying people who have returned from foreign countries in the past few weeks. “Around 50 people have been identified who travelled to foreign countries between March 18 and 23,” said Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Singh on Wednesday. However, sources in the district administration put the figure at 140. The vigil apart, the Bhagalpur SSP claimed that the district police are also providing food packets and food grains to the needy and underprivileged families with the help of social organizations. “Food packets and food grains are being distributed at specific points under the respective jurisdiction of various police stations,” Bharti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-cops-make-use-of-drones-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74937424.cms||Kumar Rajesh
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government rolls back hike in liquor licence fee||JAIPUR: Keeping in view the difficult times the hospitality industry is facing, the excise department has rolled back the hike in bar licence fees for the current year, while extending steep exemptions to closed bars for renewing licences. The lockdown has also affected the retail liquor shops, many of whom could not deposit the fees. The department has rolled back the bar licence fees for hotels and restaurants. “When the policy for 2020-21 was announced, we never expected a situation like the one we are in today. The lockdown has changed everything forcing us to be realistic and make the changes,” said a senior official of the department. However, the fees for retail liquor shops has not been changed which was increased from Rs 22 lakh to Rs 26 lakh. “We had expected the same relief for us. We will appeal to the government to give us the relief as the new licencees will also lose business for an extended period of time because of the lockdown,” said Naresh Pareek, treasurer of Raj Liquor Welfare Society. As on March 31, out of 1,000 Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) retail shops, only 644 have deposited the full fees. Similarly, 2,057 country liquor shops out of total 5,543 have deposited the fees. But the official said, “The figures will improve as the process of online updation takes time. The district excise officers have been told to update all the latest data. Also, due to the lockdown, some people could not deposit the fees.” The government has reverted to the previous method of charging excise duty which, the retailers say, will not raise the prices. In another notification, the department will provide 75% exemption to hotel and restaurant bars who have not renewed their licences or are not in working condition for the last three or more years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coronavirus-impact-govt-rolls-back-hike-in-liquor-licence-fee/articleshow/74939559.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mob attacks circle officer, cops in Madhubani village||MADHUBANI: The circle officer (CO) of Andhrathari block and some constables received minor injuries in a mob attack at Gidarganj under Jhanjharpur subdivision in Madhubani district late on Tuesday evening. Two vehicles were also damaged in the incident. The CO and Andharathari police team were there to find out if anyone from the village had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi in mid-March. An FIR was lodged at Andharathari police station on Wednesday afternoon.  “Stones were pelted when the police team led by the CO went there to check if any of the Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat attendees was staying at the village mosque,” Jhanjharpur DSP Amit Sharan told reporters on Wednesday. Madhubani district magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said the police team visited the mosque to ask people to follow social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 threat. “The police team also wanted to ascertain if anyone from the village had been to Hazarat Nizamuddin to participate in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi,” he said.  “However, the police team was pelted with stones and vehicles were damaged. Later reinforcements reached the village and police resorted to lathicharge to bring the situation under control,” the DM said. Police detained Md Mushtaq, Md Ishmarul, Lal Mohammad and one Naseera Khatun on Tuesday night. Though a named FIR has been lodged, the officer in-charge at Andharathari police station preferred not to share the names of other accused. Hunt is on to nab the other culprits, the SHO said. Sources said 45 persons, including the four already detained, and 200 unnamed persons have been made accused in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mob-attacks-circle-officer-cops-in-madhubani-village/articleshow/74937093.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Merc to set up 1,500-bed hospital in Pune||CHENNAI: Luxury car maker Mercedes-Benz India on Wednesday said that it has tied-up with local authorities in Pune to set up a temporary hospital having medical facilities with isolation wards for the Covid-19 patients in the region. “The facility, to be ready in the next 10 days, is in Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s (MHADA) housing area, which is newly built with 374 rooms,” the company said, adding, “it can be ramped up to a 1,500 bed facility in a matter of days, if required”. Post Covid-19, the company said, the medical equipment will be donated to the Civil Hospital of Khed, and the assets from isolation wards will be donated to the tribal youth hostels. “Mercedes-Benz India will assist the Zilla Parishad with all the necessary infrastructure including the medical equipment required to create a temporary OPD, infrastructure for stay, stretchers, wheel chairs, personal protective equipment kits, sanitizers etc. which are essential in the smooth functioning of the hospital and isolation ward,” the company added. Infosys Foundation, and Narayana Health, have announced the launch of a 100-room quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients, in the vicinity of Narayana Health City in Bengaluru. The facility, aimed at serving patients belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society, will accommodate patients, offer regular monitoring by doctors, nurses, and provide essential medication, free of cost. Ramco group has established isolation centres in Kandukur and Thamaraikulam, 200 kms from Madurai in rural Tamil Nadu and at Haridaspur in Odisha. “Procurement process of medical equipment for various state agencies is underway,” Ramco said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/merc-to-set-up-1500-bed-hospital-in-pune/articleshow/74939290.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Families spend lockdown days in fruitful ways||KOLHAPUR: In view of lockdown across the country, Kolhapur residents have engaged themselves in various activities to make their home stay meaningful and fun. Radhika More, a 13-year-old state swimmer from the Shukrawar Peth area has engrossed herself in rope jumping while her younger sister Sanika has kept herself busy in drawing. Their father Ramesh said, “Radhika cannot go out as swimming pools are closed. Sanika’s evening drawing class has also been cancelled due to lockdown. For Radhika, it is important to maintain fitness while my little one wants to excel in drawings and paintings. The 21-day lockdown should not be an interruption in what they want to achieve.” Many in the city have taken up different tasks to make lockdown days fruitful as well as meaningful. They are abiding by the administration’s laws by staying indoors while ensuring that they take up some or the other indoor activity to keep themselves engaged. Rajendra Parijat, a professor of the Chhatrapati Shahu Institute of Business Education and Research (CSIBER), said, “The classes have been cancelled. Students as well as teachers should not loose momentum of learning and teaching respectively. We are using different online tools to provide teaching material to students, based on which the assignments are designed. We currently have 110 students connected. Of course, the studious or serious students respond. We even record their attendance using these tools. Slowly, students will pick up learning through these modes. They have no option as we are making their response as part of the academic evaluation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/families-spend-lockdown-days-in-fruitful-ways/articleshow/74938988.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mysuru||In Mysuru, district administration removes barricades placed on roads by villages||Mysuru: Days after scores of villagers set up temporary barricades, dug up trenches and blocked roads using trees across the old Mysuru region to restrict the entry of outsiders fearing that it may spread Covid-19 among them, the district administration has removed the blockades and warned public against it. The move comes after several people expressed apprehension over the sealing hindering emergency services in rural areas. Speaking to TOI, Mysuru tahsildar KR Rakshith said the blockades and fences at most places in the region have been removed. “Fences erected on the main roads have been removed to ensure the availability of essential services,” he said. “We have not removed the blockades set up by people on the roads near their homes in remote areas. All others have been cleared,” he added. Deputy commissioner Abhiram S Sankar has also assured that the roads shall remain open for the essential services in every part of the district. Meanwhile, in Shivamogga, district commissioner KB Sivakumar issued an order banning unauthorised road blockades across the district. After the announcement of lockdown by the Prime Minister last week, hundreds of residents sealed their village borders and blocked roads fearing that the entry of outsiders from cities and towns will trigger the spread of Covid-19 among the rural populace. “For all emergency services, including ambulance movement, open roads are very important. As vehicle movement is restricted across the state, outsiders are not likely to enter the villages,” said Shripathi HR, a resident of Kusubur village in Madikeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-mysuru-district-administration-removes-barricades-placed-on-roads-by-villages/articleshow/74937252.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||DGP urges IPS officers to contribute to CM’s fund||PATNA: DGP Gupteshwar Pandey has urged all the IPS officers posted in the state to make monitory contributions to CM’s Relief Fund in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Pandey also issued a letter in this regard on Tuesday, urging IPS officers from the assistant superintendent of police (ASP) to SP ranks to donate at least Rs5,000 each and those from the DIG and above ranks to contribute at least Rs10,000 each. He also said anyone can contribute even more. At present, there are around 110 IPS officers from the ASP to SP ranks and 40 officers from the DIG to DG ranks posted in the state. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said they all would probably make the contributions this week. “We will collect the money and hand over a cheque to the authorities concerned,” he said. Earlier, Bihar Police Association had also pledged to contribute to CM’s Relief Fund. There are around 18,000 police officers from the assistant sub-inspector (ASI) to inspector ranks in Bihar and if they contribute Rs1000 each, it will come around Rs1.8 crore. Not only police personnel are ready to make monitory contributions, they are also feeding poor people, daily wagers and stranded migrants. Presently, police stations across the state are continuously informing to their respective district administrations about hungry beggars, daily wagers and migrant workers under their jurisdictions and are supplying food to them either from the government-run community kitchens or contributed by common people and social groups. “Jamui police supplied ration to 1,000 needy persons amid the lockdown. Several police stations are also providing food and ration on their own level to the needy under their jurisdiction by pooling up resources,” ADG Kumar said. The ADG said at present police is also actively involved in creating awareness among people for Covid-19 and ensuring social distancing at essential shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dgp-urges-ips-officers-to-contribute-to-cms-fund/articleshow/74937438.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger C1 logs 3,017km & radio collar drops||NAGPUR: The radio collar of Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary tiger TWLS-T1-C1 dropped on March 28, some 13 months after installation, as its battery was almost drained. The tiger had logged 3,017km before the battery died. This is the longest distance covered by any tiger in the country in search of territory and mate. A brief report submitted by WII, Dehradun, to PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar states that considering the battery issues and risk of collar getting tight around the neck in the coming days, a decision was taken to remotely remove the collar using drop-off option. The collar was removed when C1 was in Dnyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary. C1, nicknamed Walker, was collared as part of the project titled ‘Studying dispersal of tigers across the Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL), Maharashtra’. It was one of the three cubs of tigress T-1 collared on February 27, 2019, at Tipeshwar. When the animal was captured, it had a wire snare around the abdomen, which was hindering its movement and normal growth. The snare was removed and injuries of the animal were treated. The animal recovered over a month and regained health after which it began dispersing. C1 continued to use forest area of Tipeshwar till June 2019. During this period, he extensively explored the sanctuary but could not find a suitable unoccupied area to settle. Finally, on June 21, 2019, the tiger started dispersing and since than it traversed through two states and eight districts of Maharashtra. He was jointly tracked by forest department and WII teams through GPS satellite tracking and VHF ground tracking. The tiger moved through different forested areas, including Painganga sanctuary and other territorial forests and corridor areas. On November 29, moving through human dominated landscape including agriculture fields and canals, it finally managed to enter Dnyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary in Buldhana. “Currently, his home range includes Dnyanganga and forested areas outside the sanctuary. Since radio-collaring in February, the tiger was tracked for 13 months and received a total of 6,240 GPS locations,” said Kakodkar. “The tiger established its territory in the sanctuary and adjoining territorial areas under Jalgaon and Aurangabad divisions. Based on movement behaviour, the animal is using Dnyanganga as a core habitat and surrounding forest areas as a buffer to exploit the landscape,” said Kakodkar. “Over time the animal has achieved all the skills to survive and avoid humans. The animal is also having normal predation pattern in the sanctuary. From the date of collaring till March 28, 2020, C1 traversed a distance of 3,017km,” said Bilal Habib, tiger scientist with WII. Habib added an area of 52 sq km is being intensively used by the tiger inside the 205 sq km sanctuary. Plans are afoot to release a female in Dnyanganga. An expert committee has been set up and a meeting of the panel was slated for March 22, but due to coronavirus lockdown the meeting could not be held. Shiv Sena MP from Buldhana Prataprao Jadhav has demanded release of a tigress in the sanctuary. FINAL DISPERSAL Total distance travelled from February 27, 2019, to March 28, 2020, is 3,017km Pre-dispersal * Tipeshwar: From February 27, 2019 to June 20, 2019: 360km * Tipeshwar to Dnyanganga: From June 21, 2019 to December 4, 2019: 1,475km * Within Dnyanganga: From Dec 5, 2019 to March 28, 2020: 1,185km * Recommendation: Movement of C1 has opened new conservation challenges for dispersing tigers. It has also shown ability of dispersing individuals to traverse human dominated landscape without any conflict||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-c1-logs-3017km-radio-collar-drops/articleshow/74939337.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 2, 2020||Business||User-generated content viewership doubles in lockdown||Chennai: User-generated content platforms see viewership double as many Indians rekindle their lost romance with music and cooking skills during the 21-day government announced lock down to battle Corona virus pandemic.Pulkit Agrawal, co-founder, Trell said, “We have seen monthly active users go up from 4.2 million to 8 million in March, 2020. A spike of 30% was seen in content creation, month-on-month. Unlike, other social media platforms where common people only get to showcase their talent, we collaborate our users with brands, thus, they also get paid for their content.” While, beauty and cosmetic brands have taken a back seat, packaged food, herbal care, health and fitness brands are the forerunners as more people want to focus on their physical and mental well-being. “Interestingly, we have seen growth in user share increased of bachelor men, compared to married men and women. Most of them are open to share various blogs on topics like – how to make money online, remix music, easy cooking lessons, fitness,” Agrawal said. Mayank Bidawatka, co-founder Vokal, the peer-to-peer content generation platform, said they have seen doubling in user traffic at 15 million in March. “The flip side of this lock down has made people more interactive, as we see 300% rise in community answering questions posed by each other,” he said. Vokal generates content in 11 languages, has seen highest traction recorded in Hindi, Tamil, Marathi and Bengali. “We have seen enthusiasm from 18-24-year age group, who are usually working professionals or college students,” said Bidawatka.User generation content platform exclusively for mothers - Momspresso - has partnered with Penguin Random House India and launched an online initiative called ‘Once Upon A Book With Penguin,’ where there will be one author live / on video on Momspresso Facebook Page every evening to tell kids of their employees an interesting story from their book. “This is initiative started from March 30, and the story telling session goes live every day at 6.30 pm,” Vishal Gupta, co-founder and CEO of Momspresso.Gurugram--based marketing professional and mommy blogger Hansveen Kaur said,“The self-quarantine time is the perfect way for parents to engage their kids.. Unlike adults, our kids do not work from home or household chores to occupy themselves with. I am a mother of a five-year-old and glad to engage her with animated storytelling/reading.”Momspresso has listed some of the best Children’s authors from the publishing world who have confirmed their presence over the next few weeks. “Despite a cost cut of 30% we have taken in March, we have retained our user growth in this lockdown period too,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/user-generated-content-viewership-doubles-in-lockdown/articleshow/74938828.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 2, 2020||Goa||‘State will require 200 ventilators’||Panaji: The state executive committee (SEC) headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai on Wednesday directed food and drugs administration (FDA) to ensure the “easy availability and free flow” of medicines and other medical essentials. Three days ago, TOI had highlighted how senior citizens were not able to obtain prescription drugs as pharmacies had run out of stock. At the meeting attended by senior bureaucrats, attendees were informed that 200 ventilators needed to be procured immediately, at the cost of around Rs 15 crore, for use at GMC and other health facilities. Goa would receive 10,000 N95 masks, and 1,000 PPE by air courier service of the central government, a press release said. The SEC is constituted under the national disaster management authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-will-require-200-ventilators/articleshow/74939884.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar: Government taking all measures to help people||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday assured panchayati raj representatives that the state government was taking all necessary steps to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the elected representatives of the three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs) through video-conferencing from the CM’s residence here, Nitish said, “His government has marshalled the necessary funds from various pools and will ensure proper treatment of all coronavirus patients from its own resources.” Nitish said the people of Bihar, who are currently stranded at various places outside the state, will be provided necessary assistance from the CM’s relief fund, while those migrant workers who have returned would be provided necessary help from the disaster management department. “Officers, doctors and all other employees of the health department are working hard round the clock to provide necessary treatment to suspect cases of coronavirus and check its further spread,” the CM assured the members. Reminding the PRI and ULB members about the importance of ‘social distancing’ in checking the further spread of the virus, Nitish said altogether 23 positive cases of corona virus and one death has been reported in the state till Wednesday. He further said that more than 3,000 people stranded outside the state have made calls to the phone numbers of Bihar government in the last 4 to 5 days and sought assistance. As per the details provided by them, around 1.60 lakh people from Bihar were still stranded outside the state. The CM said that the state has a total of 1.68 crore ration card holders. As per its previous announcement, the state government has begun sending Rs 1,000 per family in their bank accounts from Wednesday itself. Nitish asked the DMs to take feedback from PRIs members on how to deal with the unprecedented situation in villages due to the return of migrant workers following lockdown. He also asked the DMs to ensure treatment of other patients also at the government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-govt-taking-all-measures-to-help-people/articleshow/74937286.cms||Madan Kumar
April 2, 2020||Patna||Traffic constable thrashed by cops in Patna||PATNA: A traffic police constable was allegedly thrashed by the Jakkanpur police while trying to strictly enforce the lockdown in Postal Park area in the state capital on Tuesday night. Victim Ajay Kumar, who is posted at Gandhi Maidan traffic police station, received seven stitches on his head. Ajay had gone out in civvies after returning home from duty to purchase medicines for his mother. The incident took place when he was returning to his rented accommodation and the Jakkanpur police team stopped him. “I disclosed my identity, but they thrashed me with sticks. Jakkanpur police station SHO was himself leading the team. He also hit me with a stick. I was forcibly taken to police station and detained there for more than two hours,” he told TOI on Wednesday. Ajay said the police team accused me of twisting the arm of an assistant sub-inspector. “I was on fast but no one provided me water despite repeated requests. They treated me like a criminal,” he said. Ajay said he was set free only after they made him write a personal bond forcibly with swollen hand. “I later went to a private hospital for treatment and received seven stitches on my forehead,” he said. The constable said he met Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma and SP (traffic) D Amarkesh on Wednesday and submitted a written complaint to them against Jakkanpur SHO and his police team for thrashing him. The SSP said he had received a written complaint from the traffic constable. “I will get it inquired and necessary action would be taken f the allegations are found true,” he said. When asked, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said he had not received any such information yet. This is the third such incident of police high-handedness in Patna district since the lockdown. Earlier, two sanitation workers of Patna Municipal Corporation were also allegedly thrashed by policemen at Gaurichak and Fatuha in different incidents on March 24 and March 27 respectively when they were on way to perform duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traffic-constable-thrashed-by-cops/articleshow/74937321.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 2, 2020||Patna||Patna airport handles cargo, medical emergency flights||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport may not be witnessing huge rush of flyers and movement of domestic flights, but Airports Authority of India (AAI) staff and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel are working around the clock. During the last four days, the city airport has handled cargo flights from Mumbai and Delhi as well as medical emergency flights. It tweeted, “We are ready to serve the nation during this #21dayslockdown to fight #COVID-19. Our team handled a cargo flight carrying medical equipment operated by Alliance Air today early morning at 1.30am on March 28.” Another cargo flight, carrying medical supplies and other equipment, landed here at 3.30pm on Tuesday. “After the suspension of flight operations, two cargo flights, one each of Air India and IndiGo, with medical supplies have been handled by the Patna airport. We have also handled two medical emergency flights,” airport director Bhupesh C H Negi told this newspaper and added that the operational hours had been reduced from 16-17 hours every day to eight hours. While the CISF personnel work around the clock, the air traffic control, communication, navigation and surveillance, and fire fighting staff are available only from 10am to 6pm. “The housekeeping staff make sure that the terminal building, cargo house, offices and other areas of the airport are cleaning and disinfected continuously,” Negi said. In another tweet, the airport authorities wrote, “Fight against #COVID-19 continues. Disinfection of passenger touchpoints using sodium hypochlorite solution is being done regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-airport-handles-cargo-medical-emergency-flights/articleshow/74937420.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: As month begins, paying caregivers worries seniors||KOLKATA: Senior citizens in the city have been struggling since the lockdown started on March 24. But now with the month’s cash reserve almost gone, many are in trouble. While they usually don’t mind queueing up at the bank or the post office for the interest on fixed deposits or monthly income schemes, they are wary about doing so this month given their vulnerability to the novel coronavirus. Indranil Sanyal, 64, is single and has to fend for himself. “I did get some cash from the bank before the lockdown. But now it is almost exhausted. I need to withdraw money from the post office to keep going. But I am aware that queuing up will be compromising myself,” he said. Many senior citizens have salary commitments to caregivers and domestic helps. But given the circumstances, many have appealed to their helps to wait till the lockdown is over. Dipti Roy, a resident of Salt Lake’s AE Block, said she has asked her driver and ayah to wait for the lockdown to be lifted before she can pay them. “I don’t want to queue up at the bank at present. All my staffers live at my home and since they don’t have to worry about food and other amenities, they have agreed to getting paid once things normalize,” said the 84-year-old who lives alone. Her daughters live in the US and Malaysia. Deb Kumar Majumdar, executive director of a multinational IT company, is at his wits’ end on how to hand over cash to his octogenarian parents and parents-in-law. He is on a 14-day quarantine with his wife Piyali and daughter Sreya after they returned from Delhi’s Ashoka University on March 20. Living in Abhishikta Apartments on EM Bypass, they are just 7km away from Majumdar’s bedridden father Subhendu, 89, and mother Esha, 84, who is a hypertension patient. His father-in-law Sovanlal Dam, 84, who is recuperating from a stroke, and mother-in-law Bandana also live nearby, on Lake Road. The 76-year-old Bandana suffers from acute arthritis. “Since our parents are elderly and dependent on an external support system, like caregivers, we give them limited cash after paying the ayahs and keep the contingency fund with us. The cash is depleting in all three households, including ours. I am waiting for my quarantine to be over so that I can pick up money and deliver the cash to Deshapriya Park and Lake Road,” Majumdar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-month-begins-paying-caregivers-worries-seniors/articleshow/74939119.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 2, 2020||Business||PSB mergers reduce role for mid-sized regional banks||MUMBAI: With the merger of 10 public sector banks (PSBs) coming into effect from April 1, six lenders — including one of the country’s oldest, Allahabad Bank — have ceased to exist. However, the signboard of the old banks will be around for a few months as full integration could get delayed because of the coronavirus lockdown. The immediate impact of the merger is on the boards of the merging banks, which get dissolved. The board-level management of the merging banks will also retire or get transferred to the acquiring banks as officers on special duty. The consolidation has highlighted the reduced relevance of mid-sized regional banks in a world where banks are becoming one-stop shops for financial services. The merging banks that have ceased to exist include Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India, which merged into Punjab National Bank, making it the second-largest nationalised bank on several parameters. Bengaluru-based Canara Bank has become the fourth-largest lender after taking over Syndicate Bank. Mumbai-based Union Bank of India is now the fifth-largest lender, having absorbed Mangalore-based Corporation Bank and Hyderabad-based Andhra Bank. Indian Bank has emerged as the seventh-largest lender with the acquisition of Allahabad Bank. The number of PSU banks in the country has shrunk from 27 in 2017 to 12 banks. Last year saw the second round of consolidation with Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank merging into Bank of Baroda. Earlier, the associates of State Bank of India merged with it. The government had pushed for consolidation after it took the stance that in the future it would provide capital to only well-performing banks. Of the merging banks, some like the United Bank of India were financially weak and placed under the RBI’s lending restrictions. The merger will give the customers of the smaller banks access to more services and a wider range of loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psb-mergers-reduce-role-for-mid-sized-regional-banks/articleshow/74939564.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Goldman Sachs warns of negative crude oil prices||MUMBAI: For some years now the world has seen negative interest rates, that is, at least theoretically — people who borrow get paid rather than they paying the lender. Now, Goldman Sachs is raising the possibility of negative crude oil price, at least for some landlocked oil producing countries due to supply gridlocks, sharply dipping energy demands globally and excess oil production — all due to the current Covid-19-related troubles around the world. In its recent report on oil, Goldman Sachs analysts said “a producer would be willing to pay someone to dispose of a barrel, implying negative pricing in landlocked areas”. However, the negative oil price may not hold for oil-producing countries having access to sea ports, it said. “Waterborne crudes like Brent will be far more insulated, staying near cash costs of $20/barrel with temporary spikes below. Brent is priced on an island in the North Sea, 500 meters from the water, where tanker storage is accessible. In contrast, WTI is landlocked and 500 miles from the water,” the report pointed out. So far in 2020, WTI and Brent crude prices have both lost a little over 65%. The analysts also noted that the Covid-19-led demand shock, down by about 25% within a month, has made the oil price war between OPEC and Russia irrelevant and “has made a coordinated supply response impossible to achieve in time”. The report also warned of possibility of large shut downs for production facilities and once demand revives, those are unlikely to open up quickly to meet the sudden spurt in demand. This in turn would lead to spike in oil prices. “Paradoxically, this will ultimately create an inflationary oil supply shock of historic proportions because so much oil production will be forced to be shut-in,” the report noted. And the key to how quickly prices rebound after this supply shut-in will depend on how much inventory is built, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-sachs-warns-of-negative-crude-oil-prices/articleshow/74939642.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Have management bandwidth to handle merger: Indian Bank||MUMBAI: The merger of Allahabad Bank with Indian Bank is part of the big bang consolidation which came into effect on April 1. This merger is unique as the Chennai-headquartered Indian Bank will be acquiring the Kolkata-based lender, which is older and bigger in terms of branches and people. In an interview to TOI, Indian Bank managing director & CEO Padmaja Chunduru speaks of how she plans to take on the challenges of a merger during a lockdown. Excerpts: The merger is taking place amid a lockdown. How will you manage it?Everything has progressed on track and the share-swaps had been fixed. Any delay would mean that you go back by four months and start again because the relevant date changes. The consensus was to take it forward. Yes, the full merger and some planned changes like the change of signboards and stationery will take time. But in terms of basic requirements of treasury and compliance, it has already been done. What changes will customers face?In terms of account opening, there are no issues. In deposits, there are not many changes and harmonisation has already taken place. For corporate loans, the products are similar. The changes will be in retail loans. In terms of retail assets like housing, medical and pension loans, we have gone for the best in the market. Similarly, the interest rates for Allahabad Bank borrowers might improve. There is no change in the cheque book, passbook, account number, IFSC code, internet banking, mobile banking and UPI for customers. Allahabad Bank is larger than Indian Bank in terms of branches and staff. Is there the management bandwidth for the acquisition?Allahabad Bank has more branches and employees than Indian Bank. Other than that, in terms of every balance sheet parameter, Indian Bank is bigger. While the headquarters are in different parts of the country, there is an overlap in terms of network, which has helped us to work together. All products and processes have been streamlined and, from day one, all branches will have the same products. With the transfer of Allahabad Bank executive director K Ramachandran to Indian Bank, we will have three EDs. Ramachandran will become part of the Indian Bank board. Initially, the plan was for him to move here (Chennai) after the audit. That is now moved to the future and, for now, he will continue to handle the work he is was doing in Kolkata. Given the exceptional situation due to the lockdown, there might be cases where a special dispensation might be required. Will erstwhile Allahabad Bank have to reach out to Indian Bank head office for approvals? We have already rolled out the additional limits that would be required as emergency Covid-19 loans. Discretionary powers have been given through the scheme of delegation of powers. Branches will have similar or higher powers than before. Even within Indian Bank, powers of the committees have been enhanced. I do not see any delay in decision making as turn-around time has been given top priority. It will be better for Allahabad Bank now than earlier because the merged balance sheet gives them much more room to lend. Will the promotions and transfers be impacted because of lockdown?We have completed most of the promotion exercise till below the general manager level. At the GM level, we are doing the interviews through video-conference and will complete the process this week. The transfers and shifting around will happen in May. Right now, the focus is on reaching out to the customers. How do you plan to distribute the benefits of the PM Garib Kalyan scheme?We have 28 lakh Jan Dhan accounts in Indian Bank itself. The branches are open with skeletal staff. We have activated the business correspondents and 3,000 women provide doorstep banking. We have also rolled out mobile ATMs. We are making arrangements for customers to visit the branches in a staggered way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/have-mgmt-bandwidth-to-handle-merger-indian-bk/articleshow/74939713.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Lockdown impact: Panic buying hits pharma industry, stores run out of drugs||MANGALURU: Only a week into the lockdown and Mangaluru is already facing a shortage of several drugs. Retailers across the district have run out of essential medicines for diabetes and blood pressure, apart from regular antiseptic liquids, cleaners, masks and sanitisers. Despite medical stores being open as promised by the Prime Minister, queues outside the stores clearly indicate the panic and people’s state of mind. “Do we see people standing in serpentine queues in front of medical stores on a normal day?,” wondered Harish, a medical store employee. Retailers say instead of buying drugs for 10 or 20 days in one go, driven by panic, consumers are buying them in larger quantities to last for at least three months. Lockdown has also hit the supply chain and production of pharamaceuticals. “At least 30% of the customers are buying in large quantities. Wholesalers and distributors are finding it difficult to supply due to transportation and staff shortage issues,” said Praveen Vijayashankar, proprietor, Janata Pharma, Marnamikatta. “Earlier, people used to be very particular about the brand as mentioned in the prescription. Now, on finding that a particular brand of medicine is not available, without thinking twice they settle for an alternate brand,” he added. Speaking to TOI, Sai Radha Group managing director Manohar Shetty said: “Only 10% of the stocks are reaching the wholesalers from the super stockists also known as carry & forward agents. The supply chain has been disrupted.” Shetty said the transportation crisis clubbed with staff shortage is a major issue faced by drug manufacturers after the announcement of lockdown. “We have been instructed by the government to pay employees their full salaries, but several cases of employees unwilling to step out and work despite residing close to units go unreported,” he said. “There could be certain problems due to transportation issue, especially since most district borders are sealed, but these issues are being taken care of and streamlined by the district administration,” said a senior official from the drug control department. Ruling out shortage of medicines in Dakshina Kannada district, the official said, “Certain brands may not be available, but generic medicines are available. We have reached out to manufacturing units and they have already increased production. We are trying our best to ensure there is sufficient supply of all medicines even in the taluks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lockdown-impact-panic-buying-hits-pharma-industry-stores-run-out-of-drugs/articleshow/74937023.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 2, 2020||Hubballi||Manufacturing of essential items stops as cops waylay employees||Hubballi: The state government had declared 27 industrial units like rice mills, factories manufacturing medical equipment, soaps and detergents, food, ice plants and research & development establishments as essential units following the lockdown. However, the order permitting them to carry on with their manufacturing activities is yet to reach the ground-level as policemen on the road are neither allowing vehicles to transport their goods nor employees of such industries to travel on their bikes or other vehicles. The situation is expected to worsen in the coming days, leading to shortage of essential commodities in the market during the lockdown period. As per a circular issued by principal secretary, commerce and industries, Gaurav Gupta, on March 24, industries mentioned in ‘essential’ category are required to carry on with their work to maintain the supply chain of essential commodities. The circular has been forwarded to deputy commissioners of all districts. However, it seems it has not reached the policemen imposing the lockdown. Srinivas NR, vice-president, Karnataka State Rice Millers Association, told TOI that almost all 2,000 rice mills in the state are shut for the past 10 days. “The government has just issued a circular treating our industry as ‘essential’ services. We don't have a single truck to despatch our stock. Actually, we wanted to serve people without profit, but are not getting an opportunity. At many places, our workers, drivers and cleaners were beaten up by policemen. The existing stock of rice in the state can feed people for next 3-4 days. Later it will be a bigger disaster that Corona. Realising this, the DCs of some districts are now calling us,” he said. He noted that neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Telangana have managed the situation successfully. Dhiren Takkar, director, LVT Industries, a biscuit manufacturer in Hubballi, said interruption of raw material is a hindrance to run the industry. “Though biscuit and confectionaries are notified as essential industry, our employees are facing hurdles to reach the workplace. However, to cope up with the lockdown, we have told our administration staff to work from home. Only production staff are attending duties,” he said. P M Veeresha Sharma, managing partner, Chemogenesis, a research and development unit in North Karnataka, said he is getting enquiries on Hydroxychloroquine, which was highlighted by US president Donald Trump as an anti-Corona drug, and anti-HIV combination, which is experimented in Kerala. “We need to work on these aspects to help the society. But the police, who are not sensitised about essential industries, are not allowing us and our employees to reach the workplace,” he said. Mohan Bharamakkanavar, joint director, District Industries Centre, Dharwad, said the district administration is aware of the issue. “Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has instructed police to allow smooth movement of vehicles and employees of these essential category industries. We have also brought this issue to our higher-ups in Bengaluru to resolve it in all districts. We hope it will be streamlined from Monday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/manufacturing-of-essential-items-stops-as-cops-waylay-employees/articleshow/74936936.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 6 kin of Gaya coronavirus case among 22 quarantined||GAYA: Promptly reacting to a positive case of Covid-19 virus in Gaya detected on Wednesday, the district administration has identified 22 people, who came into direct contact with the youth, including six of his immediate family members. The family members have been put in the isolation ward of the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH), while the other 16 are under home quarantine with notices pasted on their doors. Domestic waste of these houses will be separately collected and disposed of, the district administration said. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said, “A 3 km circumference area of the Covid-19 patient’s home was being thoroughly sanitised and all shops have been closed. Movement of people in the locality has been completely banned with very few emergency exceptions.” Asked whether all residents of the sealed area will be tested, the DM responded that those who came into contact with the Covid-19 positive man, would be tested. “Several groups of para- medics have been formed to visit each and every household in the area to monitor the health condition of the people. Anyone showing symptoms of Covid-19 would be immediately segregated and put to test. There is no cause of panic,” Singh added. As the area where the Covid-19 positive case has been detected was in proximity to the Officers Training Academy (OTA), several people have expressed concern over the matter. “There is no cause for concern on the issue as the entire OTA area is fully sanitised. Entry to the OTA, in any case was very restricted,” the DM said. Asked about hiccups in home delivery of essential items, Singh admitted that there were teething troubles and the issues would be resolved within a couple of days. Earlier, several retail outlets and other business establishments volunteered home delivery of essential items. “The sale outlets volunteering home delivery were facing manpower shortage. Passes will be issued in sufficient numbers to the delivery personnel,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-kin-of-gaya-covid-case-among-22-quarantined/articleshow/74937380.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 2, 2020||Patna||208 coaches being turned into isolation wards: ECR||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to convert altogether 208 sleeper coaches into isolation wards for treatment of Covid-19 patients in Bihar. The process of their modification has started at different railway workshops under the Danapur, Dhanbad, Sonepur, Samastipur and Pt Deendayal Upadhyay divisions. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Tuesday, “Each coach will have eight beds, medicine store facilities and changing cabins for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. The railways will also ensure availability of drugs, oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitizers, dustbins and pathology labs in the modified coaches.” The railways will also convert some toilets into bathrooms and remove the middle berths of the coaches to create sufficient space for the patients so that they can sit and lie down on their beds comfortably. “The coaches will have proper ventilation, mechanized sanitization facility, mosquito nets as well as bottle holders,” the CPRO said and added the railways would ensure that the modified coaches were made functional soon. Two special parcel trains: The railways has decided to run two special parcel trains between New Delhi and Howrah from Thursday to transport essential commodities during the lockdown period. ECR’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar said, “The railways will run a special parcel train (00323/00324) from New Delhi at 7am on April 2, 9 and 16. It will reach Howrah at 6.25am on April 4 via the Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Gaya-Dhanbad route. On its return journey, it will leave Howrah at 6.35pm on April 4, 11 and 18 and reach New Delhi at 5.20pm on April 6.” The second parcel train (00325/00326) will leave New Delhi at 7am on April 6 and 13 and reach Howrah at 8.40am on April 8 via the Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Patna Junction-Jhajha route. On its return journey, it will leave Howrah at 4pm on April 8 and 15 and reach New Delhi at 5.20pm on April 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/208-coaches-being-turned-into-isolation-wards-ecr/articleshow/74937390.cms||Kumod Verma
April 2, 2020||Patna||He drives 50km, faces cops’ wrath for customers||PATNA: It was a shocker for young milkman Tuntun Kumar when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced nationwide lockdown on March 24 to check the spread of Covid-19. For the next two days, he couldn’t move out due to fear of police action. As the dust settled down, the Class VIII passout drives nearly 50km from his native village Manjhauli near Khushrupur in Patna rural to deliver milk to his customers in the state capital every day. Second among the three siblings, Tuntun never misses deadline. “It’s the question of survival for a family of five which forced me to put even my life at risk,” he said. To continue the uninterrupted supply of milk to his customers in colonies like Kumhrar, Bajrangpuri, Biscomaun Colony, Sandalpur and Alka Colony in east Patna is not an easy task at a time when there is a complete lockdown. On a given day, he had to face the wrath of the police near Deedarganj police checkpost on Patna-Bhakhtiarpur road. “Police ki lathi bhi khani padi hai,” he said. Though Tuntun is not very educated, he is aware of the dos and don’ts to contain the novel coronavirus, which has claimed one life and left 23 others affected in the state. “I always keep a soap and a gamchha (towel) with me. I wash my hands with the soap before delivering milk to every customer. Before putting the milk in containers, I clean them well,” he said. Tuntun, however, admitted that many people have stopped taking milk out of coronavarius fear. Earlier, he used to deliver 50-60 litres of milk a day. Now the demand has reduced to 20 litres a day. “But I have to continue the supply on the demand of some old customers, who have faith in me,” the 20-year-old milkman said. The son of a farmer, Umashanker Prasad, Tuntun has been doing it since the age of 13. “Initially I used to travel by local trains to reach Patna. Later, I purchased a motorbike, which saves both energy and time. For me, customers are like God and I can’t forget them during crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/he-drives-50km-faces-cops-wrath-for-customers/articleshow/74937347.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Centre likely to put all tyre imports in restricted category||CHENNAI: The government is considering a proposal to put all tyre imports in the ‘restricted’ category, from the present ‘free’ category. A March 17 communication by the DGFT, said that union commerce ministry has initiated inputs from various industry associations and stake holders to ensure tyre imports move to the restricted category. Tyre companies have been lobbying for restrictions on imports to control influx of Chinese imports particularly in the after market. “The CIM has desired that a restriction be imposed on import of tyres by moving the from ‘free’ to ‘restricted’ category,” said the letter from the deputy director general of foreign trade to the secretary DPIIT. India imports $25 million worth of car, motorcycle, bus and construction/industrial machines & vehicles. In the letter, the DGFT requests the DPIIT to ‘examine the matter’ including the sectors on which restriction should be imposed seeking inputs from the department of heavy industry as the user industry and DOR and submit recommendation expeditiously to enable DGFT to proceed with the matter". Tyre imports from China in the April-January period grew 20% to 3.2 million units in FY20. Currently the DGFT does not have any “inputs/representations from the domestic industry” said the letter. Nor does it have any proposal/comment from DPIIT so far. To take an “informed decision it is pertinent to know the factual position including domestic capacity of different types of tyres and the level of impact that the domestic industry is suffering due to imports” said the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-likely-to-put-all-tyre-imports-in-restricted-category/articleshow/74938797.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 2, 2020||Business||HUL now owns Horlicks, Boost||MUMBAI: The merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (GSKCH) with Hindustan Unilever (HUL) — one of the largest FMCG deals — is complete. Now, the board of HUL has also approved the takeover of brand Horlicks from GSK global. This option was available to HUL in the original agreement between Unilever and GSK, which was signed in December 2018. HUL will pay a consideration of Rs 3,045 crore (376 million euros) to GSK through its internal accruals. Since HUL is buying the brand, it will not pay any brand royalties. Brands Boost, Maltova and Viva, which were owned by GSKCH, would be automatically transferred to HUL. The merger, for which all necessary approvals have been obtained, has been done on the basis of an exchange ratio of 4.39 HUL shares for each one of GSKCH. Following the issue of new HUL shares, Unilever’s holding in HUL will be diluted from 67.2% to 61.9%. GSK, on the other hand, gets an ownership of 5.7% in HUL after the merger. In a conference call with media persons, HUL’s CFO Srinivas Phatak said GSKCH’s nutrition team of 3,500 employees will join HUL. GSKCH brands will form part of HUL’s food and refreshment (F&R) portfolio. HUL said the merger will bring a market development opportunity to drive premiumisation through the high sciences portfolio. The merger is effective April 1. HUL, with the number one health food drinks portfolio in its kitty, emerges as one of the largest foods companies in India, in addition to it being the numero uno home and personal care company. Horlicks has a volume share of close to 50%. It was introduced to India in the 1930s and has been an everyday nutrition staple in households across generations. In a statement, HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said, “Brands such as Horlicks and Boost are iconic, and we are excited to have them in the Hindustan Unilever fold. The merger gives us a unique opportunity to live our purpose and serve India where nutrition-related challenges form the largest causes of disease — malnutrition and micronutrient deficiency — and aligns well with the government’s ambitious Swasth Bharat and Poshan Abhiyaan programmes.” After the merger, HUL’s F&R business (Rs 7,133 crore in 2018-19) would near its home care portfolio (Rs 12,876 crore) in sales. “Given the potential of the business, it could grow in double digits in the medium term. One opportunity is to expand the portfolio to rural markets,” said Phatak. Phatak said the firm will now begin work on integrating IT, SAP systems and processes, and the cultural integration, all of which will take 9-12 months to accomplish. “We will look into synergy aspects and execute and implement it in a seamless manner,” said Phatak. The nutrition and health drinks category remains under-penetrated in India and HUL is well positioned to further develop the market, given the extent of its reach and capabilities. As part of the deal, HUL will be partnering with GSK (via a consignment-selling arrangement) to distribute GSKCH brands like Eno, Crocin and Sensodyne in India. Mehta said, “In the current context, the focus of the company has been to ensure that all our people remain safe and we do our best to keep supply lines running for essential products. In these difficult times, we are joining hands with the government in the fight against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-now-owns-horlicks-boost/articleshow/74939739.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||273 liquor shops sealed as black market prices soar in Pune||PUNE: As many as 273 liquor shops in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural area have been sealed by the excise department as a precautionary measure so that alcohol does not flow out of these joints surreptitiously during the Covid-19 lockdown. Instances of black marketing of liquor emerged in these areas with many vendors shut amid the lockdown, a source said. An excise department official told TOI, “We have sealed these liquor shops to prevent sales at night or when police patrolling is low. Sealing shops will also ensure crowds don’t gather.” A video has also been doing rounds on social media showing a Pune-based liquor shop stealthily selling liquor to some customers with its shutters half down. A liquor retailer said, “A popular whiskey brand with MRP of Rs1,300 is being sold in black either four times or double the price. A quarter of another medium-range whisky is being sold at Rs800 as against the MRP of Rs195. A beer bottle, usually sold at Rs150, is being sold at Rs 300 in the black market. Even Hooch liquor is sold at a premium these days. Leakages happen at permit rooms where hotel staff also live. Hooch is in great demand in areas of Hadapsar, Bibwewadi and Katraj.” Sources claimed that retailers were being directly approached by customers. A customer said, “I approached my vendor for alcohol over the phone. He earlier denied having stock. But he later called and quoted a price of Rs3,000 for what I got for around Rs2,000.” A liquor retailer in Pune said, “There is definitely black marketing of liquor in the city because people are still getting their supply.” He said he had been getting calls from a few customers who claimed they were getting liquor at three-four times the regular rates from some other sources. “They asked me why I wasn’t supplying liquor surreptitiously, but I refused. It is possible that many permit rooms in rural parts of Pune district are selling liquor to those who need it. There are more than 2,500 permit rooms in Pune district. It is not possible for police to keep a tab on all of them,” he said. Another retailer said, “There is no way to verify this, but liquor is being sold at a much higher rate because people continue to get supplies even during dry days. A few days ago, I got a call from a person who claimed to be related to an influential person. But I refused to sell him any booze,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/273-liquor-shops-sealed-as-black-market-prices-soar/articleshow/74939563.cms||Neha Madaan
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rs 1,000 deposited in accounts of 16 lakh workers’||JAIPUR: The labour department has deposited Rs 1,000 as immediate help in the accounts of 15.78 lakh construction workers during the lockdown period, claimed minister of state for labour Tikaram Juli on Wednesday. He informed that the amount has been transferred by the state government to the bank accounts of registered construction workers through Jan Aadhaar database. He said the application for scholarship for children of construction workers under Construction Labour Education and Skill Development Scheme has been extended till May 15 from March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1k-deposited-in-accounts-of-16l-workers/articleshow/74939565.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||On day 9, kirana shops stare at empty shelves in Patna||PATNA: The city entered the ninth day of the 21-day lockdown on Wednesday and already the supply chain of essential items sold in retail kirana shops is broken, which could be symptomatic of a statewide trend in all urban and semi-urban centres. In the state capital, the near-empty shelves in retail grocery stores point at the inability of the wholesale dealers, who themselves say they are unable to deliver the items to kirana shops due to logistical issues. As a result, the kirana shops have run out of essential items of everyday use. On the other hand, even the wholesalers of foodgrain items such as rice and pulses have begun charging prices that are much higher than the normal rates. Asked to identify the items of popular demand which require immediate replenishment, a kirana shop owner on East Boring Canal Road listed them as: detergent powders, utensil cleaners, washing soaps, hand wash, tomato sauce, packaged tea, biscuits, Maggi and confectionary items. However, the supply of bread has been more or less maintained. Kirana shops thus are having buy foodgrain items (rice, pulses, peanuts), sugar and such other goods from Bakarganj, where rates have been hiked. A shop owner in Kidwaipuri-Shri Krishna Nagar locality, gave the selling prices of foodgrain items available in the wholesale mandi of Bakarganj. “There the selling rate of coarse rice is higher than the normal rate by Rs 2 to 5 per kg and that of fine rice by around Rs 2 per kg,” said the retailer. He added, “Similarly, the price of ‘arhar’ charged is Rs 95 per kg with a hike of Rs 20 per kg, while that of ‘masoor’ Rs 65 per kg (hiked by Rs 10 per kg), and ‘moong’ pulse is selling at Rs 110 per kg (price increased by Rs 20 per kg). Besides, the price of ‘moongfali (peanuts)’ has been raised by Rs 20 per kg and is being sold at Rs 110 per kg. The price of sugar has been increased by around Rs 2 per kg.” The kirana shop owners said that accessing the foodgrain items even with the raised prices have become difficult. The stock reply of the wholesalers is: “Come yourself, and lift them with your own means (read vehicles).” However, the kirana shops have been told to compulsorily keep regular stock of rice, pulses and sugar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/on-day-9-kirana-shops-stare-at-empty-shelves/articleshow/74937441.cms||Abhay Singh
April 2, 2020||Patna||Ram Navami to be celebrated at home today in Patna||PATNA: Empty markets, closed temples and deserted roads have dampened the spirit of Ram Navami celebrations in the city. With around 40 shobha yatras cancelled owing to the countrywide lockdown, many said there was no zeal for the festival to be celebrated on Thursday. Even the district administration, temple authorities and organizers of shobha yatras have advised people to stay home this year. “At this point of time, our only priority is to contain the spread of coronavirus. We have also cancelled all programmes and events and advised residents to celebrate the festival at their homes,” said BJP MLA Nitin Naveen, one of the organizers of the shobha yatras. Devotees said they will miss the usual celebrations this time. “Social distancing might be the best possible way to fight the virus but it has restricted us from celebrating some of the major festivals, including Chaiti Navaratra and Chaiti Chhath,” said Ankita Yadav, a resident of Boring Road. Many residents, who were planning to visit Ayodhya, had to cancel their trips. “My entire family had planned to visit Ayodhya where this would be the first Ram Navami celebration after the Supreme Court verdict. However, due to the lockdown, we had to cancel our plan,” said Smita Verma of Kankarbagh. Even the ‘Ashtami puja’ on Wednesday turned out to be a dull affair, said some residents as they performed the rituals inside their homes. Even temples have not been decorated this time as they are also closed for public. The Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction, which attracted thousands of devotees on Ram Navami, is not decorated this year due to the shutdown. “The doors of the temple have been locked and devotees are not allowed to enter the temple. Every year, several events and programmes were organized on Ram Navami, but nothing will be done this year. The priest present inside the temple will worship Lord Ram,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, the secretary of Mahavir Mandir Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ram-navami-to-be-celebrated-at-home-today/articleshow/74937487.cms||Archi Rani
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Veggie prices drop across Kolkata markets, but continue to pinch pockets in other metros||KOLKATA/BENGALURU: Kolkata is the first among the metros where prices of vegetables and essential commodities have swung back to early March rates. In fact, on Wednesday, the price of several vegetables were below what they sold for a month ago. Chennai, Kolkata and Ahmedabad have witnessed the steepest fall in prices. However, in most other metros, scarcity has continued to push up prices. In just a week, the price of essentials has increased by 100%-150% in Bengaluru and Delhi. Truck associations said vegetable supply in each city may be hit by a number of factors, like state regulations, truck hold-ups on highways, police action, driver problems and routes. In Kolkata, after the hiccups on the first two days, the state administration led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee swung into action to ensure easy movement of vendors, bringing the price down. “Koley Market received 170 trucks of vegetables — almost one-and-a-half times more than the usual. On Sunday, supply had surpassed demand and 10% vegetables had no takers,” said Kamal Dey, president of the West Bengal Vegetable Vendors’ Association. Chennai’s Koyambedu Wholesale Market Association president V R Soundarajan said, “Just three days ago, vegetables were being sold at Rs 70-Rs 80 a kg. The prices have now dipped because cops have clamped down on movement in Chennai. Neither vendors nor individuals can visit the markets.” Taking advantage of buyers’ desperation in Bengaluru, some vendors have jacked up prices by 50%-80%. A check by TOI at retail and government stores, like Horticultural Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) showed a clear difference. While supermarkets are selling onions at Rs 50, carrots at Rs 80, okra at Rs 95, beans at Rs 55 and bananas at Rs 80; the government is selling the same vegetables at Rs 35, Rs 58, Rs 42 and Rs 60 respectively. “In Bengaluru, supply of some vegetables and fruits has stabilized. So price is slightly higher than last week. But some vegetables are in short supply,” said Chandru, a member of HOPCOMS. While prices in Mumbai were the most normal among cities, Delhi saw a spike given the severe police clampdown and logistic issues affecting trucks entering the city. “Our vehicles are entering Delhi, but empty trucks are not being allowed to leave as they are deemed non-essential. How will I get fresh produce in if my vehicles are stuck?” asks Varun Kharuna, CEO and co-founder of Crofarm, which gets supplies from different states. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/veggie-prices-drop-across-city-markets-but-continue-to-pinch-pockets-in-other-metros/articleshow/74939099.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 2, 2020||Business||Bigbasket, Flipkart look to hire cabs for deliveries||BENGALURU: A driver from a cab aggregator might deliver your next grocery order from Flipkart or Bigbasket as the online retailers are in talks with the ride-hailing platform for deliveries of essentials amid the national lockdown. Flipkart has also sought government approval for the same as it is in advanced discussions with Uber, besides other players, a person aware of the matter said. Bigbasket alerted customers that it is talking to cab aggregators and restaurant workers to beef up its delivery fleet, which is running on 40% of its original strength. The Flipkart-Uber tie-up will first be rolled out in 10 cities where drivers would pick products from warehouses and deliver to consumers. Both the companies are working out the final contours of arrangement as to how much they will pay the drivers doing deliveries and if the rest will be shared between Uber and Flipkart. A small batch of Uber drivers have piloted this for Flipkart. This comes when e-tailers are struggling to clear the backlog of existing orders and open new slots for the rising volume of new orders of essential items. “To achieve the objective of moving essential supplies across the country, from our sellers/vendors to the customers, our teams are exploring all possible collaboration ideas, including having conversations with cab aggregators, etc,” said a Flipkart spokesperson. An Uber spokesperson declined to comment. Earlier in the week, TOI reported Uber and Ola had offered their fleet for short-haul deliveries of essentials along with moving frontline healthcare officials. “Most of the arrangement is done in this regard. Once the government gives nod, it could be scaled up faster,” said a person aware of the goings-on. TOI has been reporting how there is a labour shortage for online retailers after scores of migrant workers left for their villages or are scared of coming out due to police action during the first few days of the ongoing 21-day lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bigbasket-flipkart-look-to-hire-cabs-for-deliveries/articleshow/74939628.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 2, 2020||Business||Nationalising hospitals not a solution: Apollo joint MD||MUMBAI: Nationalisation of hospitals is not the solution to tackle the coronavirus pandemic, said Sangita Reddy, joint MD at Apollo Hospitals, the country’s largest hospital group with an over Rs 9,000-crore turnover. Reddy, who is also president of trade body Ficci, emphasised that Apollo will partner with the government in its fight against the outbreak. She said the group’s six labs across Hyderabad, Delhi, Chennai, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata have been approved for Covid-19 testing, and will begin tests shortly. Excerpts from an emailed interaction with TOI: Given around 66% of hospital beds are in the private sector, there’s a view that the government should nationalise hospitals. What is your view? How would Apollo contribute?I do not believe nationalisation is the solution. This is the time to work as one, use each other’s strengths to complement and strengthen the response to Covid-19 and set an example of how a public-private partnership should be! At times such as these, we need to come together to overcome the threat. The government and private sector working together, sharing best practices, can definitely overcome the biggest healthcare challenge that the country has faced. In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in India, How prepared is India with infrastructure like ventilators, ICU beds, and isolation wards? With our network of 70 hospitals, we have the largest number of isolation and ICU facilities in the private sector, and are fully prepared for a stage where highly specialised treatment for the critically ill will be required. Across the network, we have over 250 beds, which can be enhanced to 500 beds, created only to treat the critically ill at any given time and around 1,000 ventilators. We expect to give advanced care to over 2,000 patients a month. Medicines, consumables, hospital supplies, negative pressure rooms, ventilators and additional medical equipment have been procured or reserved with vendors to meet any increase in demand. We have also ensured stocking of PPE (personal protection equipment) for all our staff. Do you feel that India is testing less, and even asymptomatic people should be tested?I believe that while widespread testing with an expansion of the conditions for testing will be necessary, the testing strategy takes into account several factors including the current recommendations, availability of test kits and the infrastructure. With private labs now being allowed to test for Covid-19, the testing capacity will no doubt increase but may still need to be restricted to symptomatic patients. Even the ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control) has indicated that there is insufficient documented evidence on transmission from asymptomatic persons. What is being done however is intensification of random sampling of people who display flu-like symptoms but don’t have any history of travel to Covid-19 zones. This will also help to determine whether community transmission is taking place. One of the issues with testing asymptomatic people is that due to a lower virus load, the report may be negative and the patient may move out of quarantine while the disease and symptoms develop over the next two weeks. This is a big risk. One also needs to be wary of the false positives. A study in China in the close contacts of Covid-19 patients, showed nearly half or even more of the ‘asymptomatic infected individuals’ reported in the active nucleic acid test screening might be false positives. What would be the economic impact of the situation on healthcare/ hospitals sector in near term and medium term?I believe this is not the time to think of the economic impact as it is not just the Indian healthcare sector but the global economy that has been and will be impacted in the months to come. In the short term, the impact on medical value travel or medical tourism will be negative, but in the longer term, I am sure that healthcare being a resilient industry will bounce back to its normal growth. Are there any lessons for India and its healthcare sector, from countries like Italy, which have supposedly not handled the situation properly? And anything from those who handled it well like South Korea?The government’s response shows that we have learnt from the experience of other countries. This is evident from the decision taken to lock down the country, with trains, flights, buses stopped for everything other than emergencies or essential services. As far as it comes to healthcare, we are on top of the latest recommendations for drugs, which may benefit patients with Covid-19, with the government taking necessary steps to ensure supply by restricting exports. This is a situation that requires countries to close borders, but at the same time cooperate on a global scale to meet this unprecedented healthcare challenge. With news of healthcare providers succumbing to the virus, one learning is that we must focus more on protecting our doctors and healthcare workers so that while they treat and live up to this call to action to serve humanity, they are safeguarded from the disease. We need to have adequate supply of personal protective gear so that healthcare staff are protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nationalising-hospitals-not-a-solution-apollo-joint-md/articleshow/74939666.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 2, 2020||Agra||Armyman opens fire at villager for alerting admin about his return, leaves sis-in-law dead||Agra: A 36-year-old woman was killed after accidently being hit by a bullet fired at his brother-in-law allegedly by an Armyman who was furious at him for passing on information about his return, and that of his kin, to Mainpuri administration, which he feared will quarantine them. According to police, Shailendra Yadav had returned to Mainpuri’s Alipur village from Noida recently. He is deployed in Agartala. And his two brothers Bijendra Yadav and Upendra Yadav and nephew Guarav had also come from Noida and Gurgaon. All of them worked as cab drivers and had returned to the village last week. On Tuesday evening, Shailendra warned Vinay against sending the information about their return to district headquarters. A ‘Rojgar Sevak’, Vinay was intrusted with the task to alert the authorities about all those who are returning to the village. But Vinay provided all the names to the district authorities. On Wednesday, Shailendra came to Vinay’s house and manhandled him, police said. Later, the suspect opened fire and the bullet hit Vinay’s sister-in-law Sandhya, who was standing nearby. She died on the spot. Mainpuri’s additional SP, OP Singh, said that Vinay had provided the information about Shailendra and his relatives as they came from out of the district. They all had returned to the village in the last 6 to 7 days. Kurra’s station house officer Rupesh Verma said, “An FIR has been registered against four persons including Shailendra Yadav under section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) on a complaint filed by Sandhya’s family members.” However, the accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/armyman-opens-fire-at-villager-for-alerting-admin-about-his-return-leaves-sis-in-law-dead/articleshow/74937994.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||25K fishermen stranded in boats in Gujarat coasts||Rajkot: Nearly 25,000 fishermen are stranded in boats anchored in the port areas of Porbandar, Veraval and Mangrol for the past one week owing to the lockdown. While fishing activity has stopped, these fishermen are not allowed to leave the port and it becoming increasingly difficult for the boat owners and the fishermen association to provide them with food and water. While nearly 15,000 fishermen are stranded at Porbandar port, another 10,000 are stranded at Veraval and Mangrol coasts. These fishermen are mostly natives of south Gujarat from districts like Valsad and Vapi, Una, Delvada, Wanakbori. Some of them also belong to Andhra Pradesh. Talking to TOI, president of Porbandar Machimar Boat Association, Bharat Modi said, “There is no sanitation facility in the boats and we are worried that in this situation the fishermen trapped in boats may get infected with some other diseases. It’s very difficult to provide food and drinking water for so many people.” According to a rough estimate more than 2,000 boats are anchored at the Porbandar port. After the association made a representation to the district collector, they were asked to prepare a list of the fishermen with their Aadhaar numbers and addresses. However, even after submitting the list, the district administration refused to provide GSRTC buses to transport them home, Modi alleged. Veraval and Mangrol coasts are also facing the same problem. President of Akhil Gujarat Machimar Mahamandal, Gopal Fofandi told TOI: “We are representing our situation before the district administration every single day asking them help to send these people to their native, but every entreaty is falling on deaf ears. We, at the association level, are making arrangments for food and water.” Porbandar district collector D N Modi said: “The number of fishermen that have been projected by the association is exaggerated. We had a meeting with the employers of these fishermen and given them responsibility to provide them food.” The fishermen community is the worst hit from the lockdown as the fising season will end on June 10 and they get 70 percent of their annual catch during the period from March to June. They venture into the deep seas for 15 to 21 days and come back to the coasts with big catch. They use ice to keep the catch fresh inside the boat. However, with ice factories closed for the lockdown, there is no ice available to keep the fish fresh. Even the fish processing factories are closed now and so there are no buyers too. The fishermen anchors the boats at Porbandar and Veraval coast as the boat owners stay there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/25k-fishermen-stranded-in-boats-in-gujarat-coasts/articleshow/74938000.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: 151 reach for screening, action likely against 50 absentees||VARANASI: Till the end of three-day time given to people returning from foreign countries to turn up at DDU district hospital for screening on Tuesday, only 141 of 191 such people mentioned in the list provided by the LBS International airport turned up. The district administration decided to wait till Wednesday after which legal action will be taken against those who fail to turn up. Talking to TOI, DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We had received a list of 191 people who had returned from abroad after March 10, by the airport officials. Their turnout at district hospital had started from March 29 and till last date on March 31 a total of 141 reached there.” He said that before starting legal action against the remaining 50 persons, the administration has decided to give time of one more day on Wednesday. The final review of these persons will be conducted on Thursday morning after which legal action would be initiated against them, he added. As per the records of district hospital on March 29 a total of 21 foreign returnees had turned up at the hospital while 58 screened on March 30. Following detection of second Covid-19 positive case on March 28 evening, the administration had made the coronavirus test mandatory for all those who returned from abroad after March 10. People who were already examined at district or BHU hospitals, had been exempted while those who had consulted private hospitals, were also asked to go for this test. DM said that now focus is on all those persons, who have reached Varanasi from other states and districts after March 1. Thermal scanning of 45,299 had been conducted till Tuesday night, he said adding that about 139 persons from other states staying in different ashrams and other places had also been examined. Around 400 persons have been quarantined at shelter homes while 1,419 were asked for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/151-reach-for-screening-action-likely-against-50-absentees/articleshow/74937746.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||BOBROA donates Rs 25L to PM’s relief fund||Rajkot: Bank of Baroda Retired Officers’ Association (BOBROA) donated Rs 25 lakh to the prime minister’s relief fund on Wednesday. “We urge our association members across the country to contribute the minimum amount of Rs 1,000 to the PM’s relief fund before June 30,” said BOBROA general secretary V T Makwana. “If someone wants to contribute a substantial amount and also wants to have ‘tax exemption’, then he may contribute it directly to the PM’s relief fund,” added Makwana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bobroa-donates-rs-25l-to-pms-relief-fund/articleshow/74937940.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh government takes over two hospitals||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has taken over two multi super-speciality hospitals in Indore and Bhopal for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said private hospitals have also been identified in cities like Rewa, Shahdol and Ujjain apart from other districts, to accommodate the corona-affected patients. The state government has also called upon the private doctors to extend their service to the cause and assured to provide protection masks and PPE kits to them. "We have sufficient testing kits for the corona patients. Apart from Bhopal medical college, the government has also taken over Chirayu and Aurobindo private hospitals in Bhopal and Indore respectively. We have also identified some hospitals in Rewa, Shahdol and Ujjain where we can accommodate corona positive cases for immediate treatment," said Chouhan on Wednesday. The chief minister in his radio message on Covid-19 outbreak exhorted the people to fight and defeat the coronavirus through isolation, social distancing and proper treatment. He said that several positive cases have been cured and situation in many areas is normal. However, the government is putting more effort in Indore to control the virus outbreak. "I appeal to the people to follow the guidelines mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to control Coronavirs. We will win this fight. People should not get panicked by the common symptoms of cough and cold. We have controlled several cases. Situation is under control in Bhopal and limping back to normalcy in Gwalior and Jabalpur where patients have successfully recovered," said Chouhan. Praising the contribution of doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, police, municipal and revenue employees and cleaning staff, Chouhan said they are next to the Almighty and dedicating their life for the cause. People should respect and follow their instructions. "We will take care of those who have come from outside and are stranded here after the lockdown. We will take care of them. The state and central governments have also extended the last date of filing property tax, income tax, municipal and other taxes. We have also assured the farmers to keep restraint as the government will soon decide on the procurement of their crops," said Chouhan. The chief minister also launched the radio school programme for school children below class eighth and called upon them to continue their studies through radio school programme till April 14. The chief minister also narrated a story based on epic Mahabharata for the children. The broadcast of the programme was done from 17 centers of Aakashwani and Vivid Bharti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-govt-takes-over-two-hospitals/articleshow/74938993.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Waste from Jamaat headquarters to be burnt at WTE plant||NEW DELHI: Armed with handheld disinfectant sprinklers, a dozen field workers wearing white hazmat suits were seen entering Alami Markaz, the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, on Wednesday afternoon. With the three-day operation to evacuate over 2,300 people lodged in Banglewali Masjid now over, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has initiated the mammoth exercise of disinfecting the six-storey structure that housed many Covid-19-positive patients. Om Prakash, the supervisor heading the team from SDMC’s public health department, said that several inhabitants of the mosque had left their belongings behind making it a challenge to disinfect all surfaces. “People had been staying in the tin sheds on the terrace as well as the basement of the building. We had to sanitise eight floors with disinfectant carried through pipes via the staircase,” he added. Unlike previous drives, where knapsack pumps were deployed, the health department had deployed motor-based sprinklers this time round to cut down on the time taken by the field workers. “We were given gloves, full-body personal protection equipment, masks and goggles. We have never operated like this in our entire life,” a field worker remarked. “The entire structure was disinfected twice. More than 5,000 litres of disinfectant in the form of 1% sodium hypochlorite bleach solution was sprayed on the surfaces and furniture inside the building,” said a senior senior official. The building was sealed after the clean-up exercise to prevent access to common people. Sanitation superintendent KC Bharadwaj said, “A truckload of municipal waste was generated over the last few days and all of it has been handed over to DDSIL, the private concessionaire handling garbage. It is being treated as biomedical hazardous waste and will be incinerated at the Okhla waste-to-energy plant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-from-jamaat-hq-to-be-burnt-at-wte-plant/articleshow/74939003.cms||Paras Singh
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Man in Jaipur with no travel history or contact with Covid-19 patients tests positive||JAIPUR: SN Medical College doctors in Jodhpur were surprised and shocked when a person with no travel history and without any known source of contact with a Covid-19 partient tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. The 65-year-old man had walked to the hospital with breathing problems. Suspecting him to be a Covid-19 patient, they admitted him and tested his samples which turned out to be positive. “The 65-year-old patient came to MDM Hospital’s OPD just like we recieve routine patients. The doctors examined him clinically. They immediately suspected him as a Covid-19 patient. However, since he told us that he did not have any travel history and Jdoes not know anyone who tested positive, it was unlikely that he would have the virus in him. But, his report shocked us as he tested positive,” Dr GL Meena, principal and controller, SN Medical College, Jodhpur said. Since it is first such case, health department officials rushed to Mansurai area to find out from where he got infected. “He has no history of travelling to foreign countries nor any contact history with anyone positive patient,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). So far, all the 120 persons tested positive, excluding the 65-year-old patient of Jodhpur, have history of travelling abroad or they have a history of coming in contact with Covid-19 patients. Taking it seriously, the state government issued direction to all government hospitals to conduct random testing at OPD with complaints of respiratory diseases. Acting on the order, hospitals have started testing patients with respiratory diseases to ensure that the virus has not entered at the community level. “From today (Wednesday), we have started testing of patients who have complaints of respiratory diseases,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent, JK Lon, Hospital, Jaipur. Besides, SMS Hospital has also started testing patients coming there with respiratory illness especially pneumonia, said Dr DS Meena, medical superintendent of the hospital. Health minister Raghu Sharma said they are taking all possible measures to prevent Covid-19 enter at the community level. He said the health department has identified 2,000 people so far who were in direct contact with Covid-19 patients. However, the major cause of worry, which doctors treating Covid-19 patients at the SMS Hospital have pointed out, is that almost 70% of cases tested positive did not show any symptoms such as fever or cough. “Also, four patients brought from Ajmer are all asymptomatic,” said a hospital official. These asymptomatic Covid-19 patients were carrying the virus, but were not aware of that, as they did not have any symptoms. “The Covid-19 patients without any symptoms can spread the virus to others. They need to be tracked as early as possible and need to be isolated,” said a doctor deployed in Bhilwara. Bhilwara district collector Rajendra Bhatt has started measures to find out if the virus has entered at the community level. Finding asymptomatic cases during contact tracing has indicated that there is a need for an intensified screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-with-no-travel-history-or-contact-with-covid-19-patients-tests-positive/articleshow/74939569.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fewer food delivery orders as people prefer ghar ka khana||PUNE: Online food ordering platforms Swiggy and Zomato have been allowed to deliver food to customers from restaurants, but the delivery partners are worried as orders have dipped significantly during the lockdown. "We get weekly payments based on the number of deliveries made. In the last couple of days, I have delivered food to just three households. A large number of people seem to be content eating home-cooked food. This is a cause for worry for us," a delivery executive told TOI on Wednesday. Shipla Ketkar, a homemaker, convinced her two children that it was safe to eat home-cooked food during the current situation. "They were pleading with me to order pizza for them. Swiggy, which we generally use, has been sending a lot of notifications about the safety and hygiene standards maintained by delivery executives. They have started initiatives like no-contact delivery and also listed some eateries, which follow the ‘best safety standards’. But I am not convinced," she said. Another delivery executive said that they were being careful. "We are wearing masks and gloves all the time. However, the management of various housing societies are against deliveries right now and people aren’t ordering much at present. Moreover, not all eateries have opened. We stop near the society gate and wait for customers to come and collect their orders. In the last two days, I made only four deliveries," he said. A self-employed woman, who lives at Sai Dwarkamai Society in Kondhwa, said, "My husband was craving for a burger the other day and we ended up having an argument. How can I be assured of the safety standards maintained by restaurants when there are so many positive cases in Pune? Why take any risk at this point in time?" she said. "There has been a short-term impact in terms of softening in volumes, which can be attributed to the shortage of supply due to temporary closure of many high-volume restaurants located in malls and disruptions on ground across certain states. However, Swiggy is working with local governments to remain operational and extend our support during these testing times, especially to the customers in need," a spokesperson told TOI. "Swiggy on its part has taken necessary precautions to enable its delivery partners to follow the World Health Organisation hygiene practices while maintaining social distancing. In tandem, we are also in touch with various national and city-specific retail chains to enable the delivery of groceries and daily essentials. Some of these pilots are already underway and we plan to scale them across cities during the next 7 - 10 days," the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-food-delivery-orders-as-people-prefer-ghar-ka-khana/articleshow/74939567.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 2, 2020||Pune||Restriction puts water projects on slow track||PUNE: The residents will have to wait further for any improvement in water supply. Work on the Pune Municipal Corporation’s two crucial projects —- the 24X7 equitable water supply and Bhama Askhed water pipeline — has come to a standstill because of the lockdown. The Bhama Askhed project, expected to provide 2.8TMC additional water to the eastern parts of Pune city, was expected to be complete by March end. But it has now been delayed by another two months. The work of laying pipelines and construction of overhead water tanks under the 24X7 equitable water supply has slowed down due to the non-availability of labourers. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that the work has not progressed at the construction sites of both the projects in the last two weeks and chances of any improvement in the situation in the next couple of weeks are slim. In December 2019, while addressing queries raised by corporators in the general body meeting of PMC, the water supply department said that work of Bhama Askhed project was in the last stages and all major work would be completed by March end. Later in January this year, district guardian minister Ajit Pawar asked the PMC and district administration to complete the land acquisition and compensation work in a month. Officials said that both projects were yet to be completed and laying of pipeline in some stretches had not been finished. “It is unlikely that both the projects will gain momentum soon. We will draw up plans to expedite the work once the restrictions are over. However, as of now no one can predict when the situation will normalise,” an official said. Construction of over 15 overhead water tanks out of the 82 for the 24x7 water supply has not started because of unavailability of land. The civic body has appealed to the owners to handover the plots to expedite the project by initiating talks. The project is expected to be complete by 2023. “We have already laid pipeline on over 200km out of 1,700 km. The administration will ensure that the time lost during the lockdown is compensated,” official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restriction-puts-water-projects-on-slow-track/articleshow/74939576.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Safai workers under lens too||NEW DELHI: The uncovering of India’s biggest corona hotspot so far has raised questions about the safety of sanitation workers. The garbage collectors and sanitation workers who were deployed near Nizamuddin Basti and the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters could also have come in contact with the contaminated waste, say health officials. While SDMC is yet to take a call on their isolation, the sanitation workers union has demanded the entire duty roster and garbage transport chain be probed and all the workers involved in garbage lifting from the area over the past few weeks be home-quarantined and tested. A senior south corporation official said that nobody was aware that corona positive people were staying at Markaz. “No SDMC worker has shown any flu-like symptoms so far,” he claimed. “As of now, all workers in question are doing their duties,” another official added. Delhi Safai Karamchari Association president, Sanjay Gahlot, said that the municipal commissioner should take a lead in getting the employees tested so that their families and neighbours can be safe. “Several sanitation workers still do not have any protective gear. SDMC should track all those who lifted the garbage, who dealt with it in dhalaos and who transported it to landfill or energy plant,” Gahlot added. Meanwhile, many RWAs in neighbouring areas have started asking private waste pickers not to come to their localities. On Tuesday, the RWA at Jangpura Extension decided not to allow private garbage collectors because “these collectors have direct or indirect link with Nizamuddin Basti”. Similar concerns are now being raised in Nizammudin East and West areas. When contacted, standing committee chairman Bhupender Gupta said that if there is any possibility that workers would have come in contact with the waste generated by the corona positive patients, then they should be kept in home isolation. "I will talk to the department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safai-workers-under-lens-too/articleshow/74939000.cms||Paras Singh
April 2, 2020||Agra||BJP MP’s 40-strong group ‘inspects’ isolation ward in Hathras||Agra: Giving two hoots to calls for social distancing in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, a group of 40-odd BJP functionaries, led by Hathras MP Rajveer Singh Diler, landed at Hathras district hospital on Wednesday to inspect its isolation ward.The inspection came even as two suspected Covid-19 patients were admitted in the ward, confirmed health officials. The duo’s samples have been sent to the lab for testing and reports are awaited.Hathras MP, however, denied flouting norms of social distancing and told TOI on Wednesday that he maintained distance of 1.5 metres with local administrative officials and other BJP functionaries, including MLAs, district president and others. “We follow the directions given by the PM and someone is trying to misinterpret our visit,” he added.Diler added that he visited the district hospital to check the hospital’s preparedness for Covid-19 cases and then went to Iglas community health centre, where he found some discrepancies. “I have directed the CMO to ensure better hygiene and maintenance,” he said, adding that he is trying to arrange two ventilators for the district.When contacted, Hathras DM, Pravin Kumar Lakshkar, who was also present there along with SSP, CMO, claimed that only five to six people, including BJP MP Diler, were present for inspection and the remaining were media persons. “We have maintained social distancing during their visit,” he said, adding that the MP has come to take stock of preparations by the district authorities.The photos and videos from the location, though, belie the claims of both the MP and the DM. The group led by the MP, with masks on their faces, can be seen walking at close proximity in the narrow corridors of the hospital. They can be even seen to be crowding in a small room and talking to officials there.According to a recent study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the number of cases in India can be reduced by 62%, provided proper social distancing and quarantine measures are effectively implemented and adhered to. Researchers said that social distancing is said to be the most effective tool against the Covid-19 pandemic as the world still awaits an effective vaccine against the virus.Since the 21-day nationwide lockdown orders issued by the government of India on March 25, authorities as well as citizens are trying to ensure that distancing rules are upheld in public spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-mps-40-strong-group-inspects-isolation-ward-in-hathras/articleshow/74938010.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||82-year-old draws CM’s praise for donating Rs1 L to relief fund||Bhopal: An 82-year-old retired school education department employee from Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha city donated Rs1 lakh from her pension fund to the state government in its efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Like many others, octogenarian Salbha Uskar, too, was extremely worried about the deadly virus and had been in lockdown since it was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week. While reading updates on the issue in newspapers, she came across the news on Chief Minister's Relief Fund. She rang up nodal officer Vinay Prakash Singh whose number was given in the paper and expressed her desire to donate some money. Singh asked her to remain at home and promised her to send someone at her doorstep to collect the donation. When her cheque reached him, he too was surprised. Unlike many others, she preferred to remain silent and did not want any media coverage on her initiative, said an administrative officer. The local media came to know about the matter through the administration, which praised her efforts. "After seeing the current situation, I decided to extend my help. I urge people to honour the lockdown and follow the government’s order on a war-footing," Uskar was heard saying in a video shared by the public relations department. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, too, shared the video saying, “Maa Tujhe Salam. Salbha Uskar, an 82- year-old woman from Vidisha, donated Rs1 lakh from her pension to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. This invaluable blessing of a mother has boosted my confidence in the fight against the coronavirus epidemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/82-year-old-draws-cms-praise-for-donating-rs1-l-to-relief-fund/articleshow/74939008.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Man turns social worker, provides 7k masks to motorists, cops||Trichy: A 28-year-old man, from Woraiyur in Trichy, has volunteered to help in spreading awareness against the Covid-19 and help people by providing masks to people, policemen and sanitary workers. G Saravanakumar, a computer trainer, stands at different traffic signals every day along with the traffic police personnel to spread awareness about the deadly virus. He has claimed to have distributed over 7,000 masks and around 1,500 empty hand spray bottles for storing disinfectants to the motorists, policemen and sanitary workers in the past eight days after closing his training centre since the curfew was imposed on March 24. “Social service has always been a part of my life. Usually, I would take up some social service in our area with the support of my students in the computer training class. On seeing the callous attitude of people when it comes to fighting Covid-19, I felt the need for creating awareness among the people,” said Saravanakumar while distributing masks to the motorists at the MGR statue signal on Wednesday. Armed with a Covid-19 essential service duty pass issued by the district administration, he would intercept the motorists on the road at Chathiram bus stand, Puthur four-road junction, near Airport, No 1 Toll gate, Toll plaza near Samayapuram and several other places, and hand over masks. He would provide a drop of hand sanitizer to the motorists asking them to rub it on their hands before giving them a mask. Saravanakumar claimed that he purchased the masks from Karur and Tiruppur. The reason for giving empty spray bottles is to help people fill the bottles with disinfectants and spray in their places, he said. “As soon as I purchased the masks, I sanitized them by spraying disinfectants to avoid any possible infection to the people using them,” said Saravanakumar adding that he had also provided around 500 bottles of 100 ml sanitizers during the period to people. Though he gave masks, bottles and sanitizers to motorists, he kept the policemen and sanitary workers on priority list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-turns-social-worker-provides-7k-masks-to-motorists-cops/articleshow/74939572.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Dhanvantari special yagam performed in Malakottai||Trichy: Dhanvantari special yagam was performed AT Manickavinayagar Sannidhi of Malaikottai in Trichy on Wednesday. Recently, Jambukeswarar Temple, Thiruvanaikaval, had also performed the yagam. Total eight priests performed the yagam for world peace and safety of mankind from Covid-19. D Nagarajan of the temple said that the yagam was organized based on the directions from commissioner, Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department. A temple priest, who performed the rituals, said that Dhanvantari is the lord of health and medicines and it is believed that the rituals will help bring solution to the Covid-19 menace that the entire world is battling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dhanvantari-special-yagam-performed-in-malakottai/articleshow/74939580.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Nizamuddin: An area in legal strife for long||NEW DELHI: From being unable to clear parking mess, shut illegal guesthouses, or stop unauthorised construction near protected monuments, the Nizamuddin area has long been in the focus of courts hearing public interest matters. In the past few years, the Supreme Court and Delhi high court have castigated Delhi Police and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for major violations in the zone that has world famous monuments like Humayun’s Tomb and the Nizamuddin dargah and tourist attractions such as Sunder Nursery. While most people are shocked that a Covid-19 hotspot emerged in the capital, local activists, lawyers and those familiar with the area see it as something that fits a pattern of violations. A stone’s throw from the local police station, the roundabout is situated on one of the most crucial arterial road linking central Delhi to east and south districts and sees traffic flow from all directions. In 2018, the Supreme Court had to point out how encroachers had a field day right under police’s nose as illegally parked autos, bikes and cars blocked even the Nizamuddin police station’s entrance. “At least clear your own backyard,” the SC judges told the police commissioner giving this example while underlining that just outside the building, junked vehicles had become breeding grounds for mosquitos, and were fuelling congestion on Mathura Road and beyond. Last year, the area was again in focus when SDCM tried to pull wool over the eyes of the Chief Justice of Delhi high court in a PIL filed by the Jamia Arabia Nizamia Welfare Educational Society. Claiming it had taken strict action in removing encroachments and easing traffic congestion, the corporation had shown an empty plastic bottle, ice box, soft drinks trolley, plastic stool and a broken chair as “evidence” of how seriously it took the court’s orders. A furious then Chief Justice Rajendra Menon directed the SDMC commissioner and the DCP traffic to appear with an explanation. Soon a proper drive was carried out to end traffic congestion on Mathura Road, near Humayun’s Tomb, Neela Gumbad and Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah. They demolished 42 temporary sheds, sealed two illegal kiosks and removed a number of vending carts, iron benches, tables, iron grilles and boards, refrigerators and other articles. Last year, the local police informed the court that the lieutenant governor had formed a special task force on decongestion and parking in the area. It also claimed to have cracked down on unauthorised guesthouses near the dargah and booked hundreds of vehicle owners for illegal parking. Police had even conceded that they had found 69 illegal guesthouses in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nizamuddin-an-area-in-legal-strife-for-long/articleshow/74939017.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Ensure social distancing, says lieutenant governor Anil Baijal||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday asked Delhi Fire Service (DFS) to disinfect vulnerable hotspots using the fire engines. During a video conference with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his cabinet colleagues and senior officers of Delhi government and police, the LG also directed the agencies to ensure that the norms of social distancing were adhered to at all locations, which witness congregation of people. The meeting was called to review enforcement of the lockdown to prevent novel coronavirus from spreading in the national capital and medical preparedness of various government agencies. Though civic bodies had been engaging workers to disinfect the vulnerable locations, officials said deployment of fire engines for the activity would ensure that larger area was covered in lesser time. The exercise would be carried out in direct supervision of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The civic agencies at present disinfect vulnerable neighbourhoods especially hotspots in the vicinity of quarantine centres, public places and pockets where people had been asked to remain home quarantined either because of their travel history or by virtue of coming in contact with Corona patients or suspects. Nizamuddin West, Dilshad Garden, Tughlaqabad railway colony and pockets where quarantine facilities had been set up were some areas identified as hotspots and vulnerable neighbourhoods. Officials said Baijal also directed the administration to ensure complete lockdown. “He ordered for extensive contact tracking of all affected people and compliance of home quarantine cases and advised the use of technology for the purpose. He also directed DDMA to take concerted preventive action and monitor home quarantine cases, social distancing and facilitate availability of food and shelter to the destitute and stranded persons,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ensure-social-distancing-lg/articleshow/74939014.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Opting for EMI moratorium? Be ready to pay more||MUMBAI: It is not just three equated monthly instalments (EMIs) that will get added to your home loan repayments if you choose to go in for a moratorium. Asking borrowers to defer EMIs only if they have no cash, banks have said that interest for the three months would get compounded if not repaid at the end of the period. This could lead to the borrowers paying for several months more depending on the length of their loans and whether they pre-pay. In an illustration of how the moratorium would work, State Bank of India said that for a loan of Rs 30 lakh with a remaining maturity of 15 years, the net additional interest would be approximately Rs 2.34 lakh—equal to 8 EMIs. For a loan of Rs 6 lakh with a remaining maturity of 54 months, the additional interest payable would be around Rs 19,000, equal to an additional 1.5 EMIs. This is assuming there is no pre-payment or change in the interest rate. SBI also said that the bank would, as default, debit the customer’s account unless it is asked not to. “The moratorium facility is available for all borrowers. A call should be taken based on how desperately you need this,” said C S Setty, MD, SBI. If the customer does not have balance in his account and the standing instructions for debit fail, the bank will treat it as an exercise of the moratorium option. Borrowers have been advised to give instructions in advance to stall the debit, even if they have no money because the bank where they have their savings account might charge them for failure of standing instruction. ICICI Bank has adopted a dual policy where for some category of loans it will make the acceptance of moratorium as default; for other categories it will continue to debit the customer’s account as a default option. The bank said that the differentiation was based on the amount of stress in the sector. For instance, for loans like home, auto and personal, it expects that most customers would continue to repay and the default option will continue to debit the account. In other categories like Kisan Credit Card, self-help groups, farm equipment loans, small business loans, and trade advances to auto dealers among other categories, it will grant an automatic moratorium. Last Friday, RBI allowed lenders to give borrowers a break in their EMIs to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. The condition was that the instalments would be recovered at the end of the moratorium. Kotak Mahindra Bank said that it would by default present the post-dated cheques and activate the electronic clearing system (ECS) or national automated clearing house (NACH). “Customers that are desirous of availing the relief under the RBI circular should send a communication to the bank within seven days (or an extended date as may be permitted by the bank) from their first due date,” Kotak Mahindra Bank said. HDFC Bank said it would continue the collection of EMIs unless otherwise instructed by the customer. “The start point of the benefit of the moratorium is when the customer approaches the bank or there is non-payment of dues now or in the normal course of business,” the bank said. It added that while no changes will be made by the bank to the customer’s repayment instructions, the bank will understand that customer has opted for a moratorium if he skips paying his EMI during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/opting-for-emi-moratorium-be-ready-to-pay-more/articleshow/74940137.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Police find 100 Tablighi Jamaat attendees; FIR lodged against madrassa operator||VARANASI: The combing operation launched by police in 10 districts of Varanasi zone following presence of people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in the month of March, has led to detection of around 100 persons till Wednesday evening. Azamgarh police lodged an FIR against a madrassa operator in Mubarakpur area for sheltering Tabhligi Jamaat event returnees without reporting the mater to police. This exercise of police also made it clear that a large number of people are also camping in many districts of zone after attending other Markaz in different parts of the country. Most of these people are from west UP districts or other states and they have taken shelter in houses and madrassas in rural belts. On Tuesday, 57 including 25 Bangladeshi Tabhligi Jamaat returnees were quarantined in Jaunpur and Bhadohi districts. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Police in all 10 districts of zone are carrying out combing operation to detect the persons returned not only from Delhis Tablighi Jamaat event but other markazs in different cities of the country. The figures are accumulating with progress in this operation. Regarding people who left districts including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Sonbhadra and Azamgarh to attend Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi, Bhushan said so far 11 persons have come to light who had gone to Delhi from these four districts and only two of Azamgarh had returned while others have not returned. While searching people returned from Delhi, the Ghazipur police found 11 Tablighi Jamaat returnees while 15 such people were detected in Mau district, he said adding, people who returned from different cities of country after attending other markaz are also been searched and made quarantine. SP Mau Anurag Arya said a total of 117 people, who have reached the district in past one month after attending different markaz events, had been searched so far and asked for home home quarantine. Of these, he said 15 had returned from Delhi on March 10 and 14 on March 14. They all were found in different areas under the limits of Mohammadabad police station. SP Azamgarh Triveni Singh said during search operation of Mubarakpur police, seven persons returned from Tablighi Jamaat event were found in a madrassa in Nayepul Sikati area. These persons had reached Azamgarh on February 12 and the madrassa operator had arranged accommodation for them in various houses. Officials ensured sanitisation of madrassa while all the persons were home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-find-100-jamaat-attendees-fir-lodged-against-madrassa-operator/articleshow/74937767.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||Scared, but never lost faith in God: Cured patient||Patna: Anitha Vinod, a 45- year-old home-maker in Patna, has become the first person in the state to be fully cured of coronavirus (Covid- 19) infection. She was discharged from AIIMS-Patna on Monday.  Speaking from her Polson Road home in Digha, Anitha shared her experience of dealing with her fears and battling the virus to emerge unscathed keeping her unwavering faith in God. “I got scared when the first report came on March 22. But this did not shake my belief in God. I’m a religious person and have faith in God. Even in my quarantine period I used to read Bible to tackle my loneliness,” she said. Trying to recall how she ended up with the virus that has the whole world in its grip, she recounted that she had returned from Nepal on March 8 and met her elder son Vivin, who had returned from Italy, in Patna, “Vivin returned home from Pisa via Rome and Delhi on March 5. Following the protocol for containment of Covid-19 virus, he was kept under two week home isolation till March 18. He also went through medical screenings at Delhi and Rome airports,” she recalled. Vivin (21) is doing his masters in economics from the University of Pisa and her younger son Vytik Vinod (19) is doing his BCom from St Xavier’s College, Digha. Anitha, a home-maker and her husband Vinod Venkatraman, a social worker and Bible teacher, had gone to Nepal on March 2 and returned on March 8. “Before we went to Nepal, we asked our son Vivin to return home due to the Covid-19 outbreak in Italy. On March 16, I developed cold and mild fever after which, we decided to test our samples for Covid- 19 on March 20. My son’s report came negative while mine was positive, which was received on March 22,” she said. “During my isolation at AIIMS-Patna, my family members were also in self- quarantine from March 20 in 3 different rooms. We only saw each other via video- calls on mobile phones. The other seven relatives, whom I met after returning from Nepal, were also put in home quarantine after I provided the details about them to the health department. Their samples were also collected by the officials, which came negative,” said Anitha. She thanked all health department officials for their timely action for containment of the virus. “The doctors and the nurses at AIIMS-Patna were very friendly. When I got bored, they talked to me and encouraged me. From time-to-time, they gave me antibiotics, anti-viral medicines and paracetamol for fever and hot water for gurgling,” she said. After two tests in a span of 24 hours confirmed she was negative, Anitha was discharged from AIIMS-Patna on March 30. She is on 14-day home quarantine now. "It's good to be back to home," she said with palpable excitement. In her message to other Covid-19 positive patients, Anitha said they should follow the advice of doctors and health experts and should never get scared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scared-but-never-lost-faith-in-god-cured-patient/articleshow/74930293.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man isolated at Medical College Hospital dies of MDR-TB in Pudukottai||TRICHY: A 47-year-old man in the isolation ward at Pudukottai Medical College Hospital, who was tested negative for Covid-19, died on Wednesday. The patient, suffering from tuberculosis, was admitted to the hospital on Monday. Speaking to TOI, Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari said that the patient was suffering from Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). The patient had developed drug resistance, which made his disease incurable that eventually led to his death, she said. The patient was admitted to the isolation ward with cough and breathing problem. He was taken to the isolation ward as he returned from Singapore on March 13. As a precautionary measure, his swab was also sent for test and he was tested negative on Tuesday. While he was shifted from the isolation ward to the other block on Wednesday morning, he developed health complications and died without responding to treatment, said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-isolated-at-mch-dies-of-mdr-tb-in-pudukottai/articleshow/74939591.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fisheries ministry may compensate fishermen||VISAKHAPATNAM: Around 50,000 fishermen from the district and another 60,000 from other parts of the state are likely to receive compensation from the ministry of fisheries for the ban imposed on deep sea fishing till April 14. However, the amount is yet to be decided. Joint secretary in the fisheries ministry J Balaji on Wednesday wrote to the state fisheries department seeking details of the number of fishermen, workers and vendors affected due to the lockdown. “We are preparing a list of fishermen, vendors and those associated with hatcheries. There are around 50,000 from the district affected by the ban,” K Phani Prakash, joint fisheries director told TOI. Meanwhile, members of fishermen associations have claimed there are around 1 lakh fishermen in the state who the state government gives a compensation of Rs 10,000 each every year during the mandatory 61-day ban. “It’s a good gesture by the Union government to help the fishermen during such a crisis,” said Arijili Dasu, executive director of a fishermen association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fisheries-ministry-may-compensate-fishermen/articleshow/74938023.cms||Arpit Basu
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Ponmalai railway workshop makes steel hospital cots||Trichy: Ponmalai Railway Workshop has manufactured steel hospital cots for Railway hospital in Ponmalai and Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital in Chennai as an enmergency looms due to t growing Covid-19 cases. As of now, a total of 80 steel cots have been made at the workshop on Wednesday. Of them, 60 will be despatched to the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital in Chennai and the remaining 20 for Ponmalai workshop hospital, officials said. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, entire workshop was shut after the announcement of 21-day lockdown. However, a team of about 20 technical personnel were called for carrying out the work. As all the raw material was there at the workshop, the technical personnel completed the work within few days, they added. In the first phase, the team completed 60 cots and then the remaining 20 on Wednesday. It may be recalled that the workshop has converted a coach as an isolation ward accommodating 9 patients. The isolation coach would be sent either to Chennai or may be retained at Ponmalai itself, officials added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ponmalai-railway-workshop-makes-steel-hospital-cots/articleshow/74939590.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Pudukottai residents get vegetable packs for Rs 100 at doorstep||TRICHY: To prevent people from crowding at vegetable markets, the cooperative department in Pudukottai has started selling vegetable on doorsteps of consumers in the town. People can buy a vegetable pack from the salesmen for Rs 100 and remain indoors during the lockdown. District officials in Trichy had established vegetable markets at various places and closed down congested markets to maintain social distance. Each pack contains onion, tomato, two varieties of vegetables, a coconut, dhal, urad dhal, pepper, cumin, and fenugreek. After inaugurating the sales, district collector Uma Maheshwari said that similar packs containing 13 varieties of essentials are being sold for Rs 150 at Uzhavar Santhai in Pudukottai town. As both traders and the general public have failed in maintaining social distance for the first two or three days of lockdown, district collector S Sivarasu has ordered to close down the Gandhi market, Woraiyur market and instructed the horticulture and agriculture marketing officials to open vegetable markets in grounds. New markets have been opened at Central bus stand in Trichy, Mathuram Grounds at East Boulevard Road, near Anna Stadium, Cauvery bridge, SIT polytechnic grounds at Ariyamangalam, Bishop Heber College grounds at Puthur, Boys Higher Secondary School Grounds at Srirangam. “Since the number of vegetable outlets is very minimal, customers can maintain social distance,” officials said. Meanwhile, the agriculture marketing authorities in Thanjavur has planned to sell vegetable packs at their outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-residents-get-vegetable-packs-for-rs-100-at-doorstep/articleshow/74939581.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||EFLU-Hyderabad students collect funds for migrants||HYDERABAD: The English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) students’ union began collecting funds from students to help thousands of migrant workers with food and travel expenses. They are collecting funds through online donations, which will be transferred to social workers or NGOs that are working for the betterment of migrant workers. “Migrant workers have been in difficulty since the beginning of the lockdown. There are thousands of workers walking to their villages as they are completely dependent on their daily wages. As a privileged group leading comfortable quarantine, we felt that it is our responsibility to help the needy,” read a notice from the student union, EFLU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-students-collect-funds-for-migrants/articleshow/74939592.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Agra||Mathura, Firozabad cops make masks, sanitisers for colleagues||Agra: Amid the acute shortage of hand sanitisers and face masks during the Covid-19 outbreak, Mathura and Firozabad police have come together with a unique initiative to manufacture the same to keep their colleagues in ‘khaki’ safe. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, ADG Agra zone, Ajay Anand said, “It is a commendable job by the two district police force. Over 6,000 men in ‘khaki’ are working round the clock in eight districts of our zone –Agra, Firozabad, Mathura, Mainpuri, Aligarh, Hathras, Etah and Kasganj — but the shortage of masks and sanitisers was posing a health hazard for them. So, Mathura and Firozabad cops took up the task to fulfil this requirement and set up a manufacturing unit at their respective police lines to produce masks made of cloth, which is washable, while the hand sanitisers are of good quality.” Over 5,000 units of masks and hand sanitiser bottles have been distributed among the cops till now, said the police. Meanwhile, after intervention of ADG Ajay Anand, 50 migrant workers of Bihar, stuck in Hoshiarpur of Noida were provided food and water on Wednesday by Noida district administration. Both Noida commissioner Alok Singh and newly-appointed DM Suhas LY sent their men to ensure that all men receive adequate food and drinking water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-firozabad-cops-make-masks-sanitisers-for-colleagues/articleshow/74938026.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Agra||Father of US returnee student tests +ve for Covid-19||Agra: The 54-year-old father of a US returnee student, who was tested Covid-19 positive on March 26, has found to be infected as well. This is the 12th case of Covid-19 reported in Agra, on Wednesday.The father is said to be a doctor and owner of a nursing home. Both the father-son due are being treated at the quarantine facility of SN Medical College. Teams from the health department are conducting screening of people living within a three-kilometre radius of the doctor’s residence and nursing home. Health condition of the family’s contacts, nursing home staff and patients admitted are also being monitored.On March 27, Agra police had booked the 22-year-old student and his father for not following quarantine protocol and failing to alert authorities after the former’s return from the US. On orders of district magistrate Prabhu N Singh, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule).According to sources, the asymptomatic youth was pursuing his under graduation in the US and had boarded a flight for New Delhi international airport from New York. He landed on the night of March 20, and after screening, left for Agra along with his father early on March 21.A copy of the FIR read, “After reaching Agra, the youth did not follow quarantine protocol and stayed with his parents. On March 25, the youth complained of severe throat pain and he reached district hospital with his father to provide samples for test. Next day, he was found Covid-19 positive.”Chief medical officer of Agra district, Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The student’s father has now been tested Covid-19 positive. Both are being treated at the quarantine facility at SN Medical College. At least 10 people, including family members, staff and other patients, have been quarantined in the nursing home owned by the father. Our teams are conducting screening of people living within three-kilometre radius of their house. The family’s contacts have been asked to remain at home for 14 days.”District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 12 positive cases have surfaced in Agra. Out of these, eight people have been cured of the disease and are quarantined at home. Four are being treated at SN Medical College. On Wednesday, 55 people were screened while samples of 47 were sent for lab testing. Reports are likely to be out by Thursday evening. People are advised not to step out of their houses without a valid reason.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/father-of-us-returnee-student-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/74938025.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 2, 2020||Agra||District admin warns residents to share travel history||Agra: The district administration on Wednesday issued a warning for people who have returned from foreign trips on or after March 12, to prevent spread of coronavirus. Such people are required to share their travel history with the administration by 7pm today. DM Prabhu N Singh said legal action will be taken against those hiding their foreign travel history and later found with coronavirus infection. So far, 12 Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in Agra, all of which are related to people who have returned from foreign trips. “People with recent foreign travel history are compulsorily required to share details on WhatsApp number 9458429778. Details, including name of country visited, date of return, mode of transportation and number of co-passengers has to be shared by 7pm on Thursday. We’ll take legal action against coronavirus suspects hiding their travel history,” the DM said. Meanwhile, Agra Police and health department quarantined 104 people, including 31 who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, the rest being out-of-state residents lodged in eight Agra mosques. All of them were shifted to a temporary quarantine facility set up in a resort in Sikandra. Health department teams are collecting their samples for lab tests. According to Agra zone data compiled by police, 32 people who had attended the congregation in Delhi were traced to Mathura, 12 to Hathras, 10 each to Mainpuri and Firozabad, six to Aligarh and three to Etah. On Wednesday, the district administration also released a helpline number for poor and helpless people needing supply of cooked food. The DM said, “With the help of civil society groups, we’ve made all arrangements for supply of cooked food to street dwellers, poor and helpless people. The needy ones need to call the district control room by dialing 0562-2454209, police control room at 9454458046 or the nodal officer at 9639555540. The cooked food will be delivered at their doorstep in a time-bound manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/district-admin-warns-residents-to-share-travel-history/articleshow/74938017.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 2, 2020||Trichy||2 Tablighi meet participants among 3 Covid-19 positive in Karur, Tiruvarur||Trichy: Three more people including two attendees of the Nizamuddin Tablighi conference tested positive for Covid-19 in Tiruvarur and Karur districts in the central region of the state on Wednesday. So far 97 participants of the congregation have been identified in Trichy. The latest bulletin from the ministry of health and family welfare confirmed that a 58-year-old man from Thogaimalai in Karur tested positive for Covid-19. Source said that he was also a participant of Tablighi conference. He was admitted to the government hospital in Kulithalai, Karur a few days ago. Later, he was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), Trichy and is undergoing treatment at the isolation ward. A 42-year-old man of Kulithalai, who had returned from the conference, tested positive for Covid-19 earlier in Karur district. He was being treated at the government medical college hospital in Karur and 29 more participants of the conference were isolated in wards pending test results. Wednesday’s results also revealed Covid-19 infection in two people who have been isolated at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur. One among them is a 66-year-old Tiruvarur-based man said to have attended the Tablighi meet. Another one was a 42-year-old Burmese national. He is also being treated at the government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur. The public health department and the district administration were tight-lipped about the travel history of the patient. In Trichy, a total of 107 Muslim men have been admitted to MGMGH Trichy late on Tuesday and early on Wednesday. Except 10 people who claimed to have toured Delhi, the rest were participants of the Tablighi Jamaat conference. While some of them came forward for testing, several others have been identified by the public health and preventive medicine department. Trichy district administration said that they were the residents of Thuvarankurichi, Puthanatham, Inamkulathur, Lalgudi, Thuraiyur, Karattampatti, and South Eachampatti. MGMGH administration took samples of 43 of them for testing. Trichy district administration has appealed to people to report to 1077 helpline in case of information about any of the Tablighi meet participants in their areas. In Pudukottai, ten participants of the conference admitted to the government hospital in Aranthangi tested negative. But they were still quarantined, said a public health department officer. On Wednesday, three more attendees of the conference came forward for treatment. An official said that they had no symptoms. An official in Ariyalur district said that five people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been identified. They were the natives of Ariyalur and Sendhurai area. They have been isolated at the government hospital in Ariyalur. Perambalur district so far had only one participant who has been kept at the isolation ward in government hospital in Perambalur. The result of his blood sample was yet to be out. (With inputs from K Sambath Kumar and D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-tablighi-meet-participants-among-3-covid-19-positive-in-karur-tiruvarur/articleshow/74939598.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Give Covid-19 test results in 48 hrs, not 4 days, private labs told||MUMBAI: The state has directed private laboratories to speed up testing of Covid-19 samples to produce results within 48 hours or less from the up to four days it takes now. One of the eight private laboratories in the state has also been pulled up for the quality of swab tests done to check for the virus, said health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday. Delay in results, said doctors, adds to the anxiety of suspected patients. Private laboratories, though, cite shortage of kits as well as swab material in the market for the delay in conducting tests. While admitting to the shortage of kits, Tope said, “We have asked private laboratories not to collect swabs if they do not have enough testing kits.” The majority of tests in Mumbai are performed by public sector labs at Kasturba, KEM and JJ hospitals and Haffkine Institute. So far, highest number of samples tested on a single day in the city is 1,203. Testing facilities have gradually been scaled up in the city over the past few weeks to allay fears that the extent of testing was not in proportion to the spread of the infection. However, private laboratories began collecting samples despite not having adequate testing kits, leading to a bottleneck. BMC commissioner Pravin Pardeshi on Sunday asked private laboratories not to collect samples until they could balance out the number of tests with the kits they procure on a daily basis. Thereafter, for three days, most private laboratories did not collect samples. Dr Nilesh Shah of Metropolis Laboratory said it resumed testing on Wednesday. “There is a shortage of kits, swabs and reagents, vendors are unable to get adequate numbers,” he said, adding the situation could improve soon. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani also said private labs have been asked to wait till they have enough testing kits. Private doctors are unhappy though. Respiratory physician Dr Sujeet Rajan, who consults with Bhatia Hospital, said lab reports initially needed a turnaround time of 24 hours that got extended as the workload increased. “Now reports take up to 72 hours,” he said, adding patients of chronic lung disease bear the brunt. “Most have symptoms that mimic coronavirus and are hence quarantined with other Covid-19 suspect cases. They spend two to three days with other suspect cases as a result, and could end up getting the infection,” he said. Physician Dr Pratit Samdani said, “The test shouldn’t take 48 hours or more. As physicians, we cannot start treating if patients are asymptomatic. In such situations, a report helps us decide the next course of action,” he said. The report also decides duration of the quarantine. “All pneumonia patients are assumed to be Covid-19 unless a test proves otherwise. So the longer we wait for the reports, the longer it takes to move him out either to the isolation ward or a non-Covid area,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/give-covid-19-test-results-in-48-hrs-not-4-days-pvt-labs-told/articleshow/74939608.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishing, seafood sale banned at Visakhapatnam harbour||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following an order by the district collector, the fisheries department on Wednesday banned all modes of fishing at the harbour. The department also banned the sale of marine products at the fishing harbor. The ban would continue till further orders from the collector. The annual ban on fishing on the east coast of the country will begin from April 15 midnight for 60 days. Fifteen days before that conservation period, the district administration has banned all fishing activities at the harbour due to Covid-19 situation. The fisheries, revenue, police, port management and boat owners have taken many measures to implement social distancing during the lockdown. But it has been noticed that people were not maintaining social distance in the harbor. K Phani Prakash, joint director, the fisheries department, said that they have taken many measures to control crowds during unloading, auction and retail marketing of marine products. But controlling crowds at the harbour has become a tough task for the authorities. The collector ordered the ban as the fisheries department informed the district administration that it was a tough task to control the crowd at the fishing harbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishing-seafood-sale-banned-at-harbour/articleshow/74938051.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Varanasi||117 Jamaat attendees traced in Varanasi zone in three-day drive||VARANASI: Altogether 117 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaatat Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi have been found in a three-day combing operation in eight districts of Varanasi zone, while 19 others have been identified but are stationed outside the region. Talking to TOI on Thursday, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “We have succeeded in finding out 136 people including 70 from eight districts of the zone, 41 from other districts and states and 25 Bangladeshis. Of these 136, as many as 19 are staying in Delhi or other cities. Seventy attendees from other districts and states have been staying in mosques or places arranged by clerics and madrassas.” A total of 12 FIRs, including four in Mirzapur, three in Mau, two in Varanasi and one at Bhadohi, Jaunpur and Azamgarh each was lodged against 68 persons, he said adding, most of the traced persons have been quarantined while samples of large number of them had also been sent for laboratory test. In Varanasi, where there had been reports of departure of five to attend Jamaat event and none of them had returned till Wednesday afternoon, the district administration is aware about five others, who had returned the city after attending same event in recent past. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Teams of health officials were sent to their places on Wednesday night and all of them were sent to DDU district hospital. Their family members have been home quarantined. Their samples were also taken on Thursday.” The ADG said, “Following action and repeated warning, nine more persons reached the hospitals in Varanasi. No legal action has been taken against those who have turned up voluntarily.” The ADG said, “Till Thursday morning, it was found that 21 including 10 from other states and districts have reached here after attending Jamaat’s event while three locals are staying in Delhi or other cities following participation in the markaj. But, by evening eight more persons were detected, who had reached the district after taking part in the event.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/117-jamaat-attendees-traced-in-varanasi-zone-in-three-day-drive/articleshow/74955838.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Ration card holders get tokens at their doorstep in Trichy||Trichy: To avoid chaos and to maintain social distancing among the ration cardholders, the staff of the cooperative department in Trichy district distributed tokens to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps on Wednesday. Around 7.84 lakh families under 1,224 ration shops would be benefitted in the district. All the staff members were engaged in the process with proper protective gears. In order to support people whose livelihood has taken a hit due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Tamil Nadu government announced Rs 3,280 crore special relief package, including Rs 1,000 cash assistance to each ration card holders. This apart, the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami also announced that all the cardholders would also get essential commodities like rice, dal, cooking oil and sugar free of cost in the month of April. Moreover, to avoid people to gather, the government stated that all the cardholders would be given token on April 1 and based on the date and time mentioned in the token, beneficiaries can go and collect the benefits. However, in many districts, beneficiaries thronged in large numbers in front of the ration shops to get the tokens, defying lockdown norms and ignoring social distancing. But, in Trichy district, no cardholder turned up at the ration shops as the cooperative department had deputed dedicated staff with protection gears, who distributed the tokens to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps, joint Registrar of cooperative department K P Arularasu said. “To maintain social distancing, we deputed our staff to distribute the tokens to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps to prevent them from thronging shops and the possible spread of the virus,” he said. Joint registrar of Amaravathi Limited, K P Vanathi told TOI that they have done all the arrangements to distribute the doles to the beneficiaries from 105 ration shops functioning within her jurisdiction in the city. “As per the protocol, ration shop staff are distributing tokens to the cardholders with required protection gears such as masks and gloves. We have asked staff to arrange for water, soap and hand sanitizer at all the ration shops,” she added. Since the date and even time is also mentioned in the token, there would be no possibility for the congregation at ration shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ration-card-holders-get-tokens-at-their-doorstep-in-trichy/articleshow/74939594.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 2, 2020||Agra||Parents held for ‘deaths of newly-weds’||Agra: A day after a newly-married couple allegedly committed suicide in Agra’s Shahganj area, their parents were arrested by Agra police and booked for dowry death and harassment on Wednesday. The couple, identified as Gopal (21) and Priya (20), was found hanging from the ceiling fan inside their room. They had got married on January 18 and were living at Ramswaroop Colony under Shahganj police station, along with Gopal’s parents and his three siblings. Before hanging themselves, Gopal wrote a suicide note which was also signed by his wife Priya. “In the note, the couple alleged that Gopal’s parents — Omprakash and Gudiya Verma — used to assault and harass Priya for dowry. This inhumane treatment was unacceptable to the couple, and they killed themselves,” said Lohamandi circle officer Namrita Srivastava. Based on the written complaint of Priya’s father Yogendra, Omprakash and Gudiya were booked under IPC sections 304B (dowry death), 498A (relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 306 (abetment for suicide) and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Act. Both accused were sent to jail on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/parents-held-for-deaths-of-newly-weds/articleshow/74938055.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy administration says it’s safe to consume chicken||TRICHY: Trichy district administration, on Wednesday, has issued warning to people spreading rumuors against chicken and meat as people are still reluctant to consume meat in view of Covid-19 scare. The district administration has vouched for the meat and assured that it is safe to consume it. Some malicious messages connecting Covid-19 spread with the consumption of chicken meat and egg have been in circulation on social media by a section of people for some time, said the statement from Trichy collector S Sivarasu. The collector expressed concern that such messages seemed to have negative impact on sale of chicken and meat as people showed reluctance in buying them. “It is completely a misleading message,” said the collector. The statement said that such distorted messages took its toll on the livelihood of several people involved in chicken rearing and running meat shops. “Soon after the outbreak of Covid-19, we suffered a lot as people considered chicken and egg as the carriers of the virus. As the government disseminated messages in support of chicken, the situation is gradually coming back to normal,” said Ismail, a chicken outlet owner, on Vayalur road in Trichy. Chicken that was selling for Rs 160 per kg saw a sudden plunge to Rs 50 per kg three weeks back. From last week, the market witnessed a gradual increase with the customers coming out of the self-imposed restriction on eating chicken and egg. The chicken is currently priced at Rs 120 per kg. “Half of our customers are back now. We hope it will become normal,” said a chicken outlet owner, Suresh in the city. Taking into consideration the misleading forwards and concerned about the livelihood of the people attached to the business, collector Sivarasu said “Meat being rich in protein, it is one of the factor to increase the immunity. People need to keep their immunity strong at this time. There is no case of Covid-19 infection because of consumption of chicken.” He added that those spreading false messages will be liable for severe action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-admin-says-its-safe-to-consume-chicken/articleshow/74939605.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Nizamuddin congregation: Officials let things slip out of control||NEW DELHI: The gathering at Alami Markaz, the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, which took place under the nose of the district administration and police, has exposed the failure of the authorities in managing the situation. Delhi government had on March 12 declared novel coronavirus a pandemic and on March 13 banned a gathering of more than 200 people. On March 16, a gathering of more than 50 people for religious or social purposes was also banned. However, the Jamaat meeting took place in the middle of March despite the government’s prohibitory orders. Moreover, a large number of people continued to remain at Banglewali Masjid even after the nationwide lockdown, which started on March 24. Those gathered at the Markaz in violation of the restrictions also included foreigners, who were supposed to be under quarantine. Sources said some of the foreigners even roamed around in the nearby areas and mingled with the general crowd. The Jamaat members claimed that they had informed the authorities about the event. Information about the gathering was given to the local authorities, the district magistrate and Delhi Police after the janata curfew on March 22 by Jangpura MLA Praveen Kumar. He informed that over 1,500 people were staying in the mosque. Kumar said, “I informed the district administration, the area SDM and local police officers about the gathering and requested them to take action, but to no avail.” Evacuation of the people started only on March 27 when the MLA knocked on the door of the health department. “The lapse on the part of officials and the Jamaat are proving to be costly for the country,” he added. Locals said the symptoms of novel coronavirus in some of those staying at the mosque started appearing on March 22. “Those with fever were given generic medicines. The Jamaat administrator didn’t inform the authorities about this,” sources said. DM (Southeast) Harleen Kaur and SDM (Kalkaji) BL Meena did not respond to TOI’s calls and SMSs seeking their response on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officials-let-things-slip-out-of-control/articleshow/74939040.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 2, 2020||Trichy||Tannery in Trichy sealed for operating during lockdown||TRICHY: The district administration sealed a tannery in Gundur on Wednesday for operating it defying the lockdown announced by the government. In a related development, Trichy corporation is to lodge a police complaint against another tannery unit in Sembattu that was functioning despite repeated warning to shut down operations. There are presently five tanneries in the city, two in Sembattu and one in Gundur. All these have to send their effluent to the common treatment plant located at Tiruvalarchipatti village on the Pudukkottai road. Shanmuga Prime Tannery at Gundur was sealed on Wednesday after officials found it operating with over a dozen workers. The unit was processing raw skin to produce finished leather. However, raw skin needs to undergo processing at various stages. Starting from soaking, the skin is put through pit liming process where it is soaked in alkaline solution for over a week after unhairing. This is followed by pickling after which it undergoes tanning to make the end product. In the case of Shanmuga Prime, the skin was under pit liming process when Janata Curfew was announced followed by the nationwide lockdown. During pit liming, the leather needs to be taken out of the pit for a while to prevent it from decaying. “Shanmuga Prime was engaging workers to take out the leather to prevent it from decaying by engaging workers because of which it had to face the ire of the district administration,” said the president of Trichy Tanneries Association Mohamed Adam. Confessing that the tannery unit should have obtained permission from the concerned authorities before carrying out any activity, Adam said that sealing the unit would be too harsh a punishment as the unit was only trying to prevent its leather under processing from decaying. Shanmuga Tannery wasn’t the only unit that to face the ire of authorities. The corporation officials are planning to lodge a police complaint against Bestan leather company operating from Sembattu. It was functioning despite repeated warning to shut down considering the section 144 imposed under CrPC. “The unit was accused of letting the effluent on the neighbouring vacant land and TNPCB officials are refusing to to act against it though it has been operating throwing norms to the wind,” said a complainant. A senior Trichy corporation official confirmed that the tannery was operating despite strict instructions to keep all operations under wrap during the lockdown period. A Sajith Ibrahim of Bestan leather company told TOI that he was only doing basic handling of about 20,000 leather pieces under process by taking the leather outside for a while to prevent it from decaying. Asked on the complaints of discharging effluent to nearby vacant land, Sajith rejected the charges. He claimed that waste from his unit was reaching CETP and TNPCB officials are keeping a watch on it. On the civic body’s plan to lodge a complaint against the unit, he said police and civic body officials had carried out inspection in the unit and he had explained his point to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tannery-in-trichy-sealed-for-operating-during-lockdown/articleshow/74939602.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Free ration: People queue up at shops from midnight in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The distribution of free rice and other essential commodities at the state-run ration shops is witnessing people fighting and jostling for a place in the long queues. The free distribution of ration began on March 29 across the state. Braving the strictures of the lockdown, people are queuing up from early morning to get ration. The ration is distributed from 6 am at public distribution system (PDS) shops. Some desperate people are sleeping on the roads overnight to make sure their place in the long queues. Realising the people’s hardship, joint collector is planning to seek the permission from the government to distribute ration during evening hours as well. The state government had announced free distribution of ration for white ration cardholders due to the lockdown. Since the day one, people have been rushing to the PDS shops and scuffles in the queues have become a daily affair although the cops are assigned to each shop. When people indulged in fighting at shop no. 216 in MVP Colony on early morning on Wednesday, the volunteers pacified them by issuing tokens till April 3. People are reserving their place in the queues by placing bags, footwear and other materials. An old woman slept on the road close to the PDS shop. “Though the PDS shops open at 6 am, people are forming lines from 3.30 am and 4 am. The old woman might have thought that she could get ration early if she can stand in the line from night,” a constable assigned to the PDS shop in MVP Colony said. Loteti Siva Sankar, joint district collector, and in-charge of ration distribution in the district, told TOI that they are informing only 50 cardholders at each shop through volunteers but people are rushing in unnecessarily. “Every cardholder will get the ration as we will distribute it till April 15. But people are not listening. We are streamlining the process. Initially we faced server problems and now have started manual operations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/free-ration-people-queue-up-at-shops-from-midnight/articleshow/74938089.cms||Siva G
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Give details on protective gear for docs: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday sought to know from the government the steps taken to protect doctors and other medical staff while dealing with Covid-19 cases. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman held a virtual court while hearing a plea filed by advocate Sameer Ahmed and gave time to the government till Monday to list the steps being taken to protect the lives of the doctors and medical staff. The bench directed advocate general BS Prasad to furnish the details of protective gear being given to doctors and other staff who are treating coronavirus suspects patients. While those at the out-patient care are relatively better, those who are treating the confirmed coronavirus cases are at a higher risk, the bench said and sought a detailed affidavit by Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-details-on-protective-gear-for-docs-hc/articleshow/74939620.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hubballi||There will be no shortage of med supplies to tackle Covid-19: Sreeramulu||Bagalkot: Health minister Sreeramulu assured that there will be no issue in providing the necessary medical equipment and supplies for the Covid-19 pandemic. He chaired a meeting of district level officials in connection with the Covid-19 pandemic at the DC’s office conference hall on Wednesday. He said,“Not a single positive case has been found in the district so far. Action will be taken if anyone tests positive for Covid-19 in the future.” Bagalkot city MLA Veeranna Charantimath said that a demand has been made for necessary medical supplies and equipment to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. They should be dispatched immediately, he said. Charantimath said that each district should have a testing centre for Covid-19, instead of sending swabs to Bengaluru. “There is not a single laboratory in North Karnataka where a person can get tested for Covid-19. Even though the government made an announcement about setting up a laboratory at Hubballi and Belgavi, but they are yet to be opened.” After the meeting, Sreeramulu visited the district hospital and inspected the special wards set up for Covid-19 patients. Photo caption: Health minister Sreeramulu chairs a meeting of district level officials in Bagalkot on Wednesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/there-will-be-no-shortage-of-med-supplies-to-tackle-covid-19-sreeramulu/articleshow/74936923.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||Amul family’s turnover crosses Rs 50,000 crore mark||Vadodara: Turnover of home-grown dairy giant Amul has crossed Rs 50,000 crore mark. As the financial year came to an end on Tuesday, the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets dairy products under brand Amul registered a provisional turnover of Rs 38,550 crore for the financial year 2019-20. The sales turnover achieved by GCMMF is 17% higher than the previous financial year’s turnover which stood at Rs 32,960 crore. With this, the provisional unduplicated group turnover of Amul federation and its 18 member unions has crossed Rs. 50,000 crore, which is also 17 % higher than last year. “At the rate at which we are growing, in the next five years Amul brand will touch Rs 1 lakh crore,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF. GCMMF and its 18 member unions have more than 36 lakh farmers across 18,700 villages of Gujarat as registered members. “We have been achieving the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of more than 17% since the last 10 years because of higher milk procurement, continuous expansion in terms of adding new markets, launching of new products and adding new milk processing capacities across the country,” Sodhi said. The cooperatives of Gujarat could have recorded better growth rate. “Because of the lockdown due to COVID-19, sales of value-added products have suffered a bit. We could have registered 1 or 1.5% more growth,” Sodhi said, adding that due to extended winter and the current lockdown, the sale of products like ice-cream has witnessed a huge reduction. “But throughout the last financial year, we have seen growth in all product categories,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-familys-turnover-crosses-rs-50000-crore-mark/articleshow/74938039.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Veterinarians seek commutation facilities||Madurai: The members of Tamil Nadu Veterinary Assistant Surgeons Association urged the state government to make arrangements for transportation of veterinarians on duty at interstate border check posts in the state.The president of Tamil Nadu Veterinary Assistant Surgeons Association, S Veeramani, said that even before the lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, veterinarians were posted at the 14 interstate check posts in the state. They have been deployed to monitor and disinfect the vehicles that mainly bring in poultry and eggs to Tamil Nadu from neighbouring states.He said that the veterinarians posted at these check posts work in six to eight hour shifts and have been carrying out their work effectively even during lockdown. He noted that the veterinarians in some of the districts were facing difficulties in commuting to the check posts, especially in the absence of public transport. Hence, he urged the government to arrange transport facilities for these veterinarians at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veterinarians-seek-commutation-facilities/articleshow/74939617.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Co-passengers of Tablighis from Telengana to be traced||HYDERABAD: Among the 1,030 Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Telangana, 10 had returned to the city by flight. Police, health and municipal officials have begun to locate their co-passengers in these flights. Also, thousands of train passengers are being contacted as over 1,000 attendees travelled by trains. After the death of a 74-year-old Jamaat returnee, who tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously, the state government has conducted a thorough check of local people who attended the event. State government through Inteligence Bureau (IB) and local police inputs has identified 1,030 people who returned from Delhi, out of which 630 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.  “Most of them returned from Delhi by trains. Railway officials shared the data of passengers who travelled in the same compartments of Jamaat attendees. We have found out that10 people had returned to Hyderabad by Air Asia, Vistara, Indigo and Spice Jet flights,” a senior government official said.  Police have gathered passenger details of the five flights and special teams are contacting them. “Those who returnedby flights have been located and placed under quarantine. The passengers who travelled in the same flights are being located. Some passengers are in AP, Karnataka and Maharashtra. We have shared details of with state governments,” an intelligence official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/co-passengers-of-tablighis-to-be-traced/articleshow/74939613.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Where’s my mava? Addicts implore helpline in Gujarat||RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: In country’s oral cancer capital- Gujarat - the 21-day lockdown is giving tobacco addicts severe withdrawal symptoms. With paan shops closed across the state and police cracking down on those trying to open them, the nicotine urge among addicts has sent prices of tobacco products sky-rocketing in black market. Some trying to illegally sell cigarettes and tobacco products have also been nabbed by police. In Rajkot, where mava ( lime-laced betelnut mixed with tobacco) in deeply ingrained in culture, the dedicated helpline to counsel those locked up in homes and quarantined, is getting desperate calls from masala addicts. “Kindly tell me a place where I can get mava,” implore callers on the government helpline. “Out of the 600 calls we have received for counselling in the past one week, around 80 have been from nicotine addicts who ask for locations to get their daily dose,” said Janaksinh Gohil, convener of the helpline. Gohil said the psychologists are advising such people to get de-addicted by doing yoga and meditation. According to National Health Profile, 2019, the number of oral cancer cases in Gujarat jumped from 3,939 in 2017 to 72,169 in 2018, thereby adding 68,230 new cases. In fact, a foreign-returned citizen had escaped advised home quarantine few days ago to satiate his urge for mava. Eventually, he was tracked by police as he had wandered for nearly three km in search for mava. Sources said that those managing to sell mava in black are making the most out of the situation in Rajkot with prices shooting up nearly five times to nearly Rs 50. On March 29, a provision store owner in Vadodara’s Bakrawadi area was caught with a stock of tobacco products worth Rs one lakh in his shop. People are also finding innovative hiding places for tobacco products to dodge police checking. On Tuesday afternoon, a 28-year-old man working with a private firm in Ahmedabad, was caught with two pouches of gutkha hidden in tea kettle. During checking, Satellite police station inspector Pankaj Darji spotted a man going on his sportsbike with kettle placed on the fuel talk. “When stopped, he told us that he was carrying tea. When we insisted that he open it, he pulled out a milk packet. On emptying the kettle, we found two gutkha pouches hidden between two milk packets,” Darji said. The man, identified as Jaimin Singapuri, told cops he had taken the risk to provide gutkha to his friend who is a tobacco addict, added Darji. Singapuri was booked for defying police notification and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wheres-my-mava-addicts-implore-helpline/articleshow/74940621.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Where’s my mava? Addicts implore helpline in Gujarat||RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: In country’s oral cancer capital- Gujarat - the 21-day lockdown is giving tobacco addicts severe withdrawal symptoms. With paan shops closed across the state and police cracking down on those trying to open them, the nicotine urge among addicts has sent prices of tobacco products sky-rocketing in black market. Some trying to illegally sell cigarettes and tobacco products have also been nabbed by police. In Rajkot, where mava ( lime-laced betelnut mixed with tobacco) in deeply ingrained in culture, the dedicated helpline to counsel those locked up in homes and quarantined, is getting desperate calls from masala addicts. “Kindly tell me a place where I can get mava,” implore callers on the government helpline. “Out of the 600 calls we have received for counselling in the past one week, around 80 have been from nicotine addicts who ask for locations to get their daily dose,” said Janaksinh Gohil, convener of the helpline. Gohil said the psychologists are advising such people to get de-addicted by doing yoga and meditation. According to National Health Profile, 2019, the number of oral cancer cases in Gujarat jumped from 3,939 in 2017 to 72,169 in 2018, thereby adding 68,230 new cases. In fact, a foreign-returned citizen had escaped advised home quarantine few days ago to satiate his urge for mava. Eventually, he was tracked by police as he had wandered for nearly three km in search for mava. Sources said that those managing to sell mava in black are making the most out of the situation in Rajkot with prices shooting up nearly five times to nearly Rs 50. On March 29, a provision store owner in Vadodara’s Bakrawadi area was caught with a stock of tobacco products worth Rs one lakh in his shop. People are also finding innovative hiding places for tobacco products to dodge police checking. On Tuesday afternoon, a 28-year-old man working with a private firm in Ahmedabad, was caught with two pouches of gutkha hidden in tea kettle. During checking, Satellite police station inspector Pankaj Darji spotted a man going on his sportsbike with kettle placed on the fuel talk. “When stopped, he told us that he was carrying tea. When we insisted that he open it, he pulled out a milk packet. On emptying the kettle, we found two gutkha pouches hidden between two milk packets,” Darji said. The man, identified as Jaimin Singapuri, told cops he had taken the risk to provide gutkha to his friend who is a tobacco addict, added Darji. Singapuri was booked for defying police notification and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wheres-my-mava-addicts-implore-helpline/articleshow/74938085.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Lockdown develops special shopkeeper-customer bond||VARANASI: In a matter of weeks, the global pandemic — the coronavirus — has transformed relationships especially during the lockdown. At a time when internet has emerged as the lifeline for many, in the bylanes of Varanasi, a unique and a pleasing bond is developing between local shopkeepers/medical stores and customers. In view of the inconvenience caused during lockdown particularly to elderly, the local administration came up with a service ‘Dawa Aapke Dwar’ (Medicine at your doorstep) for those elderly, who are unable to go to the medicine shops. The service has been started in collaboration with the Chemist and Druggist Welfare Association and Indian Red Cross Society. Several medical stores came forward to join the service to serve the needy persons. About 16 medical stores have been identified in different parts of the district for the home delivery of medicines on demand. The names and phone numbers of these stores have been made public. One needs to send the prescription of doctor to the nearest medical store through whatsapp, and the delivery boy would bring the medicines to home. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the service would be extended further as per the requirement. The service is available from 10 am to 5 pm. So far 500 people have been benefited with this service till Tuesday evening. It was a new experience for Ravindra Gupta, a medicine seller in Raja Bazar area, to supply medicines at the doorstep of the needy. “Never before, such arrangements were made for medicine supply to customers. But it is the need of the hour to serve people particularly the elderly,” he said. Like Ravindra, there are many others who are engaged in home delivery of essentials in different parts of the city. Not only medicines but the supply of other essential goods is also being maintained through delivery vans in different localities. According to the DM, 325 four-wheelers and 412 persons have been engaged in this work. These delivery vans move in their respective areas to supply goods. Besides, for the convenience of people control rooms have been created to address their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lockdown-develops-special-shopkeeper-customer-bond/articleshow/74937780.cms||Binay Singh
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Shopkeepers in Secunderabad pulled up, fined for flouting social distancing norms||SECUNDERABAD: In a first, officials of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) penalised shopkeepers for flouting the lockdown norms on Wednesday. Two grocery stores in Pedda Thokatta and Bowenpally were fined for not drawing markings in front of their stores to ensure social distancing. “We have imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000 on these two shopkeepers. Three days ago, we warned the shopkeepers to mark the blocks due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, we found a few people standing close to each other at the cash counters. The shopkeepers did not caution them to maintain social distance,” Mahender, SCB senior sanitation wing inspector, told TOI. He said that the penalties were imposed as per section 289 (danger to public safety/nuisance) of Cantonment Act 2006 and added that the violators will not be spared. “If they continue flouting the rules we will not hesitate to seal their shops,” Mahender said. SCB officials began inspections on Wednesday to ensure if shopkeepers were following the lockdown norms and ensuring that people do not crowd at their stores. Soon after the Centre announced the 21-day lockdown, orders were issued to all Cantonment board chief executive officers to make necessary arrangements to ensure that people can avail all essentials items like food and medicines during the lockdown period. Further, SCB officials launched massive awareness campaigns last week to educate the public on preventive measures to stop te spread of the virus and social distancing. “All advisories issued by Centre are being strictly adhered to by the Cantonment Board,” said a senior SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shopkeepers-pulled-up-fined-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/74939054.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Coronavirus fear making Bhopalis boycott those under quarantine||BHOPAL: As the state capital copes with the coronavirus, there are reports that the residents who have quarantined themselves as a precautionary measure are facing social boycott. The residents under home quarantine told TOI that their families are facing social boycott and are not able to get even essential items like milk and groceries, as vendors have refused to deliver goods to them because of the fear of ‘getting infected’. Public health experts warn that stigmatising people under quarantine will hamper the battle against Covid-19 as stigma is the reason people hide symptoms and even avoid treatment. A 40-year-old man who came to India from London on March 18 told TOI about the problems his family had to face since he returned. “I reached New Delhi from London on March 18. I was asymptomatic, but I decided to stay at a hotel in New Delhi and avoid travelling to Bhopal as a precaution ... Since, New Delhi hotels started getting shut I returned to Bhopal on March 23. As soon as I reached here, I informed the district administration about my travel history. After this, a team from district administration came to my house and pasted a ‘home under quarantine’ poster outside my home.” “It is only I who has a travel history, not my wife or my daughter or my parents. I followed all the guidelines and isolated myself in a room in my home and did not come in contact with my family. But, soon after local residents spotted the quarantine poster outside our home they started treating us differently.” “The vegetable sellers have refused to give us vegetables and the milkman also does not deliver the milk to our home ... weirdly so, youths gather outside our home and click selfies with the quarantine poster. When we go out in the balcony or terrace people give us looks ... It is upsetting.” “The administration says they cannot test for Covid-19 because I do not have the symptoms, but will take me to the hospital if I get unwell. I get calls from the administration checking up on me, inquiring about my health. It has been over 12 days now since I came to India and I am still asymptomatic ... but I am following all the guidelines and will keep following them. I will come out only when I am allowed by the district administration.” “My only concern is if people who are taking all the precautions are socially boycotted and left without essentials, they will stop coming forward and not inform anyone about their travel history or symptoms ... which will ultimately defeat the purpose of quarantine or home isolation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-fear-making-bhopalis-boycott-those-under-quarantine/articleshow/74938107.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Veggie bags a hit in Madurai, corpn plans fruits pack too||Madurai: Sale of assorted vegetable bags introduced by Madurai Corporation to avoid crowd at markets has evoked good response on day one as all the 1,000 bags taken out for sales were sold off in a few hours.The veggie bags were taken in 10 vehicles belonging to Madurai Corporation and sold at various points in the city. Though a few residents said it was little costly, they got convinced after going through the list of 20 vegetables. Madurai Corporation started the intiative with the help of the wholesale vegetable vendors and volunteers from Vaa Nanba and Bedcroft.“Assorted vegetable bag sale is a big success as people collected mobile numbers of the volunteers for next purchase. We are planning to sell fruits in a similar way and a discussion in this connection is under way. Many people are in need of fruits, an important component of city folk’s diet,” said a corporation official.He said that they have come up with a compact bag with 16 items to be sold at Rs 200, as many felt that Rs 250 is ‘too much’. It will have 16 items such as potato, shallot, onion, cabbage, carrot, brinjal, tomato, green chilli, ladies fingers, chow-chow, beetroot, curry leaves, coriander leaves, mint leaves, coconut and ginger.M C Saravanan of Vaa Nanba said that he drove the vehicles to locations that have apartments and individual houses. They managed to sell all the bags they carried in five vehicles around 10 am. All the volunteers were properly wearing gloves and masks issued by the corporation. They said they can also home deliver vegetables if people place a minimum order for 25 bags through their resident associations, he said.Each bag will have shallots, onion, cabbage, carrot, brinjal, tomato, green chilli, ladies finger, chow-chow, beetroot, potato, lemon, coconut, drumstick, ginger, snake gourd, curry leaves, mint leaves coriander leaves and banana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veggie-bags-a-hit-in-madurai-corpn-plans-fruits-pack-too/articleshow/74939627.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||CBSE offers applied maths as an elective for Class 11||HYDERABAD: To help students develop an understanding of basic mathematical, statistical tools and their applications in various fields, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to introduce ‘Applied Mathematics’ as an academic elective for Class 11 students. The course will be introduced from the 2020-21 academic year and students who have passed Basic Mathematics in Class X will be allowed to take the new elective at the Senior Secondary Level. “It has been observed that the existing syllabus of Mathematics aligns well with Science subjects but does not align well with Commerce or Social Science-based subjects in university education. By keeping this in mind, one more elective course in Mathematics syllabus will be offered for Senior Secondary classes to provide students relevant experience in Mathematics which can be used in fields other than Physical Sciences,” reads a circular from the board. CBSE said that the topics covered in two years will enable students to use mathematical knowledge in the field of business, economics, and social sciences. It also aims to promote appreciation of mathematical power and simplicity for its countless applications in diverse field. “It is expected that the new subject of Applied Mathematics is taught by connecting concepts to the application in various fields, thereby enabling students to develop 21st century competencies such as critical thinking, problem solving, logical reasoning, mathematical thinking, etc,” it further read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-offers-applied-maths-as-an-elective/articleshow/74939626.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mumbai||30 positive cases in Mumbai in a day; no community transmission, says BMC||MUMBAI: The city has recorded seven more Covid-19 deaths over the past three days, though civic authorities confirmed only three. The remaining four deaths were confirmed by senior hospital authorities who said the deceased had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Maharashtra continued to lead among states with 335 positive cases, including 16 deaths and 33 new patients reported till Wednesday. The majority of the new cases were from Mumbai at 30, followed by two from Pune and one from Buldhana. As on Wednesday, Mumbai reported 190 cases and ten confirmed deaths, excluding the four not confirmed by authorities. The deaths reported from the city on Wednesday were in the ages of 51 to 75 years. “There is no community transmission yet,” said Suresh Kakani, BMC additional municipal commissioner. Among the victims was a 56-year-old man from Dharavi, incidentally the first case to be detected from the densely populated slum pocket. TOI has learnt Sion Hospital, where the man was admitted, was looking for a ventilator but he succumbed before they could transfer him. His positive Covid-19 test report came on Wednesday morning. The deaths confirmed by BMC were of a 51-year-old, a 75-year-old and a 73-year-old. The former had cough and breathlessness and was admitted to a public hospital on March 31 and died the same day due to bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome. The 75-year-old man was admitted with complaints of fever and breathlessness on March 28. He died of hypertensive failure due to lower respiratory tract infection on March 29. His reports came positive on March 31, two days after he died. In a first, a 62-year-old Andheri (East) resident, who had no travel history, died at his home due to complications arising out of a coronavirus infection on Tuesday. His positive test came almost nine hours after his death at around 2pm, with his body lying in civic-run Rajawadi Hospital morgue till 11pm. His family had taken his body there for a death certificate as the patient was taking treatment on an out-patient basis. “As my father had light fever and stomach-related problems, he started taking medicines that we got from Rajawadi Hospital for three days,’’ said his son, who along with his mother and sister have been placed under quarantine. A senior citizen who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday was cremated in a western suburb early on Wednesday after the authorities convinced his family that burying him would not contain spread of the virus. The 65-year-old deceased suffered from renal failure and used to visit a hospital at Borivli for dialysis. Last month, when his health took a dip, his family admitted him to the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital for four days. He was discharged when he got better. But towards the end of last month, his health dipped again. He was taken to the trauma hospital at Jogeshwari on March 28. Swabs were taken to test for Covid-19 as he was complaining of shortness of breath. A report from a private laboratory confirmed he was positive for the virus. On Tuesday, he died. The deceased’s family wanted to bury him at a qabrastan in Charkop initially. The cremation was carried out at Daulat Nagar crematorium in Borivli. Eight of his close kin have been admitted to Shatabdi Hospital at Kandivli. A 57-year-old Andheri resident died in a hospital in a western suburb. He was under treatment for a few days. The number of positive patients in Worli Koliwada rose to 15. Four CISF jawans tested positive in Kalamboli. The jawans were posted at the international airport. This takes the total cases to eight in PCMC. Two more persons tested positive from NMMC on Wednesday, taking its count to 13. “The cases are from Koparkhairane Sector 19 and Nerul Sector 38. The 40-year-old from Koparkhairane had visited a religious place at Vashi where many cases were detected,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-positive-cases-in-city-in-a-day-no-community-transmission-says-bmc/articleshow/74939636.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fear grips Visakhapatnam as 4 more test positive||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city has been shaken by the news of four positive Covid-19 cases reported in just one day. Till Tuesday evening, there were only six positive cases, including four contact persons of two direct positive cases. Now, the number has reached 11, with one more case reported on Wednesday. All the five recent cases had links to the Nizamuddin congregation. The police, medical fraternity and other departments working hard to control the spread of the virus expressed their fears and said that worst was yet to come as many who attended the meet had already mingled with others. Two people who tested positive had come from Mecca and Birmingham. A 65-year-old Muslim person from the city had returned from Mecca and a youth who lived in the outskirts of Vizag returned from Birmingham in England. The Mecca returnee’s wife also tested positive, while the parents and sister of the Birmingham returnee tested positive. Five persons out of 17 from Vizag district who attended the meet in Nizamuddin tested positive on Tuesday, Of this, 14 were from the city. A total of 40 samples were sent to Kakinada lab for testing. District collector V Vinaychand said they are verifying the contacts of these persons. “We will be sanitising the localities and declare them as a containment zone,” he told TOI. He added that so far 269 samples had been sent for testing, of which 182 have tested negative and the reports are pending for 76 samples. In all, 11 samples from the district have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fear-grips-dist-as-4-more-test-ve/articleshow/74938111.cms||Siva G
April 2, 2020||Patna||ASG & team on a mission to feed the poor||Helping hands Patna: Additional solicitor general of central government at Patna high court S D Sanjay, who is otherwise known for his no-nonsense approach in courtrooms while opposing cases against the Centre, is a different man these days. Ever since the announcement of nationwide lockdown by PM Narendra Modi to prevent spread of coronavirus, Sanjay and others have come to rescue of the needy. They have been providing cooked food to around 500 daily wagers every day. Sanjay said his wife Sushila Agrawal and one Parul Prasad, both advocates, had first started cooking food for the poor and those stranded in several localities of Patna. “They started doing it on a small scale from March 25. Inspired by them, I also joined the mission by arranging manpower and resources. A WhatsApp group was created through which several lawyers and others joined the campaign,” Sanjay said. “Food is cooked at my home and on the apartment premises with the involvement of other flat owners. Two businessmen – Rajesh Sureka and Ashok Agrawal – are also getting food cooked by caterers at a location on Exhibition Road for distribution among the poor and the homeless,” he said. Sanjay said they were also talking help of Patna police and state disaster management department to supply food to the people as DM Kumar Ravi has made it mandatory for all to use administrative channel for the purpose. “On Tuesday, a businessman-cum-social worker Mukesh Hisariya informed us about 20 daily wagers from Supaul who had not got food for the last couple of days. We immediately provided food to them. On Monday, we had got information about hungry beggars at Bans Ghat and offered them food through a police team led by constable Sunil Singh. At least 10 hungry daily wagers from West Bengal, who were stuck at Musallahpur, had also been provided food,” he said, adding they are also getting food packets from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL). Sanjay said the focus was now on migrant workers who are travelling on highways without food. “The mission will continue till the lockdown ends,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/asg-team-on-a-mission-to-feed-the-poor/articleshow/74930397.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Prepare plan to help quarantine those on the move: HC tells Telengana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the state’s principal secretary of medical and health department to explain by April 6, the steps being taken by the state to take care of the people stranded at the state’s borders who have been facing hardships ever since nation-wide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus. The bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman held a virtual court from the residence of Justice Rao and heard a PIL filed by advocate SSR Murthy, who brought to the notice of the court, the plight of the people that were held up in the aftermath of lockdown. “Almost all the states, following the Centre’s lockdown decision, sealed their borders. Labourers working in various states thought it would be safe for them to go to their native places as the lockdown had rendered them jobless. They were heading towards their native places along with their families. Due to lockdown norms, they were not allowed to enter their native states. Instead of leaving them on the roads, they should be quarantined in the nearest private hospitals,” the petitioner said seeking a direction to the state to this effect. Advocate General BS Prasad addressed the bench through videoconferencing mode from his residence and said that Telangana has set up 343 shelter homes for housing stranded people. “We have housed as many as 92,000 people in these shelter homes at the borders of the state. We are giving them medicines and food,” he said. The bench verified whether the authorities are ensuring proper distancing between the people at the shelter homes and sought an affidavit from the health secretary by Monday on the steps they are taking to improve the conditions at the shelters. The petitioner also mentioned about the plight of several workmen in the city who tried to go to their native places in Andhra Pradesh following the closure of their hostels in Hyderabad. Though the Hyderabad police gave them a green signal to go to their native places, the AP authorities did not allow them into the state. The problem was resolved only after the political leadership of AP and Telangana intervened, Murthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prepare-plan-to-help-quarantine-those-on-the-move-hc-tells-state/articleshow/74939647.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Most viral pneumonia cases in hospitals test Covid-19 -ve||PUNE/MUMBAI/NAGPUR: Viral pneumonia is a classical complication caused by Covid-19, but only sporadic cases of coronavirus infection have been recorded by private hospitals treating pneumonia patients in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. A reassuring sign is that most patients with pneumonia and associated symptoms have tested negative which is also indicative of the limited spread of the contagion in the community,the doctors TOI spoke to believe. In Pune, four private hospitals that tested 61 such patients in the last 11 days reported that three were positive for Covid-19. Three private hospitals in Mumbai reported just a single positive case of Covid-19 after testing several patients with viral pneumonia. In Nagpur, none of the 20 patients with viral pneumonia treated by four private hospitals tested positive for the contagion. “We tested the throat swab samples of 15 patients with viral pneumonia and other classical symptoms, including respiratory distress, in the last five days. Barring one, the remaining 14 tested negative for Covid-19. This,indicates a limited spread of the infection as of now. The lockdown is expected to further break the chain of transmission,” surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune, told TOI. Sahyadri hospitals, also in Pune, tested 26 admitted patients with viral pneumonia and breathless. Of these, two have tested positive for Covid-19. Ruby Hall Clinic, another hospital in Pune, tested 13 such patients. None of them was infected. Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital sent throat swab samples of seven such patients and none of them was positive for Covid-19. Private hospitals in Mumbai also had similar findings. Chest physician Salil Bendre of Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai confirmed that none of the viral pneumonia patients undergoing treatment under him have tested positive for Covid-19. “We have sent quite a few samples of admitted patients. None tested Covid-19 positive so far,” Bendre said. Respiratory physician Sujeet Rajan, who consults with Bhatia Hospital in Mumbai sent samples of 10 pneumonia patients to Kasturba Hospital and a private laboratory. “All have tested negative, so far. The larger concern is the turnaround time for tests, which is between 48-72 hours,” he added. Patients of chronic lung disease are bearing the brunt. “Most have symptoms that mimic coronavirus and are quarantined and thus spending 2-3 days with suspect cases. Many may end up getting the infection,” he said. KEM hospital's dean Hemant Deshmukh said, “A patient came to the hospital with respiratory distress, gasping for breath. She was put on ventilator support. She tested positive for Covid-19 in her report that arrived after she passed away.” Private hospitals in Nagpur are reporting viral pneumonia cases to the government hospitals and sending their swab samples for testing to designated labs. So far, none has tested positive for Covid-19. National Cancer Institute, Nagpur, sent samples of two patients with symptoms of viral pneumonia. Both tested negative, hospital's medical director Anand Pathak said. Lata Mangeshkar Hospital in Nagpur sent one sample which tested negative.Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Sevagram sent six samples and all tested negative, medical superintendent S P Kalantri said. Eleven samples from Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences in Sawangi also tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-viral-pneumonia-cases-in-hospitals-test-covid-19-ve/articleshow/74939579.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 2, 2020||Pune||C-DAC’s data science tool to help trace contacts of Covid-19 patients||PUNE: The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) has prepared a data science-based tool to make easy the task of tracking the movements of Covid-19 patients or quarantined people across the country. C-DAC, in association with the Indian Council for Medical Research and Union department of telecommunications, will deploy the platform after its launch on Thursday. “The system has been named National Analytical Platform for Dealing with Intelligent Tracing, Tracking and Containment (NAADI). It has many features that would be helpful for the administrators, decision makers, health workers and common citizens,” C-DAC director general Hemant Darbari said. “The tool will also facilitate culling out the correct information from the confirmed or suspected patients, who might have genuinely forgotten the places they had visited during the two-three weeks before being diagnosed with the infection or quarantined. Some people may hide such facts fearing that they may be ostracized by society. Besides, some people may simply refuse to voluntarily divulge information,” Darbari said. The information generated by the tool would be accurate up to a metre and would be of much help for the medical professionals, law enforcement agencies and data scientists. An expert of artificial intelligence with over three decades of experience, Darbari said the health officials or other agencies would receive proactive alerts from the tool about Covid-19 affected people even after their discharge on recovery. “Pandemics can create huge challenges for the government and public health officials to gather information and coordinate for a prompt response. In such a situation, artificial intelligence can play a huge role in predicting, minimising and stalling virus spread,” he said. The development of this tool is among the several projects undertaken by C-DAC under Supercomputer using Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Healthcare Analytics based Research, Covid-19 (SAMHAR). The SAMHAR project is in partnership with the National Supercomputing Mission established in association with startups and industries to build a rapid supercomputing system and research community for India to fight Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/c-dacs-data-science-tool-to-help-trace-contacts-of-ncov-patients/articleshow/74939616.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 2, 2020||Pune||Civic body stops open spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution||PUNE: The civic body has stopped random sanitisation and fumigation of open areas and roads using sodium hypochlorite (bleach), following activists’ demand to keep a check on “wasteful expenditure”. “We will not entertain any requests for public spraying of sodium hydrochlorite in the open area. We will now be using this only indoors to spray hospitals, public institutions, hostels and homes of people found infected with the virus. Hence, tankers will no longer be used like they were before for public spraying,” Ramchandra Hankare, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department chief, said. As per civic sources, the PMC used borewell water during the sanitisation drive between March 25 and 30. “As many as 40 tankers (jetting machines), each of about 2,500 litres capacity, were provided to the civic health department. Besides, five quick response vehicles of 400 litres each were taken over by the PMC for the sanitisation drive, during which a lot of water was also used. And if this was not enough, some corporators too used their own private tankers to sanitise societies in their areas,” a civic official said, while highlighting the wastage of water and public funds in the exercise. Scientists from the National Collection of Industrial Microorganisms (NCIM), a unit of the National Chemical Laboratory, said surfaces like doorknobs and tabletops should be wiped using an alcohol-based solution or detergent every four hours to check the virus spread. “Public places like lift and gate, among others, must be disinfected at least twice a day,” a scientist said. Syed Dastagar, senior scientist at NCIM, said when chemicals were sprayed on surfaces, the cell wall of the microbes got ruptured, resulting in disinfection. “While a 0.5-1% sodium hypochlorite solution, depending upon the area, is effective in killing bacteria, the same cannot be said of viruses. Anything above 10% is harmful for the skin,” he said. Mahesh Dharne, another senior scientist at NCIM, said viruses couldn’t live for long, depending on the surface, without a host living cell. “But sanitising the surfaces just once will not help. Public areas in a society must be sanitised at least twice,” he said. Dharne said there was no conclusive proof to say that sodium hypochlorite killed the coronavirus on all surfaces. “Hence, the best way is to use detergent or alcohol-based wipes as frequently as possible,” he added. A joint statement by Dr Anant Phadke, Jan Swasthya Abhiyaan and Dr Subhash Salunke, public health experts, said, “Fumigation is advised in certain circumstances inside rooms, aeroplanes and buses, among others. which were occupied by confirmed cases of Covid-19. But fumigation around houses is not only useless in the efforts to control Covid-19 epidemic but the sodium hypochlorite used for this fumigation can cause harm to the citizens. This solution is toxic, corrosive and can damage eyes, respiratory tract, including lungs. Hence, we request you to instruct the concerned authorities to strictly abstain from any fumigation, spray around houses in any locality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-stops-open-spraying-of-sodium-hypochlorite-solution/articleshow/74939600.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Fodder shortage hits lives of ‘mattukarars’||Madurai: ‘Boomboom mattukarars’ have around 75 cattle, of which at least 50 are bulls used as ‘boom boom madu’. With bran stores shut due to Covid-19 curfew and agricultural activities have come down, the nomadic tribe is finding it difficult to get fodder. They also run out of money to purchase bran, as whatever little they had saved has already been spent. They say that it takes around Rs 200 a day to take care of a bull as they have to feed the cattle oilcakes, bran and straw. They are not able to feed them with oilcakes too, they said. R Kaliappan, one of the boomboom mattukarars, said that they are feeding only stocked paddy straw. They are concerned more about their bulls than their lives, he said. “We used to scout villages to collect water used for cleaning rice before cooking and water drained after cooking. Now people are not allowing us to enter other villages. We are feeding our cattle only normal water,” he said. G Sigamani said that they cannot leave them for grazing, as farmers would impound the cattle and ask them to pay anywhere up to Rs 5,000. “We are providing only whatever available to the cows. It would be difficult to rear them without the support of the government if the curfew lasts for weeks together. There should be some help for cattle as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fodder-shortage-hits-lives-of-mattukarars/articleshow/74939635.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Two more Covid-19 positive cases in Porbandar||Rajkot: Two more people in Porbandar tested Covid-19 positive, taking the total number of infected persons to three in the district. According to the district administration, all the positive cases are of the same group. A 12-year-old girl and a 40-year-man tested positive on Wednesday. The girl is the daughter of the woman who tested positive on March 29. The man also belongs to the same group that came to Porbandar from Dubai a few days before the woman tested positive. While the elder daughter has been kept in isolation, the younger daughter tested positive on Wednesday. The man who tested positive also came from Dubai. Altogether 12 samples were tested in Rajkot’s laboratory on Wednesday. The remaining samples tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-in-porbandar/articleshow/74938152.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University contributes Rs 44 lakh for coronavirus relief efforts||PRAYAGRAJ: Around 1,800 faculty members and staffers of Allahabad University’s (AU) contributed a sum of around Rs 44 lakh to Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) on Wednesday to pitch in with the government’s efforts to curb the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) contagion. “We have contributed a day’s basic salary to PMNRF to help out with the relief efforts,” said AU’s officiating vice-chancellor RR Tiwari. “After an appeal made by varsity, most faculty members and teachers of AU and its constituent colleges came foreward to contribute. The amount would be sent to PMNRF over the next two days,” said AU’s public relations officer Shailendra Mishra. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party leader Shyama Charan Gupta donated Rs 25 lakh to PMNRF on Wednesday. A cheque of Rs 25 lakh was handed over to Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chand Goswami on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-contributes-rs-44l-for-corona-relief-efforts/articleshow/74937838.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||BMHRC starts training on use of personal protection equipment for its staff||BHOPAL: Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) may not have personal protection equipment (PPEs) or COVID-19 patients, but on Wednesday it started intensive training for its medical officers on the use of PPEs. “There is an acute shortage of PPEs in the entire country. Doctors, nurses and paramedical staff is also getting exposed to Coronavirus while treating patients. How do you expect BMHRC to get PPEs,” said co-convener of Bhopal Group for Information & Action (BGIA), Rachna Dhingra. Her group has also moved the Supreme Court against the state government decision to take over BMHRC, a hospital mandated to provide “best possible” treatment to gas victims by the apex court, to use it as isolation centre for Coronavirus patients. Professor and head of department of psychiatry, Dr Rajni Chaterjee, who is acting as coordinator for the training programme, when asked whether BMHRC has got PPEs for doctors and other medical staff, said, “No. We have one or two kits but they are not perfect. We are using those for training.” Meanwhile, member of the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee, set up by the apex court, to oversee medical facilities being provided to the gas victims by the gas relief hospitals including BMHRC, Purnendu Shukla once again raised the question mark over the logic of converting a gas relief hospital into isolation centre for the Coronavirus patients. “What is the logic in shutting the OPD of all government hospitals including BMHRC for general patients, when all the Coronavirus patients found in Bhopal so far are being treated at AIIMS and their swab test is also taking place there. Yet, it has not shut its OPD for other patients”, he said. Dr Chaterjee, however, said that all the eight mini-units allied to BMHRC are fully functional and more than 200 patients are being examined in each of the dispensaries every day. The mini-units of BMHRC located at Chandbad, Kainchi Chhola, Station Bajariya, Tila Jamalpura, Ginnori, Jehangirabad, Karond and Bavihar are also distributing medicines to gas victims, she said. Several gas victims, however, are complaining that they are facing problems in reaching the mini-units to get medicines as they are stopped by policemen time & again because of lockdown. Santosh Vishwakarma, who needed to take medicines from Chandbad unit on Tuesday, after dialysis at Kamla Nehru Hospital on Monday, said that he was stopped at three places by the policemen on way from his house in Bairagarh to Chandbad and finally he was asked to go back before he could reach the dispensary. Urvashi Pathak, daughter of another kidney patient gas victim, Vidya Pathak, also faced a similar situation, but she, somehow, reached the units where it was earlier located but she was told by policemen sitting there that it has been shifted to some other place and she too couldn’t get the medicine either. Dr Chaterjee said if patients are being stopped by policemen despite prescription, she can’t do much about it but for kidney patients, they have given WhatsApp nos. to patients on which they can ask when to come to collect medicines and the unit concerned would ask them to come when they are prepared with the medicines prescribed to the patient. Spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, said if somebody is having problem in getting medicines, they should contact on helpline no. 181 and they would try to deliver the medicine at their home itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmhrc-starts-training-on-use-of-ppe-for-its-staff/articleshow/74938125.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 2, 2020||Allahabad||Police comb through temples, mosques & hotels||Prayagraj: Police searched over 400 temples, mosques, madrassa and hotels across the city on Wednesday looking for persons with a travel history and who might be living in such establishments without informing the police. The raids come a day after nine persons — including seven Indonesians — were found hiding in a local mosque in Prayagraj after they attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, which is feared to have led to a spurt in novel coronavirus cases in the national capital. The attendees and other persons staying on the mosque’s premises have been quarantined in guest houses in Attarsuiya and Georgetown. The exercise was aimed to identify those staying in places of worship, madrassas, hotels and inns legally or illegally. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said that police teams checked 404 religious places including mosques and temples in the city on Wednesday. “We found 10 foreign nationals — nine from Thailand and one from Bangladesh — staying at a mosque near Karamat Ki Chowki. However, the 10 had already informed the local police about their stay,” the SSP added. “In Daraganj, 21 persons from Andhra Pradesh were found staying at Jagannath Shastri temple in Bakshi Khurd since from March 21. We also found 35 Bengaluru residents staying at the Sangam Bari temple since March 21,” he added. Another group of 11 persons was found staying at the Bari Mosque in Daraganj since March 23 and had arrived in the city on March 1. The SSP said that police teams have checked 99 establishments in Kotwali police circle, 42 in Shahganj, 22 in Khuldabad, 29 in Kareli, 28 in Civil Lines, 54 in Dhoomanganj, 24 in Cantonment, 48 in Kydganj, 18 in Mutthiganj, 27 in Attarsuiya, two in Shivkuti, and eight in Daraganj. Meanwhile, more than 30 Prayagraj residents were booked on the charges of violating rules of the nationwide lockdown, which was announced to check the spread of novel coronavirus and entered its eighth day on Wednesday. Police maintained strict vigil on interstate borders and prohibited entry of vehicles, barring those ferrying essential commodities. Silence continued to reign on city roads on Wednesday too as people stayed indoors in the wake of the 21-day lockdown. Additional mobile police teams were deployed in Rajapur, Ashok Nagar, Civil Lines, Khuldabad, Mutthiganj, Ram Bagh, Kareli, Dhoomanganj and adjoining areas. Only vegetable and milk vendors were allowed to move around the city between 7am and 10am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-comb-through-temples-mosques-hotels/articleshow/74937870.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Domestic violence victims struggle to contact officials||HYDERABAD: While the National Commission for Women (NCW) has tried to reassure women facing domestic violence that all is not lost, experts and women’s groups said such women are finding it difficult to get help amidst lockdown. NCW even posted its chairperson and members’ email addresses urging women to reach out for help. In a bid to highlight the aggrieved women’s plight, NCW recently made a post on its Facebook page saying, “Women are facing the brunt of this upheaval in the wake of #COVID19outbreak. There’s an increasing number of domestic violence complaint and worse it is difficult for women to access institutional support at times like these (sic).” However, experts said women facing domestic violence were at the receiving end and added that the possibility of all such cases being reported look bleak. Shaheen, a city-based NGO, said distress calls came down to five a day from 20 calls a day previously. “Recently, a woman called and said her husband drinks at home and beats her up. She can’t go out and seek help,” Jameela Nishat, founder-director of Shaheen, said. Nishat also explained that many women do not have access to phone or internet to seek help. Echoing similar feelings, Tripurana Venkataratnam, advisor in National Women’s Commission and former chairperson of State Women’s Commission, said domestic violence victims are more vulnerable during the lockdown period. TSWC officials said only a couple of women had called seeking help. “The women who faced abuse from in-laws and husbands are vulnerable and become an easy target during the lockdown,” said an official. Meanwhile, counsellors said domestic violence cases are mainly related to men’s alcohol addiction. With liquor shops closed during the lockdown, there is a good possibility that withdrawal symptoms could lead to a spurt in domestic violence. “SHE Teams and Bharosa Centre are functioning. Women should not try to suppress their agony if they undergo domestic violence at the hands of their husbands or in-laws. Even the society and neighbours should be vigilant,” said Kanika Durga, a former counsellor with Bharosa Centre, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/domestic-violence-victims-struggle-to-contact-officials/articleshow/74939068.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visitors restricted at child care homes in Visakhapatnam to check virus spread||VISAKHAPATNAM: The women and child welfate department has issued instructions to every government-run home for children as well as child care institutes (CCI) run by NGOs on measures to be followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Though no child has tested positive in AP so far, there are 77 government-run homes and 817 CCIs that house thousands of kids. Visitors have been discouraged to meet the children, while food or donation from philanthropists are being avoided. Child protection officers in each district have also been asked to ensure frequent tests by medical officers. “As per government orders, we are taking necessary measures to prevent Covid-19 cases among children residing in these homes and CCIs. After all schools closed down in mid-March, children were send back to their parents or guardians. Those who have no homes to go back to, or those in observation homes and special homes, continue to remain within the institutes. Each resident of CCIs is provided with 10 kg rice and 1 kg dal,” district child protection officer (DCPO) A Satyanarayana said. “As part of the preventive measures, personal and environmental hygiene and sanitation at the home premises is being looked into. Sanitisers and soaps have been provided to the inmates and staff. They have been educated on regular handwashing, covering mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing and necessity of maintaining social distance. Any child having symptoms of cough, cold, fever, breathing problem will be immediately referred to the hospital,” the DCPO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/visitors-restricted-at-child-care-homes-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/74938128.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 2, 2020||India||With OPDs, OTs shut, many cancer, HIV patients hit hard||With the country’s entire healthcare set-up working towards fighting Covid-19, patients of diseases like HIV, cancer and renal disease who need to access hospitals regularly to continue their treatment, and are immuno-compromised, are facing quite a bit of hardship with most OPDs and operation theatres closed. Take Maitri, who was in the middle of treatment for oral cancer at AIIMS, Delhi, when the lockdown happened. On March 13, she was told she needed an urgent surgery. Now, all OPD services are shut in AIIMS and doctors are not doing any surgeries either. She is in severe pain and the ulcers on her tongue have started bleeding. “We have to go to the AIIMS emergency almost every day because nothing else is open. They give us some painkillers and try to control the bleeding but say they cannot do anything further as the government has ordered a shutdown of all other services," said Maitri's husband. Read the full story on TOI+ How Covid war is hurting India's non-Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-opds-ots-shut-many-cancer-hiv-patients-hit-hard/articleshow/74940146.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||68% coronavirus patients in Madhya Pradesh are under-50||BHOPAL: Almost 68% of all the people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh are below the age of 50, according to age-wise distribution of cases in Madhya Pradesh done by government-backed Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis. This analysis is a warning and beats the popular perception that elderly are more vulnerable to COVID-19. The study looks into age, sex of coronavirus positive cases and deaths. It does not reveal base demographic characteristics such as pre-existing conditions. The data source is from MoHFW, MP health department and a crowd sourcing website, which is not linked to government. According to this analysis, almost 50 per cent of these positive patients were in the age-group of 30 to 50. The ‘situation report’ for MP department of health and family welfare was released on Monday. It also highlights another alarming statistics. Reason-wise distribution of cases in Madhya Pradesh (traveller versus contact transmission) indicates that reason for infection in 49% cases was unknown. Among known cases, those who had no travel history were 34% and travellers were 17% . The study is based on data of 47 cases. First case was reported on March 20; since then MP has reported steady increase in COVID-19 cases. The total number of people who are under the scanner are well over 12,000 according to government data. More than a dozen people who are tagged for foreign travel to COVID-19 affected regions are currently not in MP. These are MP residents and have valid passports. Various measures have been taken by the state government, seeking people’s participation, to track these people. A minimum quarantine period of 14-days is required following foreign travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/68-covid-19-patients-in-mp-are-under-50/articleshow/74938144.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||11 foreigners, 16 of two families suspected of attending Nizamuddin Jamaat, quarantined||KANPUR: Around ten Tablighi delegations, including one from abroad, affiliated to Nizamuddin Markaz are in the city. They arrived on March 14 and 21 and comprise 129 members. The district administration has quarantined all 11 members of foreign delegation and 16 members of two families of Budhia Ghat on suspicion of attending the Nizamuddin Jamaat. District administration officials said the delegation includes 4 Afghans, 3 Iranians, 1 British, and three Indians. “All 11 people, including foreign nationals, have been quarantined at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. Of the remaining 16, nine are at Ursala Horseman hospital and seven others, all members of one family, are quarantined at their home,” the official said. The foreign delegation visited Nizamuddin Markaz, went to Rajasthan and reached Kanpur on March 14 and has been staying at Suffa Mosque in Babupurwa. The members include Yazdani Abdul Raheem, Phooladi Ibrahim and Rigi Yunus (all from Iran), Sabir Abdul Raheem, Jan Mohammad, Jarinjai, M Barat Rahamatullah, Hashimi Syed Md (all from Afghanistan), Daud Ayub, Ismail (UK). Among three Indian members, two belong to Indore and one to Kerala. They had to go back to Nizamuddin Markaz but had to stay due to lockdown. The district administration was relaxed on not finding any name from Kanpur in the list released by Nizamuddin Markaz. The administration received a complaint on phone on Tuesday evening from Golaghat. The caller informed that nine members of a family had recently visited Delhi. The family members, however, said they had visited Delhi to attend a marriage. The family consists of two women, one six month old girl child and rest all males. The control room got another call informing that 7 members of a family had returned from Nizamuddin. They were screened but no symptoms were found hence had were asked to quarantine at home. DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari informed that LIU is on alert and all the Jamaat delegation members are being scanned and quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/11-foreigners-16-of-2-families-suspected-of-attending-nizamuddin-jamaat-quarantined/articleshow/74938117.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||7 containment zones in rural areas to curb infection||PUNE: The administration has readied seven containment zones — Manjri, Nanded City, Sanaswadi, Baramati, Junnar, Hinjewadi and Wagholi — as a preventive measure and completed 100% door-to-door surveillance thrice to curb the spread of coronavirus in the rural belt. As many as five coronavirus cases have so far been reported from Manjri, Nanded City, Sanaswadi, Baramati and Junnar in the rural areas of the district outside the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits.. Once an area is declared a containment zone, all residents of that area are essentially under home quarantine till further notice. The field workers visit their houses, list out the number of family members, check their health status and take necessary actions. “Monitoring through drone survey has been stepped up to track people’s movement, while police patrolling has also been increased,” an official said. A containment zone was recently created in Hinjewadi, as a preventive measure following reports about a huge number of people travelling abroad and also to other places within the country. “We have ensured a strong containment zone and the block development officer has been made in charge of it. We have allowed the officials to hire doctors and also ensure home delivery of various essential items. Surveillance is constantly going on,” said chief executive officer of Pune zilla parishad Ayush Prasad. “We are tracking the citizens’ health. We have not tested anybody so far, as there has not been any symptomatic person from the area. We have tied up with hospitals and doctors have been appointed,” he said. Ravindra Sinha of the Hinjewadi Residents’ Forum told TOI that the lockdown measures were being strictly implemented by the gram panchayat and the zilla parishad. “All housing societies are complying with the orders. Everyone is following the containment norms. All data of travellers and senior citizens have been shared with the authorities,” he said. The Pune zilla parishad has announced a life insurance worth Rs1 crore for all health workers, medical staffers, gram sevaks and group development officers. Prasad said the insurance cover was announced to make the employees feel secured. Apart from the insurance cover, these officials have been provided with safety gears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-containment-zones-in-rural-areas-to-curb-infection/articleshow/74939650.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown uncertainty bogging you down?||AHMEDABAD: Some are alone, some are with family, some are with their spouses, some with room-mates but all are locked down – under compulsory house arrest till the Covid-19 pandemic is contained. A caller on the 1100 helpline for psychological counselling, panicked over the uncertainty of lockdown duration and its impact on his business. Another woman called up complaining of a night of extremely disturbed sleep. Yet another caller, the kin of a patient suffering from bipolar disorder, complained of aggravated symptoms of the patient since the lockdown was imposed. Complaints of anxiety, depression and panic are some of the most common ones on the 1100 helpline that has been launched by the government of Gujarat to provide psychological counselling to people during the lockdown. However, a similar trend has also been observed by city-based psychologists who estimate a 30% increase in cases of anxiety and panic disorders. “Complaints from people with pre-existing illnesses are more common and especially those who are patients of panic and depression are reporting worsening of symptoms. We have also come across cases of people who develop obsessive compulsive disorders for repeatedly washing their hands and maintaining hygiene because the advisory is being repeatedly hammered upon them through various media,” said Dr Ramashankar Yadav, a psychiatrist at the Hospital for Mental Health in Shahibaug. Compulsory staying at home is weighing down on a lot of people, including youngsters and professionals. “I have been getting calls from people who are worried about losing jobs or facing financial losses in business. Many of them are complaining of sleep loss or restlessness and feeling irritable. People are not used to staying at home compulsorily all the time and their anxieties manifest differently,” said Dr Hansal Bhachech, consultant psychiatrist and author. The looming uncertainty over the duration of lockdown is one of the biggest concerns raised by people. That apart, cases of marital discord have also come to the fore. Experts believe that overconsumption of news about Covid-19 on social media is also harbouring negativity among people. “Fake news and overconsumption of news related to Covid-19 has caused people to unnecessarily panic and also led to creation of a negative mindset making them depressed. It is best for people to limit their news consumption through official sources and avoid reading all forwarded messages indiscriminately on social media,” said Dr Prashant Bhimani, senior consultant psychologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-uncertainty-bogging-you-down/articleshow/74939260.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Extend cooperation to govt, says Kanimozhi||DMK leader and Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi on Wednesday said that people should cooperate with the government and police and staying at home is for our good. The DMK women’s wing secretary was speaking to journalists after inspecting the preparations in place to combat Covid-19 at the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital. She also handed over protective gear to the hospital staff.Kanimozhi said that people should realise the reasons behind social distancing stressed by the government and enforced by the police and extend their cooperation. “Police cannot monitor everyone. So, avoid going out together and to crowded places,” she said and re-emphasised that social distancing should be self-disciplined.“The government should give incentives to sanitary workers, nurses and doctors who have left behind their families and are serving the people at this time of crisis,” she said. Kanimozhi added that the government should consider increasing the dole announced for unorganised workers during the Covid-19 crisis.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/extend-cooperation-to-govt-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/74939651.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||3 more with no foreign travel past test positive in Pune||PUNE/MUMBAI: Three more with no history of foreign travel tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection in Pune on Tuesday, taking the total count of such individuals to about 10 in Pune. As for the total number of positive cases, the tally has not breached 50-mark. “The contacts of the patients are being traced and quarantined,” a civic health official said. Of the three patients, one is a 67-year-old pastor, a known patient of renal failure from Bhavani Peth. “In addition to kidney failure, the pastor developed pneumonia and was admitted at a private hospital in Salisbury Park three days ago. Hence, his throat swab sample was sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for analyses. The sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” the official. Another person is the husband of a 55-year-old Ghorpadi Peth woman who was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection on Monday. "He is 62-year-old. He has been quarantined at Naidu hospital," official said. The Ghorpadi Peth woman also has no history of recent foreign travel. She went to KEM hospital for mild breathlessness and got referred to Naidu hospital on Sunday. She tested positive for the infection on Monday. Her condition is stable. The third infected person is a resident of Kondhwa. “He self-reported to Naidu hospital after he developed mild breathlessness on Monday. His sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” official said. When it comes to positive cases, Maharashtra continued to lead among states with 335 positive cases, including 16 deaths and 33 new patients reported on Wednesday. The majority of the new cases were from Mumbai at 30, followed by two from Pune and one from Buldhana. As on Wednesday, Mumbai reported 190 cases and nine confirmed deaths, excluding the four not confirmed by the authorities. Among the victims was a 56-year-old man from Dharavi, who was incidentally the first case to be detected from the densely populated slum pocket. TOI has learnt Sion Hospital, where the man was admitted, was looking for a ventilator but he succumbed before they could transfer him. His coronavirus test report had come positive on Wednesday morning. The deaths confirmed by the BMC were of a 51-year-old and a 75-year-old. The former had cough and breathlessness and was admitted to a public hospital on March 31 and died the same day due to bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome. The 75-year-old man got admitted with complaints of fever and breathlessness on March 28. The patient died with hypertensive failure due to lower respiratory tract infection on March 29. His reports came positive on March 31, two days after he died. In a first, a 62-year-old Andheri (East) resident, who had no travel history, died at his home due to complications arising out of a coronavirus infection on Tuesday. His positive test came almost nine hours after his death at around 2pm. A senior citizen who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday was cremated in a western suburb early on Wednesday after the authorities convinced his family that burying him would not contain spread of the virus. A 57-year-old Andheri resident died in a hospital. The man had been undergoing treatment for the past few days. Four CISF jawans tested positive in Kalamboli on Tuesday and Wednesday. The jawans were posted at the International Airport, Mumbai. This takes the total number of positive cases to eight in Panvel municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-more-with-no-foreign-travel-past-test-positive/articleshow/74939658.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Doctors urge patients to cooperate, share travel and contact history||VISAKHAPATNAM: Doctors dealing with Covid-19 cases are finding it increasingly difficult to deal with non-cooperative public, who refuse to divulge their travel and contact history. Doctors are appealing to the general public and especially suspected cases as well as patients to cooperate with them for the safety of their family and community. “I was present at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) when a group of 30 men behaved in an unruly manner with the doctors. They shouted and complained that since they are not suffering from cough or cold, why should they be brought to the hospital. Already five of them tested positive and more positives are expected tonight as reports of 40 samples are awaited,” said Dr P V Sudhakar, principal of AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/doctors-urge-patients-to-cooperate-share-travel-and-contact-history/articleshow/74938149.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Expert from plays down fears over bat colonies in Hyderabad, says they are not a threat to humans||HYDERABAD: A biologist of Osmania University who specialises in studying bats tried to play down the fears over the nocturnal species, saying people need not worry about the number of bat colonies in Hyderabad. C Srinivasulu, a conservation zoologist also, however, said he had been flooded with enquiries from residents of Hyderabad if bats pose a threat to their existence in the wake of spread of coronavirus. He said the coronavirus spreads from one human to another and hence, people should not be worried about bats. “Don’t blame bats for everything. Bats are reservoirs of coronavirus, but there are intermediary carriers like pangolin from which zoonotic diseases jump to humans. Bats should be left alone and any meddling with them will result in another kind of an unwanted situation where viruses look for other hosts,” he explained. “Bats are natural reservoirs for many viruses due to their immunity and physiology and that is why they do not show any infection,” Srinivasulu said. “When Nipah and Ebola broke out, the viruses were placed to bats. From bats, the virus went to gorillas and humans hunted gorillas for meat because of which people contracted Ebola virus. There are always intermediary links between bats and humans,” he said. He said a study had shown that SARS-CoV2 had 98% virus strain in humans similar to the one in a pangolin. “We depend on animal protein and we domesticate certain animals and hunt wild animals. All these animals have a role in the eco-system. When it is disturbed, the virus jumps on to humans,” Srinivasulu explained. He also urged the government to prevent hunting of wild animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expert-plays-down-fears-over-bats-says-they-are-not-a-threat-to-humans/articleshow/74939745.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Revoke notice for admissions: University of Hyderabad students||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) students’ union submitted a representation toVC Appa Rao Podile seeking revocation of the admission notification for 2020-21 until the lockdown ends. As per the notification, the admission process for all courses went live from April 3. “This is against the usual practice, where the notification is released only after the academic council (AC), where the prospectus is passed through,” read the representation. It also cited difficulties to students during lockdown. UoH authorities clarified that the AC meeting, which was scheduled for March 20, was postponed indefinitely due to the lockdown. "Since the AC meeting is deferred, some key decisions related to admissions, courses, intake for the ensuing academic year are taken by the deans and heads and the VC has the final authority to give approval as the chairperson of the AC,” said Vinod Pavarala , spokesperson of UoH. He said that while some decisions are taken to ensure that the academic calendar is not delayed, others that require elaborate discussion will come up during the regular AC meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revoke-notice-for-admissions-uoh-students/articleshow/74939094.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Allahabad||Railways starts three special goods trains||PRAYAGRAJ: For the first time, Indian railways has introduced three ‘time-bound’ goods trains on important routes of the country which would follow the scheduled time-table as is followed by passenger trains. “Because of the lockdown, the responsibility of ferrying goods has come on the shoulders of railways and as passenger trains are standing in yards, railways can easily run these ‘time-bound’ special goods trains. This has been done so that traders would know by when their items would reach their cities” said chief public relation officer (CPRO) of north central railways (NCR) Ajeet Kumar Singh. These special trains include the one between Delhi-Howrah. Running twice a week from both ends, the train comprises five parcel vans and one SLR coach. “These special goods trains have been allotted coaches as per the load potential of a particular route and each coach has the capacity of 20,000 kilo gram of load,”said the CPRO. Another special good train would run between Chennai and New Delhi. This train will also have five parcel vans and one SLR coach. Similarly, a special goods train has been introduced between Bhopal and Gwalior which would run thrice a week from both ends and will comprise just one parcel van, a SLR coach.  Presently, a goods train is supposed to cover the distance between two stations in a given stipulated time (depending on the average speed of goods train allowed in the given route) and if the loco pilot reaches late, he or she has to explain the reason thereof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rlys-starts-threespl-goods-trains/articleshow/74937920.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Allahabad||Phone-in, online OPDs helppeople facing corona blues||Prayagraj: At a time when patients in Sangam city are facing challenging times since visiting hospitals in times of coronavirus threat and nationwide lockdown is difficult, phone and online consultation have come to thei r rescue. The authorities of Moti Lal Nehru Medical he (MLNMC) in the city have started a phone-in OPD and helpline service, while many private doctors are providing consultation to their patients through SMS and WhatsApp and even through Skype. Since many denizens have been complaining of anxiety and depression due to the looming threat of pandemic, a team of physiatrists at MLNMC has started a free phone-in OPD and helpline service for such people. This online OPD and helpline would be functional for around 10 hours each day and those having any of the above-mentioned problems can call the on-duty doctor, said MLNMC officials. “The OPD/helpline will remain open from 9am to 7.30pm every day. A team of two psychiatrists will be working on shifts on rotational basis to help patients,” said Prof V K Singh, head of psychiatry department, MLNMC. This free facility has been started since usual OPDs are no longer functional in all hospitals and people are staying indoors amid the threat of coronavirus outbreak, he added. Prof Singh further said the service will remain operational all seven days a week till the end of present lockdown period since people are anxious and scared in the prevailing situation. “A lockdown can be a difficult time for some people, as we are not used to living in isolation. People are advised to organize their time and set a certain schedule with activities and take full advantage of this time,” he added. Similarly, many general physicians of the city have also started online consultation and OPD free of charge with the help of various social media platforms. “I have asked all my patients to share their problems with me on WhatsApp or through SMS. Though new cases, especially one with complicated history, cannot be handled in this way but still many simpler ailments can be attended. Those who are already under my treatment can follow-up through this,” said Dr Kamal Kumar, a physician. However, most surgeons are performing surgeries during even during these challenging times. “Many patients, who have already been under my treatment consult me by calling or through WhatsApp, but those who need immediate surgery are being operated even now. There is no other way to save precious lives,” said Dr Prakash Khetan, a neurosurgeon, who has performed around half a dozen operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/phone-in-online-opds-helppeople-facing-corona-blues/articleshow/74937900.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Overnight, schools buzz with food and medicine for migrants||PUNE: Groups of people stand a few feet away from each other inside a municipal school in Shastrinagar in Kothrud that has been converted into a temporary shelter. There are washrooms, and hygiene is maintained. The groups comprise migrants, unskilled workers, skilled labourers, construction workers and roadside vendors. The civic administration, the district collectorate and the Pune police have set up such shelters across the city. Night shelters have been converted into relief camps where nearly 3,000 workers and labourers now live. Prabhat Kumar, who worked as a cook in a local catering service, is waiting for the lockdown to end. He wants to go back to Solapur. For many like him, these temporary shelters from the Pune Municipal Corporation are a relief. “We are in touch with our families. They worry about us, but we showed them the shelter and they are assured,” Kumar said. “Food is good, but not enough,” many told TOI. The civic body has joined hands with NGOs to provide food. “We only got khichdi on the first day, but now we get ‘chapati’ and ‘sabji’ along with rice and dal. If the quantity is increased, it will suffice our need,” they added. Doctors visit regularly, check them and give medicines, said Sanjay Jadhav from Beed. He works with a catering contractor. The classrooms are resting places where the workers are placed in such manner that social distancing is maintained. “Only three or four people are kept in one room,” said Krishna Said, a PMC school teacher, who is a coordinators at the shelter. The civic staff pays frequent visits to the rooms to check the well-being of the migrants. Some inadequacies crop up. “Sanitisers in large quantities will make personal hygiene better. Currently, it is not enough,” another staff member said. Scrap collector Dattatreya Udawant said he was dependent on what he earned every day. “I collect scrap from houses and sell it to the vendor. The lockdown has robbed my livelihood,” he said. Vilas Kamble, a native of Kolhapur, who is a painting labourer, said, “We hardly have any work. The constructions have stopped and the market is closed. So, even if we get an odd small job we are unable to buy the material needed for painting.” Officials at other camps were facing a challenge in keeping these workers inside. “Many have a language problem and they get aggressive if we prevent them from moving out. We are being patient. Posters will go up and talks will be conducted shortly,” one of them said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/overnight-schools-buzz-with-food-medicine-for-migrants/articleshow/74939664.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath asks government to start distribution of free rations to poor||BHOPAL: State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday shot yet another letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan — this time advocating immediate distribution of free rations through fair price shops for the underprivileged and poor. “State government has passed an order for distribution of rations for those eligible through fair price shops. However, free ration distribution has not started, yet,” Kamal Nath wrote. He argued that with the ongoing Corona crisis, common man in Madhya Pradesh is facing new challenges every day. “There is shortage of daily essential commodities and the common man is struggling to acquire and fulfil them,” the letter said. Meanwhile, state Congress released the copy of a government order passed on March 26 by the department of food and civil supplies. The order said that free wheat and rice should be distributed to the 117 lakh families in the month of June. PCC chief Nath’s letter said, Ï request you that free ration distribution should be started immediately. Along with regular rations, lentils and edible oil, sugar and masalas should also be distributed free from fair price shops. Because of the total lock-down, grinding wheat for flour is also not an easy option. State should acquire flour mills and arrange for distribution of atta (wheat flour),” the letter said. @OfficeOfKNath tweeted, Ï salute the spirit of all doctors, health workers, police administration, government officials and employees, respected friends of the media who are faithfully discharging their duties in this time of crisis. The manner in which they are honestly performing their duties to take the state and people out of this crisis, is praiseworthy. Without concern for themselves, they way they are serving people, deserves respect. The work of those social organisations and dignitaries who are providing ration, food, medicines and other assistance to the poor at this hour is laudable." The senior Congress leader’s media coordinator and state PCC spokesman Narendra Saluja alleged that the BJP government was betraying the people even during crisis times. He alleged that at a time state was battling Corona virus spread, state government was involved with transfer of senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-asks-govt-to-start-distribution-of-free-rations-to-poor/articleshow/74938182.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Stigma over coronavirus testing blamed for man's suicide||MADURAI: A man who was taken for Covid-19 testing a few days ago committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in Kappalur two days ago allegedly after a video started making the rounds asking people in his area to be cautious. The test result was said to have come out negative. The district administration says they are still investigating the matter as there is no prima facie evidence about this charge. Mustaffa, 35, of Mullai Nagar in Bibikulam, had been working in Kerala as a coolie when Covid-19 broke out. He came to his mother’s house at Bibikulam with his wife and two children as soon as the curfew was announced. However, some people informed the authorities that he had symptoms of the disease following which he was taken for testing. It was in these circumstances that the video of a man being taken in a small van for testing from Bibikulam was circulated among the residents and asking them to be cautious. Two days later, railway police found the body of Mustaffa who had apparently jumped in front of a goods train at Kappalur. When contacted, Madurai district collector T G Vinay said they were yet to confirm if the man had been taken for Covid-19 testing. They did not have the name of a person by the name Mustaffa in their records which they maintained for all those who were tested for the disease. The video also shows the man being taken in a load vehicle, which was not done for any person. Hence they were investigating the matter, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stigma-over-covid-testing-blamed-for-mans-suicide/articleshow/74939681.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Society security guards from UP, Bihar stay back||PUNE: Munna Singh (37), and his younger brother Dharmendra, who hail from Siwan district in Bihar, have stayed on as security guards at a housing society in Kondhwa. They ensure that instructions from the society’s officebearers are followed strictly.  “I heard about people walking home due to the lockdown and the virus scare. I spoke with my family and decided to stay back. My sister’s marriage is in May, and one of our brothers lives in Dubai. He was set to come in April and stay on till the marriage. But now, we told him to stay away. If he comes, there will be resentment in our village,” he said. He felt they too would face anger as there are many Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. “We work from early in the morning till late in the evening making sure that no one enters the society without permission. Our pay packets are not enough to rent a home. So we stay on the society’s premises,” Munna told TOI.  “The society’s members here are good and the families give us food four times a day. We hope matters improve and we are able to travel home and ‘bhaiya’ can also come from Dubai,” his younger brothersaid. In the same society, Deepak, who hails from Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh, and is a guard, is also waiting. “Each day my family calls asking about my well-being and urge me to come home the moment public transportation begins. I never really thought of walking home. I have work and a place to stay, here. But there are concerns and I talk to my family each day on video call and find solace when I see them in good health,” Deepak said. Not far away, at another housing society on NIBM Road, Tarkeshwar is at the gate with two colleagues. Tarkeshwar is from Hajipur in Bihar. “We have been promised our pay this month but next month will be tough. Two other guards left for their homes on March 20 by train. My family, comprising my mother, wife and three children, want me to come home, but I decided to stay back as we cannot take a salary hit this month too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/society-security-guards-from-up-bihar-stay-back/articleshow/74939676.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||1.44L Ujjwala beneficiaries to get free LPG refill till June||Aurangabad: A total of 1,44,531 beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana’ (PMUY) in Aurangabad district will receive free refill of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders from April to June in the wake of coronavirus outbreak and the resultant lockdown. According to the district administration, the refill charges would be directly deposited into the registered bank accounts of the beneficiaries. “The government is committed to standing behind the poor of the country during the current crisis. The below poverty line (BPL) families will not only get free ration but will also receive free refill of LPG cylinders till June," an official release from the district administration said. Launched on May 1, 2016, the PMUY is an ambitious social welfare scheme of the Narendra Modi government that aims to provide LPG connections to BPL households across the country. The scheme, which targets replacing the unclean cooking fuels mostly used in rural India with the clean and more efficient LPG, achieved its target of giving 8 crore connections seven months ahead of the schedule during September last year. The district administration, quoting national oil marketing companies, also said the supply of LPG refill cylinders would continue on a smooth note despite the outbreak of the pandemic. "There is no dearth of LPG supply and the distribution is going on smoothly as it comes under the category of essential services. We appeal to the citizens to not believe any rumours and avoid hoarding cylinders if they have multiple cylinders or connections in the family," the authorities concerned said. The LPG consumers are encouraged to use digital platforms for the payment as it would ensure the practice of social distancing and avoid handling of currency notes,. The employees and staff of oil marketing companies have also been given life coverage. “If the employee or staffer dies due to Covid-19, his family will get death benefit towards the life insurance of Rs 5,00,000,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-44l-ujjwala-beneficiaries-to-get-free-lpg-refill-till-june/articleshow/74939102.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Allahabad||FIR against nine Tablighi Jamaat attendees hiding in Prayagraj mosque, eight others||PRAYAGRAJ: A day after seven Indonesians who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event — which was organised amid the Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi — were found hiding in a local mosque, an FIR was registered against them and 10 others on Wednesday for hiding information about their stay from the police. The accused included five members of the committee which looked after the mosque. The 17 were booked under sections 188 (violation of norms), 269 (acting negligently and likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. A group of seven Indonesians and two others who attended the Delhi congregation on March 12-13 visited Prayagraj on March 22. After coming to the city, the nine had been staying at a local mosque. The seven accused Indonesian were staying at the local Abdullah mosque ‘Musafirkhana’ and had not informed the police about their stay. The FIR was lodged by station officer of Shahganj police station Brajesh Singh. The seven accused Indonesians were identified as Idrus Umar, Ade Kustiwa, Samsul Hadi, Imam Safi Sarno, Satijo Joedisono, Hendra Simbolon and Dedik Iskandar — all residents of Dorowati Barat Malang in Indonesia. The other 10 accused were Ashraf, Shajhan Ali, Khawja Sabiuddin, Mohd Ahmad, Dr Masiullah Khan, Mohd Tariq, Mohd Shakeel, Washim Ahmad, Rizwanullah and Mohd Mustafa. Apart from Ashraf and Shajhan who belonged to West Bengal, all other accused were residents of Prayagraj. The station officer claimed that sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC were punishable offences. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Thirty seven persons, including seven Indonesians, were staying at the mosque since March 22. These included the nine Tablighi event attendees. All of them have been quarantined in a guest house in Attarsuiya locality of the city.” “Of the nine Tablighi event attendees found hiding in the local mosque, seven were Indonesians and, one each from West Bengal and Kerala. They had attended the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West area on March 12 and 13,” the SSP added. “We were tipped off that some foreign nationals who had attended the conference were staying at a mosque. A joint team of police and district administration traced nine attendees by late Tuesday evening,” Pankaj said. The Tablighi Jamaat conference was organised in phases from March 1-15 and was attended by over 2,000 of the organisations members, including Islamic preachers from other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fir-against-nine-jamaat-attendees-hiding-in-city-mosque-eight-others/articleshow/74937956.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Major setback to Vismay; No choice but to surrender||Ahmedabad: In a major setback to Vismay Shah, the BMW hit-and-run case convict, the Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday turned down his appeal against his five-year conviction and ordered him to surrender to jail “forthwith.”Shah (32) had challenged the Gujarat high court’s (HC) decision in February of upholding a trial court’s verdict that he should spend five years in jail for the death of two youths – Shivam Dave and Rahul Patel – whose bike was bumped off by his speeding car in February 2013 in Vastrapur area.Justice Sonia Gokani had granted six weeks to Shah to surrender to jail. During this time, Shah approached the apex court and challenged the HC verdict. However, the SC turned down his appeal against the conviction. The HC on Tuesday extended the deadline for Shah to surrender till May 5 on the ground that his appeal was pending before the SC and that he should be allowed more time outside during the coronavirus pandemic.However, a day later, a bench of SC Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah took up the hearing of Shah’s appeal through video-conferencing. After hearing it, the bench said that there was no merit in the appeal. The judges ordered Shah “to surrender to undergo his sentence forthwith”. He will have to surrender to serve the rest of the sentence - four years. Son of an ophthalmologist, Shah hit headlines at the time of the accident. He was charged and convicted for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash and negligent driving. He has already spent one year in jail before his conviction. This was because no court in Gujarat had granted him bail, and he obtained bail form the SC.Shah was fined Rs 31,000 with five years in jail in 2015. The HC imposed an additional fine of Rs 2 lakh on him. Meanwhile, Shah entered into a compromise with the kin of the deceased youths and according to their affidavits, he had paid Rs 1.5 crore each to them in 2017. The victims’ families did not press their demand for harsher punishment for Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/major-setback-to-vismay-no-choice-but-to-surrender/articleshow/74939256.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||78-year-old man from Godhra tests positive||Vadodara: A 78-year-old man from Godhra has become the first COVID-19 positive patient from Panchmahal district. The patient had been admitted at a private hospital located on Waghodia Road in Vadodara late on Tuesday. His samples tested positive on Wednesday. He is a resident of Rabbani Maholla of Godhra and is involved in his family business of buying and selling vehicles, sources said. Hospital sources said that the patient was brought in with respiratory distress in an ambulance. According to his kin, the man was at his home for the past 45 days and there weren’t any visitors to the home, nor any contact with outsider by him or by any of his family members. Health officials, however, are probing deeper to obtain details of the patient’s movement and of people who may have met him. With this, the total number of COVID-19 positive patients in Vadodara has touched 10. Of the 10 who have tested positive in the district, one got discharged on Tuesday. The total number of infected patients undergoing treatment now stands at nine with six admitted in the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital, two in GMERS Gotri hospital and one at the Waghodia Road private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/78-year-old-man-from-godhra-tests-positive/articleshow/74938065.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC sprays disinfectants at 5,000 locations||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), in a release, stated that 5,724 locations were sanitised on Wednesday in 11 days by the civic body’s entomology wing. According to GHMC records, 2,375 entomology officials are taking up the spraying operations. “Disinfectants are being sprayed twice or thrice daily in areas where people were tested positive for coronavirus,” read a statement issued by GHMC. The officials were equipped with 1,000 power sprayers, 600k knapsack sprayers and 63 VMF sprayers. A total of 305 portable sprayers were put into use in residential localities. “Sodium hypochlorite is being sprayed on roads, footpath and in vicinity of hospitals too,” read the statement. Quarantine centres, Urban Primary Health Centers (UPHCs) and community health centres were also covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-sprays-disinfectants-at-5k-locations/articleshow/74939104.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Radico Khaitan making sanitisers||HYDERABAD: Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) manufacturer Radico Khaitan on Wednesday said it has commenced the manufacture and distribution of hand sanitisers to help meet its rising demand in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak and supplied the first batch to primary healthcare authorities and hospitals across states, including Telangana, as part of its CSR activities. In Telangana, it has begun making and distributing 35 litre bottle packs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/radico-khaitan-making-sanitisers/articleshow/74939114.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two cuffed for abduction and bid to kill minor girl||PUNE: A 24-year-old man and his accomplice were arrested on Tuesday on the charges of abducting and trying to kill a minor girl found unconscious at a farm in Bhigwan about 12 days ago. The Pune Rural police probe revealed that the main suspect had abducted the girl (15) from her native village on the promise of marriage and repeatedly raped her. “When he learnt that a case of kidnapping had been registered against him, he decided to eliminate her,” inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch of the Pune Rural police said. The girl was found lying unconscious at a farm in Bhigwan on March 19. Her throat was partly slit and she also had severe head injuries. “The girl was unconscious and being treated in a hospital since then. Two days ago, she regained her consciousness and shared the number of one of the suspects, following which he was traced to Lonavla. During questioning, he revealed the name of the main suspect, who was arrested immediately,” Ghanwat said. The main suspect told the police that the girl was pregnant when he learnt about a kidnapping case being registered against him. “He and his accomplice then told the girl that they were sending her back home. On this pretext, they took her to Bhigwan on March 19 and slit her throat before bludgeoning her with a stone,” Ghanwat said, adding, “The girl fell unconscious. Thinking her dead, the suspect fled from the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-cuffed-for-abduction-bid-to-kill-minor-girl/articleshow/74939668.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Amid lockdown, transport of goods stuck in a limbo||BHOPAL: Eight days after the lockdown, trucks loaded with grocery items and medicines are waiting to be unloaded at the parking lots of different transport companies. Many trucks reached their destination while many are still stranded in the absence of any transport policy. There are also instances when drivers have parked loaded trucks and left for their homes in different parts of the country. This is hampering the supply of medicines, grocery items and even fast moving consumer goods. A large number of trucks, which have already reached Bhopal after the countrywide lockdown was declared, are parked at the offices of transport companies. Each truck carries various commodities booked by the traders of Bhopal. But they could not be unloaded because the administration has not been able to come out with a clear transport policy. However, many trucks — exclusively carrying rice and pulses — from nearby places like Piparia (a big supplier of dal) and Hoshangabad and Raisen for rice were allowed to be unloaded from 8 pm to 1 am. “This is happening because the supply chain of the transportation of goods is broken. Labourers are not available as they need curfew passes to reach godowns from their houses. Autorickshaws are also not plying because of the same reason,” said Thakur Lal Rajput, president of the transport companies’ association of the state. He said, “We have had many meetings with the administration, but they (officials) are too busy with other works related to the corona crisis.” Meanwhile, a spokesman of the district administration reiterated, “there are no orders for stopping the movement of trucks”. BOX Jumerati opens for one hour only The wholesale market of Jumerati could be opened only for one hour on Wednesday. “On Monday, the police had misbehaved with one of traders in the market. On Wednesday, there was strict cordoning of the area and hardly any retailer could reach Jumerati,” one wholesaler said, adding, “this was happening because the city was divided into different zones and retailers were not able to reach.” Wholesalers said that there was “enough grocery” available in the city markets due to regular supply of commodities in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-lockdown-transport-of-goods-stuck-in-a-limbo/articleshow/74938217.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus in Mumbai: 3-day-old boy is city's youngest patient||MUMBAI: A three-day-old boy is Mumbai's youngest Covid-19 patient, and his father alleged that the child and his 26-year-old mother were kept in a room freshly vacated by a coronavirus-positive patient at a Chembur nursing home. The nursing home's receptionist too tested positive for the virus. The child's father told TOI that his wife delivered via C-section around 11.30am on March 26. "My wife and son were taken to a private room around 12.30pm, but a nurse came around 2pm and told us to change our room," said the father, who is in quarantine at Kasturba Hospital.  The family was moved to another room but not given an explanation. "Just 24 hours later, a doctor telephoned me to say that the room we were moved from had a coronavirus case, and no doctor or nurse would come to our room for checks," said the father, who was charged Rs 65,000 by the nursing home. He said if the family had been alerted, they would have insisted on change of clothes or sanitised themselves. While the father insisted that his wife had no symptoms of the virus before coming to the hospital, a civic doctor said, "We don't know if its vertical transmission, it's a medico-legal case. There are chances the baby contaminated the virus from birth."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-day-old-boy-is-mumbais-youngest-corona-patient/articleshow/74940148.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||RCCI demands interest waiver on exporters’ loans||Rajkot: The Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has sought three-month waiver on interest of loan waiver schemes for exporters on the lines of relief given to farmers due Coronavirus outbreak in the country.In a letter addressed to industries commissioner Rahul Gupta, RCCI stated: “The export fraternity of India is vulnerable one and suffering an erosion of it’s competitiveness. This requires some comprehensive encouragement.” Rajkot is an export hub as there are 2,000 trading and manufacturing units engaged in engineering and agro equipment sectors. Morbi is a hub of ceramic export while Jamngar exports brass products. Parth Ganatra, vice-president, RCCI said, “As Europe and USA are completely locked down, there has been a massive cancellation of orders. The uncertainty over production, raw material and orders will lead to closure of exports units and pressure on employment and tax collection,” RCCI has urged the government to take the burden of interest payment of exporters’ loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcci-demands-interest-waiver-on-exporters-loans/articleshow/74938243.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||PCMC gives refuge to lockdown-hit 394 workers||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body has provided shelter to 394 migrant workers, affected by the national lockdown in the time of Covid-19, at eight municipal schools. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) assistant commissioner Manoj Lonkar said the civic administration had started providing shelter to such people since the last three days. “Many migrant people are employed with in various industries in Pimpri Chinchwad. Most of them they don’t have their own homes. They live in rented accommodations. Many are also daily wage earners, who do not have work at present because of the national lockdown,” he said. Lonkar said the PCMC decided to give temporary shelter to the migrant workers in eight municipal schools, one in each of the eight civic zones. The civic administration issued a circular in this regard on March 28. The engineering, water supply, health and security departments of the municipal corporation would provide mattresses, water, sanitation facilities and security, respectively, at the shelters, officials said. The schools selected for the same are Urdu school in Akurdi, the municipal school in Keshavnagar, Nehrunagar school, Annasahab Magar school in Pimple Saudagar, Chhatrapati school in Bhosari, Madhukar Pawale school in Nigdi, Thergaon municipal school and Chhatrapti Shahu Maharaj school in Kasarwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-gives-refuge-to-lockdown-hit-394-workers/articleshow/74939682.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||People with disabilities yet to get promised home deliveries||AURANGABAD: People with disability have not received the promised doorstep delivery of ration and sanitation kit for a month even seven days after minister of social justice and special assistance Dhananjay Munde made the announcement In a letter issued by Maharashtra commissioner of disability Prerna Deshbhratar, to divisional commissioners of Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Amravati, Nagpur and Aurangabad on March 26, it was stated that people with disabilities (PwDs) who cannot move should be provided one month of ration (grains, pulses, oil and rice) at their homes. PwDs who can go to public distribution system (PDS) shops, should not have to stand in a queue. The local administration should provide health kits comprising sanitisers, handkerchiefs, masks and disinfectant solutions to those who are extremely disabled. They should be provided cooked food through community kitchens and pension should be paid in advance. Munde had announced the establishment of a helpline for them and the use of Disability Welfare Fund for provision of ration. According to Shivaji Gade, district chief of Prahar Apang Sanghatna, the helpline has not been set up and the officials at the district disaster management authority said they were unaware of the directive. “We called district supply officer Mahadeo Kirwale, who said the Centre’s free ration distribution started on Wednesday, but he will get information on the provisions. Varsha Thakur, deputy divisional commissioner, also said she will gather more details,” Gade said. Deshbhratar said, “The district social welfare officer is the nodal officer for the scheme. We are receiving complaints of mobility issues and medical emergencies. Latur, Parbhani and Beed are roping in some NGOs for the implementation.” She said if she receives specific complaints, action will be taken. TOI has forwarded her the issues faced by disabled persons in Aurangabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/people-with-disabilities-yet-to-get-promised-home-deliveries/articleshow/74939118.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur locals show largesse, ensure no needy sleeps hungry||KANPUR: The rich and common people of Kanpur are out on the roads, large-hearted as they are, making all efforts to ensure that no one in the city sleeps hungry. Several social organizations and industrial units have come forward with helping hands. At some places, they are themselves distributing food packets among destitute and at others helping the district administration and also donating to relief funds of prime minister and chief minister. On Wednesday, management of Kapila Pashu Aahaar donated Rs 51 lakhs to the district magistrate. The owners of Mayur Ghee donated Rs 25 lakhs, theme park of Bithoor Rs 1 lakh, Ekta Agarwal Rs 51,000 and food material, Kanpur Indian Oil Rs 26 lakhs, Kanpur Press Club Rs 25,000, Goldee Masala Rs 11 lakhs, Muslim Association Rs 3,73,888 and Shakti Degree college Ghatampur Rs 1.21 lakhs. Kapil Deo Pandey, coach of Indian cricketer Kuldeep Yadav, has also announced to donate Rs 50,000 to the CM’s relief fund. The residents of Kidwai Nagar have been assembling at Sanjay Van since last seven days and preparing meal packets for 1,000 people per day which they distribute themselves and with help of police. Achal Gupta, who leads the group, said they maintaining social distancing and aim to continue the community kitchen till lockdown. Annapurna Kitchen of Kanpur Udyog Vyapar Mandal is also feeding the needy. The office-bearers’run kitchen at Siddheshwar Dharmashala in Acharya Nagar. They preparing meals and distribute the packets with the help of police. BJP Kisan Morcha has opened a Yogi Bhojanalaya at New Shivli road to feed people in the nearby slums. Kanpur Bar Association on Wednesday distributed food hampers to 70 members. Each hamper has 10 kg wheat flour, 2 kg pulse, 5 kg rice, 1 kg sugar, 1 litre oil and salt, said Shyam ji Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-locals-show-largesse-ensure-no-needy-sleeps-hungry/articleshow/74937985.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||AQI number drops below 100 as good air quality is unlocked||AHMEDABAD: The long lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has brought down the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Ahmedabad city to below 100. Barring Lekhawada in Gandhinagar ,which had an AQI of 162, all parts of the city, including Pirana, showed an AQI below 100 on April 1. On February 28, nearly a month ago, the AQI of Ahmedabad city was 302. On Wednesday, the AQI of Ahmedabad city was just 72, while the areas which usually show high AQI like Pirana and Bopal also had AQI below 100. Officials in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said that following the lockdown vehicular movement in the city was less than 10% of normal, while the movement of trucks and heavy vehicles including Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service, GSRTC and BRT buses were almost non-existent. A traffic official said that the number of rickshaws on the road was negligible and hence the level of pollution in the city has come down drastically. His thoughts were that the large number of rickshaws contributed significantly to the pollution in ordinary times. Dharmesh Shah, a resident of Satellite said, “I had to go to Narol for someone’s funeral rites and I found there was less burning sensation in the eyes, despite the fact that I drove down through the Walled City areas. He said, “I even realized that road dust was significantly low due to less vehicular traffic.” “We would not wish that the lockdown continues just for the improvement of the AQI in city, but now it has been established as a fact that the AMC has to do something to ensure that less vehicles, including rickshaws, ply on the road. The AMC will have to strengthen the public transport system and ensure that connectivity also improves,” said a senior AMC official. He added, “It is expected the metro rail might reduce congestion on the road as it did in Delhi, but with just North-South and East-West corridors, I don’t expect the Metro to bring down vehicular traffic significantly in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aqi-number-drops-below-100-as-good-air-quality-is-unlocked/articleshow/74939254.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Speeding car mows down 52-year-old||PUNE: A man sitting outside his house was killed after he was hit by a speeding car at Ghorpadi around 10am on March 30. The victim, Gopi Swami (52), succumbed to injuries at Sassoon General Hospital the same evening. The Mundhwa police on Tuesday arrested the driver of the car, Yellasingh Sharan Basappa Metri (24), who is employed by a private railway contractor, for negligence causing death. Assistant inspector Manish Patil from the Mundhwa police station said, “Metri picked up railway employees in a car and was heading towards the locomotive shed at Ghorpadi. He passed via Ganpati Chowk and Aglavi Chawl before taking a left turn when he lost control of the vehicle and hit Swami.” Patil added, “Swami was rushed to the Sassoon Hospital but he succumbed to serious injuries at around 4.10pm.” The victim’s brother Benny Swamy (45) lodged an FIR against the car driver under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-car-mows-down-52-year-old/articleshow/74939686.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Kids unlock piggy banks, donate money to Telangana CMRF||HYDERABAD: It is not just celebrities and corporate houses who have made contributions to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) but also many young children have given from their piggy banks. There has been a spurt in the number of people coming forward to contribute to the CMRF since the lockdown was announced. IT minister K T Rama Rao was flooded with tweets from parents who informed him about contributions made by their children. Among them was an LKG student Sirikonda Aashritha from Jagtial who contributed to the CMRF on her birthday. “@KTRTRS @TelanganaCMO @RaoKavitha Dear sir/madam today (March 31) my daughter Sirikonda Aashritha birthday. For the prevention covid-19 my daughter donated a sum of Rs 1,016 from her kiddy bank to our hon’ble CM relief fund,” tweeted Prathap Sirikonda, her father. Anika Chandra, 6, also contributed £143.85 (amounting to Rs 13,435.50) to the Telangana CMRF with a message saying ‘sharing is caring’. Twin brothers Vihaan and Vivaan Vaddem from Bandlaguda contributed Rs 4,355 from their piggy banks which they have been saving for years. “We saw news about coronavirus on the television and decided to contribute for the CMRF. Our parents helped us contribute the same” said the brothers, who study in Class 4 at Times School, Bandlaguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kids-unlock-piggy-banks-donate-money-to-cmrf/articleshow/74939125.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Neighbours play saviour for elderly stuck in blaze||KANPUR: An elderly couple was trapped for at least 20 minutes as fire broke out inside a first floor apartment of a multi-storey building in Chandranagar area under Chakeri police station on Wednesday morning. They were rescued by neighbours who braved the smoke and managed to bring them out. The elderly couple were alone at the flat of their nephew Shadab Qureshi who had gone to his native place in Hardoi. The fire was spotted around 6 am after the neighbours noticed smoke engulfing the staircase and corridors of the floor. They rushed to the apartment and used a ladder to bring the couple down to safety through the balcony. “Only God knows how we scrambled out of the building. Had our neighbours not been around, we would not have come out alive,” said the couple. A portion of the flat was partially burnt in the blaze, even as the neighbours managed to douse the fire using jet pumps, before three fire engines arrived and controlled it. Chakeri police outpost in charge Rakesh Dikshit said prima facie, short circuit led to the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/neighbours-play-saviour-for-elderly-stuck-in-blaze/articleshow/74938013.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cop injured in stone pelting||AHMEDABAD: Heavy stone pelting took place in Gomtipur area of the city on Wednesday afternoon after a team of Gomtipur police went to disperse a crown which had gathered near Patrawali Masjid. Police sources said though they have not arrested anyone yet, 10 persons have been rounded up for questioning. One policeman was injured in the stone pelting. According to DCP, Zone -5, Ravi Teja, police got a control room message about people gathering around Patrawali Masjid in violation of Section 144 CrPC, which doesn’t allow more than four people to gather at one place. “We sent a team of eight to nine cops to the spot. The team identified two persons and when they were being brought to the police station, a mob tried to free them. Soon the situation worsened, and the mob started pelting stones at the police party” Teja said. Chirag Tandel, inspector of Gomtipur police station said reinforcements were sent to the spot and the situation was brought under control. Police sources said they registered an FIR of rioting and have rounded up 10 persons for questioning. No arrests have yet been made in the case said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-injured-in-stone-pelting/articleshow/74939252.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||CII-Telangana Covid-19 task force to help government in fighting virus||HYDERABAD: The Telangana chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Wednesday announced the setting up of a COVID Action Task Force as part of efforts to battle the dreaded virus. The taskforce, led by CII Telangana chairman Krishna Bodanapu, will focus on not only representing industry issues before the state government but also in supporting the government’s fight against COVID-19.The taskforce will also facilitate various essential services and production of essentials, in addition to working on relief and rehab measures. The Telangana CII taskforce comes even as the apex industry body has set up a special COVID-19 Relief & Rehabilitation Fund to provide relief and support to various stakeholders including the healthcare workers on the frontline and the community at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cii-covid-19-task-force-to-help-govt-in-fighting-virus/articleshow/74939133.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Large crowds in ration shops to receive tokens for government dole||MADURAI: Ration shops throughout Madurai witnessed large crowds as the tokens for the government aid was distributed on Wednesday. Many people are awaiting help from the government as they have been unable to buy rice after a week’s lockdown. In order to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities, the government has announced that tokens would be issued to all ration card holders covering a maximum of hundred persons per day per shop. Madurai district has 1,360 ration shops and 8,30,622 ration cardholders. Many of the shops saw large crowds predominantly women. A shop near the Madurai district collectorate saw many not following social distancing measures. “I have to get this rice, because my husband and I are without work for the past few days, and both of us usually get our salaries on the tenth of every month,” said Kalai of Karumbalai. Many of the women who came on Wednesday were unsure as to whether they would get their month’s salary from their employers this month. Employed as helps in houses and offices, they were told to not to come for work from last week onwards. “The cash support of Rs 1,000 given would be helpful to buy medicines and other groceries,” said another woman at a shop in Anna Nagar. Tokens distributed on Wednesday had the date and timing specified to collect them. District administration sources said that even those who did not get their tokens would be given the same at their doorsteps at the earliest. It would be ensured that all the eligible cardholders get their relief material and cash. They will have to go to the shops on the specified date and get their material. They should ensure social distancing and wash hands after visiting shops. They should also wear protective gear while coming to buy things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/large-crowds-in-ration-shops-to-receive-tokens-for-govt-dole/articleshow/74939717.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||NTA, NATA defer entrance exams||Ahmdabad: After the National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed its entrance exams in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the Council of Architecture has re-scheduled the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) 2020 first exam. The exam for admission to colleges offering bachelor of architecture (B Arch) courses was earlier scheduled for April 19 due to the lockdown imposed by the central government to restrict the spread of Covid-19, said sources. However, this has been postponed again and the new date will be announced soon, the sources added. The registration deadline for the NATA 2020 has been extended from March 16 to April 15. The second exam of the NATA is scheduled for May 31. Earlier, the NTA had decided to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2020. The JEE Main April 2020 examination, which was scheduled to be held on April 5, 7, 8, and 11, has now been pushed off to the last week of May 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nta-nata-defer-entrance-exams/articleshow/74939250.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Seven foreign travellers quarantined at LLR, UHM hospitals, four at home||KANPUR: The health department has quarantined all 11 suspected foreign travellers on Wednesday. So far, around 939 foreign visitors have been quarantined. According to a health bulletin issued by the district administration, 7 out of 11 foreign visitors have been quarantined at hospitals and four of them had been isolated at homes. Nearly 615 persons arriving from other states have been sent for home quarantine on Wednesday. Around 1,626 persons have been home quarantined while seven have completed their 21-day quarantine period. There are nine and 12 patients quarantined at UHM Hospital and LLR Hospital, respectively. As many as 20 samples have been collected and sent to Lucknow. So far, around 124 samples have been sent to state lab. Meanwhile, the Kanpur Municipal Corporation has asked its doctors to run OPDs at JM hospital Govind Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Geeta Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Colonel Ganj, Kidwai Nagar, Ram Bagh and Anwarganj homeopathic dispensaries from 9am to 1pm Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi has asked KMC’s veterinary division to operate both dog catching squad and provide food for stray dogs and cows in the city. The squad fed food to stray dogs at 32 places. To maintain cleanliness the KMC has started many schemes like a cash award to the zone for cleanliness and cash reward for best sanitary work. Several teams of KMC as per their program came on road to sanitize the city.It may be recalled that KMC had planned to sanitize the whole city every day. Under Telle medicine scheme as many as 38 citizens were benefitted on Wednesday. The police department in a bid to implement lockdown strictly raised as many as 146 barriers and Naqa in the city and checked 1764 vehicles running on the road. The cops challaned around 213 vehicles and realized a fine to the tune of Rs 6000 as fine.It had also seized around 9 vehicles and registered a case against one black marketer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/7-foreign-travellers-quarantined-at-llr-uhm-hospitals-4-at-home/articleshow/74938030.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||15 relatives & contacts of Lasalgaon patient in isolation ward||Nashik: Fifteen family members and close contacts of the 30-year-old bread seller from a village in Lasalgaon, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have been shifted to the isolation ward of the Zakir Hussain hospital in Dwarka. Health officials said that on Monday, 9 family members were shifted to Nashik city. They were initially taken to the Nashik civil hospital and then shifted to Zakir Hussain hospital’s isolation ward. On Tuesday, six more close contacts — three doctors, two lab technicians and the man’s sister — were shifted to Zakir Hussain hospital. Their throat swab samples, which were sent to Pune’s NIV, are aawaited, said the officials of Nashik civil hospital. Meanwhile, 80 other residents of the village, who came in brief contact with the patient, have been quarantined at home. Officials of the Nashik Zilla Parishad said going by the survey conducted by the health workers, Ashas and medical officers, the 80 people who have been home-quarantined do not have any Covid-19 like symptoms. Health official said a team of approximately 60 members of the Nashik ZP is doing house-to-house survey to check if anyone in the village is suffering from health complications. Other residents of the village, which has a population of 6,888, are being screened. The Covid-19 patient, meanwhile, continues to be in the isolation ward of the Nashik civil hospital. One more patient with Covid-19-like symptoms was admitted in the civil hospital isolation ward on Tuesday. The officials said currently, five people were admitted in the isolation ward of the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/15-relatives-contacts-of-lasalgaon-patient-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/74920211.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 2, 2020||Goa||Government identifies 9 in Goa who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi||PANAJI: The state government said on Wednesday that nine persons in Goa who were in Delhi to attend the Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz last month have been quarantined. A senior health department official told TOI that even if they didn’t attend the main function, they came in contact with Covid-19 positive persons while there. “They have been quarantined at Mayem residency,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government said that the family members of the nine have been home-quarantined. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that they arrived in Goa from Gujarat and Kerala prior to March 15. The CM also said that he has directed the inspector general of police (IGP) to check with each police station to find out how many people have returned to Goa after attending it. “We have no information about anybody coming after March 15,” Sawant said. The markaz in Nizamuddin, which was attended by over 3,400 people in mid-March, is thought to be a hotspot for coronavirus, as many who attended it have since tested positive for Covid-19. Sawant thus asked the IGP to seek a report from every PI and submit it to the CMO. “I have already spoken to the IGP and some police inspectors,” said Sawant. “The Tablighi Jamaat has become dangerous for the country. It won’t be wrong to say that the community has put the country in trouble.” Sawant said all nine of those identified were inside the mosque. “We have to be alert about these people,” he said. “They have done what they should not have done. I think they should be punished.” The thousands who attended the religious meeting in mid-March then returned to different parts of the country. The directorate of health services said that several of them tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-identifies-9-in-goa-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat/articleshow/74939715.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: Police impersonator beats man for venturing out||AHMEDABAD: Ketankumar Vanand of Naroda lodged a complaint on Tuesday with Naroda police stating that he was beaten up by a man who identified himself as a policeman from the Naroda police station. The attack occurred near Gamod Sheri in Naroda. According to the FIR, while Ketankumar and his cousin were travelling on a scooter to distribute aid to poor people, a man on a bike stopped them. The man then whisked out a stick and started beating Ketankumar for venturing out during the lockdown. The FIR mentions that the man also beat up one of the three persons who tried to intervene. “A Naroda police vehicle arrived on the scene at that stage,” a police source said. “The police team learnt that the imposter was was Shivrajsinh Rajput of Bavla who works with a private company.” Naroda police officials said that Rajput has been arrested under Sections 170, 323 and 294(b) of the IPC for posing as a policeman and beating the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-impersonator-beats-man-for-venturing-out/articleshow/74939249.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Zoo in Hyderabad sees 13 lockdown births||HYDERABAD: The Nehru Zoological Park welcomed 13 newborns during the lock-down period. The management is also taking several preventive measures to curb the spread of coronavirus on its premises here. According to a press release issued by the zoo management, three Royal Bengal tiger cubs, two African lion cubs, six jackal puppies and two Blue Gold Macaw chicks were born in the last one month. “We observed the Royal Bengal tiger cubs through the monitor in the tiger moat area. Though they are not opening their eyes, the mother and the cubs are healthy,” said N Kshitija, curator, Nehru Zoological Park. The zoo is being sprayed with anti-viral liquid, sodium hypochlorate and bleaching powder alternatively every week since the first week of March. Principal chief conservator of forests, R Shobha inaugurated the first crop of banana which is being cultivated in the zoo fodder plot premises on Wednesday. She appreciated the hard work of the zoo staff for taking proper care of 1,700 animals in the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoo-sees-13-lockdown-births/articleshow/74939137.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Process complete, 155 prisoners released||KANPUR: As many as 155 undertrial prisoners were released on 8-week interim bail from Kanpur district jail on Wednesday. According to jail superintendent Ashish Tiwari, with this, total 257 jail birds have been released on interim bail.T hey have to return back in jail as soon as 8 weeks would be completed. He informed that all undertrial prisoners had been medically examined and medical certificates given to them. The jail had released 88, 14 and 155 jail birds in three phases in interim bail in compliance with State Legal Authority direction. The Authority had given directions in compliance of an Apex Court directive to reduce the load of under trials from overcrowded jails. Tiwari claimed that with the release of 155 undertrial prisoners on Wednesday, the process was completed in Kanpur jail. All who had expressed their desire to go on interim bail had been released. Undertrial prisoners who could get maximum jail term of 7 years and were not bailed out due to some reason could be released on personal bonds and an undertaking, as per the directive of Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/process-complete-155-prisoners-released/articleshow/74938053.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||Govt aid in Jan Dhan accounts from this week||NEW DELHI: Union rural development ministry has informed that the first instalment of Rs 1,500 ex-gratia announced for women Jan Dhan account holders to help them in the wake of coronavirus crisis will start reaching the beneficiaries this week.  The money will be sent to State Bank of India, which will further transmit the funds to individuals. In a letter to concerned Union ministries and states, RD secretary Rajesh Bhushan has urged them to spread awareness about the "PM Garib Kalyan Package" and to facilitate withdrawal of the money transferred as required by the beneficiaries while following the norm of social distancing. The ex-gratia amount of Rs 1,500 for women with Jan Dhan accounts will be paid in three instalments of Rs 500 each from April to June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-aid-in-jan-dhan-accounts-from-this-week/articleshow/74940161.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam slams Telengana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for reducing pay||HYDERABAD: Slamming the state for reducing the salaries of its employees, the Congress on Wednesday demanded CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to release a white paper on the financial condition of the state and the money that is being spent towards combating Covid-19. At a press conference on Wednesday, Uttam along with CLP leader Bhatti Vikarmarka, ex-deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha, AICC secretary V Hanumantha Rao, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan among others demanded that full salaries be paid and, if required, in two instalments. “KCR always says that Telangana is a rich and revenue surplus state. Has the state plunged into a financial crisis after just a week in lockdown, forcing the CM to reduce the salaries by 50%?” asked Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-slams-kcr-for-reducing-pay/articleshow/74939143.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||After HC rap, govt allows its depts to submit bills after April 1||NAGPUR: After being censured by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, the Maharashtra government has relaxed its deadline for submitting treasury bills on expenses incurred throughout 2019-20 fiscal, barring medical education, pharmacy and public health. Now, the departments can submit the bills even beyond April 1. In its March 24 circular, the ‘Director of Accounts and Treasury’ at Mumbai fixed March 27 as deadline for acceptance of all pay/treasury bills by the district treasuries and sub-treasuries concerned, citing threat of Covid-19 infection. It was brought to the notice by amicus curiae Anup Gilda after which the HC slammed the government asking how departments would submit the bills when they are working at depleted strength of 5%. “It’s clear from the government’s submissions that all departments would be able to submit the bills for expenses incurred in the financial year 2019-20 on or after April 1. Whenever such bills are submitted, those will be accepted and approved for making payment, if they fit into the applicable norms in routine course,” the single-judge bench comprising justice Sunil Shukre said. Before adjourning the hearing till March 8, the judge made it clear that the deadline mentioned in March 24 circular wouldn’t come in the way of submission of various bills referred to the treasuries and sub-treasuries across the state. “The government’s assurance is accepted and with that understanding, the issue arising from fixing of the deadline (of March 27) as per March 24 circular is closed,” the bench added. The court was hearing a plea by CH Sharma (WP No 3427/2000) and others regarding inadequate facilities at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar represented Union of India while Sudhir Puranik held brief for the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Earlier, government pleader Sumant Deopujari submitted an affidavit on behalf of joint director of accounts and treasuries at Nagpur Division, Vijay Kolhe, as per HC’s directives in the last hearing. Kolhe, who was personally present in the court during the hearing, mentioned that the deadline for bills submission is extended till March 31 for the departments of public health, medical education and pharmacy. “If such extension of deadline doesn’t apply to other departments, then whether they would be disabled in making payment to various agencies for expenses incurred in 2019-20 fiscal owing to not extending the deadline regarding submission of the bills,” the judge asked. “On perusal of the affidavit, I find that the deadline would not in any manner disable all other departments in submitting various bills to the district treasuries and sub-treasuries on or after April 1 for the expenses incurred or to be incurred for the financial year 2019-20,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-hc-rap-govt-allows-its-depts-to-submit-bills-after-apr-1/articleshow/74939728.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Door-to-door survey in Jabalpur containment zones||Jabalpur: Stepping up its measures to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Jabalpur district administration is conducting survey of every family living in the six areas of the city that have been declared as containment zones. The survey is being done by health workers, ASHA workers and revenue personnel. The teams are visiting each and every family and seeking details about medical health of the family members. So far, eight people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jabalpur. However, for the past few days no new case has emerged and reports of more than two dozen samples have tested negative. Six areas, which fall within the three-kilometre radius of the house of the first positive patient, have been declared as containment zones by the district administration. These include Civil Lines, Golbazar, Madotaal, Karmita, Dixitpura and Ukri. Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Jabalpur, Manish Mishra said, “This door-to-door survey by health workers has been going on for past couple of days. Our teams are asking each and every family in these areas, whether any family member is suffering from fever, sore throat or cold-like symptoms. They are also being asked whether anyone has come into the contact of the positive patients.” CMHO Mishra added that so far five people have informed that they are suffering from mild fever. “They have been kept under home quarantine and are being observed. Proper protocols are being followed and if need be, we will get them examined for Covid-19,” Mishra said. It is noteworthy that four people from Jabalpur, who had returned from abroad, tested positive on March 20. Later, on March 22, an employee who worked at the firm owned by one of the first positive patients also tested positive. A day later, another employee of the same firm tested positive for Covid-19. Later, two more patients, again employees of the first positive patients, were also found positive — taking the total number of positive patients in the city to eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/door-to-door-survey-in-jabalpur-containment-zones/articleshow/74938332.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Migrant labourers protest on highway after being stopped||Kanpur: Scores of migrant labourers staged a protest in Bani area of Unnao on Kanpur-Lucknow National Highway after they were not allowed to proceed to their native places in view of the lockdown late on Tuesday night. Unnao DM Ravindra Singh and SP Vikrant Veer rushed to the spot along with heavy police force. They pacified the agitated crowd and made arrangements at a church in Nawabganj area and in local schools to quarantine them. In view of the nationwide lockdown to reduce the spread of Covid-19 disease, migrant labourers moving from Kanpur and Unnao, were stopped by Lucknow police at a checkpost near Bani on Tuesday evening. When the repeated pleas of migrants to police and district officials manning the checkpost yielded no result, they halted alongside the highway. "We kept persuading police officials till late on Tuesday night, but they rebuked us and did not provide any kind of solace. They asked us to wait till arrangements were made to ferry us to our native places. The situation, however, worsened, when women and children of our group couldn’t help crying due to hunger as there was no availability of food and water. The angry crowd then resorted to protesting and raising slogans," said Nilesh, a migrant labourer. Meanwhile, DM Ravindra Singh, said, “The migrants have been quarantined at a church and a few private and government institutions. Due to complete lockdown, they were stopped at the border and were made to undergo medical screening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-labourers-protest-on-highway-after-being-stopped/articleshow/74938096.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||France, Italy bring in flights to take back their citizens||PANAJI: In addition to the two German and Finnish relief flights that took off from Goa International Airport on Tuesday and Wednesday with 647 passengers, Italy and France also announced rescue flights to repatriate their citizens and stranded EU citizens. Airports Authority of India officials said that, since March 25, eight relief flights have flown out of Goa carrying 1,577 passengers to their destinations. On Wednesday, France in collaboration with TBI and Qatar Airways operated a Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner to fly out French nationals and other foreigners stranded in Goa since March 20, when India cancelled all international flights. The French rescue flight QR3281 operated will fly to Doha and from there the passengers will fly to Paris, sources said. Officials from the French consulate were present at the airport to coordinate with local authorities. The Italian flag carrier, Alitalia will fly out to Goa on Thursday and depart at 11.30am the same day with Italian and Belgian tourists. “Eighth relief flight from Goa Airport took off for Frankfurt via Mumbai with 314 passengers by a chartered Air India flight. Total 1,568 adults and nine infants have taken off since March 25 to their destinations. We are gearing up for more relief flights,” Goa Airport director Gagan Malik said. Efforts to repatriate foreign nationals stranded in Goa continue with foreign embassies, the Union civil aviation ministry, ministry of external affairs and Goa police coordinating to provide safe passage to the tourists. The British government has yet to announce any rescue flights for its citizens, but AAI officials said that talks were on to provide landing slots for possible flights. However, sources also said that several Britishers had succeeded in flying to Frankfurt on flights organised by the German embassy. On a humanitarian basis, Germany has agreed to fly our citizens of UK and European Union nations to Frankfurt at no cost, said a UK citizen who availed of the offer. Finland, Russia and Israel also organised rescue flights for their citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/france-italy-bring-in-flights-to-take-back-their-citizens/articleshow/74939721.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Case lodged for issuing fake lockdown passes||JHANSI: An FIR was lodged against unidentified miscreants by the information department on Tuesday late night after pictures of around a dozen fake press lockdown passes went viral on social media. Taking cognizance of these pictures, the local administration lodged an FIR against unknown persons on the charges of forgery at Nawabad police station. As per the details, on Tuesday some pictures of fake press passes cards carrying signature of ADM E surfaced on social media. They resembled the original id cards issued by the administration for media persons allowing their movement during lockdown. After the matter came to light, a case was lodged against unknown person under sections 420, 467, 468 IPC on an application by the district information officer. As per ADM E, B Prasad the media passes in the viral picture were fake as they carried single, forged signature whereas the cards for media persons are being issued with joint signature of ADM E and the information officer. “The matter is being investigated and the accused will be caught soon”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/case-lodged-for-issuing-fake-lockdown-passes/articleshow/74938177.cms||Arindam Ghosh
April 2, 2020||India||PIB sets up a fact-check unit, starts Covid bulletin||NEW DELHI: Press Information Bureau has set up a portal, Covid-19 fact-check unit, which will receive messages by email and send responses back fast after checking their accuracy. PIB will also release a daily bulletin at 8 pm every day to inform citizens on the government's decisions and developments in the battle against Covid-19. The first bulletin was released on Wednesday at 6.30 pm.  The ministry of health also set up a technical group consisting of professionals from AIIMS, etc to clarify any doubts in the minds of the general public on any technical aspect of the pandemic. The ministry has also issued detailed guidelines to deal with psychological issues amongst migrants.  The cabinet secretary on Wednesday also wrote to all state governments informing them of the constitution of 11 empowered groups under the Disaster Management Act with a clear mandate to decide on various aspects of the management of Covid-19. A request has been made for development of similar mechanism at the state level too. State governments have also been requested to engage volunteers to supervise the welfare activities of the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pib-sets-up-a-fact-check-unit-starts-covid-bulletin/articleshow/74940165.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Not wearing a mask could land you in jail for 6 months||AHMEDABAD: Even if you do not have the novel coronavirus or a cold and cough, you still have to wear a mask. This is what Ahmedabad district police believes, as they have booked two persons in two incidents on Tuesday for spreading infectious disease as they did not wear masks while riding their scooters in Bopal. Police officials said they have orders from above to ensure that every person who goes out wears a mask. However, there is no such guidelines either from the WHO or the government, mandating that healthy persons wear masks. In the first case, 28-year-old Manish Barot, a water pumps dealer from Vastrapur, was arrested by Bopal police for not wearing a mask when he was out to buy groceries and vegetables on his scooter. Speaking to TOI, Parmar said, “I went to the vendor from who I usually buy vegetables and groceries. When I was passing SoBo Centre, the cops stopped me and asked me why I wasn’t wearing a mask. I told them that I was about to wear it after buying vegetables and grocery but they did not consider what I said and arrested me.” Parmar was not even aware that he was booked under IPC section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). He said, “I was booked under Section 188 IPC.” “I don’t have any infection, so why did the police book me under this charge,” he asked. Parmar further said that he is now worried about getting a passport issued. In the second case, Kishan Panara, 30, of Naranpura was similarly booked for spreading an infectious disease as he too did not wear mask while riding his scooter near SoBo centre in Bopal. Both FIRs filed by Bopal police said that they endangered the lives of others and their own, by not wearing masks. Inspector Anila Brahmbhatt said that the two persons were booked as they did not care for their own lives. “We have been constantly making people aware of how to take care of their health but as they did not understand this, we had to file cases,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/not-wearing-a-mask-could-land-you-in-jail-for-6-months/articleshow/74939246.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 2, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: BBA student ends life in room||JHANSI: A 24-year-old student was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in a private hostel on Wednesday morning in Jhansi. A suicide note was also recovered from the spot, wherein the youth had claimed that he was allegedly ending his life as his parents weren’t sending him enough money to meet his expenses. The deceased Kapil Joshi was a student of Bundelkhand University (BU) and native to Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand. Joshi was a first year student of BBA (tourism). He was staying as a paying guest in a home in Shivaji Nagar near the BU campus since July 2019. On Wednesday morning, when Kapil’s landlord went to his room to give him breakfast, he found the youth hanging from a celling fan with a bed sheet. He immediately informed the police. Head of BU’s tourism and hotel management department Sunil Kabiya said Joshi was an introvert and did not interact much with other students. BU University chowki in charge Parmendra Singh said the body has been sent for postmortem examination and police have informed his father, who works as a principal in a government school. “Kapil’s father said he is trying to get the permit to come to Jhansi, as city limits as off bounds due to the lockdown announced to check the spread of novel coronavirus. As soon as he gets the permission, he would come here,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bba-student-ends-life-in-room/articleshow/74938196.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||No jokes on Covid-19, warns crime branch||Vadodara: On Wednesday, residents of Sanskarinagri were under constant vigil lest they crack April Fool jokes on Coronavirus. The detection of crime branch (DCB) warned Barodians not to send memes or jokes about Covid-19. “The virus has become the talk of the town and there were chances that people may have posted jokes on it on April Fool’s day. Even humorous memes and jokes can fuel rumours and we didn’t want to take any chances. So people were warned against sharing anything on it,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The cops kept watch on the social media and WhatsApp groups and came across many such jokes. “But they were not harmful or spreading rumours. So we haven’t filed any case against anyone,” Jadeja said. The crime branch has been keeping an eye on different social media platforms over the last few days to ensure that mischief mongers don’t spread rumours regarding the virus or even the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-jokes-on-covid-19-warns-crime-branch/articleshow/74939155.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||2 participants of Tablighi Jamat meet traced in Sambhal, isolated; samples sent for Covid-19 test||Bareilly: Two Sambhal residents, who had attended the Tablighi Jamat meet in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month, were traced and isolated on Wednesday. District magistrate Avinash Krishan Singh said they had launched a manhunt to find the duo, following the government’s instructions. Their samples have been sent for Covid-19 test. According to Sambhal chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anitha Singh, the two youths, one of them is 22-year-old while the other is 23, are residents of Panju Sarai in Sambhal city and had gone to attend Nizamuddin ‘markaj’ in January and stayed there till March-end. “The youths, both unmarried, stated that they stayed in Nizamuddin along with foreigners and also visited several mosques in Delhi. One of them had visited Prayagraj before coming to Sambhal. In Delhi, they participated in a three-day jamat and returned here on March 28,” said the CMO. The doctor said one of them was suffering from fever and they had sent their samples for the Covid-19 test. “The test reports will come by Thursday evening, and if they are tested positive, we will then quarantine their family members, who are undergoing self-isolation,” added the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-participants-of-tablighi-jamat-meet-traced-in-sambhal-isolated-samples-sent-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/74938359.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid lockdown, board games make a comeback||HYDERABAD: In a heartening trend, amid the 21-day lockdown, many families in the city are seen bonding over board games these days — from scrabble and Ludo to chess, monopoly and carrom. There’s also housie and puzzles that have become a regular affair in many households. “Since everybody is at home nowadays, we have a lot of time to spend with our parents. So, we decided to play ludo. It’s a lot of fun,” said Nikhil Reddy, 25, an architect in Somajiguda. At a distance in Sainikpuri, it’s carrom that seems to be the favourite. Many have even been reaching out to neighbours to borrow the game. “Because all sports shops are closed, I borrowed a carrom board from my neighbours to play with my grandchildren. It gives us an opportunity to bond over and keeps the children engaged,” said Kavali Annapurna, a resident of Sainikpuri. Another game that’s become a common evening feature in many homes is housie. Rajshri Srivastava, a resident of Banjara Hills, Road Number 10, says she looks forward to it every day as it brings the entire family together. “It has become a great source of entertainment for our kids and their grandparents. We thoroughly enjoy playing it,” she said. The jigsaw puzzle is another hit. “We have made it a point to finish a 1,000 piece jigsaw puzzle in a duration of two days. It is fun. Everybody gets to participate and we have a good time with snacks and drinks,” Meghana Joshi, an IT consultant based in Jubilee Hills said. Apart from getting together with families, many are also using the online version of these games to bond with friends. “There are many online versions of ludo available these days. So, I pinged my school friends to play with me and with real time chat facilities, it was like a mini reunion for all of us,” said Preetesh Sharma, a developer based in Gachibowli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-lockdown-board-games-make-a-comeback/articleshow/74939148.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: With 4.5 quintal of goods, parcel train makes its first run||BHOPAL: The inaugural parcel train departed from Bhopal station from Wednesday. The Bhopal-Gwalior parcel train took perishable products weighing 4.5 quintal while the train’s capacity was of 30 tonnes. Goods were booked for Jhansi from Bhopal. Parcel trains are being run by the railway administration to ensure supply of essential commodities during the countrywide lockdown. When contacted, Bhopal DRM, Uday Borwanker, said that railways is provided the services and even if it is running with lower quantity, it is worth to run the parcel trains such situation. “Our effort is to provide a lifeline when everything is locked down. We want to ensure that the supply of important commodities is maintained,” said DRM Borwanker. Sources said that absence of labour in the market was the main reason for the low supply of goods on the parcel train on the first day. The DRM added that he is in touch with the state government so that the supply of necessary products should be made available. Around 1,800 bags will be sent through Railway Mail Service on Thursday. He further said, “In this context, a parcel cargo express train is also launched between Chennai Central to New Delhi today and on April 8 for two trips. In return, it will depart from New Delhi station on April 4 and 11 April 11 for Chennai Central.” Both trains will pass through Bhopal. “This parcel train will stop at Itarsi, Bhopal and Bina stations of West Central Railway of Bhopal division,” he said. Merchants sending goods from these areas towards New Delhi or towards Chennai will put their luggage in the parcel via this train. The train will stop at Vijayawada, Ballarshah, Nagpur, Itarsi, Bhopal, Bina, Jhansi, Gwalior and Agra stations en route. This vehicle will be fitted with five parcel vehicles and one SLR. The Bhopal West Central Railway will run three special parcel trains enroute Bhopal from April 1 to April 14. During this time, passenger trains are completely closed, but for the supply of food items and other essential goods, the operation of goods trains is continuing uninterrupted. Officials have made it clear that no one is allowed to climb or travel in the guard brake or loco (engine) of the parcel express.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-4-5ql-of-goods-parcel-train-makes-its-first-run/articleshow/74938407.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Civic body starts community kitchen at shelter to avoid rush at BMC office||Bareilly: Large crowds assembling at Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) premises, where civic authorities started community kitchen to provide food for the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown, has made the civic body to extend the facility to four more nagar nigam-run shelter homes in other parts of the city.On Wednesday, municipal corporation officials said that with the ‘food for poor’ facility, a large number of people started gathering under one roof making it difficult to follow the Centre’s social distancing norms. So, similar facilities would be set up now at other prominent BMC shelter homes to cater to the rush. Community kitchen has already come up at Harunagla shelter while similar facilities will be set up at three other places soon.Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand told TOI, “BMC had initiated community kitchen service at the Civil Lines office premises a couple of days ago to distribute food among the poor and destitute. However, a large crowd started gathering at the BMC office ever since. The place was overcrowded with migrant workers, rickshaw-pullers, beggars and the homeless, among others. Though people were being repeatedly asked to maintain social distancing, it was difficult to implement. Therefore, for people’s convenience and to follow lockdown guidelines better, one more facility for community kitchen was added to BMC’s Harunagla shelter home on Wednesday.”The municipal commissioner added, “A team deputed at the kitchen has now been divided and cooking has started at the shelter. The new ‘kitchen’ will be serving the poor and the needy. Those visiting BMC are also being informed of the facility and people are being strictly asked not to assemble in large numbers. Similarly, more community kitchens will be set up at different shelters to cater to the rush during the lockdown period.”Notably, around 1,000 food packets were distributed among the poor by BMC at both of its community kitchens on Wednesday. Officials said that local residents are also being informed about the development via media. People, who are willing to assist the authority and want to contribute by donating rations such as rice, flour, spices, cooking oil, salt, can contact at: ‘63957-84063’ (Harunagla shelter home care taker) and BMC vehicle driver ‘94112-11300’. Also, those who want to provide monetary support can transfer the amount to Bank of Baroda account, or call at ‘79068-05182’ and ‘79065-79840’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/civic-body-starts-community-kitchen-at-shelter-to-avoid-rush-at-bmc-office/articleshow/74938412.cms||Maria Khan
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH seeks 1 lakh triple-layer masks||AURANGABAD: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has sought 1 lakh triple-layer masks, 2,000 personal protective equipment (PPE), 2,000 N-95 masks and sanitisers from public representatives. MLA Atul Save, who is also the head of visitors’ committee of the hospital, said he will reach out to the local industries for CSR contributions for procurement of masks and sanitisers. On Wednesday, Save, along with newly-elected Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra Bhagwat Karad and BJP city chief Sanjay Kenekar, visited GMCH and held a meeting with dean Kanan Yelikar to review the availability of the medical supplies and the preparedness of the hospital. Yelikar told them about various things the hospital needs to equip itself for the emergency. Currently, the hospital has arranged a 100-bed facility for Covid-19 prevention and management. Of these, 23 beds in the cardiovascular thoracic surgery building are equipped with ventilator support and compartmentalised. At the moment, there is no positive coronavirus case in the district. Government guidelines state that every time a throat swab sample is being collected, the health professional must wear a PPE and the same should not be used again. Save said that there are industries within Aurangabad producing masks and sanitisers and options will be explored on how to procure them for the GMCH. “I will also speak to district civil surgeon and understand the requirements at district civil hospital and then meet the district collector on how the funds received from the government can be utilised in proper way,” he said. Meanwhile, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Tuesday wrote a letter to district collector Uday Choudhari informing him that he has decided to give Rs 1 crore from his MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-seeks-1l-triple-layer-masks/articleshow/74939173.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Heavy March rains took sting off summer||Nagpur: This year, Nagpur recorded the highest rainfall for the month of March in last five years. According to the data provided by Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the cumulative rainfall that the city received in March this year was 40.7mm against the normal of 14.5 mm for this month. This year’s March rains are significantly more than the previous years’. Last year in March, the city received only 5.4 mm rains. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, the city recorded 0.7, 1.2 and 14.5 mm rains respectively, reveal official figures. As per met officials, the “summer rains” in the last month were ‘light to moderate’ and could be because of climate variability or climate change. “Climate variability can be attributed to an unusual meteorological condition occurring in a few years. However, to attribute the trend to climate change, one observation is not enough. If it continues to rain in summer months for another few years, we can call it climate change,” said Mohanlal Sahu, deputy director general of RMC, Nagpur. He added that climate change was a slow and continuous process. “It is a semi-permanent change and we need to wait and watch for a few years,” said Sahu. The official further highlighted that the onset of summer has begun. “March 1 to May 31 are summer months for the region,” he said. The met department’s forecast shows more rains are expected on April 3, 4 and 5 in the city. The maximum mercury levels are expected to reach 40 degree Celsius in the coming week. On the other hand, the minimum temperatures are also expected to rise to 22-24 degree Celsius. With intermittent rains, March turned out to be relatively cooler for the region this year and mercury stayed under 40 degrees throughout the month. On Wednesday, Akola was close to the 40-degree mark and was hottest in the region at 39.5 degree Celsius. Nagpur recorded a maximum temperature of 38.6 degree Celsius on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heavy-march-rains-took-sting-off-summer/articleshow/74939160.cms||Manka Behl
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||10kg rice bags distributed in Warangal||WARANGAL: Government chief whip Dasyam Vinaya Bhaskar distributed over 3,000 bags of rice of 10 kg each and essentials worth Rs 27 lakh to 496 scribes, 1,280 Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) sanitation workers, 300 Asha workers and 500 daily wage and electricity workers on Wednesday. Speaking at the Warangal Press Club, he said that due to the Covid-19 lockdown, journalists and other workers were unable to buy essential commodities. "I decided to help their families by providing them with groceries,” he said. The chief whip distributed around 300 bags of rice to Asha workers, and 500 at his office in Balasamudram in Hanamkonda. Telangana Union of Working Journalists (TUWJ) state vice-president B R Lenin and Warangal Press Club president Tumma Sridhar Reddy thanked the government chief whip for providing groceries to the scribes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10kg-rice-bags-distributed-in-warangal/articleshow/74939158.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||26 quarantined after coming in contact with family of 6 who tested Covid-19 +ve||Bareilly: After a family of six were found to be infected with Covid-19 in Bareilly, 26 other people were quarantined in Bareilly and Moradabad as a precautionary measure. Of these 26, most of them are railway staff members.Notably, among the family of six, a 54-year-old man, who tested positive, is a loco-pilot and he apparently went to work till March 25. The man even brought empty coach rake (ECR) on March 25 to Bareilly and came in contact with nine other individuals in Bareilly and 15 in Moradabad.After the loco-pilot was tested positive on Tuesday, the health department in Bareilly informed its divisional railway manager (DRM) in Moradabad. “At least 15 people who came in contact with loco-pilot have been shifted to quarantine centre of the Railways in Moradabad and their samples have been collected for Covid-19 test,” said Maan Singh, additional divisional railway manager.Station superintendent, Bareilly Junction, Satya Veer Singh said, “The man last came on duty on March 25 when he brought ECR to Bareilly. Nine people who were in close contact are now placed under home quarantine.” Apart from Railways staff, two relatives who met the family have also been home quarantined.According to officials, a 34-year-old man, who works at a Noida-based firm from where several cases of Covid-19 have been reported, returned to Bareilly on March 22. Officials said he claimed that he learnt on March 26 that his colleagues have contracted the virus and hence, he went to district hospital on March 27 to get himself tested. Though, the 34-year-old man tested positive on March 29, his father (loco-pilot), mother, wife, brother and sister were found positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have identified 11 people, including railway staff, in Bareilly who came in contact with the family. Teams from several departments have been deputed to trace more contacts of the family.”Officials said as six members of the family tested positive, they have been under stress and are undergoing counselling. Khush Ada, a clinical psychologist, said, “The patients had become anxious as they were worried about their treatment and cure. So, I conducted tele-counselling.”Meanwhile, the health department constituted around 70 teams to conduct active case surveillance in three-kilometre radius from the patients’ house. Initially, after the first case was reported from Subhash Nagar, 10 teams were conducting active case surveillance in one km radius, but it has now been widened with the increase in the number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/26-quarantined-after-coming-in-contact-with-family-of-6-who-tested-covid-19-ve/articleshow/74938380.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 2, 2020||Goa||Health services issues public appeal||The directorate of health services has appealed to anyone from Goa who may have attended the Markaz religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi to immediately contact the state’s health department on 0832-2225538/2421810 or on helpline 104. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-services-issues-public-appeal/articleshow/74939747.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Toll fee hiked by NHAI & HMDA, will be enforced post-lockdown||HYDERABAD: While the Telangana government has deferred an increase in property tax, registration charges on properties and power tariff in view of Covid-19 lockdown, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have enhanced toll fee on their respective roads from April 1. Since there has been a complete lockdown on movement of vehicles and the borders have been closed due to the lockdown, the new rates would come into effect after the lockdown concludes. While the 158 km Nehru Outer Ring Road (ORR) is under the control of HMDA, all national highways are with NHAI. Officials said the hike was just 4%-5% on various vehicles. While it is just 0.07 paise per km for cars, the enhancement for oversized vehicles is 0.53 paise per km. With this, a person travelling in a car from Nanakramguda (Gachibowli) to Shamshabad has to pay Rs 40 and Rs 110 till Pedda Amberpet. With regard to national highways, the increase is between Rs 5 to Rs 25 on Vijayawada and other highways. People going towards Vijayawada on NH 65 have to cough up Rs 80 at Panthangi plaza for light motor vehicles such as cars, jeep and other vehicles. When it comes to commercial vehicles, the fee is Rs 125 and Rs 255 for heavy vehicles. “The toll fee rates of Hyderabad ORR were lesser than the toll fee collected on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Yamuna Expressway in Delhi and national highways. The government can enhance toll fee up to 5% of the existing rates every year i.e from April 1,” a senior official of the HMDA said. The metropolitan authority had increased the toll fee by 50% in February 2017, to overcome financial crisis and also to cover the loss in revenue accrued due to demonetisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/toll-fee-hiked-by-nhai-hmda-will-be-enforced-post-lockdown/articleshow/74939742.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 2, 2020||India||Health team attacked in Indore during screening||INDORE: Police and health officials were attacked in Indore on Wednesday when they went to screen residents of a locality tagged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots of the city. Heavy brickbatting from rooftops forced the team to retreat.  No one was injured but doctors and other medical staff were shaken by the violence. "We had gone there yesterday also. Everything was okay. Today, the stone-pelting started all of a sudden," a doctor told mediapersons. Stone-pelting at health officials in Indore: "We were given a list of contacts of Covid-19 patients and were screen… https://t.co/MQ4e8JJiW7— TOI Indore (@TOIIndoreNews) 1585815549000 As many as 54 families in Taat Patti Bakhal are in isolation and health teams have to routinely check on them after two Covid-19 cases were detected. Two doctors and a health worker were sent to the area, escorted by police and a tehsildar. They reached there around 02.30pm. " We were given a list of contacts of Covid-19 patients and were screening them when suddenly some of them started pelting us with stones," said one doctor. "We ran to save our lives," she added. A civic body team engaged in cleaning drainage lines in the area also had to flee.  DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra told TOI that police have asked the team members to help identify the stone-pelters. "A case under IPC Section 353 will be registered against them," he said .  Nineteen more patients tested positive in Indore on Wednesday, taking its tally to 63 - more than half of them in the last two days. The city also got its first child coronavirus patients, three children aged 5 to 8 years, and the first police officer to test positive. Indore now accounts for 73% of all the cases in MP. This is the second time this week that health workers have been attacked in Indore. Watch Covid-19: Doctors gone to collect samples attacked in Indore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/health-team-attacked-in-indore-during-screening/articleshow/74940167.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Doc suspects himself Covid-19 +ve, resigns; CMO accuses him of ‘dodging responsibility’||Bareilly: A doctor posted at a primary health centre in Dhaurahra tehsil of Lakhimpur Kheri district has “resigned”, citing that he has “contracted Covid-19”. Calling him a “black ship”, Lakhimpur Kheri chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Manoj Agarwal accused the doctor of “shirking from his responsibility in this hour of crisis”. “If he is infected, his samples could have been sent for test, but he didn’t ask for it,” said the CMO. “So far, one Covid-19 positive has been reported in Lakhimpur Kheri district, and the patient is being treated in Sitapur and Lucknow,” said the CMO. In his resignation letter to the CMO, Dr Neelesh Kumar Maurya, who was posted at the PHC in Ranjeetganj, stated that he had examined nearly 60 migrant labourers on March 30 without following personal safety guidelines due to limited facilities available at the centre, and thus, he developed Covid-19 symptoms. He did not want to infect anyone else, so he was quarantining himself, wrote Dr Maurya, adding that he “won’t be able to continue his services as a medical officer, hence I’m resigning from my post”. The CMO told TOI, “Dr Maurya is only trying to shirk from his responsibilities, as he knows it very well that the CMO is not a competent authority to accept resignation. He had dodged his responsibilities as a medical officer in the past as well. Ideally, he should have contacted us and we would have sent his samples for the Covid-19 test. But, he didn’t contact us and left the PHC vacant without a notice.” “We are working to prove safety kits to all medical staff deployed in the district,” added the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/doc-suspects-himself-covid-19-ve-resigns-cmo-accuses-him-of-dodging-responsibility/articleshow/74938424.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Should Uttarakhand be conducting more tests||DEHRADUN: The health authorities in Uttarakhand, which has a population of over 1 crore, have tested just 590 people from across the state for Covid-19 till March 31, while around 9,650 people have been put on quarantine in the past month. With seven positive cases till now, the health department is busy patting its back saying that the pandemic is still in Stage I, but experts feel that the actual number of cases may be higher if the government starts testing people in high-risk areas such as borders and villages in hills where large amount of reverse migration has been witnessed. According to minister in-charge of Pauri, Harak Singh Rawat, the district alone has reported 9,681 people returning to villages from cities such as Mumbai, Delhi and Pune in the past 10 days. In Uttarkashi, in the month of March, over 3,370 people came back to their villages in wake of Covid-19 scare. The screening in the district is still going and the authorities feel that the number might touch 5,000. Mussoorie-based doctor, Dr Sunil Sanon, who is currently in the US, which is witnessing the maximum brunt of the epidemic, told TOI that Uttarakhand’s numbers may just be the tip of the iceberg. “Ghar Wapsi (Homecoming) of the men of the hills working outside the state may cost dear to the health authorities who are neglecting this large influx of people returning to their homes after the lockdown. Many of them returned to their homes as early as in the first week of March and managed to reach the hills unchecked.It is important that they are identified and checked as soon as possible,” he said. Health personnel meanwhile say that the onus of tracking people is on the local intelligence unit and government agencies. Speaking on the issue on the condition of anonymity, a government hospital doctor said, “Doctors won’t go door-to-door to track people. It’s the job of the administration and police. We can test people and we will do so if someone shows symptoms.” DG health Dr Amita Upreti meanwhile said that efforts are being undertaken to track suspected people based on inputs received. “In the latest incident, an advisory has been issued to the district magistrates across the state to identify the followers of Tablighi Jamaat who took park in events in Nizamuddin from March 1 to 15,” she said. She added, “We have also set up one more lab for testing of Covid-19 cases and we expect that this would speedup the testing. We are already testing at Susheela Tiwari Medical College and AIIMS Rishikesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-should-ukhand-be-conducting-more-tests/articleshow/74938432.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Theni admin to gift gold coins to ensure social distancing||Madurai: The Theni district administration has come up with an initiative to deliver groceries worth Rs 2,000 at the doorsteps of the residents to ensure they stay in doors after the district recorded 20 Covid-19 positive cases for the first time on Wednesday. It has also announced prizes in gold for those who are selected through lots, after the crisis ends. The administration set an example for other districts to overcome crowding at market places during curfew, by providing assorted vegetable bags for Rs 150 at their doorsteps. On Tuesday, WhatsApp numbers were circulated widely in the district to help the people buy meat. “If people call and specify the quantity and type of meat they require it will be delivered to their doorsteps in the morning,” said sources.All this was being done when there were no reported cases of Covid-19 in the district. But, on Wednesday 20 people tested positive. As grocery stores which are open from 9am to 2.30pm still witnessed large crowds the administration decided to supply a month’s grocery at the doorsteps from Thursday onwards.The Rs 2,000 bags would contain essential commodities like rice, oil, sugar, chillies and a variety of lentils and other condiments. People can book a bag by calling 9788497286, 8608508479 for groceries, 9680009250, 9791393700 for fish and chicken and 9894649669, 9952006341 for vegetables. Those who come forward to take up this delivery method would be issued tokens.Once the Covid-19 crisis ends, a draw would be conducted for the buyers in all six blocks - Andipatti, Theni, Periyakulam, Bodi, Cumbum and Uthamapalayam. The first prize would be a one sovereign gold coin, second a half sovereign and third quarter sovereign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-admin-to-gift-gold-coins-to-ensure-social-distancing/articleshow/74939750.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lockdown violators still a nuisance||BHOPAL: Despite strict curbs in the state capital, residents are still violating lockdown, for no valid reason, say cops. Since March 22 — the day the lockdown order was issued by the collector — 199 cases have been filed for lockdown violation. On Tuesday alone, 57 cases were registered. Police said, people misbehave with cops when they are stopped at check points. “They do not understand that the stay at home order has been issued for their own safety,” said police, adding that many just come out to watch the empty roads. CSP Habibganj Bhupendra Singh said, when police stop those violating lockdown orders, they get angry and make excuses. Cops are allowing people to go to medical shops, grocery stores but they will not allow a person living in Hoshangabad Road to go and purchase grocery from a shop in Lalghati, he said. Police said, recently they booked a person who returned from Dubai and was advised to quarantine himself for 14 days roaming in MP Nagar. Singh added, cops are on duty for over 12 hours and have to stand on roads to ensure that no one breaks the lockdown, people should understand that we are doing this for their own safety. All senior police officials and SHOs are working for 15-16 hours, he said adding that cops have been asked to isolate themselves from their families, as a precaution. He told TOI that he washes his clothes in hot water and takes a bath as soon as he reaches home and washes his own utensils as a safety measure. SHO Koh-e-Fiza Sudhir Arjaria said, he has been on duty for 12-18 hours daily since lockdown. He takes a bath and washes his clothes as soon as he reaches home. He said, police are taking all this trouble to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread but people are violating the orders endangering their own lives and that of others. He said, police are looking after the migrant labourers coming from other districts. He said, a fund was set up by the Koh-e-Fiza police, and any cop from the station is free to help those in need from the fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-violators-still-a-nuisance/articleshow/74939168.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati ZP to screen all villagers for health ailments||Amravati: Amid the coronavirus outbreak, Amravati zilla parishad will carry out a 5-day exercise beginning Thursday during which all residents in villages and towns will be screened for cough, cold, fever and other ailments. ZP chief executive officer Amol Yedle said there are 84 big towns in the district with more than 3,000 population. “Medical officers at the primary health centres (PHCs) would visit these towns and screen elderly people, disabled and others for any health conditions,” he said. Yedle said that the villages falling under PHC sub-centres would be screened by auxiliary nursing staff, while small villages will be handled by Asha workers and Anganvadi sevikas. “We want to screen each individual in the rural belt. We don’t have staff problem. About 95 to 97% staff is on duty. Around 44 doctors and medical staffers, who had abstained from duty, were served notice following which 39 of them responded by joining duty while the administration has relieved two contract staffers. Departmental enquiry is on against three others,” said the CEO. He said that all the 59 PHCs in the district are functional and there is a rush of patients at OPDs. Most OPDs have 100-plus patients every day, the CEO said. "We are keeping a close eye on people coming from other parts of the state and country and also on those from abroad. We have stamped them, tested their throat swabs and put them in home quarantine. No one in the district has tested coronavirus positive as of now,” he said. “The administration is spreading awareness among rural masses. The task of cleanliness and spraying is over in the district and supply chain of essential commodities is also being monitored,” said Yedle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-zp-to-screen-all-villagers-for-health-ailments/articleshow/74939752.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Jamiat Ulema Hind offers facility to quarantine 10,000 people||HYDERABAD: Amidst the ongoing controversy over linking spurt in coronavirus cases to Markaz Nizamuddin, the international headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, the Jamiat Ulema Hind offered to provide help in setting up a quarantine facility for about 10,000 people across the country. Jamiat Ulema Hind is an organisation of Muslim clergy or ulema holding influence over imams (people who lead prayers in mosques) of thousands of mosques across India. Jamiat general secretary and Islamic scholar Moulana Mahmood Madani has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering quarantine facility for 10,000 people. Madani said war against novel coronavirus cannot be fought without involving all sections of people. “It is our duty in this hour of crisis to extend helping hand to the government and contain the spread of the disease,” he said, adding that coronavirus is a challenge to humanity. He said more quarantine centres across India may be needed to be set up if more number of positive cases are reported. The Jamiat units in all states are ready to help the health authorities in setting up these isolation facilities, he said. He also said the Jamiat units are already working to provide food and shelter to migrant workers and people held up due to sudden lockdown across the country. Meanwhile, Tablighi Jamaat also offered its Markaz in old Delhi as quarantine facility. The Markaz is six-storey building and serves as guesthouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jamiat-offers-facility-to-quarantine-10000-people/articleshow/74939755.cms||Syed Akbar
April 2, 2020||Indore||Cold storages back in biz as farmers shelf potato||Indore: In the wake of extended lockdown and lack of market, farmers have moved potatoes to cold storages resulting in utilization of over 70 per cent storage capacity. Restriction on sale of vegetables in open market and closure of wholesale mandis as a protective measure to prevent spread of infection led farmers to store potato in cold storages to increase shelf life and get better remuneration once market opens. Looking at the pace of storage, industry players anticipate around 85 per cent of the capacity of cold storages to be utilized by potato this season as against the initial estimate of around 60 -70 per cent due to lower crop and better price realization. According to Madhya Pradesh Cold Storage Association, a body of cold storage and integrated storage facility owners in state, stocking of potato in cold storages gained momentum since March 24. Hasmukh Gandhi, president, Madhya Pradesh Cold Storage Association said, “Farmers are bringing in potato in cold storages. Potato harvesting is almost complete and most of the produce is with farmers but due to lack of market they are keeping produce in storage. Almost 70 per cent storages are full with potato and rest of the space occupied with beetroot and carrot.” Industry players said restrictions on transport, travel and market has raised serious concerns amongst farmers sitting with freshly harvested crops. According to the association, many farmers from other cities are also enquiring about charges and space in cold storages to store produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cold-storages-back-in-biz-as-farmers-shelf-potato/articleshow/74939188.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Tablighi effect: Positive cases jump to 95 in southern districts||MADURAI: The southern districts of Theni, Dindigul and Sivaganga reported their first Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, with Theni reporting the highest of 20, all of whom had attended the Tablighi meet at Nizamudeen in Delhi. This has taken the total number of positive cases in the southern districts to 95. As the government had asked the people who had participated in the conference to come forward for voluntary testing, it led to a rise in the number of positive cases in the districts. Nine people from Madurai including six from Melur and three from Ezhumalai, tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. Madurai District Collector Dr T G Vinay said the containment plan was in place where the new cases had been reported on Wednesday. It covered 2,714 houses in Melur and a total number of 10,448 people had been screened. In Ezhumalai near Usilampatti, 7,957 houses had been covered and 31,828 people screened. While the positive cases had been shifted to the isolation ward at the GRH. health officials were also monitoring some of those screened who showed minor symptoms like cough and cold. They had been given medication and would be screened again on Thursday to rule out the disease, he said. In Theni, as many as 13 of the 20 cases which tested positive were from Bodi, while Periyakulam reported three, Uthamapalayam two, Theni and Chinnamanur one each. In Dindigul district, five people from Begampur, six from Dindigul town, five from Oddanchathiram and one in Nilakottai tested positive. Sivaganga had three people from Thirupathur and one each from Devakottai and Ilayankudi testing positive. Containment plans were in place at all these places, according to the district authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tablighi-effect-positive-cases-jump-to-95-in-southern-dists/articleshow/74939753.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Ram Navami to be family event, many to watch Ramayan||NAGPUR: Today, on Ram Navami, citizens are hoping that the pious occasion will bring a wave of positivity and blessings. There won’t be the usual grand and colourful shobha yatras and celebrations like every year, but considering the significance of the day people will offer prayers from their homes. Probably for the first time on this day, there will be no rush at temples which are closed to prevent spread of coronavirus. People will do miss the festivities but many are looking forward to watching the ongoing repeat telecast of the popular series Ramayan, which was first shown on TV in the late 80s, on Doordarshan in the morning and evening. “Abhishek and puja will be offered to Lord Ram’s idol in most of the temples but there will be no mahaprasad or procession,” said Ravi Waghmare, president of Paschim Nagpur Nagarik Mandal. He urged citizens to clap and put on earthen lamps around the evening and also blow conch as a gesture. Citizens can also witness the puja and arti performed at Poddareshwar Ram Mandir on UCN Shraddha channel around 11am-1pm. Temple’s trustee Puneet Poddar said, “We want citizens to offer prayers to the god and watch our live telecast. We will also telecast the mahaarti at 12 noon, at the time of Lord Ram’s birth,” he said. Shirish Shirke, a resident of Mahal, says he will be missing the grand celebrations, beautifully decorated temples and mahaprasad but is happy to watch Ramayan on TV and celebrate the festival with family members. “We will perform puja at our home, prepare prasad and recite Ram Raksha. We are watching Ramayan every day and will continue to do so for the remaining lockdown period,” he said. Writer Shubhangi Bhadbhade is happy that her grandchildren and people at large will be at home and watch the classic ‘Ramayan’ on TV. “I will perform a small puja at home and worship the photo of god that I have. It’s a wonderful coincidence that the telecast of the evergreen TV serial started during Chaitra Navratri,” she said. It’s a practice to recite ‘Ram Raksha’ for nine days during Chitra Navratri and offer Ramphal to the god. Entrepreneur Vijaya Waindeskar plans to have celebrations at his house around 12 noon. “Each year there is huge celebration in the city and it’s a wonderful to see beautifully decorated idols in temples. I will pray for the end of coronavirus outbreak,” she said. For Anil Palkar, there is nothing more joyful than watching the classic Ramayan on TV and celebrating Ram Navami at home. “We will prepare prasad like sheera, clean the worship place and decorate the photo of Lord Ram. All the family members will also recite ‘Ram Raksha’ on the occasion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ram-navami-to-be-family-event-many-to-watch-ramayan/articleshow/74939141.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Cong: Book Dang for violating lockdown||Bhopal: State Congress on Wednesday alleged that BJP leaders were breaking the restrictions of lockdown during this critical phase when Corona virus is spreading in the country. PCC spokesman Durgesh Sharma on Wednesday posted a video in which former MLA Hardeep Singh Dang is seen meeting people along with his supporters and urging them to join the BJP. Congress demanded that an FIR be registered against Dang for openly flouting the social distancing and lock-down instructions. Dang was formerly in the Congress, but, switched loyalties to the BJP last month. He was one of the 22 Congress MLAs and Jyotiraditya Scindia followers who quit Congress and joined the BJP. Dang was in Bengaluru for more than three weeks. He reached his constituency in Suvasra last week after he was inducted into the BJP by party national president JP Nadda. State Congress leaders said that Dang was advised by doctors to stay in self-isolation since he came from Bengaluru where he was residing in a resort along with the other rebel MLAs. But on Tuesday, the former MLA was seen meeting people in Shyamgarh in his constituency in Mandsaur district and urging them to support the BJP. Sharma said, “I have a humble question for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Does the lockdown restriction only apply for the common man and not to BJP leaders and workers?” Sharma also posted a picture of former minister for water resources Narottam Mishra meeting people and distributing essential commodities to people in his Datia constituency. Mishra was also not wearing a mask. “Why has Hardeep Singh Dang taken out a rally on a membership drive knowing full well of the Corona virus pandemic and its dangers on society?”Durgesh Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-book-dang-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/74938437.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Man in Pithoragarh attempts suicide fearing he is Covid-19 positive||PITHORAGARH: A 45-year-old man slit his own throat in Gangolihat town of Pithoragarh district in a bid to commit suicide fearing that he is coronavirus-infected. The man is undergoing treatment in a health facility at Haldwani at present. The man, who works at the district livestock office in Champawat, had come back to his home in Gangolihat with his family before the lockdown. Sources said that he was suffering from throat infection since the past few days and feared that he might have contracted the Covid-19 infection. “On Tuesday, the manlocked himself in his room and slit his own throat. Hearing noise from the room, his kin broke the door open and rushed him to Gangolihat’s primary health centre (PHC),” RS Rautela, Circle Officer, Pithoragarh, told TOI. Pithoragarh’s chief medical superintendent Dr HS Kharayat said that the patient was referred to a higher health facility in Haldwani as his trachea was damaged and his condition was serious. “It has been informed to us that the patient was in depression. During this lockdown, people are spending their time watching TV all day. The constant news regarding coronavirus outbreak can accrue negativity in a person. This can also trigger some people to take drastic steps as this case shows.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-attempts-suicide-fearing-he-is-covid-19-ve/articleshow/74938445.cms||Prem Punetha
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Tie ‘gamchha’ on mask to protect yourself: Head of hospital tells doctors||DEHRADUN: In an incident which created some controversy on Wednesday, doctors demanding Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks were irked when the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Uttarakhand’s two biggest district hospitals -- Coronation and Gandhi Shatabdi -- Dr BC Ramola asked them to instead tie a ‘gamchha’ on their triple layered masks and see patients while maintaining social distancing. Annoyed at the reply, the doctors of these hospitals made the screenshot of the WhatsApp chat with the senior doctor viral. The screenshots are from a WhatsApp group of government doctors in which the conversation between the doctors and the CMS took place. A member of the group had expressed his concern about not being provided with PPE kits and masks and had cited the case of a Corona-positive case in Kotdwar, following which, several staffers of Kotdwar Base Hospital were put on quarantine. Reacting to this, Dr BC Ramola wrote back, “Keep distance, in the end, triple layered mask over gamchha.” Some doctors immediately reacted to the remark and accused the senior doctor of making fun of a serious situation. Many questioned if he felt Corona is a joke. When queried on the issue, Dr Ramola said that his intention was to tell the doctors that masks are limited in stock and hence, would be given only in emergency cases. “We have very limited stock of masks and PPE kits. If we provide a mask to one doctor, then we have to give the same to everyone, be it nurses, paramedics, ward boys and even those on security duty. We cannot give N-95 mask to everyone but we have triple layered and double masks in stock. I feel the situation here is under control and doctors should educate those poor people who have no access to masks and have only gamchha to tie. We can protect ourselves this way too and by maintaining distance and washing hands,” he said. When pressed on why he was saying that the situation in Uttarakhand is not grave, Dr Ramola said, “As far as I can study the strains of Corona in India, the symptoms of the virus are not as grave as that in China and other countries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tie-gamchha-on-mask-to-protect-yourself-head-of-hosp-tells-docs/articleshow/74937163.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Parents learn home therapy amid lockdown||AURANGABAD: The ongoing coronavirus lockdown has prevented children with autism and other physical or learning disabilities from going to their therapists, and the therapists from making home visits for occupational, physical, speech and other therapies. As a result, parents are being virtually trained on basic therapy lessons so that the lockdown doesn’t break the cycle. According to Aditi Shardul, the project director at Vihang Special School, persons with autism have the right to self-determination, independence and autonomy, as well as the right to education and employment. However, the coronavirus-related impediment in the provision of support systems is preventing them from exercising these rights, she said. “Children with autism require a fixed schedule and must follow a routine. If the routine is disturbed, many find it difficult to cope,” Shardul said. Therapists, special schools and parents of children with autism and those with other disabilities are working together on making home a school and using technology to connect, interact, analyse and learn. According to Gaurav Mhaske, neuro-physiotherapist, Gaurav’s Neuro Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Centre, Satara Parisar, physiotherapy in autism includes active exercises that build motor skills, improve strength, posture and balance. “During the lockdown, we are using telerehabilitation ie. video-calling with children and their parents to provide physiotherapy treatment,” he said. Mhaske advises the parents to ensure the use of soft toys and soft furniture in the home setting which can make it easier for children to exercise. Manjusha Raut, who has been working as a speech therapist for the past 15 years, is filling the gap of practical lessons by producing videos and sending them to the parents. “The role of the mother and father is crucial when we are communicating with the children over technology. As the children know me, they enjoy the song videos I am producing,” Raut said. She had also produced a jingle about handwashing to stimulate the speech and motor skills of the children having developmental disorders. Parent of Shantanu Ghanekar, a student from Vihang School, said she is engaging her child in everyday cleaning activities as they are specific and time-bound and her son enjoys them. Meanwhile, Trishna Mali and her son Swaraj enjoy music and shlokas all day and spend time at their farm with animals and plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parents-learn-home-therapy-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74939185.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Shortage of cooking oil, biscuits, tea in some areas||NAGPUR: While cereals, pulses, fruits and vegetables are available in the city, many brands of processed food products like cooking oil, biscuits, tea, coffee, milk powder, etc are in short supply. People are forced to switch over to brands other than their regular ones. Some shops simply do not have any brand of these products. A departmental store owner of Dharampeth said that workers in factories where these products were manufactured were not reporting for work. “Factories have closed down. If manufacturing is going on, labourers are not available to load the trucks. In some cases the goods reach the distributors but their staff is not reporting to work. Whatever the reason, we are not getting processed products,” he said. Suresh Lalwani, a general provisions store owner from Dhantoli, said that many people had indulged in panic buying when the lockdown began. “This has exacerbated the shortage. We have to send back a large number of customers every day,” he added. Anita Gandhewar, a resident of Bajaj Nagar, said that she was not getting branded biscuits and was consuming locally baked ones. “The administration should do something ,” she said. Meanwhile, grain merchant Pratap Motwani said that people were buying wheat and rice less than usual. “People indulged in panic buying when the lockdown began and now they have enough stock at home. As a result the volume has gone down,” he told TOI. The new arrangement for vegetables by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has become streamlined a lot and now there is no shortage of greens in the city. Neighbourhood vegetable vendors are now buying directly from farmers. However, Ashish Bhoyar of Manish Nagar, said that vegetable sellers doubled the price saying that Phule Market was closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shortage-of-cooking-oil-biscuits-tea-in-some-areas/articleshow/74939187.cms||Ashish Roy
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Shops in Palluruthy to be open only for 3 hrs a day||Kochi: In an effort to prevent community spread of Covid-19, authorities have decided to limit the functioning of shops in Palluruthy area between 7am and 10am. District administration, which is equipped with geotagging facilities, has found that many of those who are under quarantine in Palluruthy have been moving around freely. According to people’s representatives, there are around 360 people under home quarantine in Palluruthy. “It was found that many of them are moving around freely. On Wednesday, there was a situation when police lead by deputy commissioner Poonkuzhali had to disperse people thronging the streets in Palluruthy,” deputy mayor K R Premakumar said. Some residents said policemen forced many shop owners to down their shutters by noon as the crowd became uncontrollable. But deputy commissioner Poonkuzhali said policemen just dispersed the crowd. “We didn’t force any shops to close. We just avoided overcrowding,” she said. With the situation seeming to slip through their fingers, authorities have decided to put more restrictions and enforce them properly. “In the evening, peoples’ representatives in the area met and it was decided to limit the operations of shops in the area between 7am and 10am until April 14. It is learnt that there are intelligence reports regarding people moving around violating social distancing norms and it may lead to community spread if it is not regulated,” Premakumar said. Meanwhile, Kochi corporation authorities are stopping operations of community kitchens started by local body one by one. Community kitchen at Ernakulam Town Hall was stopped on Tuesday. “The corporation authorities gave Rs 10,000 for starting the kitchens, but they haven’t allotted additional funds. It was after the opposition councillors exerted much pressure that the authorities agreed to start the kitchen. Even the district administration had to dig at the corporation authorities,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, who is also in-charge of the kitchen at Vyttila. Though steps were initiated to shut Mattancherry and Vyttila kitchens, following the intervention of Premkumar, it is learnt that the deputy mayor has given instructions to continue the kitchens until Sunday. But, Kochi corporation authorities said they had stopped the operations of some of the kitchens as part of decentralising the facility. “Though we wound up the kitchen at Ernakulam Town Hall, we have rolled out 10 kitchens in different parts of the city,” corporation secretary R S Anu said. “Moreover, there is lack of clarity regarding how to operate the kitchens. A government order to give clarity in this regard is expected in a day or two,” she said. At the same time, LDF-led opposition has decided to stage a protest in this regard. “At a meeting convened by agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar, the minister had given instructions to start more and more community kitchens. I will set up a kiln in front of corporation secretary’s office and cook meals unless they backtracked from their decisions to stop the kitchens,” said K J Antony, opposition leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shops-in-palluruthy-to-be-open-only-for-3-hrs-a-day/articleshow/74937158.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mysuru||Govt bldgs earmarkedfor Covid contingencies||Mysuru: Within hours of a worker at Jubilant Life Sciences testing positive last week, the district administration wanted to shift all the 1300+ workers into quarantine facilities instead of self-isolation. When experts argued against it, saying it would spread the virus faster and asked them to follow the protocol which prescribes that people who had come in contact with positive cases should be home quarantined, officials dropped the plan. Though some employees asked to be moved to such a facility, it was not allowed. Now they have zeroed in on a few government buildings to shift the quarantined persons in case of emergency while hostels and school buildings are marked to be used to house family members of positive cases to isolate them from the community. The district administration has readied three private hospitals in Mysuru to quarantine suspected cases should the need arise. DC Abhiram G Sankar said all primary contacts will be kept in a separate quarantine. "We plan to increase the testing of primary contacts. Health teams will visit all households for heath check-ups," he told TOI. The local municipal body launched a drive to spray disinfectant across the town, mainly in pockets where home-isolated cases are located as part of sanitisation efforts to contain the spread of the disease. Private lodges and schools are reserved for home quarantine of Covid-19 patient’s primary contacts. According to the sources, the local administration wanted to shift all the primary contacts of the Covid 19 positive patients to private lodges and schools on Monday itself. But there was resistance by localities. Still, it’s being carried out, they said. Nanjangud tahsildar K Mahesh said officers distributed vegetables to residents and from Wednesday foodgrains will be distributed to residents at the doorstep. The groceries for two months will be distributed to ensure they stay back indoors for a longer time, he said. Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan inspected the town and interacted with senior officials on initiatives taken to contain the disease. IPG (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar visited the town on Tuesday and met officials. He instructed authorities to implement the lockdown strictly to ensure the disease is contained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-bldgs-earmarkedfor-covid-contingencies/articleshow/74918474.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Health dept caught unawares as quarantined family found selling confectionery from their shop||Pilibhit: Health department officials were caught unawares by a family of nine people in Punjabiyan locality under Pilibhit-Kotwali police station, who were found selling confectionery items from their shop near their home, after they had been put under 14-day home quarantine on March 29, when some members returned from Noida. Additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi has now referred the matter to the tehsildar, Pilibhit (sadar).The matter came to light after a well-known resident of Punjabiyan locality who preferred to remain anonymous, sent an alert about the family of Faraz Shamsi, who had been put under home quarantine by the health department, who also stuck a notice to this effect outside their residence.It now appears the Shamsi family had been selling confectionery from their shop near their home on Punjabiyan-Pakaria road from the day they were quarantined. This may have communicated Covid-19 infection to hundreds of locals if it is later found that any member of the family who was involved in selling confectionary is infected with the virus, whose symptoms are not visible in the primary stage — said the whistleblower over the phone, while sending photos of the open shop to mediapersons.Additional CMO Chaturvedi said the department was unaware of the incident. “I’ll immediately refer it to the Pilibhit (sadar) tehsildar for taking appropriate action.”When questioned if the lapse in monitoring people under home quarantine was a failure of the department, Chaturvedi said, “Our practice is giving phone calls to these families to repeat departmental instructions asking them to remain strictly confined to their homes. We send their blood samples for testing of Covid-19 only if anyone shows primary symptoms like cough, sore throat, sneezing, etc,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/health-dept-caught-unawares-as-quarantined-family-found-selling-confectionery-from-their-shop/articleshow/74938436.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||No April fool messages, warn cops||Rajkot: Warning people not to forward or send April fool messages on WhatsApp and social media, Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal and Rajkot rural superintendent of police Balram Meena on Wednesday stated that those caught violating this instruction would be prosecuted. “Stern actions will be taken against those found flouting the order,” the duo warned in the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-april-fool-messages-warn-cops/articleshow/74938446.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 hurts GHMC’s tax collection by Rs 500 crore||HYDERABAD: The outbreak of coronavirus has badly impacted the coffers of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). In just 15 days, the civic body lost about Rs 500 crore, especially from property tax collections and building fees. Though there is no problem for paying salaries, the officials fear, the revenue would have an impact on the ongoing works and also payment of bills to contractors. The GHMC has got Rs 1,540 crore towards property tax, trade licenses and advertisement fee. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said the building fee collection was Rs 850 cr in the financial year 2018-19 and it rose to Rs 1,050 cr this year till second week of March. The GHMC expected to get another Rs 150 cr. “But all the officials are busy with the prevention of coronavirus duties and could not focus on other works. Public safety is more important now,” Kumar said. The GHMC commissioner said there is no clarity on the early bird scheme, which is generally launched from April 1 every year. Those who pay the property tax for the year 2020-21 in advance, get 5% rebate on the tax. Officials said the government would give clarity on this soon especially on when it should begin. Meanwhile, the civic body, which has been executing projects such as SRDP and housing projects, may have to rely only on loans. “Every year, the GHMC has to pay Rs 100 cr for road maintenance and other miscellaneous works. Since January, the bills are pending and they will be paid only after the first quarter of this financial year,” a senior GHMC official said. However, officials said, there would be no problem for salaries this month. The GHMC pays about Rs 150 cr every month towards salary of 31,000 employees including sanitation and outsourcing staff. “If the lockdown continuous for this month and online collections for property tax are not encouraging, the corporation may face a problem then,” a senior official analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-hurts-ghmcs-tax-collection-by-rs-500cr/articleshow/74939757.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 2, 2020||Indore||Pulses, dry beans replace greens in platter in Indore||INDORE: Supply of green vegetables in most localities and residential societies has dried up making people switch to pulses and dry beans, while a few lucky lots were able to grab some portions of exhausting stock from vendors. A few vegetable and grocery shops within the residential societies were supplying greens from stocks. But, they have also exhausted inventories and with no source of fresh supplies, people are exploring alternate options. Naman Gupta, a resident of Shalimar Township said, “We have a permanent vegetable shop inside our campus and he was selling vegetables from old stock until Wednesday. But now he has also run out of stock. Now we are exploring alternate food to cope with the lockdown period.” A few localities like Maa Vihar at Rajiv Gandhi square, Sukhlia and Nipania had roped in vegetable vendors to supply in respective localities. But they are also facing problems with no stock left. District administration has restricted sale of green vegetables in the city as a safety measure to contain spread of COVID-19. The administration is making arrangements for doorstep supplies of onion and potato along with grocery items through designated vehicles of Indore Municipal Corporation. Amita Khere, a resident from Sukhlia said, “We have started taking dry beans curry and pulses in our meals instead of green vegetables. Understanding the seriousness of the situation and as a responsible citizen, we are confined to our homes and avoid going out for unnecessary thing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pulses-dry-beans-replace-greens-in-platter/articleshow/74939183.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Control room at MP Bhawan monitors plight of residents stuck outside state||Bhopal: More than 2,300 residents of Madhya Pradesh are stranded across eight states in the country and all of them have contacted the state government. A special control room has been set up at the Madhya Pradesh Bhawan in New Delhi and one IAS officer has been deputed for each state. The state government has issued phone and WhatsApp numbers where residents of Madhya Pradesh who are stuck in other states can contact in case of any inconvenience. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had also made a statement on Twitter, urging people of the state who are stuck outside to stay put there during the lockdown. Chouhan also said that he is in talk with the chief ministers of the concerning states to ensure appropriate food and accommodation for the residents and the expenses would be borne by the government. Additional chief secretary I C P Keshari said, “Majority of these residents who have contacted us are stuck in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Hyderabad, Karnataka and Goa”. “These are the people who have contacted us through the helpline numbers. We have talked with the concerning administration where these people are stranded and have ensured appropriate food and other arrangements for these residents,” Keshari added. “Besides, a 24X7 control room has been established at the Madhya Pradesh Bhawan and seven IAS officers have been deployed state-wise to talk with the respective officials of the concerning states and ensure that the residents of Madhya Pradesh who are stranded there do not face any inconvenience,” Keshari said. As per official orders, Malay Shrivastav, principal secretary of the public works department (PWD) has been appointed for tackling issues related to residents stranded in Gujarat and Rajasthan, Manu Shrivastav, principal secretary, (MSME), has been appointed to tackle problems faced by residents stranded in Uttar Pradesh, Neeraj Mandoli, principal secretary, (mining), for tackling problems faced by residents stranded in Delhi and Haryana, Deepali Rastogi, principal secretary, (tribal affairs), for tackling the problems of the residents stranded in Maharashtra. Similarly, Irene Synthia, director, (RSK), has been appointed for tackling the problems faced by residents in Tamil Nadu, V Kiran Gopal, managing director, (MP Purv Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company) has been appointed to resolve problems faced by residents stranded in Telangana, Illayaraja T, deputy secretary, (chief minister’s office) has been appointed for tackling the problems faced by residents stranded in Karnataka and Goa. GfxHELP AT HANDMP residents stranded in other states: 2300Where to contact if stranded outside stateWhatsApp number: 8989011180Phone number: 0755-2411180||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/control-room-at-mp-bhawan-monitors-plight-of-residents-stuck-outside-state/articleshow/74938464.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Verbal spat turns into group clash in Jamnagar, five injured||Rajkot: Five persons were injured in a clash that broke out between two groups in Shankar Tekri locality of Jamnagar on Tuesday night. The members of both the groups attacked each other with bats, iron pipes and bricks which they threw at each other. According to police, one group led by Mahendra Manek attacked the other group led by Prakash Parmar. The women family members of both Manek and Parmar had squabbled over the issue of fetching drinking water, three months ago. The seeds of enmity between the Manek and the Parmar families had been sown since then. Frequent fights used to erupt between the families of Manek and Parmar. On the fateful night, after a verbal duel, the members of both the families attacked each other. “Those injured in the attack included Manek, his father Devubha Manek, Pratap Parmar, his brother Arun Parmar and his sister Chandrika Parmar. The warring members from both the groups lodged a complaint and cross complaint against each other,” said A I Muliyana, sub-inspector with Jamnagar C division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/verbal-spat-turns-into-group-clash-in-jamnagar-five-injured/articleshow/74938495.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||ZP shortlists 169 for temporary medical jobs||AURANGABAD: After the Aurangabad zilla parsishad (ZP) announced temporary hiring for different posts in its health department, a large number of people came for the interview to the city-based office on Wednesday. District health officer Amol Gite said the ZP health department had shortlisted 33 MBBS candidates for the temporary post of medical officers and 136 nurses. “Of all the people who had applied for these positions, some have been shortlisted after the verification of their documents. We will call them in case of an emergency in the district. They will be posted only for the Covid-19 management,” Gite said. Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the district health machinery is looking to equip itself to handle any possible situation. Subsequently, the ZP had decided to recruit health professionals on a temporary basis. The advertisement was put on the ZP’s website along with the details of the posts and the eligibility criteria. Initially, the ZP called for contractual hiring of 50 medical officers (MBBS), 187 health workers and 60 male health workers at the level of primary health centre. At district civil hospital, the contractual posts were open for 30 medical officers (MBBS, MD-medicine), 20 medical officers (MBBS, MD- Anaesthesia), 70 medical officers (MBBS) and 110 nurses. However, later the auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and health workers were excluded from the hiring process. According to Gite, the decision to exclude the ANM nurses and health workers was taken based on state government’s directives as they might not be useful in direct management of Coronavirus cases. However, many candidates for these two posts also turned up for the interview on Wednesday. They were sent back by the administration. Several of these candidates expressed anguish stating that they had come from different parts of the district only to be informed that they are not being considered. The administration said that the candidates were expected to regularly check the ZP website for updates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/zp-shortlists-169-for-temporary-medical-jobs/articleshow/74939202.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||5-kg rice free for 3 month for ration card holders||DEHRADUN: In a bid to ensure that there was no food and edible oil shortage in the state, the department of food and civil supplies took two major decisions on Wednesday. It has announced 5kg rice free to each ration card holder for three months – from April to June – and directed the manufacturers and suppliers in the state that 50% of their stock is reserved for the state’s people. The orders were passed by commissioner of food and civil supplies Sushil Kumar. Presently, there are around 23 lakh ration card holders in Uttarakhand. Besides the routine supply under the National Food Security Scheme, the government has decided to provide 5 kg rice free to beneficiaries under the PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana. The routine ration being given to card holders would be on the stipulated rate and the additional 5 kg rice would be free. In the second order, for district magistrates of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital, the commissioner said that as per the directive of the Centre, the availability of essential products, their distribution and stock position is being reviewed on a daily basis and it is being ensured that there is no shortage at present or in the future. Keeping the fact in mind, he directed the DMs to take the required steps to ensure this in their districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-kg-rice-free-for-3-month-for-ration-card-holders/articleshow/74938486.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Drug-related cases reduce amid lockdown in Ekm||Kochi: The Covid-19 fear and lockdown have resulted in a decline in the number of cases and seizures under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (Cotpa) in Ernakulam excise division. Compared to February, the quantity of seized ganja and banned chewable tobacco products has reduced significantly in March. Around 3.27kg of ganja and 44kg of chewable tobacco were seized in March compared to 20.6kg of ganja and 907kg of chewable tobacco in February. Excise officers said that the heavy patrolling and shutdown of traffic have led to decline in the inflow of contraband into the district. The suspension of passenger train services, which was a major mode of transportation of ganja and banned tobacco products, has completely curbed the inflow of these items from other states. But the officers said that they are expecting a rise in the seizure of illicit liquor and arrack in the coming days due to the shortage of alcohol amid the lockdown. “The number of cases reported and seizures made were as usual till mid-March. But after the Covid-19 fear gripped the state, there was a decline. Moreover, after the lockdown started on March 25, the number of cases reported had declined significantly. The strict vigil at check posts, shutdown of railways and stringent travel restrictions have reduced drug trafficking. But cases of illicit liquor and arrack seizures are likely to rise in the coming days, especially in rural areas, where brewing is more possible,” said an excise officer. At the same time, they warned of possible narcotic withdrawal syndrome cases in the coming days in addition to alcohol withdrawal syndrome. “The unavailability of narcotic drugs, especially the synthetic ones like LDS, MDMA and heroin, could lead to withdrawal cases. So far no cases have been reported. The department is closely monitoring the situation,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drug-related-cases-reduce-amid-lockdown-in-ekm/articleshow/74937199.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens take to yoga & meditation to tackle lockdown stress||NAGPUR: There’s never been a better time to indulge in self-care, take a deep breath and do some stretching. With people forced to stay at home during the Covid-19 pandemic, the wellness conscious citizens have introduced ways to build daily exercise into the schedule for the sake of maintaining sanity. To avoid sedentary behaviour during self-isolation, a group of citizens is making best use of social media. Ad guru Sanjay Arora, who is also a yoga instructor, has designed a special 21-day yogasan module in which one asan a day is taught to people through a live video. “The day lockdown was announced, I started thinking that people locked indoors will not get any physical exercise and being cooped up inside will lead to considerable stress and depression,” says Arora. He began by requesting people to post pictures of them doing one asan a day in a WhatsApp Group. “Then came a suggestion from one of my teachers from Janardan Swami Yogabhyasi Mandal to go live with the asanas. Though I had never gone live on Facebook before, there was this awkwardness but I decided to take the plunge,” says Arora. Since last week, he has been going live at 8am every morning with one simple asan. “The objective was to get even beginners, who hadn’t ever done yoga before, to start doing the asanas. I decided to do this ‘21 simple asanas for beginners in 21 days,” he adds. Never did he expect the response to be so overwhelming. “We have had around 2,000 views on best day and on an average, at least 1,000 views per video,” he tells. Not just from Nagpur, people from other cities and countries too are partaking actively. “One lady from New York City messaged she was suffering from sciatica pain, so one day I did the Konasan for that and she sent a thank you message for that,” says Arora. Arora focuses on a blend of different asanas – sharir sanchalan which is a yogic warm-up, Tadasan which helps to reduce weight and joint pains, Katichakra asan which strengthens the lateral muscles, Pawanmuktasan, which is a sure shot remedy for constipation and digestive problems, Bhujangasan, which is excellent for asthma and other respiratory issues and many more. To help people keep calm amidst the coronavirus scare, another citizens’ group has started meditation sessions on social media. NGO GrowWill Foundation has created a WhatsApp group for this. “People sit together at their respective homes and meditate by listening to our guided audio tracks. This takes place twice daily at specific timings,” says Dr Abheek Ghosh from the foundation. Their sessions too have international participants. “We do it stage-wise; people who are successfully able to practise meditation for three consecutive days join the Level 2. Our aim is to help people relax during this pandemic,” says Dr Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-take-to-yoga-meditation-to-tackle-lockdown-stress/articleshow/74939201.cms||Manka Behl
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Migrant labourer in Kheri flees quarantine to meet family, kills self ‘fearing arrest’||Bareilly: A 23-year-old migrant labourer who escaped from a quarantine centre to meet his family in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Fariya Pipariya village allegedly committed suicide late on Tuesday after learning that police were searching for him. The victim, youngest among six siblings, was quarantined at a school on the village outskirts upon returning from Gurugram on March 28. According to police, he had escaped from the quarantine centre twice to meet his family, but officials thwarted his attempts on both the occasion and brought him back to the camp. On Tuesday afternoon, police said he had again escaped from the camp and went to village to meet his family. Upon learning that police were looking for him, the man fled from the place and his body was found hanging on the village outskirts at 11pm on Tuesday, the police said. The police added the body has been sent for autopsy, and district administration would ensure that the bereaved family get an ex-gratia payment. Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh told TOI, “The victim was quarantined following the government’s directions. We even informed them that isolation is a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of their family members and neighbours. The victim had fled the camp to meet his family. When police reached the village searching for him, he escaped and was later found hanging. Unfortunately, he committed suicide.” Maigalganj police station SHO Chandrakant Singh said, “It appears that the victim took the extreme step as he started panicking at the quarantine centre despite repeated attempts by officials to make him understand that it was just a precautionary measure. Authorities have provided proper food and other necessary facilities at the centre. We are investigating the matter and a case will be registered based on the findings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/migrant-labourer-in-kheri-flees-quarantine-to-meet-family-kills-self-fearing-arrest/articleshow/74938454.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||Two attendees of Nizamuddin event quarantined in city||Vadodara: The city police have quarantined two persons who had been to Markaz mosque in Nizamuddin area of Delhi over last few days. The cops learnt about their presence in the city on Wednesday following which they were tracked down. Another 150 persons who went in the vicinity of Nizamuddin last month too are being checked. “The two persons who attended the congregation are from Surat. But they came to the city on March 20 as they are employed in construction sector here. We traced them from Atladara area and have quarantined them. They will now undergo Coronavirus tests,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The cops have also traced over 150 persons including a wedding group of 69 persons, that had visited Nizamuddin area on March 18 before returning to the city on March 20. “All of them have been quarantined and they will also undergo testing,” Gahlaut added. A 23-year-old was also arrested in Dabhoi with his two friends late on Tuesday night. Salman Mansuri was nabbed near Vega Chowkdi. Police said that Salman had attended a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Yamunanagar in Haryana. After the congregation ended, he had travelled in a truck to Gujarat along with other attendees who too were from the state.“He got down near Golden Chowkdi. His two friends went to pick him up in a car. Our team nabbed them when they were returning to Dabhoi,” said deputy superintendent of police H J Chaudhary. “None of them showed any symptoms of coronavirus but we have moved the trio to the government quarantine facility at Ajwa Road,” Chaudhary added.Police sources said that when the trio was nabbed, a health team was called for their check up and trio was sanitized on the spot itself. During investigation, the cops learnt that Salman had come in contact with four persons from Nagarwada. “The four persons too have been quarantined and they will undergo the tests,” Gahlaut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-attendees-of-nizamuddin-event-quarantined-in-city/articleshow/74938108.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||‘Cyber nakabandi’ keeps fake news, rumours at bay||Nagpur: City police, fighting to maintain law and order in the Covid-19 national lockdown, are also keep an eye on fake news and rumour mongering, to avoid any chaos or confusion due to misinformation on social media. Just like cops on the roads monitoring movement at check points, cyber cell and their associates too are busy round the clock in surveillance on social media through ‘cyber patrolling’, like virtual nakabandi in cyber space. With strategic awareness campaigns on social media a day ago, cyber cell also managed to thwart ‘April fools’ messages related to corona and lockdown, which could have created turbulence in society. Consequently, no offences had to be registered on Wednesday. The cyber cell, attached to city police crime branch, is also keeping a watch on the movement of home quarantined persons, tracing missing ones, and feeding information to related government agencies, like the collector, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), and their special cells tackling the corona related works, along with technological support. Realizing the need for a stringent watch on social media users, police threw a cyber security blanket across the city, to prevent any wrongdoing, and minimize any damage. City polices’ cyber crime cell under Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and DCP Shweta Khedkar kept vigil on social media. They were on guard against incidents like the recent fake audio clip claiming ’59 positives’ in city, or a senior officer being affected by corona, and the one about spraying of disinfectants across the city. A cyber cell source said four persons were arrested for spreading rumours. These were the only detentions after the three taken into custody for preparing and spreading fake audio clip stating Nagpur has ‘59 positive cases’. “Three teams under inspector Ashwini Jagtap and two Asst PIs Vishal Mane and Keshav Wagh are working in shifts round the clock as corona warriors to provide technical support to the entire works of the three agencies of police, district administration and civic body,” said DCP Khedkar. “People should help police by maintaining discipline on social media and practically judging or confirming contents before believing them. This would help police do better. It’s sad that people are creating more burden on police department by stepping out and spreading fake news and rumours,” she said. The officer said action is being taken against a lot of people, and no one would be spared. The cyber cell also played a crucial role in zeroing down on the 68 people with travel history from New Delhi and helping city police quarantine 41 of them present in Nagpur. DCP Khedkar, who is handling dual charge of cyber cell and also special branch, said cyber cops are helping locate persons, whether a suspect, home quarantined or just unwell. “Cyber cell has strengthened police intelligence manifold and helped collect, collate and analyse data,” she said. An officer of the cyber cell said some 30 people were rounded up, quizzed and checked on an average based on their social media usages. “We are also creating awareness regarding corona -related issues through social media platforms and also uploading and posting messages from seniors officers warning against fake news and rumours,” he said. On Wednesday, city police registered 35 offences for violation of lockdown orders, detained 125 people, and also slapped fines on 1,279 vehicle owners. Also, city police issued a fresh order extending implementation of section 144 till midnight of April 14 from Wednesday midnight onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-nakabandi-keeps-fake-news-rumours-at-bay/articleshow/74939194.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Grocery wholesale market to be shut for four days in Bhopal||BHOPAL: In a move that may affect availability of household essentials in times of lockdown, wholesalers in Bhopal will shut their business for four days from Thursday. The decision was taken at a meeting of Bhopal Kirana Vyapari Mahasangh on Wednesday afternoon. “In view of the seriousness of coronavirus crisis, wholesalers as well as retailers of Hanumanganj and Jumerati have decided to shut down completely from April 2 to 4,” said general secretary of the mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal. This means there will be no supply of atta, pulses, rice and sugar, among other grocery items, to the markets of Bhopal. Agrawal said that many members of the mahasangh attended the meeting. This wholesale market supplies foodgrains and other material to retailers in a 150km radius of Bhopal, including some of the big grocery stores. Sunil Manorial, a wholesaler of rice and pulses, said, “Even families of traders were concerned about the risk involved in doing business in the times of this pandemic.” On Wednesday, the administration had locked down the area around the wholesale market to stop traffic and crowds. “Four days of shutdown will help maintain social distancing in the congested localities of Jumerati and Hanumanganj of Old Bhopal,” Agrawal explained. The district administration has been informed, he said, adding that the association will review the situation on April 5 and take a call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/grocery-wholesale-mkt-to-be-shut-for-four-days/articleshow/74939200.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||NER to start parcel service for perishable items||Bareilly: Railway authorities on Wednesday said they are ready to resume parcel service as soon as an order is passed to that effect. The service was discontinued on March 22, when movement of passenger trains stopped. The chief public relation officer of North Eastern Railways (NER), Pankaj Kumar Singh, said in order to transport perishable items like fruits, milk, masks, medicines, medical equipment, sanitisers, salt, etc from one place to another, they have decided to run trains with 4-5 parcel wagons on different routes. Currently, only freight trains are running, to transport coal, fertilisers and grain. PRO of NER (Izzatnagar division), Rajendra Singh, said parcel vans are attached to almost every long-distance superfast mail train, intercity express and local trains. “Since movement of passenger trains was stopped, dealers in perishable items are also facing a hard time. In order to ensure uninterrupted supply of such items, we’ve decided to re start parcel train service as per demand,” he said. Producers and traders in Bareilly and neighbouring stations of Haldwani and Kathgodam, supply vegetables, fruits and milk all over the state and other parts of the country. One such supplier of mushrooms, Manmohan Bhardwaj, said, “We produce nearly 10 tonnes of mushrooms every day, which we used to supply markets in Delhi and other parts of the country on air-conditioned containers. Since movement on roads has been stopped, parcel van trains will certainly help farmers like us.” CPRO of NER Pankaj Kumar Singh told TOI, “We have informed our prospective clients including government departments about the development. As soon as we start getting orders, parcel trains will start running. In case of any urgency, like need for immediate delivery of medical equipment or similar items, we’ll deliver even if the order is as low as for just two parcel vans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ner-to-start-parcel-service-for-perishable-items/articleshow/74938484.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 2, 2020||India||Hyd man who tested positive dies, relatives beat up doctors||Hyderabad: Angry relatives of a man who is suspected to have died from coronavirus infection on Wednesday roughed up attending doctors in Gandhi hospital, Hyderabad's nodal Covid-19 facility. The 49-year-old was admitted a week ago after testing positive. Three of his relatives are also in the same hospital with Covid-19 symptoms. Police initially refused to come anywhere near the isolation ward without protective gear. Anjani Kumar, the commisisoner of police, while speaking to TOI denied any assault, but protests by angry doctors forced Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar and other officials to rush to the hospital.  Health minister Eatala Rajender condemned the attack. "Strict action will be taken against those who attacked doctors. How can anyone attack doctors or medical staff who have put their lives at risk to save people's lives," the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hyd-man-who-tested-positive-dies-relatives-beat-up-doctors/articleshow/74940171.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Two grocery shop-owners booked for profiteering||Pilibhit: Two grocery shop-owners have been booked under the Essential Commodities Act for allegedly selling food items at higher prices than stipulated. The duo, Ankit Agrawal and Avinash Singh, were booked after a complaint was lodged against them by supply inspector Veer Singh of the district supply office at the Pilibhit Kotwali police station. The supply inspector alleged that both shops were selling pulses at a higher rate than prescribed by the DM, Vaibhav Shrivastav. The rates were advertised through social media as well as newspapers. In addition, a warning had been issued of immediate action under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) in case of over-pricing of essential commodities. Veer Singh claimed that he was checking shops on Wednesday afternoon, when he bought 1 kg of black gram for Rs 80 from Avinash Provisional Store. The DM had fixed its price at Rs 65 per kg. Likewise, he purchased tea leaves and sugar from Ankit Kirana Store and had to pay a higher price than fixed. The shopkeepers also allegedly refused to give any receipt for the items sold. Niether shop had displayed the rate list of the stocks. Following this, Veer Singh immediately called the food safety officer of Pilibhit municipal council, Mahendra Singh, and asked him to come to the spot to take cognizance of over-pricing, he said. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO. said Ankit Agrawal and Avinash Singh, the shop-owners, were booked under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-grocery-shop-owners-booked-for-profiteering/articleshow/74938492.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Jailed Maharashtra doctor pledges to serve Covid-19 patients, gets bail||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted temporary bail to senior doctor after he submitted before the court that he would serve needy persons during the coronavirus outbreak. Lawyers S S Khivansara and S G Ladda, who represent the doctor, submitted before the court that the “applicant undertakes to serve needy persons as per the directions of the government.” Granting conditional bail, Justice T V Nalawade on Monday ruled: ‘In view of the circumstances, this court is granting temporary bail to the applicant… The applicant is not to tamper with prosecution witnesses and not commit any similar offence and he is to approach the dean, Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad, immediately, after coming out of jail. He is to submit an undertaking that he is ready to discharge services as per the directions of the dean.’ A case was registered against the doctor in August 2019. Inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne of the Pundaliknagar police station said the doctor runs a hospital at Ranjangaon. A doctor from Beed district had referred a 29-year-old, who was then seven-month pregnant, to this doctor to terminate the pregnancy. While carrying out the abortion, there were some medical complications and the woman fell unconscious. The doctor then rushed her to another facility near the Beed bypass. She was kept on ventilator and declared dead the next morning. Sonawne said: “The autopsy performed on the woman revealed that she had died after a failed attempt to abort a seven-month-old foetus. It is also a suspected case of female foeticide.” An offence was registered under sections of IPC 314 (Whoever, with intent to cause the miscarriage of a woman with child, does any act which causes the death of such woman), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 203 (giving false information) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) with Pundaliknagar police station of Aurangabad city on August 6, 2019. In all, seven suspects — including this doctor, another doctor and the woman’s husband — were put behind the bars. The doctor has been in custody since August 2019, said Sonawne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-bail-to-doctor-after-he-pledges-to-serve-patients/articleshow/74939214.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Hostel filling up, admin readies 4,000 more quarantine beds||NAGPUR: Both functional wings of MLA Hostel, where the city’s first quarantine facility was set up for international flyers on March 13, were nearing capacity by late Wednesday evening, as a steady flow of novel coronavirus suspects continue to be brought in. Some quarantined patients have been housed at Vanamati on VIP Road. The city administration and Central Railway plan to augment the quarantine facility capacity by up to 10,000 beds at different places, including some private hospitals, if needed. While the railways reserved 150 beds at Ajni and railway hospital, NMC was planning to do so at the SRA Scheme in Uppalwadi. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “We have 4,000 beds ready and will use them as per need. Next in line is Vanamati. Other places will add up to 4,000 beds and they are all ready or close to ready. VNIT, Vanamati, Ravi Bhavan, Agrasen Hostel, Railway and Central India Nursing College will add up to 4,000 beds.” On Wednesday, PWD officials said 225 suspected patients were put up against a capacity of 300 in Wing 2, and 116 suspects in Wing 3, leaving only four more beds. Wing 1 having 140 rooms is under renovation. On March 31, TOI had reported about two suspects sharing a room after revision in policy. Earlier, each suspect was isolated in a single room. All would be quarantined for a period of 14 days. A day before, over 50 people were quarantined in a single batch after NMC received a list of travellers who came in close contact with Covid-19 positive patients at Delhi. “All rooms are likely to be filled up by Thursday as rush of suspects has substantially gone up,” officials said. He said a 40-bed suite is ready at Ravi Bhavan in Civil Lines. An NMC official said some suspects were also kept at Vanamati on VIP Road. Vanamati is a training centre for government officials and employees. Another PWD official said of the 40 allotted rooms at Ravi Bhavan, six were occupied. “Six guests, including a judge, were shifted to another building,” the official said. NMC officials said the civic body is planning to convert SRA scheme near Uppalwadi industrial estate for keeping quarantine suspects. “Following directions from municipal commissioner, the fire and emergency services department and health department team of Ashi Nagar zone on Tuesday started cleaning the two multi-storey buildings in SRA colony,” they said. Central Railway, Nagpur division, spokesperson and assistant commercial manager (ACM) SG Rao said, “We have created a quarantine facility with 150 beds at Ajni and at railway hospital. Of these, 125 beds are at three places in Ajni while 25 are at the hospital. We are open to admit even outside patients as directed by the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-hostel-filling-up-admin-readies-4000-more-quarantine-beds/articleshow/74939213.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 2, 2020||Madurai||30 Tablighi Jamaat meet attendees quarantined in Ramnad, Virudhunagar dists||MADURAI: Thirty people from Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi were placed under quarantine. Speaking to TOI, Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said that 15 people from the district attended the conference in Delhi. Of these, one person is yet to return from Delhi and another person who is at present in Chennai is placed under quarantine. The remaining 13 who returned to Virudhunagar were identified during the first phase of screening and placed under home quarantine along with their family members since March 24.  “Though we had monitored them since their return to Virudhunagar district, we had also placed their close relatives under home quarantine as a precautionary measure. People belonging to 135 houses who are connected to these 13 people are kept under home quarantine and they are being continuously being monitored,” said Kannan. Apart from this, officials from the health department are also carrying out a door-to-door survey around the areas where the houses of these 13 people are situated to identify those who have any symptoms. All the 13 are admitted at the quarantine ward at Virudhunagar government hospital and samples collected from them have been sent for testing, he added. Ramanathapuram collector K Veera Raghava Rao told TOI that 33 people from the district had attended the conference of which 14 are still in Delhi and two in Chennai. The remaining 17 had returned to Ramanathapuram. “Out of the 17, two of them who are symptomatic are admitted at the Ramanathapuram government hospital and the remaining 15 are kept under quarantine at the government-controlled special quarantine places in the district. Samples were collected from them and are sent for testing,” the collector said. Rao said the family members of these 17 people are placed under home quarantine in their houses and they are continuously being monitored. As a part of the local containment plan, 415 workers from health department are deployed to check nearly 25,000 houses situated around the seven km radius around the houses of these 17 people in the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/30-tj-meet-attendees-quarantined-in-ramnad-virudhunagar-dists/articleshow/74939758.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||25 youths who fled hostels rescued||YAVATMAL: Nanded police have rescued nearly 25 youths who ran off from Pusad hostels on Monday night owing to inhumane conditions there. They have been put up in a camp at Nanded. The youths were heading to their hometowns in Tamil Nadu on foot as no transport was available because of the lockdown. The youths were part of a large group sent to Pusad by a Delhi-based company . The company had allegedly lured these youths by offering incentives and lodged them in hostels of educational institutions taken on rent. These youths were allegedly living in inhumane conditions. Meanwhile, Pusad tehsildar Vaishak Rahurwagh, who visited the hostels on Tuesday on the directives of collector MD Singh, has reportedly produced an appreciation letter issued by an NGO lauding his efforts in arranging food and other facilities for the inmates. On Tuesday, Rahurwagh was vociferous in announcing that he would file an FIR against the company and also seize its products. But on Wednesday, he was unreachable on umpteen number of attempts by TOI. SP M Rajkumar assured that the inmates would be supplied with their daily needs including food, water and medicines. He has also directed PI of Vasant Nagar police station Pardeshi to oversee supply of provisions to the inmates. “When the lockdown is over, we will look into the activities of the company and will take action accordingly,” said Pardeshi. According to sources, around 1,600 youths were hired by the company and lodged them at Pusad on the pretext of proving them with training followed by job. However, many of them are now reportedly missing as around 400 inmates are left in the hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/25-youths-who-fled-hostels-rescued/articleshow/74939211.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Treatments for diabetes, kidney ailments affected amid corona war||HYDERABAD: The ongoing coronavirus crisis has cast a shadow over treatment for patients suffering from chronic diseases such as thalassemia and kidney ailments. Private hospitals, which provide free dialysis under healthcare schemes such as Aarogyasri and Employee Health Scheme (EHS), have not been able to provide these treatments citing a lack of staff. With most government hospitals dedicated to treating coronavirus cases, only two hospitals providing other treatments — Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) — are running full house till midnight. Some empanelled private hospitals are still offering paid service, given on priority to patients who require two sessions per week. However, the cost of this, which can touch Rs 30,000, is unaffordable for many. “I have been turned away by four different hospitals citing the same reason. Two hospitals I went to had unending queues. Even at 10 pm I was told that I might get a slot only after the regular Aarogyasri and EHS patients. It is difficult to get service as a first-time patient in any hospital,” said Shaikh Khaiser, who ended up paying Rs 4000 for a session at the empanelled private hospital where he is a regular. Even for paid dialysis, hospitals are cutting down on time. “But the issue with shortened dialysis time is, symptoms start showing within two days and we have to go for another session. With a four-hour dialysis, a patient can feel healthy for three to four days,” said Sriram R, son of a dialysis patient. Meanwhile Osmania General Hospital, which has a 20-bed dialysis facility, is running 24x7 since the last two weeks but with patients from Gandhi Hospital being shifted to OGH and NIMS, both hospitals are overloaded. “We are trying to accommodate maximum number of patients but are completely overloaded,” said OGH superintendent, Dr B Nagender. “It is extremely important for dialysis patients to continue their regular treatment and take extra precaution...Skipping dialysis leads to serious adverse effects and increases risk of hospitalisation,” said Dr JL Ranganath, a senior consultant nephrologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/treatments-for-diabetes-kidney-ailments-affected/articleshow/74939767.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: After bookings open, travel agents flooded with enquiries||BHOPAL: Following the government’s announcement that it will not extend the 21-day lockdown, Indian railways and private airline companies have started booking tickets after April 15. Booking queries have witnessed a jump in the past 24 hours. Individual and travel agents have started enquiries about booking train tickets. Vineet Singh, a travel agent, said he is getting many booking enquiries. Most of them are related to business travel. Though his office is closed due to the lockdown, “I have been getting a lot of queries,” said Vineet. Tickets are available from April 15 on IRCTC’s app and website. At the same time, airlines will also start bookings from April 15. Indigo and Air India are opening their online booking systems for domestic travel from April 15. However, airlines are yet to make any official statement on this issue. Around 42 flights were flying daily from Bhopal airport. At the national level, domestic airline services had fallen by 30 per cent even before the lockdown. There has been no flight operations at Bhopal’s Raja Bhoj airport since March 24. “My daughter is stuck in Jaipur. She had gone for an internship. After we got to know that bookings have started, we informed her about it. She is making queries about the tickets,” said Archana Tayade, a Bhopal resident. The railways is doing its best to maintain the smooth functioning of goods trains. Officials said that for smooth running of trains, the central control office of the railway board is working day and night. The chief controller and block controller are on day and night duty on rotation basis. Keeping in mind the safety, working hours of all the controllers have been amended and accordingly their duties are being allotted. Similarly, the RPF’s commerce control employees are also on duty as per rotation, stated the officials. Special attention is being given to ensure availability of masks, sanitisers, liquid soaps, gloves and maintaining social distance for all the employees engaged in railway duty. Divisional railway manager Uday Borwanker has urged the railway personnel on duty to use masks while discharging their duties, maintain a distance of one metre from others and wash hands frequently to prevent coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-bookings-open-travel-agents-flooded-with-enquiries/articleshow/74939216.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Jew Street traders get a rent waiver||Kochi: With hardly any visitors, shops owned by Kashmiri traders that line the Jew Street have been wearing a deserted much before the lockdown, when they finally downed their shutters. Most of the owners of buildings which houses these shops that deals in pashmina shawls, hand-crafted carpets and papier mache boxes have decided to waive off the rent for a month and provide a 50% waiver for two months post-lockdown period. “Kashmiri traders have around 40 shops that sell handicrafts and curios and almost 90% of shops would benefit from this decision,” said Sajid Hussain Khatai, president, Kashmiri Traders Welfare Association. Some others who own the buildings have scheduled meetings in coming days to discuss similar waivers for tenants, he said. “We understand that it is an extraordinary situation and so we took a collective decision to ease their financial burden by waiving off the rent during the lockdown period,” said Junaid Sulaiman, an entrepreneur and building owner. “Even after lockdown, it would take some time for the traders to stabilize, to find their feet. Hence, we decided that we should collect only 50% rent for two months in the post-lockdown period,” said Junaid, who is also secretary of Kerala handicraft dealers and manufacturers’ welfare association. The waiver would be loss of revenue for several building owners. “It reflects a goodwill and our closeness as community. It would be ideal if building owners elsewhere in Ernakulam market and Broadway too give similar waiver,” he said. Legacy of Jew Town goes back hundreds of years when spice trade lured traders from across the world but it later shifted to antiques and curios. “Our business is seasonal and it won’t pick until the next tourist season arrives. So, it’s going to be hard for us,” said Sajid. Shop owners have now set up mess facilities to provide food for their staff numbering more than 100. Traders in Jew Street are staring at a loss of Rs 100 crore because of the impact of the pandemic. Jatha Bai, a building owner who depends solely on the rent for his livelihood, too has joined the cause. “When a collective decision is taken, I have to be part of it. It is a social responsibility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jew-street-traders-get-a-rent-waiver/articleshow/74937227.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||72-yr-old neighbour of deceased tests positive||Ludhiana: A 72-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. She is the next-door neighbour of the 42-year-old woman who died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Monday night. With this, the positive cases in Ludhiana district have reached three. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “On Tuesday, 43 samples were sent and one tested positive. Reports of all the relatives of the 42-year-old deceased, including sons, daughters, sister and brother-in-law and his family, show they tested negative.” As soon as the health department got to know about the positive report of the elderly woman, they admitted her to the isolation ward of civil hospital on Tuesday night. Dr Bagga said, “The patient has no travel history, but she lived adjacent to the house of the woman who died of coronavirus. We are assuming that both the women were in contact with each other, but we are still looking for the source of infection.”Her family includes her husband (79), two sons, their wives and four grandchildren. Her grandchild said, “Her arm was fractured two months ago. Since then, she never went out and communicated with any neighbour. We are worried, as she had no travel history and contact with outsiders.” So far, all the four cases reported in Ludhiana are women with no travel history. First was a 55-year-old from Gurdev Nagar who tested positive on March 24 and was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Sandeep Sharma, DMCH medical superintendent, said, “Her health is stable and we will again send her throat swab sample for testing. She is recovering.”The second patient is a 72-year-old Jalandhar woman admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital.The third patient, the 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla who was referred to Rajindra Hospital on March 30, has died. Her 72-year-old neighbour is the fourth case. Dr Ramesh, district epidemiologist, said they were checking residents of Amarpura Mohalla. The locality was sealed after the 42-year-old tested positive and police officials have been deployed there. FIGURE IT OUT Suspected cases reported till date | 148 Number of samples sent on Wednesday | 10 Number of patients tested positive till date | 4 (3 from Ludhiana and 1 from Jalandhar)Deaths reported | 1 Number of patients tested negative till date | 133 Result awaited | 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/72-yr-old-neighbour-of-deceased-tests-positive/articleshow/74937228.cms||Mehak Jain
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||PSI beats up NGO volunteer transporting dead body||Rajkot: A police sub-inspector in Rajkot was suspended on Wednesday for allegedly beating up the president of an NGO near Gondal Chowkadi on Tuesday night. Police said P L Dhama, who is posted in Malaviyanagar police station, had allegedly beaten up Praful Rajyaguru, president of Gondal-based Manav Seva Trust, when the latter was transporting a dead man’s body in an ambulance.Ambulances are exempted from prohibitory orders during the lockdown period.According to the police, a labourer from Madhya Pradesh had died a natural death in Gondal on Tuesday. His family members requested Rajyaguru to transport his body to Rajkot. Rajyaguru took the body in his NGO’s ambulance, but when he reached Gondal Chowkdi, his vehicle was stopped at the check post there. Dhama asked Rajyaguru to get down from the ambulance and allegedly hurled abuses at him. When Rajyaguru told Dhama not use foul language, Dhama and his constable allegedly beat him up with canes. Then they let Rajyaguru go with the ambulance.“After transporting the body in Vavdigam locality in Rajkot, Rajyaguru returned to Gondal and admitted himself in the civil hospital from where he lodged a complaint against an unidentified cop,” said J S Gedam, assistant commissioner of police, Rajkot. “We found that Dhama was posted at the checkpost where the alleged crime had taken place, and suspended him with immediate effect on Wednesday,” added Gedam.Meanwhile, the incident had far reaching implications in Gondal, where all the NGOs suspended their ambulance services and parked the vehicles at Gondal city police station in protest. Sources said Rajyaguru has been engaged in social services for the past 30 years in Gondal. He has been taking care of the poor patients who need to be taken to hospitals in ambulances. He also performs the last rites of the unclaimed bodies in Gondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/psi-beats-up-ngo-volunteer-transporting-dead-body/articleshow/74938520.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Fruit prices rise as lockdown hits supply in Madurai||MADURAI: As the lockdown has affected the supply of fruits to Madurai city, the residents have requested that fruits should be made accessible like vegetables and meat. Banana shops are totally absent in the main streets. “I have not ventured out for the past one week, and have not been able to buy any fruit,” said Sundaram of K K Nagar. He says that he used to have a banana a day after dinner. Many like him say that vegetables are available in the local grocery stores in almost every street, but not fruits. “Now it is difficult to get a banana for my five-year-old daughter,” said Kalaivani of Vilangudi. Madurai Fruit Vendors Association president B Suresh said that out of the 240 shops in the city, only about 10 to 20 were functioning now, and the supplies had also dipped sharply resulting in the shortage. “Guava, oranges and pomegranates, which usually come from the northern states are not coming. Only Kashmir apples are coming in air conditioned containers,” he said. The fruit market usually opens at 10pm and closes by 5am, after which retailers take the fruit out. But, now due to the restriction in timings, vendors told to close shops by 9am. He said that there had not been many retailers coming forward to sell fruit on Tuesday. What is available now is watermelon, which is coming from Vandavasi. Banana supplies have dipped. Grapes including panneer grapes and the seedless varieties are coming from the neighbouring districts. The fruit vendors had made a representation to Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev to allow enough supply of fruits to Madurai. Meanwhile, the prices of fruits have also gone up due to the poor supply. A bunch of any kind of banana is sold for not less than Rs 100. Panneer grapes touched Rs 40 in wholesale and Rs 80 at some retail shops. Seedless grapes are sold for Rs 100/kg. Mobile fruit markets would be a big boon at least in select locations, say residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fruit-prices-rise-as-lockdown-hits-supply/articleshow/74939761.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Flames engulf garment unit on Bahadur Ke Rd||Ludhiana: A major fire broke out at a garment factory on Bahadur Ke Road early on Wednesday morning.Nobody was injured in the incident as the three-storey unit, JP Knit, was closed at the time. Even as the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, firemen say short circuit may have triggered it.The security guard of an adjoining unit called up the fire department after noticing smoke billowing out of the building.“After receiving a call at 4.55am, we rushed to the spot. Long narrow and congested lanes to the unit made our job difficult. As tenders could not go till the unit, water was supplied through pipes. About 14 fire tenders were stationed at the spot and they made more than 100 rounds to control the flames,” says Aatish Rai, sub-fire officer from Sunder Nagar fire station.After controlling the blaze, the firemen spent another few hours checking the building to ensure flames would not ignite again.Fire station officer SN Sharma says, “The operation, which continued till evening, took time as there was huge stock inside the unit. The stock piles were touching the roof.”Assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh Sandhu says, “The fire had spread everywhere as the stock was kept even in stairs. The flames started at the ground floor and then spread to the upper two floors. The unit had adequate fire safety arrangements and fire extinguishers, but those could not be used. As the power supply was interrupted, we had to refill fire tenders from two nearby units.”Almost negligible traffic movement and crowds due to curfew gave fire tenders a smooth passage.Another fire was reported at a plywood factory in Guru Nanak Colony, Bhamiyan Khurd, Chandigarh Road. The minor blaze was soon brought under control.Youth Akali Dal president Gurdeep Gosha served food to the firemen, who were on the job since morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/flames-engulf-garment-unit-on-bahadur-ke-rd/articleshow/74937219.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Video not from inside Balaji temple’||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman YV Subba Reddy on Wednesday, clarified that no video was allowed to be taken inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, and underlined that the video being circulated by ‘mischief mongers’ on social media platforms belonged to Sri Venkateswara bhakti channel’s (SVBC) makeshift temple at it’s studio near Alipiri. In a press release, the TTD chairman reiterated that no camera, even if it belonged to it’s the employees, was allowed to pass beyond the ‘Dwajasthambham’ inside the Tirumala temple and that there was no question of allowing anyone to shoot a video or capture images of Lord Venkateswara inside the sanctum sanctorum. The particular video which is being circulated in the social media was shot by TTD’s SVBC at it’s makeshift temple near Alipiri. The purpose of this video was for illustrative purposes only, meant to educate the devotees on the different kinds of daily/weekly arjitha sevas held at the temple. TTD chairman appealed to the devotees to take note that this video did not contain the original images of Lord Venkateswara at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/video-not-from-inside-balaji-temple/articleshow/74938524.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Jamaat effect: Two areas in Vijayawada sealed||VIJAYAWADA: After Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Nizamuddin West in Delhi emerged as a major COVID-19 spreader, the police shut down two Covid-19 hotspots within Bhavanipuram and Old Rajarajeswaripet areas in the city on Wednesday. The police sealed some of the streets in Bhavanipuram and Old Rajajeswaripet with barricades restricted entry or exit. Officials said that majority of the people in Vijayawada who visited the Markaz are from these two Muslim-dominated areas. In Vijayawada commissionerate limits, around 35 people have attended the MarkazCops explained that as many as 57 people could have been in direct contact with these people, and people indirectly in contact with them could be even higher, taking the number to over a hundred within the commissionerate limits alone. As an extra measure, fire officials sanitised the sealed areas with sodium chloride. Other areas in the city from where people visited the Markaz are Singh Nagar, Krishnalanka, Labbipet, Sanath Nagar, One Town and Ibrahimpatnam. However, panic gripped residents of Vidyadharapuram in Bhavanipuram after news broke out that a couple who visited the Markaz died after returning to the city. Speaking to TOI, city police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao explained that deaths have been reported in both these places, which they suspect to be due to coronavirus and hence the measures were taken. “In Old RR Pet, one person died and his wife happened be COVID-19 positive. In Bhavanipuram a couple passed away. We have traced all other people who went to Delhi and quarantined them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jamaat-effect-two-areas-in-city-sealed/articleshow/74938510.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Three educational institutes located at outskirts acquired for quarantine centre||Bareilly: In a precautionary move, the district administration has acquired three educational institutes – Delhi Public School (DPS), Future Groups of institutions and Krishak Samaj Inter College – and converted them into quarantine centres. DPS is located on the outskirts of Bareilly city in Fatehganj West, while the second one is on Faridpur road, near national highway 24Besides, Krishak Samaj Inter College, located on Bareilly-Shahjahanpur border, has also been turned into a quarantine centre to to house 250-odd migrants there.According to administrative sources, since both schools are located on the outskirts of the city, suspected coronavirus patients can be lodged there before they enter the city.Additional district magistrate (city) Mahendra Kumar Singh said,“People are continuously coming from Delhi side to reach their homes in eastern UP. Now, we have decided to stop them and quarantine them at the entry point in Fatehganj West. Those who have crossed that point are being stopped at the exit point on Faridpur road.The ADM said DPS has sufficient space and basic facilities like toilets and bathrooms to accommodate close to 1,000 people. Similarly, at Future Institute, a good number of people can be lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-educational-institutes-located-at-outskirts-acquired-for-quarantine-centre/articleshow/74938513.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 2, 2020||Madurai||Fish worth crores likely to perish in harbour lockdown||KANYAKUMARI: The fishing harbour in Thengapattanam village has been shut till April 14 after two men from the Muslim-dominant village who attended the religious conference in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19. The duo tested positive on Tuesday, following which the district administration instructed the immediate isolation of the village and closure of the harbour. This has put boat owners, fishermen and traders in a spot of bother as several crores worth of fish is already on the verge of decay due to the lockdown and impact on export. “There are more than 150 deep sea fishing boats with their catch worth several lakhs each in the queue to unload their catch inside the harbour,” a fisheries official said. While the official expects around 150 to 200 more such boats to return with their catch in the next four days, those involved in the trade said that the number of boats could be much more and the loss they would incur due to decay of fish would run into several crores of rupees. Last weekend the officials and stakeholders had reached an understanding to unload fish from 20 boats per night. “We cannot finish unloading the huge stock of fish at this speed. Now that the harbour has been closed we are clueless on what to do with the stock,” said a boat owner. Following the closure the officials and stake holders tried convincing villagers of Erayumanthurai that also shares a portion of the harbour to allow unloading fish and transport it. But the villagers declined fearing Covid-19 infection as most of the trucks connecting the harbour are shuttling to Kerala, which is among the worst affected states. After several rounds of talks on Wednesday the fisheries department, police and stake holders decided to give a try to take nine boats out of the harbour per night and to unload them through a cumbersome process. Accordingly, not more than nine deep sea boats will be allowed to unload per night. Since unloading cannot be done at the harbour the boats have to be taken out to a couple of spots in neighbouring coastal villages and should be anchored about a kilometre away from the shore. The stock of fish should then be brought to the shore in smaller boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fish-worth-crores-likely-to-perish-in-harbour-lockdown/articleshow/74939765.cms||M K Ananth
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||189 shelters house 16,000 migrants across Marathwada||AURANGABAD: As many as 189 shelter homes have been set up at every important exit and entry points across the eight districts of Marathwada to accommodate migrant workers who are walking towards their homes after the 21-day lockdown was announced by the central government. According to the authorities, despite the strict surveillance and sealing of borders, futile attempts are still being made by many to pass through the district. As per the latest figures, around 16,300 people have been housed in the 189 shelter homes across the region. “People in these camps are migrant workers working in industries, farms, construction sites and other unorganised sectors. Many people hailing from Punjab had come to the Nanded-based Takht Hazuri Sahib Sachkhand and Sri Abchal Nagar for paying obeisance, but were left stranded because of the lockdown. They have been housed in the camping facility available at the gurdwara,” a district administration official said. Authorities said that schools, industries, godowns located near the entry and exit points of the district borders have been acquired and transformed into shelter homes. To ensure that the people at these facilities do not get bored, television sets have also been provided. Moreover, the authorities, with the help of local NGOs, are providing food and other facilities. Authorities have expressed serious concerns over people trying to violate the lockdown norms. Echoing similar concerns, a police officer said that on Tuesday, two trucks carrying 48 migrant workers were intercepted by the Paithan police. “The first truck was intercepted while it was coming from Shevgaon of the Ahmednagar district. An inspection revealed that 35 workers were crammed in the vehicle. They were sent for medical examination following which their hands were stamped and they have been asked to remain indoors for 14 days,” the officer said. “The second, carrying 13 people, was also intercepted by the Paithan police. All the workers were screened and stamped for home quarantine. Cases have also been registered against the vehicle owners, drivers and contractor of the workers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/189-shelters-house-16000-migrants-across-mwada/articleshow/74939221.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Before she died: Referred to four hospitals in a day||Ludhiana: Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has ordered a probe and sought report from senior medical officer, who is also in charge of the civil hospital, Dr Ravi Dutt on the treatment of the 42-year-old patient of Amarpura Mohalla who died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Monday.On Wednesday, Dr Dutt issued a notice to 11 officials who were on duty on the day she was admitted to the isolation and emergency wards of the civil hospital. In one day, she was referred to four hospitals. In a letter (a copy of which is with the TOI) to the SMO, the CMO says, “The woman was suffering from acute respiratory syndrome and she was referred from CMCH on March 29 to the civil hospital. And on the same day, doctors of the civil hospital referred her to ESIC Hospital, Ludhiana, from where she was again referred to the civil hospital. In the afternoon, the civil hospital referred her to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.”The letter, which was issued on Tuesday night, calls it sheer violation of the guidelines of the government and against the norms. There are specific guidelines by the Punjab government that Covid-19 patients be treated at civil hospitals free of cost. The CMO has sought the inquiry report from the SMO within a day and said in future such cases should be brought to the notice of the civil surgeon. Dr Dutt has sought clarification from the 11 staff members, including Dr Baldeep Singh, emergency medical officers Dr Vishaldeep Chopra and Dr Gurbinder Kaur, staff nurses of isolation ward Ranjeet Kaur and Baldeep Kaur, staff nurses of emergency ward Sapna, Palwinder Kaur, Ekam and Tejinder Kaur, male staff nurses Sunny Deepak and Johnson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/before-she-died-referred-to-four-hospitals-in-a-day/articleshow/74937233.cms||Mehak Jain
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Undertrail prisoner donates Rs 1 lakh to CM relief fund in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Probably in a first such case in the country, an undertrial prisoner in Vadodara Central Jail has donated Rs one lakh to the chief minister relief fund in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Balsinh Boria, who is lodged in the jail after being booked under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act, made the donation out of compassion for those fighting the current epidemic of coronavirus in the state. “Please stop worrying about me, and worry about those suffering from this epidemic instead,” Boria told his family members. Boria’s mother Kamla Boria handed over the cheque of Rs one lakh to the deputy collector and mamlatdar of Savarkundla in Amreli district. Boaria hails from Luvara village of Savarkundla taluka. “Apart from this donation, as per my son’s wish, we will also be distributing food packets among the poor,” said Kamla Boria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/undertrail-donates-rs-1l-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/74938544.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Drone cameras deployed to keep eye on lockdown violators||AURANGABAD: Police units across Marathwada have deployed drone cameras to keep an eye on those violating the lockdown norms. This is for the first time in the region that drone cameras are being used to keep a check on errant citizens during a lockdown. According to the police, the footage from the cameras would not only be used to identify the violators, but will also be used as an irrefutable piece of evidence in the court of law. Aurangabad rural police, led by superintendent of police Mokshada Patil, have deployed eight drone cameras in the jurisdiction. “Drones are deployed to ensure that nuisance-creating elements are watched, social distancing at weekly bazaars is supervised and mass movements are detected. It is a way of patrolling,” Patil said. Beed police have deployed seven drone cameras in their jurisdiction. “It is a way to monitor movement of people in key areas,” SP Harssh Poddar said. Aurangabad city police have deployed a couple of drone cameras and they have been specifically deployed in the areas that have reported maximum violation of lockdown in the past 10 days. Both Jalna and Nanded police have deployed one drone camera each. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya said that for the next 14 days of the lockdown the drones will continue to monitor the situation and the footage will be analysed later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drone-cameras-deployed-to-keep-eye-on-lockdown-violators/articleshow/74939229.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Devotees call up priests to do offerings||Tripunithura: As the temple doors have been temporarily shut due to lockdown, devotees are opting for online offerings through temple priests. “The temple management has been receiving many WhatsApp messages for conducting unique offerings like ‘ganapathi homam (offering to Lord Ganesha to remove hurdles from life) and ‘shani dosha parihaaram’ (a corrective measure to distance ailments and bad omen) from scores of devotees, said Satheeshan Nambuthiri of Niravathu Madham, Pangarapilly, the chief priest of Thamaramkulangara Sree Dharma Shastha temple in Tripunithura. Devadas Namboothiripad of Kalloor Mana, the family which owns Anthimahaakaala Temple near Eroor, said, “Tough routine rituals are being held even in the absence of devotees, we have been conducting special rituals like ‘mruthyunjaya homam’ for Lord Siva too as per online request from devotees.” “Mruthyunjaya homam is being done as a conventional penance to get relief from fatal diseases and also to get long and healthy life. The natural ingredients used for this unique offering make the entire atmosphere pure and free from disease-causing germs,” Nambuthiri added. Though special poojas and a ‘nivedya sadya’ in connection with the ‘meena bharani’ were cancelled in Aadampilly Kavu temple, devotees telephoned the main priest Narayanan Bhattathiripad for conducting special offerings. “As a self-defence from Covid-19 we are confined to our homes. We find it very essential to go ahead with our routine offerings at various temples, especially to overcome this extraordinary global health crisis,” said Kunjunni Raja, who has been very particular about doing a series of offerings at various temples in the name of his wife and daughter. He says as there is a war-like situation and it demands strict home quarantine, he does online payments for these offerings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devotees-call-up-priests-to-do-offerings/articleshow/74937247.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE board exams: Only 29 major exams to be conducted||NAGPUR: After a series of meetings with HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, CBSE officials have announced that the pending board exams will be conducted only for 29 major exams that are crucial for securing admissions to higher educational institutes (HEI). New board exam dates will be announced later with at least 10 days of advance notice being given to students. Acting on Pokhriyal’s advice, and in consultation with NCERT, all CBSE students (except those from Std X and XII) will be promoted to the next class without any year-end examination. As a precautionary step to stop spread of coronavirus, CBSE had postponed its board exams scheduled between March 19-31. New dates were expected to be announced by March end but by that time PM Narendra Modi announced a nation wide lockdown till April 14. Terming it as ‘extraordinary circumstances’, CBSE has declared that those studying in Std I-VIII maybe promoted to next class without any examination. For those in std Std IX and XI, the promotion has to be based on internal assessment which has been carried out throughout the academic session. For any student who is unable to clear this internal process, (in any number of subjects), the school may utilize this period for providing remedial interventions, and school may give the opportunity of appearing in school-based test/s, online or offline. The promotion of such students may be decided on the basis of such tests. Delay in results is another thing which now seems to be a reality. Not only due to its self-imposed precautionary steps but also due to the lockdown, board exam evaluation work has come to a halt. As of now the board has not decided on a specific date on beginning their evaluation work, but it is obvious that it will start only after the nationwide lockdown ends. CBSE has also made it clear that it will give teachers at least three days advance notice before restarting evaluations. The board has also introduced a new subject for Std XI from the upcoming academic session called ‘Applied Mathematics (241) as an elective subject. Students who have passed ‘Basic Math’ subject in Std X will be allowed to take the new subject. CBSE to promote all non-board exam students without exams On expected lines, CBSE has declared that it will promote all students of Std I-VIII without exams, while those in IX and XI will be promoted based on their year-round internal assessments. HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had taken the lead in pushing the decision through. Maharashtra government was way ahead of the rest as it announced a similar decision before the lockdown even started. CBSE remained quiet as technically, they control only Std IX-XII of any affiliated school. In fact, CBSE’s affiliation starts from Std IX only. Fortunately, CBSE schools in Nagpur prudently waived off exams last week itself thus ending anxiety of parents much earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-board-exams-only-29-major-exams-to-be-conducted/articleshow/74939228.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Lockdown no bed of roses for florists, farmers||JAIPUR: Heaps of roses, marigolds and jasmines are being destroyed by farmers and florists across the state. The lockdown implies that there are no takers for these flowers which are used in weddings, functions and at temples. Though the climatic conditions of the state are not conducive for production of flowers, yet they are cultivated on around 3,600 hectares of land. There are specific mandis dedicated to flowers in the state, with Jaipur being the business hub. During the peak season, 50,000kg of flowers is sold at the market in the city’s Chandi ki Taksal. Due to the lockdown, all weddings, events and festivals have either been cancelled or postponed. Since vegetables and foodgrains come in essential services, their demand is unabated, but flowers have no buyers in these trying times. Ashutosh Pareek, a farmer from Bhilwara, said his sales will be pushed back by a year due to the pandemic. “I am currently farming rose and marigold. I am harvesting 8,000 roses per day and this season, we were expecting to get Rs 6 per stem. Due to the lockdown and cancellation of events, I am facing a loss of Rs 50,000 every day. I have no option but to destroy them as there is no additional value of them. If this situation extends till September, then I will be pushed back by at least a year,” said Pareek. The situation of flower farmers and florists calls for urgent need for some form of financial support. Due to the lockdown, all the flower markets are closed and florists with stocks are forced to destroy the produce. Rahul Saini, a florist from Jaipur, said that he is facing immense financial problems due to the lockdown. “The situation is worrisome for the florists or farmers at present. However, we want some kind of assistance from the government. This lockdown has completely destroyed our business and the labourers attached to it,” said Saini. There are however some suggestions being given to at least minimize the losses. Sharad Godha, director, State Institute of Agriculture Management (SIAM) said that farmers can still utilize roses for making products like gulkand (a sweet made out of roses). “Most of the flowers are imported in the state except marigold and roses. Apart from gulkand, roses can be utilized for other industries as well, but utilizing marigold which is cultivated in large proportions of Rajasthan is a problem. Farmers can still make compost from it. They should try doing it to lower the losses,” said Godha. Farmers however said that investing in some other activity, whether for making gulkand or for compost, is a gamble at present, when all the transport services and industries are shut. They are not sure if a new investment can yield them profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-no-bed-of-roses-for-florists-farmers/articleshow/74939773.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, you will have to apply online for curfew passes||Ludhiana: With the curfew been extended to April 14, residents will now have to apply online for passes. And those who have an emergency, can call on police helplines to get passes on an urgent basis. The passes issued earlier by the administration were till March 31. With the e-pass system in place, those who are not conversant with technology or have no access to internet will face problems. Residents can apply for e-passes on http://epasscovid10.pais.net.in/. Additional deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Deepak Pareek said, “Applying for e-pass is an easy process. Five civil officers and two police officers are authorized to process it. Our endeavour is to provide services as soon as possible to assist citizens in these difficult times. But we also have to check if the demand for e-passes is genuine. We give priority to those in need.” About people who are not techno savvy or have no access to internet, the ADCP said, “The helplines will assist them through the process, but residents will have to apply online for passes.” E-passes are being issued to those who are providing essential services, health workers, factory employees, transporters, storage unit staff, shops that have licence to make home delivery, bankers and mediapersons. The passes are being issued under three categories: local, inter-district and inter-state. There are six kinds of passes: those for essential services, health workers, media, security workers, citizens and essential service maintenance. Essential services include ATM/banking, grocery, gas/fuel/oil, milk/ egg, animal fodder, movement of essential goods, delivery worker, fruits/vegetables. Health workers include doctors, nurses, support staff. The citizen pass is issued for medical emergency and emergency transit/travel. Essential service maintenance pass includes telecom, power/electricity, municipal services and sanitation workers. An applicant will have to attach his picture, soft copy of ID proof and proof of employment (if required under specific category).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-you-will-have-to-apply-online-for-curfew-passes/articleshow/74937237.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 2, 2020||India||Family deserts deaf-mute as 'corona patient'||RAIPUR: In the thick of the fight against coronavirus, a family has abandoned a deaf-mute person at AIIMS-Raipur after admitting him as a Covid-19 suspect. The address they gave is fake and the phone not in service. AIIMS staff are having to take care of him even as they battle the pandemic. The authorities are trying to locate his family with the help of police.  The man, aged around 49, was brought by his family to AIIMS-Raipur on March 29. They pressed doctors to test him for Covid-19, insisting that he had showed symptoms of the disease at home. In these times, medical authorities are duty bound to admit and test anyone suspected of having coronavirus infection. Also, he appeared to be very weak, so AIIMS-Raipur put him in isolation and tested him for the virus. The result came back negative that very day but his family members had disappeared and gone incommunicado.  "It is very unfortunate that some people have abandoned their family member here. The family is untraceable, so we have shifted the man to the general medicine ward, where he is being cared for by medical staff.  They are feeding him and assisting him in standing," AIIMS deputy director (administration) Neeresh Sharma told TOI .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/family-deserts-deaf-mute-as-corona-patient/articleshow/74940173.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
April 2, 2020||Hubballi||Tablighi Jamaat popular among rural and urban poor||Belagavi: It’s now becoming clear that many Tablighi Jamaat attendees were from North Karnataka where the sect has penetrated deep into rural pockets. In Belagavi alone, 62 people were traced, with 32 and 36 persons from Bidar and Kalaburagi respectively. The initial hunt in other parts suggest that 15 people are from Dharwad, 12 from Ballari, 8 from Koppal and 5 from Yadgir. So far, 160 people had confirmed connections with the Nizamuddin Markaz. The popularity of this community among the rural poor driven by extensive spread in Muslim majority areas is believed to be the key reason for large participation. Kalaburagi-based Asghar Chulbul, member, All India Mill Council and special invitee at All India Muslim Personal Law Board, said “Tablighi, a sub-sect of larger Sunni Islam, has a large following among economically backward or working class.” He said preachers of the communitytake their version of Islam to every household. “Preachers and their wives travel from to door to door, mosques to mosques. They carry literature about their beliefs to introduce explain nuances of the religion.” Asghar said nearly 54% of Karnataka Muslims are in North Karnataka and the majority is poor. Tablighi is a harmless community and thanks to their strong outreach, poor people in the region give their unstinted allegiance. Many people from North Karnataka attended the Delhi event. Dr Maqsood Chanda, a medical practitioner working with the district administration in the fight against Covid, said proximity to Hyderabad and Latur makes the community popular. Hyderabad-Karnataka was once ruled by the Nizam and the Tablighi Jamaat has been working here since its inception. The sect is popular community both in Hyderabad-Karnataka and Mumbai-Karnataka. Chanda said “Many people who have not undergone any formal education believe in this sect. This is also the reason for large-scale participation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tablighi-jamaat-popular-among-rural-and-urban-poor/articleshow/74938547.cms||Shreyas HS
April 2, 2020||Surat||SMC recrutes 117 medical staff, 4 MDs||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started the recruitment process for its new 142 urban health clinics in the city in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. As on Tuesday, the SMC had so far recruited 77 nurses, four MDs and 36 MBBS doctors, while the recruitment for other posts was under way. “On Tuesday, a walk-in interview was conducted for multi-purpose health workers for various health department works, and many aspiring candidates had turned up for the jobs. In fact, many candidates who had degrees in sanitation inspection, appeared for the interview,” said a senior SMC official. The SMC officials said that this expansion of public health system would help them in screening people for coronavirus at the local level. According to the officials, at present, there are 45 urban health centres in different areas of the city.The SMC had published advertisements for 142 MBBS doctors, 142 paramedical staff, 250 staff nurses, 10 physicians and 10 special anesthetists for its medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-recrutes-117-medical-staff-4-mds/articleshow/74932009.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Arrested escapee claims they had fled jail due to Covid fear||Ludhiana: Arrested inmate Suraj Kumar — who had escaped from Ludhiana Central Jail, along with three other inmates — claimed they had escaped due to fear of coronavirus. However, police are doubting his version, as two of the accused had earlier too escaped from jail.Assistant commissioner of police (East) Devinder Choudhary said, “In his statement to the police, Suraj Kumar stated they had all escaped from jail due to fear of Covid-19. However, police are doubting this to be the case, as there has been no inmate who is suspected of being afflicted with the virus so far. Moreover, new inmates are being kept apart from those already in jail.”The ACP added that the police suspect the accused had escaped as they were recently lodged in Chakki. “Moreover, they had earlier too escaped from jail,” he said. The police were also trying to trace the other accused.Suraj was arrested by the police on Monday evening from Dholewal. In the early hours of Saturday, four jail inmates had managed to escape from Ludhiana Central Jail by jumping off two walls of the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/arrested-escapee-claims-they-had-fled-jail-due-to-covid-fear/articleshow/74937241.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government working to increase import of PPE from China||HYDERABAD: The state and central government are working to increase procurement of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) from China. “Unless cargo flights and ships are permitted into India from China, we will face challenges for some time...We are working for an increase in the frequency of these flights and to destinations like Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai,” Telangana industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said on Wednesday. Ranjan, who was addressing a webinar jointly organised by FTCCI and FICCI, said that on the pharma front although the sector is a major exporter from the region, the first priority is the domestic market. “At this point I am not sure when we can allow the usual exports of pharma given the circumstances, unless there is a global emergency for our products. We have decentralised the entire operation. Respective district collectors and police officials have been authorised to make necessary assessment and give permissions for manufacturing and movement of goods and people,” Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-working-to-increase-import-of-ppe-from-china/articleshow/74939776.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Village locks itself up against coronavirus||LUDHIANA: In a bid to protect their village from the outbreak of coronavirus, a group of villagers have set up their own checkposts at the entry and exit points in Shahpur village of Payal sub-division. Barely 40km from the city, with a population of over 1,350, Shahpur has also taken a lead in taking other self-precautionary measures like awareness through public address system and sanitisation of houses. Locals said more than 30 villagers have been deployed at about half a dozen checkposts at the roads leading to the village. “There are four roads that enter our village, including Kotli-Payal, Bhatta-Payal, Kadoon-Chankoiyan, and Maksoodra roads. When we heard about the spread of coronavirus in the state, we began to put up barriers at the entry of villages on these roads,” said village sarpanch Maldeep Singh. Each barrier is being manned by two villagers, who thoroughly check the persons entering the village. “Only those who have emergency curfew passes are being allowed to cross through the barriers. All vehicles and their occupants are thoroughly checked. Those moving out of the village are also being allowed to go only if they have a genuine reason,” said another villager. Locals maintain that those deployed at the barriers are specifically being asked to look for symptoms of flu and bad throat. It’s only after they find the person fit, are they allowed entry. Also, before allowing entry, the credentials of a person are also being verified from local contacts. “Only in case of emergency are the villagers allowed to go out. As of now, there is no patient in our village, and we are trying our best that everyone in the village remains unaffected,” said another local. The villagers have also been using the public address system of two gurdwaras for making announcements twice or thrice a day, when they inform villagers as to how staying at home would help them fight against Covid-19. Narinder Singh, who — along with a few villagers — has been spearheading the drive, said that at each barrier, volunteers have been taking proper precautions, while covering their faces with masks or handkerchiefs. He added that at the barriers, provision of a sanitiser has also been made. Meanwhile, villagers are appreciating the move. “If we have to prevent entry of the virus into our village, it is necessary to take such steps. It is for the general good of the village, and we appreciate it,” said Surjeet Singh, a farmer. Villagers said apart from putting up barricades at each entry and exit points, they have got a spray of disinfectant done in the village thrice in the past over a fortnight. This is to ensure that the entire village is properly sanitised, including drains, houses, and the village common place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/village-locks-itself-up-against-coronavirus/articleshow/74937248.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Dog drags away baby from Godhra hospital||VADODARA: In a macabre incident that took place on the Godhra Civil Hospital campus early on Wednesday morning, a stray dog ran away with a baby boy, one of the twins born to Godhra woman late on Tuesday night. The incident took place at around 3.16am on Wednesday after Tara Baria of Godhra taluka of Panchmahal district delivered the twins — a boy and a girl — late on Tuesday night. The boy was the first to be delivered and both babies and their mother were kept in the labour room on the first floor of the hospital. Early in the morning the mother realised that the new born baby was missing and asked her Ramila to find out. Ramila inquired with the hospital staff but they told her that they had not taken the baby. Ramila told media persons that she had dozed off when the incident took place. However, the baby could not be located till late in the the evening amid fears that it may have been already killed. CCTV footage of the hospital showed the stray dog taking the baby in its jaws from the first floor of the hospital, while everybody claims that nobody spotted it entering or moving out of the hospital with the child in its jaws. Ramila claims that dogs ate her grandson, even as hospital officials claim that the baby is ‘officially’ missing. Civil surgeon of the hospital Dr M G Sagar said that he was informed about the incident only when he reached the hospital in the morning at around 10am. “There is gross negligence on the part of the staff present at the hospital,” he said, adding that the boy was not found despite prolonged efforts. Sagar said notices had been issued to the medical officer on duty, duty sister, midwife and security guard had been issued notices. “We will take further action based on the replies. If needed an offence will also be registered regarding the incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dog-drags-away-one-of-twin-babies-from-godhra-hospital/articleshow/74938138.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Long queues of migrants at Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border checkposts||ALWAR: Long queues of people on both sides on the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh highway in Alwar and Bharatpur anxiously wait for their turn to get screened by a team of health workers, so that they can enter into their respective states. The 21-day lockdown, announced by PM Narendra Modi, has sparked fear among the workers who despite assurances, are covering hundreds of kilometres walking. The state has set up 14 check posts in Alwar and 15 check posts in Bharatpur, covering almost all routes to Uttar Pradesh. The check posts have been jointly set up by the police and the health department and are screening migrant workers entering and exiting into their native states. “Not only are we screening people, but also counselling them on how the virus spreads and how to practise social distancing. The job is equally important to contain the spread of the virus in the lockdown period,” said Dr Rajbir Singh, who is screening workers at Bharatpur-Agra border. Every day, he sees hundreds of migrants’ movement. “The screening includes body temperature, travel history and counselling. Those who are unwell or have symptoms, will be directed to the other team,” said Singh, who is in Rarar village on the tip of the border. Singh alarms the health teams if he finds any suspected patient from those coming from the pandemic-hit Bhilwara and Jhunjhunu. He stamps them with ‘Home Quarantine’ and sends them to the district hospital for further rounds of scrutiny. The health workers have been working round the clock in 2-3 shifts with bare minimum facilities like personal protective equipment and no washrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/long-queues-of-migrants-at-raj-up-border-checkposts/articleshow/74939772.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Solar sector welcomes MERC’s new tariff order||AURANGABAD: Maharashtra Solar Sangathan, an umbrella association of over 1,000 solar system manufacturers in the state, has welcomed the latest tariff order issued by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) for rooftop solar power units. While the power regulator has exempted the rooftop units from Grid Support Charges (GSC) till the cumulative installation of 2000 MW, the association has said the decision will give a breather to the rooftop solar industry, which was said to be in uncertainty for the past six months due to alleged policy paralysis. The association, however, has raised an objection to the capping of 2,000 MW. “When the rooftop target set for the state is 4,700 MW, why the capping is kept at 2,000 MW,” asked Vipul Joisher, a senior functionary of the Maharashtra Solar Sangathan. He also objected to the acceptance of GSC by MERC on generated units of power, terming it as the violation of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003. Among other objections, Maharashtra Solar Sanghthan has questioned the rationale behind levying banking charges proposed by MERC. “We are surprised with the banking charges proposed by the commission at 7.5% on high-tension consumers and 12% on low-tension users as against banking charges of 2% on captive open access consumers,” Joisher said. Stating that it would fight the alleged injustice to the rooftop solar industry and small consumers due to the MERC tariff order, the association said that it would continue the legal battle for fair tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solar-sector-welcomes-mercs-new-tariff-order/articleshow/74939248.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||No new patient in Nagpur for second day in row||Nagpur: The city did not record any new case of Covid-19 for the second day in a row on Wednesday. All 57 samples submitted on Tuesday tested negative on Wednesday. With no new positive case, the number of high risk and low risk contacts also decreased on Wednesday. Official figures provided by the collector said 65 suspects are presently admitted in GMCH and IGGMCH isolation wards. Their samples will be tested tomorrow. Apart from Buldhana, where one new case of Covid-19 was confirmed, no other place in Vidarbha recorded any positive case on Wednesday. However, samples started coming in from all districts from Wednesday after state government provided a list of persons who had visited New Delhi and Nizamuddin for the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Divisional deputy director (health services) for Akola division Dr Riyaz Faruqui said that ten persons from Buldhana, 14 from Akola, five from Yavatmal and 20 from Amravati in his division had travelled to New Delhi and attended the Tablighi Jamaat. “Most of them have been identified and called to the quarantine facility of their respective district headquarters. Their swab samples will be collected and tested,” he said. Samples were also collected from Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia and Nagpur. Most of these samples are expected to be tested in IGGMCH lab facility on Wednesday and Thursday. As far as Nagpur is concerned, 54 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday and the reports are awaited. Village-level screening in Amravati Amravati Zilla Parishad has planned to undertake screening of all villages and towns in a 5-day exercise beginning April 2, informed ZP chief executive officer Amol Yedle. Talking to TOI, Yedle said there are 84 big towns in the district with more than 3,000 population. “Medical officers at PHCs would personally visit these towns and screen old people, disabled and others for cough, cold and fever,” he said. Auxiliary nursing staff, Asha workers and Anganvadi sevikas will screen villagers. “We want to screen each individual in the rural belt. We don’t have staff problem. About 95 to 97% staff is on duty. Around 44 absent doctors and medical staff were served notice and 39 of them responded by joining duty while we relieved two contract staffers. A departmental enquiry is on against three others,” Yedle informed. The CEO said all the 59 PHCs in the district are functional and there is a rush of patients at OPDs. Most OPDs have a hundred-plus patients every day, the CEO said. “We are keeping a close eye on people coming from other parts of the state and country, and also from abroad. We have stamped them, checked their throat swabs and put them in home quarantine. No one in the district has tested positive yet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-patient-in-nagpur-for-second-day-in-row/articleshow/74939240.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 2, 2020||Goa||Faculty of NIT Goa donate salaries, help labourers||Panaji: National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has donated a month’s salary of its faculty and staff members, amounting to Rs 2.5 lakh, to the Prime Minister’s Covid-19 relief fund. A similar amount has also been donated by the institute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in Goa, NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya told TOI. The NIT is also supporting around 40 labourers who found themselves stranded after the lockdown. The workers were constructing a compound wall at the site of NIT’s permanent campus at Cuncolim. “It is not a huge amount and we are a small institution with 70 to 80 staff members. By informing others about the contribution, we are hoping they will be encouraged to contribute as well,” Mugeraya said. He said the institute is also currently reaching out to its students’ parents and alumni to contribute to the efforts. “We have provided 15 days’ rations to the labourers at the NIT campus construction site in Cuncolim. We did not want them to leave the site due to lack of supplies and be exposed to the danger of contracting the infection, and go through other hardships,” Mugeraya said. He added that at the NIT’s temporary campus in Farmagudi, the government has accommodated some labourers from nearby areas. They have been provided with essentials by the state government. From our end, we provided them with water through tankers so their hygiene is not comprised, and they have sufficient water for bathing and drinking purposes,” said Mugeraya. He said that around 12 security guards on campus are being provided cooked food by the institute during the lockdown period so that they do not step outside the campus and compromise their health.  In the meantime, classes and instructions to research scholars of NIT Goa are being carried out over Skype during the lockdown, Mugeraya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faculty-of-nit-goa-donate-salaries-help-labourers/articleshow/74939774.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Botcha Satyarnarayana slams N Chandrababu Naidu for ‘nitpicking’||VIJAYAWADA: Botcha Satyarnarayana, minister for municipal administration and urban development, lashed out at TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu for nitpicking over lapses in lockdown implementation. He said Naidu should offer constructive suggestions at a time when everyone is engaged fighting Covid-19. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, Satyanarayana said the state government has taken all measures to tackle Covid-19. Employees of various departments, village and ward volunteers are working to track the infected and give them medical aid. The state government is making all efforts to ensure supply of essential commodities, he said. “The ration distribution is going at full swing and we are making arrangements to decentralise distribution points to avoid queues. We have made door delivery of vegetables available apart from increasing the number of mobile Rythtu Bazars to 1,500 from 950,” he said. The government is also planning to bring market intervention scheme for mango, banana and other perishable products. MGNREGA works are also being resumed so that daily wagers will not lose their livelihood, he said. The government will provide food for the homeless, stranded migrant workers and those living in private hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/botcha-slams-naidu-for-nitpicking/articleshow/74938561.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||Video pushes man to jump in front of train||Madurai: A man who had returned from Kerala after the lockdown allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in Kappalur two days ago after the residents of his area suspected him to be infected with Covid-19. Police said a video was also being circulated of a man being taken for coronavirus testing, and the administration asking the residents of his area to be cautious . Mustaffa, 35, had been working in Kerala as a coolie when Covid-19 broke out. He came to his mother's house in Madurai with his wife and two children as soon as the curfew was announced. However, some people informed the authorities that he had symptoms of the disease, following which he was reportedly taken for testing. The test result was reported to be negative. At the same time, a video of a man being taken in a small van for testing from Bibikulam, the area where Mustaffa lived, was circulated among the residents, asking them to be cautious. Two days later, railway police found the body of Mustaffa at Kappalur. When contacted, Madurai district collector T G Vinay said they were yet to confirm if the man had been taken for Covid-19 testing. They did not have the name Mustaffa in their records which they maintained for all those who were tested for the disease. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/video-pushes-man-to-jump-in-front-of-train/articleshow/74940174.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||From gardening to cooking, children are exploring fun activities at homes||NAGPUR: Children might feel scared about the thought of coronavirus at such a tender age as they are staying at home, and not able to go out can be stressful. Parents are playing a key role in infusing positive energy in their wards to keep them engaged and happy. Kids too are settling at home slowly and are making the most of their ‘summer vacations that came early’. TOI spoke to psychologists to learn how children can be kept away from anxiety and know what parents and children think about being grounded at homes. Anagha Bhave, a psychologist by profession, stressed on providing positive environment as children belonging to different age groups react differently to the lockdown at home. “It is all about the attitude of parents and how they motivate their kids in staying positive during such a situation,” she said. Talking about coping with anxiety, she said, “Staying calm is the key as if parents get panicky so will be children.” Jaya Bisen, a doting mother, is finding several mindful tricks to keep her son engaged who misses his school, parks and fun activities outdoors. “As my kid is small, he has a strong memory of going to parks and playing or visiting the school. I follow the online curriculum sent by the school on WhatsApp and do several activities and studies in the day,” she said. Chetan Samatkar, father of six-year-old Aarohi, never watches news channel in her presence as it might cause panic and negativity. “It is better not to watch news channels at home in front of the kid. Aarohi loves to draw, play indoor games and also spends quality time with us,’ he said. Aarohi loves to watch her mother cook and imitates her. Aarohi’s father shoots her videos and post it on her YouTube channel, called ‘City Frames’. “I love to draw rangoli, play with parents and love watching cartoon channels. I like to see my mother cooking, and try to imitate her. My dad shoots my videos,’ said Aarohi. Talking about lockdown and distress, psychologist Naznin Chimthanawala said, “Children develop habits fast. It is therefore important to make the most of this time in teaching them good habits. In my house, I am keeping my kids engaged in making scrap books, paintings and help me in kitchen,” she said. Anamika Singh, a teacher who has two kids at home, six and 11 years old, is exhorting them to try hand at drawing, paintings and e-learning. “The younger one drew a picture where a boy is wearing a mask on his face. It shows how much aware they are of the situation. I encourage them to explore new things at home and they are cooperating,” she said. Her son Arnav is an enthusiastic child. Talking about his daily routine, he said, “I am practising piano and chess. I also use e-learning apps to keep learning new things. I read books with my grandmother, and we are also keeping our hands clean,” he said. Priyanka Abhyankar, a classical dancer and mother of Aditya, said her kid is enjoying gardening. “He enjoys gardening a lot. Corona has taught him to keep cleanliness. They wash their hands and learn more about the virus in a positive manner,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-gardening-to-cooking-children-are-exploring-fun-activities-at-homes/articleshow/74939779.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Positive cases among Iran evacuees in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur leave officials worried||JAISALMER: Just when the Army was preparing to discharge the evacuees in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur who had completed their quarantine period, the report of 18 among them testing positive for Covid-19 has put the authorities in a fix. The Army authorities are worried as those who tested positive had mingled with other evacuees during the quarantine period. Now, all the remaining 475 evacuees in Jaisalmer are being screened again by a medical college team that came from Jodhpur. The quarantine period of all these Indians who were evacuated from Iran was going to end soon and it was planned that those who tested negative in three check-ups were to be sent home. But the latest cases have put the authorities in a quandary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/positive-cases-among-iran-evacuees-in-jaisalmer-jodhpur-leave-officials-worried/articleshow/74939802.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Prototype isolation facility built in train coach||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR), as part of its Covid-19 preparedness, has built a prototype isolation facility by modifying two cabins of a sleeper class coach. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, said that existing coaches may be converted into additional quarantine/isolation facilities if required. “The railway board has advised to utilize only non-AC sleeper class coaches for converting them to quarantine/isolation coaches,” he said. Elaborating upon the modification process, Rakesh said, “Generally, each sleeper class coach has nine cabins and a total of 72 berths. Of these, second cabin at either end has been modified as prototype isolation cabin. In these two cabins earmarked for isolation, both middle and upper berths along with side lower and side upper berths were removed.” “In both the cabins concerned, the width of the lower berth earmarked for the patient has been widened by 90mm. The ladders for upper berth have been removed,” he added. The isolation facility has a provision of mosquito wire mesh in lieu of Venetian shutters and has two stainless steel bottle holders along with dustbins. Modification has been carried out in the toilet portion of the coaches. The SCR already has quarantine/isolation beds provided at Railway Hospitals, Health Units and Training Institutes spread around 30 locations over the zone with more than 1,000 beds. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya has instructed the zone officials to prepare a plan for modification of the existing non-AC sleeper class coaches as quarantine/isolation coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prototype-isolation-facility-built-in-train-coach/articleshow/74939266.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Guest workers in Vazhakulam to be shifted to schools||Kochi: A three-layer committee will be formed to monitor various activities being carried out by local bodies and other departments towards the welfare of guest workers in Ernakulam. The committee at the district level will be headed by the collector while the mayor and chairpersons will head the committee at corporation and municipality level. The president will head the committee at panchayat level. The committee comprises elected members, health, labour and police personnel. “The committee will monitor all the activities being done for the well fare of the workers in the district. We have got an intimation from the government asking to constitute the committees,” said an official in the collectorate. The second level of the committee will be at taluk level comprising tahasildar, village officer and other officials concerned Labour department submitted a report to the collector saying guest workers at Palakattuthazham in Vazhakulam is overcrowded and they will have to be shifted to three locations identified in Perumbavoor. “As per our estimate, there are around 1,700 migrant workers at Palakattuthazham. We have started a survey to collect exact details. Some of these workers will be shifted to three schools in Perumbavoor from Thursday,” said a labour officer. The shifting of the workers will begin after police submit a report on the mode of transportation and the number of vehicles required. Motor vehicles department officials will ensure the availability of vehicles. “Though toilets are available in these schools, it is not enough to cater to the needs of 200 to 300 people. So, we will be installing 16 bio-toilets in each school and will rope in packaged drinking water companies to provide water at these schools. A total of 800 workers will be shifted and rest will remain in the colony itself,” said a revenue officer. A mobile clinic of medical practioners has also started functioning at Bengal colony in Palakattuthazham, to carry out health screening of the workers. Guest workers, who have been rendered jobless following the lockdown, will get free food kit. Each worker will get kit worth Rs 60 per day and each child will get kit worth Rs 45. The kit comprises rice, atta, dal, potato, onion, oil and vegetables. District supply office will distribute kits through local body secretaries and tahasildars in respective areas. The supply officer can submit the bill for the expenditure of kits to the tahasildar, who will use the disaster management fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guest-workers-in-vazhakulam-to-be-shifted-to-schools/articleshow/74937276.cms||T C Sreemol
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Fresh +ve youth may solve Buldhana case mystery||NAGPUR: Out of nine pending samples of close contacts of Buldhana deceased, one came positive on Wednesday. The new confirmed positive patient is a 23-year-old youth. As this youth has been asymptomatic so far, he could be the source of coronavirus infection that caused death of a 45-year-old man on Saturday. Buldhana district collector Suman Rawat Chandra confirmed that count of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana had risen to four including the deceased. “Remaining three positive cases are the close contacts of the deceased. All remaining contacts have tested negative,” the collector said. She denied any chance of local or community spread of virus. “Please do not extrapolate. Further tracing is still under way,” she said. Buldhana district administration had identified 66 high risk and low risk contacts of the deceased and admitted them to 100-bed quarantine facility in a local women’s hospital. Swab samples of 21 high risk contacts were sent for testing. Two of them tested positive on March 31 and one on April 1. All those who tested negative were allowed to go home. They will remain home quarantined for next 14 days. Deputy director of health services (DDHS) for Akola division Dr Riyaz Faruqui said more contact tracing and surveillance will be done in Buldhana to detect the source of infection. “At this moment, it’s difficult to say whether the new patient is source of infection or not. Instead, he could also be a receiver of infection from the deceased. We are working on it,” he said. Dr Faruqui informed there were ten persons in Buldhana district who had visited Tablighi Jamaat congregation at New Delhi on March 18. They are from Buldhana, Sindkhed Raja and Deulgaon Raja towns. They have been identified and will be tested for coronavirus. District civil surgeon Dr Premchand Pandit informed the health department had conducted check-ups of more than 16,000 residents of Buldhana in the last three days. “We are leaving no stone unturned to trace the source of infection. The deceased had travelled to Yavatmal a few days before. We are also investigating any connection of his visit with infection,” he said. During this visit, he had met a headmaster in Digras town of Yavatmal district. This headmaster and his family-members are already home quarantined in Digras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fresh-ve-youth-may-solve-buldhana-case-mystery/articleshow/74939286.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Foreigners to be screened for second time in Rajasthan||JAISALMER: Around 50-60 foreign tourists, who are staying in various hotels here after international flights got cancelled, will be checked and screened again. Issuing an order under National Disaster Management Act and Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, collector Namit Mehta has reserved four private hospital buildings and all dharamshalas in the city to be used as isolation and quarantine centres. Apart from this, Section 144 has been extended till April 14 in the city. The private hospitals include Maheshwari Hospital and Research Centre, New Rajasthan Hospital and Fertility Centre, Golden City Hospital and R L Memorial Hospital and Research Centre. These have 50, 30, 25 and 25 beds, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/foreigners-to-be-screened-for-2nd-time/articleshow/74939801.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Workers from Gujarat take hilly route to enter Sirohi district||JODHPUR: Hilly district Sirohi, which shares its border with neighbouring states, has been finding it difficult to check the influx of migrant workers. Avoiding the main entry posts at the border, these workers are using the hilly routes to avoid being caught at the border. Though Rajasthan-Gujrat border in Sirohi has been completely sealed since Saturday but sporadic trespassing through the hilly landscape, other than the main check posts at Abu Road and Mandar across the 175km-long border, had not been ruled out. Despite lockdown, people are still coming from Gujrat. People are finding it easier to enter Sirohi through hilly routes. District magistrate (Sirohi) Bhagwati Prasad said that the border is sealed and no vehicle is allowed to enter the district now. “Border is sealed but few people have been coming through the kaccha routes in hilly areas at few places,” said Prasad. He said that these routes somewhere lead to internal check posts where they are being screened and put up in quarantine centres for 14 days with all the amenities. It may be noted that the border had been opened on Thursday evening by the state government keeping in view to mass exodus of the migratory population from Gujrat and other districts due to the nationwide lockdown. “However, they were later closed in accordance with the directions of the Central government. Till then a large number of migrants had been allowed to cross the border,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/workers-from-guj-take-hilly-route-to-enter-sirohi-district/articleshow/74939800.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Salt manufacturers say only limited stock left||RAJKOT: The Indian Salt Manufacturers’ Association (ISMA) has asked central government to allow salt production at 50 to 75 per cent of capacity during lockdown to avoid shortage after three months. The process to produce salt takes three months, but ISMA producers currently have stock only for next one and a half months. ISMA says about 7,000 to 9,000 metric tonne salt is used in food preparation and 10,000 metric tonne is consumed by industries every month. Gujarat being the largest producer of salt in the country accounts for 80 per cent of total domestic need. ISMA president Bharat Raval said, “Considering the consumption pattern, government should allow salt manufacturing activities under strict monitoring to maintain demand and supply.” ISMA in letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers of salt producing states in the country has said, “Salt manufacturing is a seasonal activity which takes place from March to June. During this period, the annual requirement of the country for salt is met. If this chain is broken during the lockdown, salt production will be hit and there could be a shortage.” ISMA also asked for guidelines to isolate workers, but wanted salt production to be allowed as it is an essential commodity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/salt-manufacturers-say-only-limited-stock-left/articleshow/74938594.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bareilly||Doctor claims he is Covid-19 +ve, resigns||Bareilly: A doctor posted at a primary health centre in Dhaurahra tehsil of Lakhimpur Kheri district has “resigned”, citing that he has “contracted Covid-19”. Calling him a “black ship”, Lakhimpur Kheri chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Manoj Agarwal accused the doctor of “shirking from his responsibility in this hour of crisis”. “If he is infected, his samples could have been sent for test, but he didn’t ask for it,” said the CMO. “So far, one Covid-19 positive has been reported in Lakhimpur Kheri district, and the patient is being treated in Sitapur and Lucknow,” said the CMO. In his resignation letter to the CMO, Dr Neelesh Kumar Maurya, who was posted at the PHC in Ranjeetganj, stated that he had examined nearly 60 migrant labourers on March 30 without following personal safety guidelines due to limited facilities available at the centre, and thus, he developed Covid-19 symptoms. He did not want to infect anyone else, so he was quarantining himself, wrote Dr Maurya, adding that he “won’t be able to continue his services as a medical officer, hence I’m resigning from my post”. The CMO told TOI, “Dr Maurya is only trying to shirk from his responsibilities, as he knows it very well that the CMO is not a competent authority to accept resignation. He had dodged his responsibilities as a medical officer in the past as well. Ideally, he should have contacted us and we would have sent his samples for the Covid-19 test. But, he didn’t contact us and left the PHC vacant without a notice.” “We are working to prove safety kits to all medical staff deployed in the district,” added the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/doctor-claims-he-is-covid-19-ve-resigns/articleshow/74938596.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Officials inspect guest workers’ camps||Kochi: In an effort to ensure that the guest labourers living in Ernakulam district are not facing any hardships and also to avoid chances of contracting Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has initiated mitigation measures. According to authorities, arranging facilities for guest labourers who were brought by contractors and real estate firms are comparatively easier than providing the same for those who are daily wagers without a fixed employer. On Tuesday, labour department officials visited various places where guest workers’ concentration were high to ensure presence of proper facilities and preventive measures. On Monday, collector S Suhas asked the district labourer officer to submit a detailed report after conducting a survey on the guest workers’ population in the district, their living standards and health conditions. If the facilities at the existing place of accommodation is inadequate, measures should be taken to improve the facilities or to look for alternative facilities. “We have already collected details regarding guest labourers to a certain extent,” a top official in the labour department said. According to experts who did studies regarding the influx of guest labourers in the state, conducting a survey regarding the migrant population is prerequisite for improving their standards as well as streamlining issues associated with them. “A few years ago, we had conducted survey which showed that the total strength of guest labourers in the state was around 25 lakh. Now, their number must have touched around 32 lakh.,” said D Narayana, director, Gulati Institute of Finance Taxation (GIFT). There are more than 2,000 migrant labourers in Bengal colony in Perumbavoor. The number of migrant population is around 600 in places like Vathuruthy, Pallimukku and Nettoor. “Officials had inquired about the problems faced by the workers in these areas. The common problem we could identify was that they were influenced by the exodus of guest labourers from Delhi. At Bengal colony in Perumbavoor, the major issue was that they didn’t like the gravys given to them. So, we decided to provide them with their favourite cuisines. We have also deployed our officials to monitor the issues at the colony on a regular basis,” the official said. Police have also been constantly patrolling in the area to avoid any untoward situations. Labour department has arranged a call centre for providing assistance to the workers and those associated with their welfare. “We received around 500 calls on Tuesday which included MPs, MLAs and other top officials from different states. We had deployed link workers well-versed in Hindi, Bengali and Oriya to answer the calls. If a person calls up demanding food, for instance, we will ensure that he or she gets it within one hour,” another official with labour department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-inspect-guest-workers-camps/articleshow/74937300.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||24 new +ve cases, total rises to 265||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 24 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 265. At present, 237 persons are admitted to the isolation wards of different hospitals. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his daily briefing, said that of the 265 persons who have tested positive, 191 are foreign returnees while 67 are primary contacts. Twelve new cases were reported from Kasaragod, three from Ernakulam, two each from Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur and one from Palakkad. Currently, 1,64,130 persons are under observation in the state, of which 622 are in hospitals. So far, 7,965 samples have been sent for testing of which 7,256 have returned negative. The chief minister said the Kasaragod Medical College Hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital and will be operational in a day or two. Similarly, with the opening of new centres the state has increased its sample testing capacity. The lockdown in the state should not affect immunization programmes in the state, he said. “Hence the health department has taken all steps to continue with the programmes. There should not be any hindrance to such campaigns,” Vijayan said. The government has also directed Regional Cancer Centre authorities to lift the restrictions imposed in the hospital. The hospital had launched telemedicine facility to restrict the number of people coming to the hospital. However, the chief minister said treatment facilities offered should continue at hospitals like the RCC. He said the restrictions imposed as part of the lockdown will continue and the police have been asked to register cases under Epidemic Act. So far 22,238 cases have been registered and 2,529 people have been arrested in the state for violating the lockdown. Apart from this, 12,783 vehicles have been seized. The CM said the managements of all private companies have been directed to pay their employees in full even though offices are closed. There should not be any loss of pay imposed on employees. “There have been reports of some private hospitals cutting salaries of their employees. This is unacceptable,” he said. Vijayan also warned against attempts to create communal tension in society. There have been some attempts and these will not be tolerated. There will be strict action against those trying to exploit the situation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/24-new-ve-cases-total-rises-to-265/articleshow/74937303.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Panic, resentment among Muslims over Tablighi fallout||NAGPUR: Several members of Muslim community woke up to panic calls from their friends and relatives after claims that over 50 Tablighi Jamaat members from Nagpur alone attended the Delhi congregation earlier in March and they were connected to positive Covid-19 cases across the country. The development drew sharp criticism from clerics and intellectuals who slammed the city administration and governments for allegedly communalizing the issue even during the time of a crisis. As touring is an integral part of the Tablighi jamaat belief, many Muslims were even doubting members from the group with whom they came in contact in last two weeks. A general insurance consultant from Jaffar Nagar said, “A non-muslim friend called me up in the morning cautioning me to be careful in my area. Others called to ask if I mingle with Tablighis often so they could go for a test. I was clueless but later read about it.” Javed Alam Khan, from the same area, said there were deliberate attempts to malign the community. “It is wrong to say Muslims are spreading the disease. All should be treated as suspects and not belonging to a particular religion. I am not against investigation. Suspects must be traced to control the disease and those responsible must be questioned,” he said. A Mominpura resident accused the media and government of targeting Muslims and creating Hindu-Muslim rift. “Tablighis themselves informed police that so many of them were there but police asked them to stay where they were. This wasn’t handled properly,” he said. Jamiat Ulema Nagpur district former general secretary Hafiz Sohel Arthur said six had returned by train from Nizamuddin Markaz on March 11 to Nagpur. “Rest may have come to Nagpur but how can the administration link them with the congregation. Many visit the National Capital for different reasons, not necessarily everyone had gone only for the international meet,” he said. He added, “It is wrong to say 54 jamaatis came to Nagpur. The seven who had gone don’t have any problems. It is being portrayed that they travelled after Janata curfew and nationwide lockdown. Muslims are most law abiding. We shut masjids and madrassas on cops’ orders. We are praying at home only in national interest though we used to pray 5 times a day in masjids,” he said. Lawyer Mohammad Fazal blamed the mismanagement of lockdown. “It was not planned. We have such a huge population and it is difficult for people to return on such short notice. Later, apologizing to nation doesn’t sate the hunger of poor. Tablighi is a tip of iceberg. There are number of religious groups that were stranded. This means there was administrative fault. Kejriwal had said there will be action in case of administrative failure. Clerics (markaz) have copies of letters given to local authorities regarding de-congestion at Markaz. Who’s failure is it,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panic-resentment-among-muslims-over-tablighi-fallout/articleshow/74939293.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Many take advantage of assistance offered by excise||Kochi: “Sir, my husband is not an alcoholic but he drinks liquor every day even during the lockdown as he stocked bottles in advance. But his liquor stock will soon deplete now and we fear soon he may soon go and drink with his friends. If we could take him to a de-addiction centre now during the lockdown, we can stop his drinking habit forever. It is a good chance to get rid of drinking habit. Please help us to take him to a de-addiction centre.” This was a call received by an excise control room from a woman in Ernakulam. The department has launched a helpline for patients suffering from Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome (AWS) on Monday. Excise and health officials said that certain people are misusing the service. “The helpline was started to guide persons with severe AWS to nearby hospitals and stop their violent and suicidal tendencies. But some people are taking advantage of the lockdown situation and the resultant shortage of alcohol by forcing even the non-alcohol-addict members in their families to undergo de-addiction so that they will stop using alcohol,” said an excise officer. A health official working with the Vimukthi de-addiction centre in Muvattupuzha General Hospital said several people are making requests to provide medicines to help them stop the drinking habit of their beloveds. “AWS is a severe social issue now but the government’s help should not be misused,” said the official. Senior psychiatrist Dr Philp John said the people should respect the government’s measures to ease the AWS issue while they are busy fighting Covid-19. “Not all doctors are trained to treat AWS and most of the trained doctors are assigned for Covid-19 works. De-addiction is a slow process and should be done systematically that too only for patients with severe AWS. Others can be treated at home through counselling. Even the decision to allow serving alcohol to severe AWS patients after being certified by a doctor is the government’s attempt to check more people developing severe AWS issues. We don’t want our Covid-19 wards to be filled with alcoholics now,” he said. 10 ‘alcohol-addicts’ submit applications Kochi: As the government allowed giving alcohol to those suffering from severe AWS based on the certification by doctors of government hospital, the Ernakulam excise division received applications from 10 persons on Tuesday. The officers rejected seven applications as the addiction-certification was given by either private doctors or retired-government doctors. Three applications have been accepted .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/many-take-advantage-of-assistance-offered-by-excise/articleshow/74937310.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||In fitness of things: Alter diet, work out at home||NEW DELHI: There has been a drastic change in Shweta’s life in the past few days. The 31- year-old used to start her day with an hour of exercise, but that changed a week ago after the gym in her area shut down amid the novel coronavirus scare. “Since I am a programmer and we don’t get any exercise, the only time I indulge in some physical activity is in the gym. Moving online was the only option available,” said the IT professional who started an online yoga class to ensure her physical health doesn’t get compromised. The lockdown has made many rethink about how they can remain active, with meditation, breathing exercises, online training modules and altered diets showing them the way forward. TOI spoke to several experts to understand the importance of physical exercise when one is confined to their homes. “It’s important to maintain a routine movement of the body, otherwise it may affect our immunity. The lockdown is important, but if we neglect our physical health, we may become susceptible to other diseases,” said Surakshit, a yoga trainer, adding that people can opt for an hour of yoga daily. “We don’t have to exercise at a stretch. It can be done in two rounds, morning and evening,” he said. Experts also pointed out the importance of making exercise a group activity. “Since everyone is at home, it will make sense for families to undertake some training exercise together,” said Francis, a fitness trainer. It’s important not to take risks in this environment, he stressed. “I suggest that people go for low intensity workout sessions by keeping their age and medical history in mind. Light cardio exercises, including squats and pull-ups, are the easiest way to remain healthy,” he said. While several gyms and yoga trainers have started offering online classes, unverified tutorials on YouTube, Instagram and other social media platforms have also become a viable option for some. While experts say they may not cause harm, they also warn against setting unrealistic expectations. “People have a lot of time on their hands at the moment. We know people search for fitness videos and then try to replicate them. My only advice is to not get overambitious. Remember that the person performing those exercises on videos have trained for years,” said Ankit, another fitness trainer. Dietitian Ishi Khosla pointed out that it was important to figure out a balanced diet. “Since our bodies are at rest, it’s important to remember that our diets can’t be the same as before. We need to cut down on the number of meals and maybe limit them to just two,” she said. Khosla added that the lockdown has also caused mental stress, which leads to heightened cravings. “When our movements get curtailed, our appetite falls but cravings increase. We shouldn’t give in to those cravings. It’s important to restrict one’s diet without compromising on nutrition. Include immunity-boosting food like aloe vera, tulsi, coconut oil in the diet. New realities mean that we need to look at food and diet in a new way,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-fitness-of-things-alter-diet-work-out-at-home/articleshow/74939303.cms||Anam Ajmal
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Youth dies while trying to evade cops, rider flees||VIJAYAWADA: A pillion rider died on the spot after he rammed against a boom barrier on the road at Pondugala Checkpost in Dachepalli, Guntur district on Wednesday evening. According to Gurazala DSP Sri Hari, the incident happened at around 6.30 pm when two youngsters, who were coming from Telangana, tried to speed past the police checkpost. While the rider ducked under the boom barrier, the pillion rider did not have any time to react and hit his head on the barrier and suffered a fatal head injury. The police rushed him to a local government hospital but the youth passed away in the autorickshaw itself. Cops are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased, but confirmed that they are from Nalgonda district. The bike rider fled from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-dies-while-trying-to-evade-cops-rider-flees/articleshow/74938613.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Surat||De Beers cancel March roughs sales in Bostwana||Surat: Following the 21-days nation-wide lockdown and the ban on the international flight operations from India announced by the central government, the world’s largest diamond mining company has decided to cancel its rough diamond sale at Botswana. In an email communication, De Beers stated that due to the public health restrictions on the movement of people and product in Botswana, South Africa and India, which prohibit customers from travelling and prevent the shipment of goods to customers’ international operations, De Beers Group will not hold its third sight of 2020.Sources said that the third sale sight of De Beers was supposed to be held on March 30 at Botswana. This is first time that the De Beers has cancelled its rough diamond sales.According to De Beers Group, the company has allowed its clients to defer 100% of their allocations for the March sale to later in the year, and will continue to seek innovative ways to meet its clients’ rough diamond supply needs in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/de-beers-cancel-march-roughs-sales-in-bostwana/articleshow/74938618.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ajmer||Cops use force to disperse crowd in Sarwar, 6 arrested||AJMER: Six people were arrested and 35 identified when they gathered at Dargah of Khwaja Fakhruddin Chisty in Sarwar, around 60 km from Ajmer, to offer a ‘chaddar’ that came from Ajmer Dargah late on Tuesday night. When police came to know about the gathering, they used lathis to disperse the mob and also registered cases against the head of the group. In a bizarre situation, when the whole country is fighting against coronavirus and the district administration is providing food and groceries at the doorstep for social distancing, a group of khadims sought permission from the district administration for the ritual. Police granted permission to five people to carry the ‘chaddar’ to Sarwar. But on Tuesday evening, a big group from Ajmer went to Sarwar and took out a procession to offer the chaddar. When news broke out that the chaddar from Ajmer had came, hundreds of people residing in nearby areas reached the dargah to participate in the procession. Many of them jumped the wall and others came rushing from the back gate. When police came to know about the incident, Sarwar SHO Ashutosh came with police force and used batons to disperse the mob. A videography was done to identify people in mob and announcement was made on loudspeakers asking people to remain in their houses as Section 144 was in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cops-use-force-to-disperse-crowd-in-sarwar-6-arrested/articleshow/74939799.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||India to accept foreign aid for war on virus||NEW DELHI: India has relaxed its reticence about taking foreign donations and contributions as it battles a massive pandemic. Sources confirmed that the newly set up PM-CARES fund will accept foreign contributions from "individuals and organisations". Sources said, "A public charitable trust 'PM-CARES' was set up in view of several spontaneous requests from India and abroad for making generous contribution to support the government in its fight against Covid-19. In view of the interest expressed to contribute to government's efforts, as well as keeping in mind the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, contributions to the trust can be done by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad." In his interactions with Indian heads of missions overseas, Modi specifically asked them to actively solicit such contributions. This is in variance with the Modi government's stand during the 2018 Kerala floods, when India refused offers of assistance from many Gulf countries. Sources said contributions to PM-CARES Fund is transparent, though there is little clarity about whether contributions can come from governments and government entities or are restricted to private individuals and corporations. Meanwhile, MEA sources said the ministry was at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19. A Covid cell created in the ministry is headed by senior diplomat Damu Ravi, and supported by 75 officials, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-accept-foreign-aid-for-war-on-virus/articleshow/74940177.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Third in tourism revenue generation, K’taka misses out on central benefits||Bengaluru: It can’t be more ironic than this. Karnataka remains true to its ‘One State, Many Worlds’ tagline by attracting no less than 21.5 crore tourists each year — both domestic and international — and yet fails to secure central government funding for tourism schemes.In a statement tabled on March 23 by the Union ministry of tourism in Lok Sabha, minister of state (I/C) for tourism Prahlad Singh Patel said 2018 data show Karnataka having captured no less than 11.4 per cent of the tourism market share in India, after Tamil Nadu (20.8) and Uttar Pradesh (15.3).However, in the past five years, Karnataka has missed out on centrally-sponsored schemes to promote tourism. It doesn’t even feature in two major central-government tourism initiatives, Swadesh Darshan (integrated theme-based circuits) and Prashad (religious tourism).According to tourism department officials, the biggest challenge for Karnataka has been convincing the Centre of its intentions to utilise the funds to promote tourism in the state. “No less than 93 per cent of our allocation every year in the state budget goes towards payment of salaries. Our efforts at developing tourism are based either on our independent corporations like KSTDC and JLR or on the Centre’s funding. Unfortunately, Karnataka has historically failed to convince the Centre about its tourism-development programmes,” said an official.A prime example of this was the state’s initial proposal to promote the coastal tourism circuit, as part of which it had identified destinations in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. But the project implementation failed to take off. The Centre had allocated Rs 100 crore for the purpose and released Rs 18 crore.“For almost two years, the project faced a technical issue. While the DPR was prepared by a private agency hired by the previous governments, there was a huge mismatch between the project report and the ground reality. Finally, the government decided to shut it down and sought for a change in use. The Centre denied it and Karnataka lost out,” said tourism minister CT Ravi, adding that the government even sent back the released amount back to the Centre.Today, Karnataka has sent three more proposals to the Centre for developing three major tourism circuits: One surrounding Jog Falls in Shivamogga and including Chitradurga and Davanagere districts, the coastal circuit of DK, Udupi and UK and the Hampi circuit.“We are looking at the Hampi circuit as the most viable option with a complete restoration of monuments. It will include tourism events like Hampi Utsav and night tours,” said Ravi.After much persuasion, the government has finally received approval under the Prashad scheme to develop Chamundi Hills and Chamundeshwari temple.TIMES VIEWIn 2017, the Centre allocated Rs 100 crore to help Karnataka develop the coastal tourism circuit and disbursed Rs 18 crore. But nothing came of it. The government can’t blame a bad project report and shift responsibility to previous regimes because these things are meant to be handled by the bureaucracy. If a project report is of poor quality, what were the overseers of the private firm doing? It is only reasonable that the Centre looks at proposals coming from the state with a sceptical eye. Until the private agency and officials responsible for coordinating with it are pulled up, this state of affairs will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/third-in-tourism-revenue-generation-ktaka-misses-out-on-central-benefits/articleshow/74938792.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 2, 2020||Vadodara||Man booked for sharing communal post on Nizamuddin congregation||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand police on Wednesday registered a complaint against a person for spreading communal hatred on social media by sharing a provocative posts on Tabliqui Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz from where more than 100 positive cases of Coronavirus have emerged. Javed Vohra, a resident of Sojitra, has filed a complaint against one Hardik Dalwadi, for allegedly violating sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 at the time of COVID-19 pandemic. Vohra has alleged that Dalwadi shared a post on Facebook terming the congregation as an act of terrorism. Vohra alleges that the accused claims the congregation was a terrorist act by Muslims to divide the country.Dalwadi allegedly appealed “all Hindus” to boycott Muslims by not purchasing vegetables and fruits sold by Muslim vendors. The complainant has also stated that the accused’s post also says that Muslims will be spreading COVID-19 infection by spitting in Hindu localities besides urging everyone to share his post on different social media platforms. Vohra has demanded legal action against the accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-booked-for-sharing-communal-post-on-nizamuddin-congregation/articleshow/74938190.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mysuru||Nanjangud ‘Cluster’ grows; 14 pharma company employees infected, five who came in contact test +ve||Mysuru: The ‘cluster’ of Covid-19 cases with its epicentre at a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud is only growing wider, with two more employees of the firm, and three who came in contact with an infected employees of the company, testing positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. Consequently, the tally in Mysuru has jumped to 19, and the sudden spurt in cases has earned the district a place on the list of Covid-19 hotspots in India. Of the 19 infected patients reported in Mysuru district, 14 are employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, in addition to the infected patient from Bengaluru who contracted it from one of the workers. While the two employees of the pharmaceutical company are respectively 34 and 27 years old, the three others who have tested positive include the wife of the first worker who tested positive, while one is a 63-year-old man who has also been in contact with an infected employee and the last one being a Bengaluru-based 33-year-old man who was known to have been in touch with the 27-year-old employee of Jubilant Life Sciences. At the moment, a Mysuru laboratory is examining the samples of more than 100 individuals, while the number of those quarantined at home in Nanjangud alone jumped to 761 on Wednesday. Officials in the district administration said that they had identified as many as 1,458 people associated with Jubilant Life Sciences in one way or the other, and had ensured that all of them were quarantined at home. Accompanied by Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and superintendent of police CB Rishyanth, district in-charge minister V Somanna on Wednesday paid a visit to what is being referred to as ‘Ground Zero’ of the infection. Although Somanna wished to look inside the company itself, the officials advised him against it. The minister later inspected the arrangements made by the officials to tackle the medical emergency.  Mysuru district health officer Dr R Venkatesh, meanwhile, expressed confidence of containing the spread of the infection in Mysuru. He attributed Mysuru’s entry to the national hostspot list to the ‘cluster case’ in Nanjangud. “Barring Nanjangud, the situation is under control in the district,” he said. Meanwhile, the Dasoha Bhavan associated with the famous Sri Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud is now being used to cook meals for, not only the needy, but also to those households, the members of which are in quarantine. Officials in the district health department have tasked ASHA workers with the responsibility of monitoring those isolated at home, and directed their subordinates not to entrust the job to nurses. The Karnataka government has sought the assistance of the Indian Council of Medical Research to help trace the entry of the virus to Nanjangud. There is a suspicion that the virus may have entered the temple town on a parcel from China. Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha endorsed DHO Dr Venkatesh’s observations, and said that, exclusive of the Nanjangud ‘cluster case’, the district administration had successfully contained the spread of the infection. “The employees of the pharmaceutical company and those that they have been in contact with is the biggest challenge in front of us now. But we have ensured that all employees, and their primary contacts, are quarantined at home. We are hoping to contain the spread,” said Simha. Two of the infected employees of Jubilant Life Sciences had reportedly been to Dubai recently, a source said. Abhiram Sankar sought to allay fears of Covid-19 infection having reached 'community transmission' in Mysuru district, pointing out that that 19 of the positive cases reported in the district were either employees or those who had come in direct contact with those working at Jubilant Life Sciences. "In view of the rising number of positive cases in the district, we have rented rooms in hotels, ones that have attached bathrooms in Mysuru and Nanjangud to house primary contacts of the infected patients. I appeal to those who have been in direct contact with infected patients not to resist being placed in quarantine facilities," said Sankar, adding that some residents who were shifted on Tuesday evening not been very happy with moving to a quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nanjangud-cluster-grows-14-pharma-company-employees-infected-five-who-came-in-contact-test-ve/articleshow/74936887.cms||HM Aravind
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway shuts four roads in Ajni colony, locks down outsiders||NAGPUR: Central Railway closed four public roads connecting its Railway Colony, Ajni, with nearby areas. Residents lodged complaints with Ajni police who asked the Railways not to carry out any activity during lockdown. Railway Colony in Ajni on the right side when passing from Ajni Railway Overbridge to Medical square. Parvati Nagar and Bhagwan Nagar are on South-east side of Railway Colony. There are four roads linking these two areas with Railway Colony. Residents of Parvati Nagar including Shewanta Chaudhary, Kishor Jadhav, Sushil Pande, Stanley Samuel, Shawti Bardiya, Sunanda Pal, Raju Shukla, Meena Jaiswal and others on Wednesday lodged a complaint with Ajni police station. Another resident of Parvati Nagar Abhiyan Barahate, an advocate, lodged a separate complaint with the police, collector office, NMC and other ministers. “Most people are not coming out of their home due to lockdown. Taking advantage of this, Railways closed four roads. People of Parvati Nagar, Bhagwan Nagar, Jogi Nagar, Sanket Nagar, Kashi Nagar, Hawrapeth, Dwarkapuri, Rameshwari, Chandramani Nagar and Nalanda Nagar, use these roads to go towards Ajni ROB. These roads are around 100 year old. Railways dug up trenches to close the road. It also plans to construct a compound wall to close these roads permanently. They have no powers to close public roads. Also, they violated guidelines of lockdown by carrying out works. Action should be taken against officials who did this,” the complainants said. Sharad Bante, husband of corporator Vishakha, told TOI, “Railways deployed RPF at the start these roads and were stopping prohibiting people from passing. I requested Railways not to cause inconvenience to people and open all roads for public,” he said. Barahate said RPF had stopped and warned him toowhile on way to court. Ajni PI SV Khandekar said, “I have written to Railway directing them to stop all works. I warned them not to carry out any work that will create law and order situation amid lockdown. I also asked them to take up further works after holding discussion with my higher-ups after lockdown ends,” he said. A Central Railway spokesperson said, “There are barracks of RPF in Railway Colony. We have converted 25 barracks into quarantine centre especially for our staff. These roads open near these barracks. Also, there was too much public movement from the roads despite lockdown. There were complaints of anti-social elements being present, trespassing and theft from Railway Colony. Hence, we are trying to close the roads. Now we have stopped work following pressure from public,” he said. Railways have stopped construction of compound wall for blocking the roads permanently. For last three days, people are left with no options to travel long distance to reach their offices or for emergency works. They are using road towards Ajni police station, Wanjari Nagar overhead water tank or Inner Ring Road to reach Ajni Railway station and areas beyond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/c-rly-shuts-four-roads-in-ajni-colony-locks-down-outsiders/articleshow/74939150.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||60,000 migrants in Bengaluru not getting ration kits despite govt promise||BENGALURU: At least 60,000 migrants in the city have been left to fend for themselves without food, notwithstanding the government’s reiterations that it’s ensuring supply of provisions for everyone and that there’s no need to leave the city and head back home. Sources in the labour department confirmed the number and admitted they have neither the capability to mobilise supply of provisions for so many people nor the mechanism to track them. TimesViewWhile the need for social distancing can’t be underscored enough in the present scenario, asking migrants to stay put makes sense only if they have access to basic necessities. Instead of knee-jerk reactions and tall promises, the government should come up with a realistic, foolproof plan to ensure adequate provisions are supplied to the needy. The manpower crunch in the labour department needs to be addressed urgently -- other arrangements could be made -- if the government intends to feed thousands. Robbed of their incomes, daily-wage workers are among the hardest hit by the lockdown and deserve at least two square meals a day.Rakesh K, a carpenter from Bihar and working in Junnasandra in Bengaluru, said he’s been on an empty stomach for most of the past two days. Among 16 migrants holed up at the construction site where they were working, Rakesh said: “We are forced to stand for two hours at a nearby Indira Canteen to grab our meal. Only three of the 16 in our group have ration to last a day. After that where do we go?” Mithun Kumar, from Rohtak in Haryana, said, “We decided to go to Maharashtra and then travel to Bihar. But we were stopped at Nelamangala toll gate. The officials (labour department) offered us food and shelter when they stopped us. We were given ration meant to last two days and were sent back to the site.Who will give us food after two days?” An All-India Trade Union Congress worker said rationcard holders don’t have to worry as they are being provided provisions at fair-price depots, but migrants, most of whom don’t have ration cards, are the biggest sufferers. “We discussed the issue with the labour department but officials said they didn’t even have the manpower to pick up groceries,” he added. P Manivannan, secretary, labour department, said the authorities were also at fault for having expected migrants without ration cards to register with the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/60k-migrants-in-city-not-getting-ration-kits-despite-govt-promise/articleshow/74937979.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 2, 2020||Kochi||HC asks central govt to intervene in border row||Kochi: The Kerala high court on Wednesday directed the central government to intervene in the matter of allowing patients from borders districts of Kerala to go to hospitals at Mangaluru. The court rejected Karnataka government’s argument opposing the plea for allowing the ambulances to proceed to their state. A division bench of Justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P Chaly issued the order after hearing the arguments of Karnataka advocate general and Kerala’s additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan over videoconferencing. The court directed the Centre to act expeditiously, considering the fact that a few patients had died following the blockade of the roads by Karnataka. The judgment stated, “No doubt, restrictions may be imposed in times of a national emergency such as the present, but when the guidelines issued by the central government under the Disaster Management Act itself permits travel for urgent medical treatment, then the said guidelines have necessarily to be enforced by the central government through the removal of the blockades... We, therefore, direct the central government to forthwith intervene in the matter and ensure that the blockades erected by the state of Karnataka… are removed forthwith... We may re-iterate that we expect the central government to act expeditiously in this matter, taking note of the human lives that are at stake.” The meeting initiated by the central government between the Kerala and Karnataka governments in this regard did not yield any result, the court was told on Wednesday evening. At the hearing held at 6.30pm, Karnataka argued that only the SC can entertain such a plea since it is a dispute between two states. The Karnataka government intention is to protect the lives of the people of Coorg and Mangalore, the court was told. The court then asked whether a state has the right to choose one life over another under Article 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-asks-central-govt-to-intervene-in-border-row/articleshow/74937332.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Man jumps off building with son in Jaipur, boy dies||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old man jumped off a building in Pratap Nagar holding his 10-year-old son in his arms on Wednesday. The child died on the spot while the man has been admitted to the hospital in a serious condition. According to preliminary investigation, the man was suffering from depression. The deceased child, identified as Raunak Gupta, was mentally challenged. The man was identified as Ramesh. Puroshattam Mehariya, SHO, Pratap Nagar police station, said, “Ramesh along with his two children and wife had come to visit his in-laws in Pratap Nagar on Wednesday morning. Around 10am, he took his son on the terrace and both jumped off the fourth floor.” According to sources, Raunak was mentally challenged. Police have recovered a suicide note from Ramesh’s pocket in which he claimed that he was suffering from depression and did not want to trouble anyone. “The suicide note said that he could not tolerate the suffering anymore due to which he wanted to commit suicide. We are investigating the matter though the family is currently in a state of shock,” added the official. According to officials, Ramesh is undergoing treatment in the hospital and his condition is stable. Raunak’s body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-jumps-off-bldg-with-son-in-city-boy-dies/articleshow/74939798.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Law-related activities keeping city lawyers busy||NAGPUR: After the ‘forced closure’ of the high court and district court due to the coronavirus threat, lawyers are obviously feeling bored. They’re mostly spending their time reading various judgments, citations and drafting petitions at homes or in their offices. They had already relieved their support staff and juniors from coming to office till the lockdown period. Expressing concern over the fate of litigants, noted lawyers like Anand Parchure demanded that the courts should function during summer vacations in May to compensate for the one month losses from 8am to 12 noon, like it happens in Rajasthan. “There is already huge pendency. Due to this month-long forced closure, cases are mounting. I would like to appeal to our fraternity to sacrifice the vacations in the larger interest of the society and request the court administration to work in the summer vacation,” said Parchure. Some like High Court Bar Association (HCBA) president Purushottam Patil are keeping themselves busy by not only reading law books, but other books as well. “In the morning, I read general books. I hardly get the time to read them when the courts are functioning. After lunch, I read the bare acts and other law-related books. I’m also spending quality time with my family, which is otherwise not possible,” said Patil. Mughdha Chandurkar, who is counsel for the central government, is reading law books from the recently-opened digital library of attorney general KK Venugopal. “It’s a treasure house where you can find rare books from the 17th century in the digital format. I’m also reading important judgments of the supreme and high courts required for citations,” said Chandurkar. Young lawyers like Nidhi Dayani are trying to brush up old concepts and also reading the Constitution again. “This time, I’m making my own notes on the Constitution which could be used as references while pleading cases. I’m also reading case laws and landmark judgments,” she said. Box HC working with depleted strength HC registrar Anju Shende told TOI that judicial work is being done in intervals and only two benches are working — civil and criminal. “Both these benches are managed by single judges and hearing took place in intervals. The last hearing was held on Monday. The other hearings are scheduled for April 3, 8 and 15 as per the Chief Justice’s orders. Moreover, only urgent hearings like for bail are being heard,” she said. Non-judicial work is being carried out daily. The depleted staff strength is below 5%. Nagpur bench’s administrative judge, Sunil Shukre, is hearing civil matters while justice Rohit Deo is hearing criminal cases. “We’ve also asked our staff to mandatorily wear mask and wash hands with soaps and sanitisers. For those living too far, we’ve asked them not to report daily,” the registrar said FACTS & FIGURES * Benches — Civil & Criminal Judges — SB Shukre & R Deo * Next hearings — April 3, 8, 15 * Cases — Only urgent ones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/law-related-activities-keeping-city-lawyers-busy/articleshow/74939171.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru faces bread shortage as raw material supply hit||BENGALURU: Rahul P, a private company employee, lives on bread and eggs every time his wife is away. But things have become difficult for the Shantinagar resident since the lockdown as finding bread in his neighbourhood is no mean feat. “On Monday, I travelled all the way till Vasanth Nagar and finally found a loaf of bread. Even if a store has bread packets, they are either of brands that are unheard of or are non-branded, so one’s not sure if they are safe,” Rahul said. While supermarkets don’t have much stock of bread on their shelves, most neighbourhood bakers have shut shop forcing Bengalureans to look for alternatives like home delivery. Sumiran Chaudhary, an entrepreneur and resident of Lingarajapuram, said he is relying on a person who bakes a variety of breads at home and delivers it. Geeta Krishnan, founder of Fragrant Kitchen, a baked goods manufacturer in Kalyannagar, said she is selling close to 50 loaves every day. “I am getting requests from all over the city. But I have been supplying only in areas around my factory. I will continue to do this as long as my raw material lasts. I have run out of butter already. My menu is very basic at present, comprising two types of breads, burger buns and pizza bases,” she said. The bread shortage in Bengaluru is surprising, given that the city houses at least 15 branded bread manufacturers. Industry insiders say a 30% drop in production owing to lockdown-induced shortage of raw material coupled with rising demand is to blame. There is a massive disruption in supply of wheat from North India, while flour mills here are not operational, they point out. BS Bhat, a bread manufacturer, said, “I had manufactured 600 packets of bread to deliver to food vendors at IT companies last week and all of it had to be thrown away considering everything is shut. I have as 120 workers at my three manufacturing units but only 12 of them showed up. It becomes a daunting task to manufacture bread with almost no resources.” Another bread manufacturer said, “We are very low on manpower. It directly affects the manufacturing. We have close to 1,000 workers working in our units across the city but not a single one is able to make it to work.” “Fresh yeast is the main ingredient in bread. As far as I am aware, there are not more than four yeast manufacturing industries in the country. We manufacture bread in bulk and hence, can’t depend on dry yeast. When there is restriction on movement of goods, we can’t procure fresh yeast very easily,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-faces-bread-shortage-as-raw-material-supply-hit/articleshow/74938493.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Tools to fight corona reach during lockdown in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A large number of ventilators, personal protection gear and infrared thermometers — critical medical equipment urgently required by doctors and paramedics to combat the Covid-19 pandemic — arrived in the city since the lockdown began on March 23 evening. According to Kolkata airport sources, a bulk of the consignment flown in by freighters from abroad and other Indian cities had been ordered by the state health department. These included a consignment of 42 ventilators, which arrived in a cargo plane from Bangkok on March 26, and a further 581kg medical equipment from abroad in freighters over the next couple of days. The first international consignment to arrive in the city was 5,000 infrared thermometers from China. Domestic cargo flights have also carried nearly 48kg Covid kits and another consignment of monitors that weighed 31kg. In addition, 926kg medical equipment got shipped in over the past several days, ensuring a steady flow of supplies by air when most other modes of transport are disrupted. Around 300kg medical equipment and medicines have also been shipped out of Kolkata to other states in the north-east, including Tripura that has been facing an acute shortage of medicines. Health department sources confirmed the consignments of PPE comprising gloves, masks, caps and shoe covers had arrived along with ventilators required to treat severe Covid-19 patients with acute respiratory trouble. “We are sourcing more of both and they will continue to arrive too,” said an official. With demand for all critical equipment to combat Covid-19 increasing worldwide, sourcing them is proving a major challenge. America, UK, Italy and Spain are all struggling to source more ventilators and PPE as the number of infected cases and deaths in these countries continues to go up. Demand for even infrared thermometers has shot through the roof with not just hospitals but also offices, malls and other public establishments purchasing them to detect Covid-19 suspects. Keen to ensure that the vital supply line at this critical juncture is operational, the cargo team at Kolkata airport has put in place stringent measures to prevent infection. The team has been split into smaller units so that if one unit is infected, it can be replaced by another. Besides, all staff entering the cargo unit are screened daily to ensure that they do not have fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tools-to-fight-corona-reach-during-lockdown/articleshow/74939307.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Migrant workers are out of job, food and luck||NEW DELHI: Mohammad Shahnawaz, 25, a labourer in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension, chafed at the confinement in his one-room house. With little to feed his family, he wondered if he could survive the three-week lockdown. “I have been living in Delhi for a decade and never faced such a big problem,” he despaired. “We can’t go out to work so there is little that we can do to make ends meet. There are around 5,000 workless labourers here, but food is distributed for 300 people. Even when people share the dal, roti, rice and pickle, we remain hungry.” Another labour, Iliyas, disclosed that on the day he realised how bad things were, he asked his contractor for help, only to be rebuffed. “There is nobody to help us through the lockdown. Our only hope is the state government, but we may not survive long enough for its intervention to save us,” the 31-year-old said. “The food we are getting here is clear evidence that nobody cares about us.” Mohammed Zafar, 41, who came to Delhi from Katihar in Bihar, went to Anand Vihar bus terminal on two consecutive days but could not leave the city. He has a family of five and very little savings to sustain them. “Every time we hear of food being distributed, we rush to get our share. But in the past two days, I have only managed a single portion. My wife and I skipped the meal and let our children eat the half-cooked rice,” Zafar said. Anjali Bhardwaj, founding member of Satark Nagrik Sangathan, and social activist Harsh Mander have filed a petition in the Supreme Court asking the state government to give the beleaguered migrant workers minimum wages. “The Union home ministry issued guidelines saying that the employers pay the workers in full whether they were working or not. But the ground situation is not showing this,” claimed Bhardwaj Laskar Taboor, 41, originally from West Bengal, works at a factory in Shahpur Jat. His problems are not very different from those of the migrant workers in Khirki Extension. “There are least 1,000 people working in the factories in this area. Almost half are getting food, but it is not edible at all,” alleged Taboor. “When we ask our contractors for money, they turn us away.” When apprised of the workers’ views, a senior Delhi Government official said that people would be deployed at these areas specifically to make sure everyone got adequate fooding. He also assured that the quality of the food would be taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-lockdown-migrant-workers-are-out-of-job-food-and-luck/articleshow/74939315.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Cusat wins Chancellor’s Award||Kochi: Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has been conferred the fifth Chancellor’s Award (2018-19) by governor and chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan. The prestigious award carries a purse of Rs5 crore and is being won by the varsity for the second time since its inception. The state government has allocated Rs 5 crore in the budget for 2015-16 for the award. “The award is a recognition for the joint efforts of Cusat community. It will help the university in its efforts to reach its target of being among the top 10 universities in the country and better its position in international ratings,” said vice-chancellor K N Madhusoodanan. He said that a good weightage of marking for the awards goes for research work, projects and conferences. “Our young faculty have started putting in good efforts which is showing in the academic results and placements,” he said. The VC said that unlike the previous times, this year, a new criterion was put forth the universities. “We were asked to submit projects. Cusat submitted four projects, and two were short-listed for presentation,” he said. The final project — a FEMTO second laser facility, which is a joint project of several departments including physics, chemistry and polymer sciences, has been approved. According to the condition set for the award, almost a huge chunk of the funds have to go for the projects. The facility costs about Rs 3 crore. “The markings are for the quality of education and services of the university including research output, number of publications and impact factor. They also looked at the total outlay of our projects too,” said internal quality assurance cell director K Girish Kumar. He said that 100 marks was for the project proposals. This was a tough bet as Kerala University had submitted six projects and one was selected, MG University had given five and one was selected while Cusat gave four and two were selected. We were all asked to make presentations and marks were allotted on that basis,” said the VC. As part of its efforts to strengthen collaborations with foreign varsities, the university has signed MoUs with 37 foreign universities. Integrated programmes in life sciences, data science and forensic science and MSc programmes are on the anvil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-wins-chancellors-award/articleshow/74937334.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Private Covid-19 testing labs to double as fever clinics: Karnataka govt||BENGALURU: Private laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests will act as fever clinics-cum-testing centres and follow all protocols of such clinics, the state government said on Wednesday. It also pointed out that as per Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, the cost of testing samples must not exceed Rs 4,500. The labs should report to a centralised system and send preliminary as well as final test results to quarantine centres, the district surveillance officer and state surveillance unit, said the government. At present, 60 fever clinics are operational in the state. While screening and swab collection is free of cost at these clinics, ICMR has capped the Covid-19 test cost in private laboratories at Rs 4,500, including Rs 3,000 for the screening test and Rs 1,500 for the confirmatory one. Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory and Cancyte Technologies Pvt Limited are the two ICMR-approved private testing labs in Bengaluru. As per the protocol, when a person visits a fever clinic, his/her symptoms and temperature will be checked, based on which the person will be categorised in the ‘suspected’ or ‘safe’ group. Those who fall in the safe group will be sent back home with a prescription for their illness, while those in suspected group will be taken to a swab-collection centre and later to a quarantine facility in a designated vehicle stationed at all fever clinics. Those suspected to have been infected will have to remain in quarantine centres until their test result is negative. Otherwise, the patient will be sent to an isolation centre in case of mild symptoms or to a Covid-19 hospital in case of moderate/severe symptoms. Each fever clinic comprises a Covid-19 Rapid Response (CRR) team of one doctor, two nurses and a healthcare worker and will be open from 9am to 5pm on all days. Sixty urban primary health centres and 36 private hospitals have been identified for setting up fever clinics in Bengaluru. The government is working on developing an app through which appointments can be booked at the clinics. Currently, booking can be made by filling details in a Google spreadsheet available on the link https://forms.gle/54H11fCWst26i2DD9. What ICMR saysThe National Task Force recommends that the maximum cost for testing a sample not exceed Rs 4,500. This may include Rs 1,500 for a screening test for suspected cases and Rs 3,000 for confirmatory test. However, ICMR encourages free or subsidised testing given the national public health emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-covid-19-testing-labs-to-double-as-fever-clinics-govt/articleshow/74939326.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||From hallucinations to palpitations, withdrawal symptoms hit tipplers||Frustrated by the sudden lockdown and shutdown of liquor stores, a labourer from Karnataka's Tumakuru district tried to commit suicide recently. He is not the only one. In the last week, Kerala and Karnataka have witnessed nine suicides by people who were reported to be addicted to alcohol and unable to access the brew post lockdown.  As the Covid-19 pandemic takes its course in India, another silent crisis is taking shape. According to a 2019 government survey there are 16 crore Indians who drink alcohol. Dr Atul Ambekar, professor at the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC) AIIMS, said, "While the number of Indians who drink is much less than the world average, the amount of alcohol consumed by Indians is very high. So we have a very large proportion of heavy drinkers in our country." Of these he estimates that about 80% might suffer from mild to moderate withdrawal symptoms but there would be about 20% who may have a severe condition.  Unfortunately, while there may be an increase of such cases, access to medical care providers is blocked. Experts say that while treatment or management of addiction is not a complicated affair, patients may not be turning up either due to the lockdown or fear of contracting Covid if they went to a medical facility at all. They also point out that alcoholism is an already stigmatised condition and is looked at with less empathy by authorities or family. Dr Roshan Bhad from AIIMS NDDTC & psychiatry department said, "It is an unprecedented situation. We have tried to reduce the number of trips that patients need to take by extending their prescriptions by a month or so. But this is only for people who are already registered with us. We are not taking any new cases." None of the drugs used to treat addiction are available over-the-counter so visits to a medical practitioner are a must.  A psychiatrist with Delhi's IHBAS said that internationally some countries had announced weekend holidays for liquor vends so that people could buy genuine liquor instead of risking their lives with adulterated or country-made liquor. The risks were visible in Assam on Monday when one person died and eight others fell seriously ill after consuming industrial spirit as a substitute for liquor. In Kerala, the helplines have been ringing with some reporting that they were hallucinating about liquor bottles. The issue is so serious that Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued a controversial order asking doctors to issue special passes for drinkers allowing them to purchase liquor from state vends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-hallucinations-to-palpitations-withdrawal-symptoms-hit-tipplers/articleshow/74940180.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
April 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parsee Hospital too stops services as patient tests positive||MUMBAI: B D Petit Parsee General Hospital at Cumballa Hill on Wednesday joined the growing list of medical facilities—Breach Candy, Jaslok, Saifee— to suspend services after a patient, who was admitted for another ailment, tested positive for Covid-19, report Sumitra Deb Roy & Vijay V Singh. The hospital locked its main gates and put up a notice saying there will be no new admissions till April 14. Ward officials said admissions won’t be allowed till staffers who came in contact with the patient are tested. Sources said the patient was shifted to Kasturba. Major hospitals like Breach Candy, Jaslok and Saifee have already stopped their outpatient departments and new admissions over Covid-19 cases, and are only running their emergency sections, affecting quality healthcare. At Jaslok, at least six staffers have tested positive and are undergoing treatment. An expert team visited Saifee Hospital, under partial lockdown after a cardiac surgeon tested positive, on Wednesday. The surgeon’s 85-year-old father, who too was positive, had gone to the hospital a day before he succumbed to the infection. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, said the BMC team will take a call on when a hospital can reopen. “We are collecting air and water samples to see if it is safe for hospitals to function,” he said. Unlike people who have to remain under quarantine for 14 days, hospitals wouldn’t be shut for that long. “As soon as the sample reports show that there is no infection lurking, we will allow hospitals to resume services,” Kakani added. During the day, a social media message by the Parsee hospital said: “Due to unavoidable circumstances, the B D Petit Parsee General Hospital is in lockdown and will not be admitting any new case, or permitting visitors till April 15.” When TOI contacted the hospital, they refused comment and only confirmed that the attendants staying with patients in the paying wards will have to remain in the hospital for the next two weeks or self-quarantine at home. At Jaslok Hospital on Peddar Road, the number of patients had thinned a day after they suspended OPD services and new admissions. A patient admitted for bladder surgery and kidney dysfunction had tested positive for Covid-19 after spending 11-12 days in the hospital. Civic sources confirmed that six staffers were infected. In all, around 400 swabs from the hospital have been sent for testing. ‘We are open for emergency services though,” said the hospital spokesperson. At Breach Candy Hospital, too there were few about as only the emergency services are on. The cardiac surgeon from Saifee had performed a surgery here. A doctor said all technicians came positive in the first test, and are awaiting their second reports. Across the city, at least five nursing homes have stopped taking new patients after unknowingly treating Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parsee-hosp-too-stops-services-as-patient-tests-ve/articleshow/74939796.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Literary doyen fields calls from kids in lockdown||Kochi: Critic and author M K Sanoo took up a new role on Tuesday as a ‘grandfather on call’ fielding questions from young children, who are now confined to their homes without the usual summer holiday fun. Though the ‘phone-in programme’ was set to begin on Monday it did not take off since the landline went out of order. “Today I got calls from around 10 to 12 children. They were mostly in the age group of six to 12 and had curious questions on several topics,” said the nonagenarian critic, an indispensable face in the city’s literary events. “One kid wanted to know about ‘rakshasas’ and whether they were real. I told him that they are purely products of narrative imagination and meant to represent inner feelings of humans. A 14-year-old wanted to know what he should do to get into Indian Administrative Service. I told him to study well and keep the aim and attend the coaching classes,” said Sanoo. Some others approached him with doubts in the literary field. “An eighth standard student wanted to know whether one can write poetry in prose or should it be written in verse alone. Another one wanted to know what exactly is human relation,” said Sanoo. Children in the age group of six to 15 who would like to listen to some gentle wisdom can call up his landline 0484-2353433 between 10am and 11am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/literary-doyen-fields-calls-from-kids-in-lockdown/articleshow/74937379.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Factories flouting social distancing rule in Guntur and Prakasam||AMARAVATI: Taking advantage of the relaxation in lockdown norms, several seed and fertilizer mixing companies in the Rayalaseema region, and lentil mills in Guntur and Prakasam districts have resumed operations. The firms have engaged workers to step up production. But locals are worried that the move could lead to a spurt in Covid-19 cases. The Centre had relaxed lockdown norms for factories involved in the production of medicines, medical infrastructure, agriculture and allied activities. It, however, had asked state governments to take enough care to see that no plant engages full workforce and runs to full capacity. The state governments were also told to ensure that social distancing is followed at such production plants. Sources said many of the seed, fertilizer mixing plants and dal mills have resumed activity in full capacity production mode in several towns of the region. “We have received complaints about factories engaging workforce and not following social distancing rules. We will discuss the issue with the district collector and take required action,” said P Ramakrishna Reddy, deputy chief inspector of factories (Kurnool). He said they would carry out inspections in the plants with the collector’s permission as some of the plants opened after being granted special permission by the district collector. He also warned the managements of factories of severe action if they violated lockdown rules and social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/factories-flouting-social-distancing-rule/articleshow/74938677.cms||Samdani MN
April 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Eleven Tablighi attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR/JODHPUR/JAISALMER/ALWAR/AJMER: Eleven people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday. Four are from Churu district, seven from Tonk district. Police had earlier identified 538 people who may have visited the congregation. Out of them, 350 are from other states and 183 from Rajasthan. There are five Nepalese too. According to officials, all of them have been screened and the district magistrates have been asked to decide if these people need to be home isolated or quarantined in medical facilities. “It is possible that Tablighi Jamaat members from other states may have come in contact with those who attended the markaz in Nizamuddin,” DGP Bhupendra Singh said on Wednesday. However police is unable to confirm yet as to how many actually went for the congregation. ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra told TOI, “We have identified over 400 people who might have visited Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz but it cannot be said with certainty that they all visited during the time of the congregation. Many of them do not admit even if they had. It is most likely that the persons from other states who have been found in Rajasthan might have visited the markaz.” The officials claimed that all the people have been screened and instructions have been given to the district collectors/magistrates in coordination with the CHMO to carry out the medical tests as per the coronavirus protocol. The officials added that depending on the results, it will be decided if they have to be quarantined or kept in self isolation. The 538 persons who were identified were found in Jhunjhunu, Bikaner, Dausa, Alwar, Tonk, Sriganganagar, Bharatpur, Karauli, Jodhpur, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Churu and Jaipur. The cops and the district administrations are also making constant efforts to find out more such people who attended the Jamaat gathering. In six districts, the attendees have been confirmed and quarantined. In Alwar 104, in Jhunjhunu 37, in Barmer 13, in Jodhpur 40 and in Ajmer 2 attendees have been traced. In Bharatpur, 105 have been quarantined who attended the Jamaat congregation in Mumbai though officials suspect that they also went to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/eleven-tablighi-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74940869.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Boy stuck in Warangal, kin seek cops’ help||HYDERABAD: The family of a six-year-old boy who is stuck in Warangal have approached the Hyderabad police to help him return to the city. The son of Syednagar resident Akbar Khan had gone to his aunt’s house in Warangal on the weekend before the lockdown. “Sunday was the ‘janata curfew’ so we thought we will bring him back on Monday. But lockdown was announced soon after,” said an uncle of the boy. According to the family, they approached police but no permission had been given so far.When contacted, Banjara Hills ACP K Srinivasa Rao, said: “The family reached out to us. They were asked to come again after a couple of days as I was trying to get special permission for the boy. The family did not turn up. We will give permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boy-stuck-in-warangal-kin-seek-cops-help/articleshow/74939378.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guv terms border issue ‘unfortunate’||Thiruvananthapuram: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan termed Karnataka’s decision, to close the roads to the state, as unfortunate. He expressed hope that the issue would be resolved soon. "We had some problem, particularly for the people living in northern Kerala, because of the unfortunate decision taken by Karnataka government to close the connecting road. The government and the chief minister have taken up the matter with Karnataka and central governments. I have also spoken to many people and we are hopeful that the solution will be found soon,"he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guv-terms-border-issue-unfortunate/articleshow/74937375.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ajmer||Eleven Tablighi attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR/JODHPUR/JAISALMER/ALWAR/AJMER: Eleven people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday. Four are from Churu district, seven from Tonk district. Police had earlier identified 538 people who may have visited the congregation. Out of them, 350 are from other states and 183 from Rajasthan. There are five Nepalese too. According to officials, all of them have been screened and the district magistrates have been asked to decide if these people need to be home isolated or quarantined in medical facilities. “It is possible that Tablighi Jamaat members from other states may have come in contact with those who attended the markaz in Nizamuddin,” DGP Bhupendra Singh said on Wednesday. However police is unable to confirm yet as to how many actually went for the congregation. ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra told TOI, “We have identified over 400 people who might have visited Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz but it cannot be said with certainty that they all visited during the time of the congregation. Many of them do not admit even if they had. It is most likely that the persons from other states who have been found in Rajasthan might have visited the markaz.” The officials claimed that all the people have been screened and instructions have been given to the district collectors/magistrates in coordination with the CHMO to carry out the medical tests as per the coronavirus protocol. The officials added that depending on the results, it will be decided if they have to be quarantined or kept in self isolation. The 538 persons who were identified were found in Jhunjhunu, Bikaner, Dausa, Alwar, Tonk, Sriganganagar, Bharatpur, Karauli, Jodhpur, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Churu and Jaipur. The cops and the district administrations are also making constant efforts to find out more such people who attended the Jamaat gathering. In six districts, the attendees have been confirmed and quarantined. In Alwar 104, in Jhunjhunu 37, in Barmer 13, in Jodhpur 40 and in Ajmer 2 attendees have been traced. In Bharatpur, 105 have been quarantined who attended the Jamaat congregation in Mumbai though officials suspect that they also went to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/eleven-tablighi-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74940870.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Eleven Tablighi attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR/JODHPUR/JAISALMER/ALWAR/AJMER: Eleven people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday. Four are from Churu district, seven from Tonk district. Police had earlier identified 538 people who may have visited the congregation. Out of them, 350 are from other states and 183 from Rajasthan. There are five Nepalese too. According to officials, all of them have been screened and the district magistrates have been asked to decide if these people need to be home isolated or quarantined in medical facilities. “It is possible that Tablighi Jamaat members from other states may have come in contact with those who attended the markaz in Nizamuddin,” DGP Bhupendra Singh said on Wednesday. However police is unable to confirm yet as to how many actually went for the congregation. ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra told TOI, “We have identified over 400 people who might have visited Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz but it cannot be said with certainty that they all visited during the time of the congregation. Many of them do not admit even if they had. It is most likely that the persons from other states who have been found in Rajasthan might have visited the markaz.” The officials claimed that all the people have been screened and instructions have been given to the district collectors/magistrates in coordination with the CHMO to carry out the medical tests as per the coronavirus protocol. The officials added that depending on the results, it will be decided if they have to be quarantined or kept in self isolation. The 538 persons who were identified were found in Jhunjhunu, Bikaner, Dausa, Alwar, Tonk, Sriganganagar, Bharatpur, Karauli, Jodhpur, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Churu and Jaipur. The cops and the district administrations are also making constant efforts to find out more such people who attended the Jamaat gathering. In six districts, the attendees have been confirmed and quarantined. In Alwar 104, in Jhunjhunu 37, in Barmer 13, in Jodhpur 40 and in Ajmer 2 attendees have been traced. In Bharatpur, 105 have been quarantined who attended the Jamaat congregation in Mumbai though officials suspect that they also went to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eleven-tablighi-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74939805.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||12 ration shops in Delhi found shut||NEW DELHI: At least 12 out of the 37 fair price shops in Narela, Munirka, Badarpur, Sangam Vihar, Mayur Vihar, Mangolpuri and some other localities were found closed during working hours on Tuesday, Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRRAA), which went on a survey along with some cardholders, has revealed. Two shops in Narela were reportedly closed on three consecutive days since March 29, while one shop in Mahaveer Nagar was shut on two days. At four shops, the volunteers were informed that the stock had finished. In a report released on Wednesday after a three-day survey, DRRAA said as per Delhi government’s order, ration stocks for April and May were to be delivered to all shops by March 29. Food minister Imran Hussain later said April’s distribution had started on March 28. “But the lockdown has led to a shortage of labourers and logistics. The stocks will be provided before April 6,” he said. To deal with the lockdown, Delhi government last week enhanced the monthly quota of ration by one and a half times and made it free for April. About 72 lakh beneficiaries — 18 lakh families — get a fixed quota of wheat, rice and sugar from 2,000-odd fair price shops across the city. The volunteers found that 23 of the 25 open shops were distributing grains while the stock had finished at two. At a Mayur Vihar shop, it was found that on a priority ration card with six people, the shopkeeper provided 41kg ration instead of the stipulated 45kg. All shops were giving ration for free. Most shops were also following some system for social distancing, including marking spots queues, distributing coupons to groups of 50 people at a time and fixing time slots. “The proper functioning of these shops is crucial when lakhs of people are running out of food,” said DRRAA’s Anjali Bharadwaj. The minister said a fair price shop dealer of Janakpuri had been arrested for stealing ration. “Action will be taken against all those found lacking in distribution. I will request DRRAA to share the findings with us,” Hussain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-ration-shops-found-shut/articleshow/74939359.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake citizens die unattended at home||KOLKATA: Locked in and without any help, two persons were found dead at their homes—one in Salt Lake and the other at Sukantanagar—on Wednesday. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation mayor Krishna Chakraborty asked all the councillors in the township to prepare a list of the elderly and ailing people living alone in the area and to check on them every day. “It’s a scary situation with domestic helps and neighbours not being able to pay visits during the lockdown. This has rendered the elderly and the ailing completely helpless. On learning about the two deaths, I have asked all my councillors to make a list of such persons in their wards and either send their representatives or personally check on them,” Chakraborty said. On Wednesday morning, officers of Bidhannagar North police station received a call from an AD Block resident about a stench coming from a house. “On reaching the two-storey AD 322, we found a 40-year-old man, Sourav Mukherjee, lying dead on a sofa on the first floor and her sister crying beside him,” said an officer. A source said, Mukherjee had been diabetic since he was small and that the two siblings used to undergo psychological treatment. Mukherjee had suffered cerebral attack eight months ago and since then, mostly stayed at home. Neither of them was employed and they survived on the savings of their father, who was a renowned doctor. Both their parents had died in short intervals, source said. A family friend would occasionally check on them but he could not visit them for almost a month, ever since the novel coronavirus pandemic. “Eleven days ago, a neighbour informed me the man was ill and needed medical attention. We called one of their relatives in Salt Lake, who I thought, had admitted him to hospital. But now, I found out that they tried to admit him to three hospitals but later took him back home,” said local councillor Anindya Chatterjee. Cops said they had sent the body for post-mortem. At Sukantanagar, also under Bidhannagar civic body, a 70-year-old former Reserve Bank of India official, who used to live alone at his flat, was found dead in his bathroom. His body, too, had started decomposing, with cops suspecting he died at least 36 hours ago. Police said Narayan Chandra Mondal was a divorcee and lived alone, while his daughter lived abroad. His brother, who lives in Habra, last spoke to him on March 30 and could not contact him since then. The brother had asked the domestic help, who had stopped coming to work since the lockdown, to check on him. “The help came to the flat but found it locked from inside. Alerted by locals, we broke open the door to find the man lying dead in the bathroom,” said a senior Bidhannagar city police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-citizens-die-unattended-at-home/articleshow/74939366.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 2, 2020||Surat||Tech comes handy for Surat police||Surat: For per lakh population, the Diamond City has just 60 cops, probably the lowest in the country. However, the city cops are compensating for this deficiency with the help of drones and social media to ensure the effective lockdown these days. The city has 3,900 cops on duty against 5,500 sanctioned posts . The city police have registered multiple offences in the past three days pertaining to the violation of the lockdown period with the help of social media. The police received photos of people assembling at one spot on their Facebook and Twitter along with the details of the spot, following which 40 were arrested on Sunday. Police attended around 22 calls based on the photos sent from different areas on its Facebook page, in which a group of people were captured sitting at one spot or playing cards. The police control room van visited the spots and after verification, the cops registered cases. The cases were registered in Puna, Amroli, Katargam, Limbayat and Kapodra police stations. “People have been giving alerts with photos on social media about gatherings,” said Prashant Sumbe, DCP, traffic, On Tuesday, Sumbe was congratulated for effective policing by chief minister Vijay Rupani through a video call. Meanwhile, the police also registered at least 30 cases on Tuesday based on the footages of drone cameras against those found assembling at one point in the city since Sunday. Different police stations in the city started monitoring strategic locations through drone cameras. The crime branch is also keeping a watch in the city areas through three drone cameras. Teams of police officers keep on changing their locations to monitor areas through drone cameras. Plice commissioner R B Brahmbhatt is holding daily meetings with senior officers and junior police inspectors over mobile phone. “We are keeping a close watch on all parts to enforce lockdown by adopting technology. The use of technology is helping the cops in instilling fear among people about getting caught,” Brahmbhatt added. “The numbers of policemen in the city are much less than required and it cannot be filled by any other means. But with the use of technology, we can expand police’s reach,” he explained. The police registered 122 cases of violation of orders issued under public notification and detained 408 vehicles in the city on Tuesday. Police have so far registered 605 offences of violation of order issued under public notification and detained 3,310 vehicles since the lockdown was enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tech-comes-handy-for-surat-police/articleshow/74938328.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 2, 2020||Surat||116 prisoners released from LCJ||Surat: As many as 104 undertrials and 12 convicts were released from Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) in the past two days by the state’s high-power committee, following the Supreme Court’s (SC) order. The jail inmates were handed over grocery kits by NGOs while being released. The prisoners have been released on temporary bail of two months and they will have to return to the jail on the completion of the bail period. The prisoners are being released from different jails of the state following the SC’s order. The prisoners are being released in order to reduce the number of prisoners from the crowded jails. On Sunday, 80, and on the following day, 24 undertrials were released from the LCJ. After the approval from the high-power committee, 12 convicts were also released. “The decision to release the prisoners was taken by the high court as per the orders from the SC. All the prisoners are those who are of good conduct and are not habitual offenders,” said K N Prajapati, secretary, district legal service authority, Surat. “Only those prisoners are being released who have been awarded prison terms of less than seven years. The number of undertrails in the LCJ must be over 2,000, but only a few were eligible as per the criteria,” added Prajapati. At the time of their release, the prisoners were provided grocery kits to help them support their families or self when they reach homes at the time of the lockdown. “We have provided them six kg kit to cook khichdi and dal which is enough for a week. Few packets of snacks are also included in the kit,” said Dharnendra Sanghvi, founder of NGO Karuna. Umra Jain Sangh has provided financial assistance for the kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/116-prisoners-released-from-lcj/articleshow/74932224.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Time right for fresh survey of guest workers, say experts||Kochi: Migration studies experts believe the time is ripe for a fresh survey to determine the exact number of guest workers in the state, their health and social conditions, and economic activities revolving around them. They are highly mobile, and prior attempts to determine their numbers would have been open to duplication. Now, that the nationwide lockdown has left business establishments shuttered and forced them to stay indoors, better accuracy can be ensured, say experts. In 2013, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (Gift) conducted a survey which placed their numbers at 25 lakh. “We have to do another survey so as to understand changes in the data. We had projected an increase in their population and as per the survey now there will be around 32 lakh interstate workers. But, we will have to conduct another survey to analyze their total strength, socio-economic conditions, etc,” said D Narayana, director of Gift. According to experts, ward members or councillors of local bodies and officials with different government departments are visiting camps of guest workers regularly now. “This is a golden opportunity to improve their living standards. We can also conduct a survey to assess their exact numbers and other details now. Earlier, they used to move around in search of jobs. But, all of them keep indoors now,” said Dhanuraj, director of Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), an NGO. Guest workers taking air route Many guest labourers have been taking flights to their hometowns for vacation. Till recently, trains were their sole mode of transportation. “However, over the last seven to eight months, there is a trend among guest workers of flying to their homes. They book air tickets four or five months in advance. This helps them secure economy-class tickets at a cost slightly more than first-class AC tickets in trains,” said Sathyaseelan K, proprietor, A K Oasis, Edathala, near Aluva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/time-right-for-fresh-survey-of-guest-workers-say-experts/articleshow/74937431.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Udaipur||Woman patrol team raises awareness with virus helmets||UDAIPUR: In a bid to spread awareness about the severity of the coronavirus pandemic, Udaipur cops are using unique corona helmets to dissuade commuters from coming out on the streets during the nationwide lockdown. The initiative is a joint effort of Udaipur Traffic police and the lady patrol team, which was launched from Delhi Gate on Wednesday evening. The cops are driving through the streets and colonies carrying placards with slogans on coronavirus and telling people the significance of social distancing. “Lady officers are leading the drive as all the slogans have been penned by DySP Chetna Bhati, while another deputy superintendent of police, traffic, Sudha Palawat is motivating her team of 120 cops to keep moving around the city area during morning and evening hours. Around 20 cops of the lady patrol team will take out a procession wearing these corona helmets in two shifts daily,” Chetna told TOI “The red colour of the helmets indicates the gravity of the disease. Our cops have used candles and cotton to fabricate the normal helmet and make it look like coronavirus. A rally was taken through Delhi Gate, Chetak Circle, Jagdish Temple, Dhan Mandi and interior streets inside the Walled City area. The public response was overwhelming as people cheered us from their windows and balconies,” Udaipur SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi told TOI. “We take all the steps, but people still come out on the streets. Therefore, this corona helmet is one of the steps we are taking to ensure that people are aware,” Bishnoi said. Meanwhile, in Pratapgarh, cops are resorting to Gandhigiri to keep people indoors. Cops are gifting flowers and garlanding shopkeepers who are adhering to social distancing principles in their outlets while those who found commuting, too, were garlanded and advised not to roam unnecessarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/woman-patrol-team-raises-awareness-with-virus-helmets/articleshow/74939804.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Inquiry ordered into CISF human rights violation||Panaji: The central government on Wednesday informed the Goa Human Rights Commission (GHRC) that preliminary inquiry has been ordered into incidents of lathi charge by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). A complaint was filed challenging the deployment of CISF in Goa, and questioning the assault on public. The commission had taken cognisance of the matter and sought replies of the central and state governments. During the hearing on Wendesday, assistant solicitor general of India Pravin Faldessai stated that these were isolated incidents and that action is being taken against concerned officers. He submitted an order dated March 29 directing preliminary inquiry into cases of lathi charge on young boys. He also submitted an order issued by the deputy/assistant commandant of the CISF Unit, ACG, Goa Airport stating that guidelines to prevent brutality and merciless beating without verification were issued prior to the complaint filed before the commission. Commandant CISF N Mrinal said that they would take proper action against erring officers and that they would take care and caution to ensure that such incidents do not repeat. In the event that such incidents take place, appropriate strict action will be taken, he stated. After considering the reply, member of GHRC Pramod Kamat disposed the complaint. Both Faldessai representing the central government and counsel Manish Salkar stated that the state has a sovereign duty to deploy CISF and that this cannot be challenged and added that GHRC has no jurisdiction to entertain the objection. A group of activists led by activist Kashinath Shetye had filed the complaint on Monday. They produced clips and newspaper reports of the central force assaulting and violating human rights. They claimed that the deployment could lead to uncontrollable civil unrest if hungry citizens are dealt with sternly by the CISF. Alleging that the government is treating a humanitarian crisis as a law and order problem and that the use of force will cause further human rights violations, they requested for guidelines to prevent brutality and merciless beating without interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inquiry-ordered-into-cisf-human-rights-violation/articleshow/74939825.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 2, 2020||Mysuru||Rlys workshop in Mysuru to convert 120 coaches into isolation wards||R Uday Kumar | TNN Mysuru: In line with Indian Railways’ offer to convert 20,000 coaches into isolation wards for coronavirus patients, the Central Railway Workshop in Ashokapuram, Mysuru will modify 120 coaches in the next two weeks. The workshop will also produce sanitisers and masks apart from its regular periodical overhauling of rail coaches. Speaking to TOI, P Srinivasu, chief workshop manager, Central Railway Workshop, Ashokapuram, South Western Railway said: “The work to convert train coaches to isolation wards commenced on Tuesday and if everything goes as per the plan, the first few coaches will be ready by Wednesday. All the coaches which are being modified are second class sleeper coaches in good condition. Once we get sufficient resources, we hope to modify eight coaches a day and 120 coaches in 10-15 days.” The coaches will be equipped with basic facilities needed as per medical guidelines. It will feature charging points for both mobile phones and laptops. Space to accommodate the paramedics will also be ensured. Each coach will provide eight berth cabin for isolation facility. On South Western Railway, 312 coaches will be converted for isolation/quarantine wards. Hubballi Workshop will be modifying 120 coaches, Mysuru Workshop 120 coaches while Hubballi Depot, Bengaluru Depot, Yesvantpur Depot and Mysuru Depot will be converting 18 coaches each. As per isolation cabin prototype approved, the following modifications are being carried out to the coaches. The main work of Central Railway Workshop where more than 2000 employees is periodical overhauling of coaches. Apart from this for the last few years they are also fitting Bio-toilets to the existing coaches, which is another eco-friendly step taken by the Railway administration. Bio-toilets have helped in maintaining hygiene at Railway stations and inside the trains as well. What are the modifications? *Middle Berths and ladders will be removed to ensure comfort & better space *Plastic transparent air curtains for isolation also screening *Bottle holders in each cabin for holding medical equipments as well as water bottles *First cabin will be used as store/paramedic area and will have two hospital/plastic curtains transversely in the aisle to seal off the entry and exit to the entire cabin *Clamping arrangement for oxygen cylinder *Electric sockets for operating electrical equipment *Two bathrooms and two lavatory (Indian & Western), overhead shower operated through roof mounted handle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rlys-workshop-in-mysuru-to-convert-120-coaches-into-isolation-wards/articleshow/74938723.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Good Samaritan’ dupes woman of Rs 50,000||KOLKATA: An 86-year-old woman was allegedly duped of Rs 50,000 by a youth, who had posed as a good Samaritan, offering to help her during the lockdown. Anupama Kundu, who resides alone at Survey Park after her son settled abroad, had stepped out of home to buy ration on March 23 and 26. On the second day, she met the youth in the market and paid the hefty price for trusting him. The youth had helped the woman to buy essentials at the ration shop. When the woman had gone to a nearby ATM kiosk, she found the youth standing behind her and offering to help her withdraw money. “On March 26, she was under pressure to buy the groceries quickly lest the shop ran out of stocks. She accepted the youth’s proposal and ended up losing Rs 50,000,” said an officer of Survey Park police station. According to the police, the accused, on the pretext of helping Kundu, had interchanged the woman’s ATM card, which belongs to Union Bank of India, Survey Park branch, with another card of the same branch. The youth managed to note down the woman’s PIN while she was putting it in the ATM. After some time, the youth used the woman’s ATM card and withdrew the money from her account. Kundu was so shocked that it took her some time to call the police. “With the lockdown in force, she initially thought that it might get difficult to reach the police station. Seventy-two hours after the incident, she called us following the advice of her son,” said the officer. The woman did not use the ATM regularly, though she had withdrawn cash on several occasions earlier. “We have asked her to call us, if she needs any help,” added the officer. Cops said that they have developed certain leads in the case. “Some inter-state gangs use similar modus operandi to dupe people. During the lockdown these fraudsters keep a low profile. With less people on the road, we hope that CCTV footage will enable us to nab the accused. We are going around the area to ensure senior citizens that we are there to help them. They don’t need to come out of their houses during the lockdown ,” said a police officer. However, cops were surprised that the accused had interchanged the card. “Usually, once any victim hands over his or her card for swiping, the accused copies data, using a portable skimmer that can be kept hidden in their hands. In this case, the fraudster’s modus operandi was more amateurish and we suspect that some local criminal had tried to cash in on the lockdown,” said a detective department sleuth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/good-samaritan-dupes-woman-of-rs-50k/articleshow/74939387.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Pakistan Hindu migrants get help to cope with lockdown||JODHPUR: Volunteers associated with the Seemant Lok Sangathan and Universal Just Action Society (UJAS), working for the welfare and rights of the Pak Hindu migrants, have begun raising funds for providing foodgrain packets to migrant families settled in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Barmer and other districts like Jaipur, Jalore, Sirohi and Pali. Sustaining on daily-wage jobs like agriculture, stone quarries, handicraft industry, scrap dealing and masonry, these distraught migrants have been hit hard as they lost their jobs due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. Unfortunately, these migrants most of whom are not Indian citizens have not been counted in the relief announced by the state government recently for BPL category as well as the other vulnerable groups covered under social security schemes and two months’ foodgrains for the marginalized families covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA). “We have pleaded the state government to cover these migrant families under these benefits during this testing time as they are also in need of support,” said Hindu Singh Sodha, president of the Seemant Lok Sangathan. He said that over 6,000 migrant families across the state, which include both non-citizens and few citizens but not yet included under any social security scheme, who have been suffering under the lockdown and they have nowhere to go or no one to look to. “So, we have started raising funds at the rate of Rs 360 per kit per family and have been distributing it at their settlements making sure that no protocol is violated and no rules related to lockdown broken,” said Ashok Suthar, associated with UJAS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pakistan-hindu-migrants-get-help-to-cope-with-lockdown/articleshow/74939812.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Live from the living room, with one simple message||PANAJI: In times of the deadly coronavirus pandemic, musicians and artists are putting their talent to good use. While musicians are coming out with songs and innovative messages, comedians are doing their bit too in spreading safety tips. Then there are poems with Rajdeep Naik’s ‘Corona, Tu Kiteak Morona’ (Why don’t you die, Corona) touching a chord. “These days we are all stuck at home, so I thought why not use this time gainfully. I pen whatever comes to my mind. There are several lessons for all of us in these difficult times,” says Rajdeep, among Goa’s more popular theatre artist. Rajdeep’s poems have been widely circulated on social media platforms. He’s written three so far and might be tempted into another one. Among the first guys to come out with a song on coronavirus was Menino Mario. The almost six-minute song that has visuals from Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, seeks divine intervention to heal the world, and his song was followed with similar acts from Bab Avi Braganza and Polly de Curtorim. Akash Mangueshkar does an excellent act with a Sonu Nigam classic to send the message across in Konkani with his song ‘Fokana Samzunaka’ (Don’t think it’s a joke), while others like Sidhanath Buyao and Mukesh Ghatwal have made many listen to their songs in rapt attention. “Our message was to convey to people to stay safe, stay at home. We can be happy with lonnche (pickle) and pez (rice gruel) in such times. It was good people liked it. Hopefully people stay home and stay safe,” says Buyao whose song ‘Kite Zata Te Zanv’ (Whatever happens, happens) is based on a famous Konkani song by the same name. Released during the first week of the lockdown, ‘Kite Zata Te Zanv’—conceptualised by Shukla Keny – didn’t take long to go viral. The catchy song warns that the pandemic has now reached the state and cautions people against playing the fool, unless they want to run to the hospital. Writer and poet Saish Panandikar, who wrote the lyrics for the song, says he wanted to get the important message out to the people after he found many loitering about during the initial days. “We used simple language so that everyone would understand the message. Making people aware is the need of the hour and what better way to reach people than through music,” he says. Early this week, another music director and singer Mukesh Ghatwal released his song ‘Kalji Gevuya’ (Take care) reinforcing the government’s directive to be responsible and stay at home. The video featuring many citizens from across the state holding up precautionary messages from ‘Stay at Home’ to ‘Break the Covid chain’ was all put together at Ghatwal’s home studio in Old Goa, while ensuring that social distance was maintained. “It was a collective effort, yet we didn’t meet everyone who contributed to it. Everything was shot on cell-phones. Celesta, who produced and edited the video, asked people to send in videos of themselves with important messages regarding the virus. Some didn’t have chart paper at home and made the posters with whatever they could find, shot videos on their phones and sent them to us on Whatsapp,” says Ghatwal. Videos from Sanguem and other remote parts of Goa took a while to upload thanks to the poor internet connectivity, but it all came through in the end. “I hope the important message of staying at home reaches everyone. I composed the song after I saw people not taking the virus seriously. If the song saves even one person, then it is a big success for me,” says Ghatwal, lyrics for whose song were written by John Aguiar. Comedians certainly didn’t want to be left behind. At least two comic acts have gone viral. Pott Bhor Hans advocate precautions that everyone needs to take, while another group speaks how coronavirus has ensured that bromance is out of the window and the Indian act of namaste is now in vogue. With two weeks still left for the lockdown, there could be more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/live-from-the-living-room-with-one-simple-message/articleshow/74939780.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||SP poses as patient for lockdown inspection, suspends ‘careless’ SI||RUDRAPUR: To check if lockdown guidelines were being strictly implemented in Udham Singh Nagar, district’s Superintendent of Police (SP) , City, posed as a patient to conduct a random inspection on Wednesday. During the inspection, a sub inspector (SI) deputed at Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border was suspended after he was found to be careless in abiding by the advisory issued in wake of Covid-19 outbreak. SP City Devendra Peecha, who carried out the inspection, told TOI, “I travelled to the UP border pretending to be a patient with a driver in a private car. On reaching there, SI Sanjeev Kumar stopped our car and asked us the reason behind our trip during lockdown. The driver responded saying that there is a patient in the car and subsequently, SI Kumar just let our car pass by. He didn’t ask us to show any medical records or even the car documents.” The official added such dereliction of duty can’t be ignored. The incident was reported to Udham Singh Nagar’s senior superintendent of police Barinderjit Singh who ordered suspension of SI Kumar. Speaking to TOI, SSP Singh said that nobody is permitted to violate the guidelines issued by Union ministry of home affairs regarding Covid-19 pandemic. “SI Kumar displayed sheer negligence. If officers are not alert, then anyone can pass borders faking to be a patient. This may lead to chaos and disrupt law and order situation,” SSP Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sp-poses-as-patient-for-lockdown-inspection-suspends-careless-si/articleshow/74938733.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 2, 2020||Kochi||Protest plan began 2 days earlier: SIT||Kottayam: The special investigation team (SIT), formed to probe the protest organized by guest workers in Paippad on Sunday, have found that the planning for it began two days earlier. The SIT is collecting phone calls and social media details with the help of cyber cell. Besides workers, call details of local politicians are also being examined. Police have seized mobile phones of around 30 workers, and several WhatsApp groups of the workers are under police surveillance. Police on Monday had arrested two guest workers in connection with the incident. The workers Mohammed Rinju and Anwar Ali, both from West Bengal, were later released on bail. Meanwhile, S Sreejith, IG, crime branch, visited the labour camps in Paippad on Tuesday. The officer, after visiting the camps, said that the building owners are responsible for the welfare of the guest workers. He held talks with the building owners for providing food and water to the camp inmates. If the camp owners find any difficulty, they should inform the three-member committee formed to ensure the welfare of the workers, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protest-plan-began-2-days-earlier-sit/articleshow/74937469.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Bitter tales of jaggery traders at Anakapalle||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Anakapalle jaggery market, second biggest jaggery market in India, has been badly affected by the lockdown. The supply of jaggery, which had already decline, may dip even further in the current season. This comes after producers and traders getting poor returns last season due to competition from the jaggery makers in Maharashtra and other states. The Anakapalle jaggery market, which was shut down for first time for a period of one month during demonetisation in 2016, was shut down again on March 22 and it will remain closed till April 14. The traders (who procure and export the jaggery) at Anakapalle market said the supply of jaggery from the producers to the market has been decreasing for the past few years. The Anakapalle market received 20,000 tonnes of jaggery in 2016-2017, while it was 16,000 tonnes in 2017-18 and 14,000 tonnes in 2018-19 seasons. The traders expected that in the current season (2019-2020), the market may receive at least 12,000 tonnes, but the lockdown has dashed their hopes. They are worried that the market may receive less than 10,000 tonnes of jaggery. The traders expect prices of jaggery to rise during festivals as supply is low. Speaking to TOI KV Sharath Kumar, a third-generation trader in the jaggery business in Anakapalle said the lockdown has halted operations in the market. The market has so far received over 65% of the jaggery (around 7,000 tonnes) which it usually gets. “The market has been facing a number of challenges for the past few years, but this time Covid-19 has impacted the market. If the market is closed for too long, the jaggery makers will incur losses. Due to lockdown, we are unable to transport the jaggery to other states due to shortage of labour and other constraints, he added. “A couple of days before the Janata Curfew, Anakapalle jaggery market had received 9,000 jaggery lumps per day, each lump contains around 15 kgs. If the lockdown were to be extended, the jaggery makers will fail to produce quality jaggery as delay in crushing of sugarcane will lead to poor quality jaggery (black coloured jaggery) and the price of black jaggery is less, said M Satyanarayana, another trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bitter-tales-of-jaggery-traders-at-apalle/articleshow/74937471.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Salary challenge will not be mandatory, hints CM||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has indicated that the proposed salary challenge would not be mandatory, and would exclude certain sections of government employees from the initiative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that the government would exclude a section of employees from the ambit of salary challenge, when it is finalized. “We have part-time employees, casual employees etc. In the case of such employees, the government will give special consideration. Government does not intend to make them part of this,” he said. He also said that the funds raised through salary challenge would be dealt under an account exclusively for it, and that employees will not be forced to contribute their salaries. The opposition and those critical about such a decision have been demanding that it should be purely of voluntary in nature and should be handled in a separate account, and not directly through chief minister’s distress relief fund. The UDF had demanded a separate account for handling the funds received through salary challenge, when the first salary challenge was initiated by the government after the floods of 2018. “We had demanded that it should not be forced on the employees, and also said that a separate account be maintained. Also, the first salary challenge lacked transparency as the funds went to CMDRF account, from which it can be used for any other purpose and not only for flood-related activities,” Congress leader and MLA V D Satheesan said. The BJP also demanded that no mandatory salary challenge should be imposed on the employees. BJP state president K Surendran said finance minister T M Thomas Isaac is trying to fool the public by stating that the state is immensely short of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/salary-challenge-will-not-be-mandatory-hints-cm/articleshow/74937491.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Take action on people circulating fake news: Uttarakhand government||DEHRADUN: The state government has directed district magistrates and senior police officials across the state to take legal action against the people who are found spreading fake news regarding coronavirus on social media, print media, and electronic media. The directive from secretary Dilip Jawalkar has been circulated to all DMs, SSPs, and SPs. The district authorities have been told to file a case under relevant sections of IT Act and Disaster Management Act against anyone found spreading fake news on coronavirus. The official note from the government said that fake news leads to panic and creates chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/take-action-on-people-circulating-fake-news-govt/articleshow/74938744.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Goa washes its hands of food supply, outsources it to netas||Ten days after the lockdown began, chief minister Pramod Sawant’s much-touted home delivery system has turned out to be a damp squib. The state administration has virtually abdicated the task of distributing groceries and other essential goods, instead preferring to outsource it to local politicians. Thus, the common man is forced to rely on the mercy of his elected representative — MLA, councilor or panch — for his daily bread. Criticism has steadily been growing that local netas have leveraged the situation to their political advantage. Although trucks carrying groceires, vegetables and other essentials have started rolling into the state, allegations of hoarding by legislators have become too loud to ignore. Citizens and political opponents alike say that these MLAs, aided by their own aides and lackeys, use this stock to home-deliver to citizens, thus ingratiating themselves to their voters. “This is nothing but a farce. I have been hearing of home delivery of goods, but I am yet to receive anything till today,” said a resident of Taki, Curchorem. “This makes me wonder if politicians are really concerned about the welfare of the people or only about their political stock.” When TOI asked South Goa additional collector Surendra Naik if any such matter has come to the notice of the district administration, he replied in the negative. “The supply has been streamlined at many places,” he said. Initially, the state administration started the process of enrolling volunteers to deliver essentials taluka-wise. But abruptly, this system was cancelled, and locals MLAs were allowed to run the show. Since legislators usually have the financial, logistical and manpower resources at their disposal, the delivery system took off well in some places — in Bicholim and along the Calangute-Candolim belt, locals pointed out that involvement of the local politician ensured home delivery even in remote areas. However, not everyone is impressed. Principal of CES college, Cuncolim, Sanjay Dessai, expressed his indignation over the political class “messing up” the distribution system. “When you allow politicians to run a task ideally to be undertaken by the state administration, chaos and confusion is bound to follow,” he said. “Politicians can hardly see beyond politics. In the current crisis, the state administration should have engaged its entire workforce to home-deliver essentials, with BDOs, mamlatdars and deputy collectors monitoring operations. With politicians controlling operations, there is absolutely no accountability.” Even the process of issuing volunteer passes has become compromised. Residents of many places said that only those with affiliations to the ruling side or the local MLA have managed to score passes, while other non-partisan citizens have been ignored. “On March 26, I went to the collector’s office and submitted my application (along with my election card as an ID proof) to become a volunteer. I have not received any email till now,” said fitness instructor and activist Cecille Rodrigues. In Mapusa, Pravin Asolkar too faced a similar situation. “There is a lot of politics going on in appointing volunteers, as our applications have been rejected. This clearly shows that there is a lot of politics involved,” he said. Locals alleged that ruling MLAs in North Goa cornered supplies while insisting that supermarkets remain shut in the name of social distancing. “The MLA is preventing grains and atta from coming in probably because they are selling those in packages of Rs 500, which is clearly overpriced,” said a shopkeeper in Aldona. “The local MLA is coming across as a hero since he is the only one supplying food.” In the capital city, after four days of food shortage and several iterations of delivery mechanisms, BJP MLA Atanasio Monserrate put out a social media post saying that due to demand, the prices of basic essential commodities have gone up. There were murmurs of discontent, but with such monopoly, citizens are left with no option but to comply. “Will the chief minister tell us how and from where the MLAs are getting their stock when the entire state is under lockdown, borders are sealed and nothing is available in shops?” asked Pratibha Borkar. “Is this the reason you shut shops selling essential commodities till yesterday? Is the BJP hoarding stock for political reasons?” Activists have demanded that the chief secretary and district magistrates investigate allegations of hoarding of essential supplies in the state. What has added to the resentment is the high rates at which vegetables are being sold. “I purchased just four items — onions, potatoes, carrots and capsicum — for Rs 260, and a dozen eggs for Rs 105. Is it justified to charge extra during this time of crisis?” asked Parra resident Benedict D’Souza. Sources also pointed out that with essentials being supplied to people in combo packs at market rates, the poor, who subsist on daily earnings, are left out of the equation. “A package consisting of 4-5 items of groceries, sugar and oil is offered for Rs 600. With the current lockdown situation, and with many people left jobless, how can one expect the poor to cough up this amount to buy essentials? The government seems to have hardly given a thought to this underprivileged class,” said Edward Fernandes from Borda, Margao. But one Curchorem resident cut straight to the chase: “When these MLAs can ensure door-to-door supply of commodities for free during festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali and Christmas — when actually nobody asks for it — why can’t they do it now during this hour of crisis?” he asked. “Some things shouldn’t be seen through the narrow prism of politics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-state-abdicates-role-local-netas-move-in-for-the-kill/articleshow/74939785.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||At Pothencode, containment & community testing are key||Thiruvananthapuram: The health team and district administration are executing regional containment strategy coupled with community testing at Pothencode, which is similar to what an Italian town did to reduce cases substantially within a brief time period. The district administration has formed five teams to collect samples from the community in the areas put under quarantine at Pothencode using mobile labs mainly to flush out ‘submerged’ infections ; positive cases which may not show any signs. Usually epidemiological team go for TTT method; trace, test and treat once a case gets confirmed. Here the methodology has to be tweaked a bit because source remains unknown. Now testing and treating strategy holds the key in cutting down a spike in cases. The strategy of putting a region under quarantine and going for community testing yielded great results in the Italian town of Vo where the first Covid death occurred in the country. Testing was done for every inhabitant in that town including asymptomatic people as part of a study by University of Padua. According to a report published by The Guardian, the study meant to identify natural history of the virus, transmission dynamics and categories at risk. The inhabitants were tested twice and silent infections were traced out and they were isolated. The study was done based on the principle that all citizens have to be tested irrespective of them having symptoms and it provided a crucial way of controlling the spread of the disease. The health team is pinning hopes on having the same result at Pothencode where 18 wards and neighbouring wards of around 10 local bodies have been put under quarantine for three weeks with special stress given on first two weeks. The Italian town was also put under quarantine for two weeks and testing was completed for the inhabitants facilitating isolation of the infected and preventing further transmission. The health team opted mobile labs to avoid any kind of exposure of asymptomatic persons within the community to hospital institutions. Even the choice of having community health centres was ignored to eliminate all possible chances of exposure. Community screening using mobile labs is being executed firstly in areas where infected persons resided and moved around mostly. Gradually the screening will be extended to other areas and the nationwide lockdown as well as regional quarantine provide the perfect platform for executing the strategy. Persons are picked from homes, taken to labs for collecting swabs and then asked to return. Those with symptoms are directed to isolation ward. The team had to go for this strategy based on a realization that those with foreign travel history alone shouldn’t be screened. Even if someone among them had been infected, the incubation period could be long over and chances are slim of detecting infection. Broadening the screening could pluck out undetected infections within the community which could expose a larger section to infection especially putting aged people and immunosuppressed persons at high risk of fatality. The teams are expected to complete first round of sample collection in three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/at-pothencode-containment-community-testing-are-key/articleshow/74937476.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pothencode: Essential items to be delivered at homes soon||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration is trying everything under their authority to ensure that the residents of Pothencode panchayat adhere to the home quarantine announced in the entire panchayat following the death of one of the residents, Abdul Azeez, owing to Covid-19 a day ago. Top revenue department officials met in this regard on Wednesday and made arrangements to deliver essential commodities at the doorstep of every resident. The service of Kudumbashree workers will be utilized in this regard. Not even a single shop was open in Pothencode panchayat on Wednesday. However, the authorities concerned said that they might allow some relaxations till the system to deliver essential commodities starts functioning. It has been decided that ration shops may function from Thursday onwards, but, their work hours will be restricted. At present, it has been decided that ration shops will function from 9am to 2pm and shops selling essential commodities and medical supplies will function from 7am to 12 noon. Having said so, this plan would be completely scrapped if the door delivery system comes in place from Thursday onwards. On Wednesday, the police took out a route march in the panchayat as part of enforcing the home quarantine. During the march, they kept urging the residents to remain indoors through public address (PA) system. Rural SP B Ashok said that additional men would be deployed in the panchayat to enforce the home quarantine. Four teams of patrolling squads will be patrolling all the roads in the panchayat round the clock. District collector K Gopalakrishnan on Wednesday said that a Tahsildar has been assigned to coordinate the supply of essential commodities in the panchayat. For receiving ration, residents can contact the authorities concerned at 0471-2730421, 9188527551 and 8281573442. Residents can also dial 1077, the toll-free helpline number of district administration for clearing any kind of doubts related to Covid-19 and the 21-day home quarantine announced in the panchayat. It was on Tuesday, Abdul Azeez (68) who was under treatment for Covid-19 died. Soon, the administration announced a 21-day home quarantine for the entire panchayat as the health officials could not find the source of his infection. They could not prepare a proper route map of Abdul Azeez too prior to his death. Hence, the administration went for the extreme step of enforcing home quarantine for the entire panchayat which has a population of around 40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pothencode-essential-items-to-be-delivered-at-homes-soon/articleshow/74937497.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||200 moved to government shelter from gurdwara in Delhi's Majnu Ka Tila||NEW DELHI: The district administration and Delhi Police on Wednesday rescued around 200 people from Punjab from Gurudwara Majnu Ka Tila in north Delhi and relocated them to a government shelter nearby. According to officials, these officials had been staying at the gurdwara for the last 4 days. Though, they were given food and a doctor was also regularly attending to them, an official said they were required to be shifted to a government facility. According to Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, 205 people were staying at the gurdwara since March 27. “These people were poor workers from NCR towns who wanted to go back to their hometowns in Punjab. Since the buses for Punjab originate from Majnu Ka Tila, they had somehow managed to reach here. When they didn’t find any bus, they were forced to stay at the gurdwara,” Sirsa said. He added that both Delhi and Punjab governments were immediately informed. It was, however, only on Wednesday that an official of Punjab government contacted him, said Sirsa. Meanwhile, Delhi government and police shifted the stranded people to a shelter set up in a government school in north Delhi’s Nehru Vihar and quarantined them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-moved-to-govt-shelter-from-gurdwara/articleshow/74939415.cms||Atul Mathur
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||DMC re-starts sanitation drive in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has re-started its special drive of sanitising the city from Wednesday. The municipal corporation will be covering all 100 wards of the city during the drive. On Wednesday, several localities were covered, including Niranjanpur, Ajabpur, Nehrugram, Banjarawala, Defence Colony, Raipur, Mohkampur, Rajiv Nagar, Harrawala, and Nathuawala. The other remaining localities will be covered in the coming days. During the 7.5-hour-long drive, more than 1.3 lakh litres of disinfectant was sprayed with the help of 40 sprayer machines, officials said. Also, 25 tankers and 20 motor machines were used in the process. DMC commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said, “We will ensure every ward of the city is covered. We appeal to residents to follow the norms of the lockdown and stay in their respective homes. Also, everyone should follow the directives of the central and state government sent from time to time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-re-starts-sanitation-drive-in-city/articleshow/74938757.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 2, 2020||Surat||Fire dept makes two sanitization cabins for Surat hospitals||Surat: In order to combat spread of COVID-19, Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department has made two sanitization cabins. Basant Pareek, chief fire officer (CFO), told TOI, “We have made two sanitization cabins equipped with disinfectant sprayers. The cabins will be placed at the main entry points of SMC-run SMIMER hospital and New Civil Hospital (NCH).”Pareek said the person passing through the sanitization cabins will be sprayed with water mist consisting of sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting the body. Pareek added, “We have made sanitization cabins for public use at the hospitals. Visitors, including patients, at NCH and SMIMER hospital will be required to pass through the sanitization cabins. If anyone having symptoms of the virus enters the cabins, he/she will get disinfected and that the chances of spreading the virus become less.” According to the chief fire officer, the cost incurred in making the sanitization cabins was Rs15,000 and that the civic body is planning to make more such cabins for important locations across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-dept-makes-two-sanitization-cabins-for-surat-hospitals/articleshow/74938352.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Cop who took on goverment on social media suspended||SALEM: A police constable was placed under suspension here on Tuesday evening for circulating messages against the state government on social media. According to a police source, K Boopathy, 45, a head constable attached to the prohibition enforcement wing in Attur division, had a few days ago posted an audio message on WhatsApp stating the state government had been forcing police personnel to do their duty without providing them any safety gears such as masks and sanitizers. When district superintendent of police Deepa Ganigar came to know about this, she initiated a departmental inquiry and issued suspension order to Boopathy based on the inquiry report. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cop-who-took-on-govt-on-social-media-suspended/articleshow/74939405.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||Some rivals too now back Tablighi||HYDERABAD: Cutting across the ideological divide, some Muslim religious scholars have extended support to Tablighi Jamaat. Though initially many non-Tablighi groups blamed it for the spread of the virus, Muslim leaders from all schools of thought came forward and said that the issue should not be communalised.  Perhaps for the first time, religious scholars from Barelvi, Deobandi and other schools of thought, who otherwise do not see eye-to-eye with Tablighi Jamaat, supported it.  Sufi leader and Seerat-un-Nabi Academy chairman Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri said though he was ideologically opposed to Tablighi Jamaat, he would support it on principles. "The congregation in Delhi began on March 15. There was no lockdown or ban on congregations. People in Markaz could not move out due to sudden lockdown. There was no transport facility. It is wrong to blame the Jamaat," he said.  Moulana Arshad Madani of Jamiat Ulema Hind also found fault with the authorities for not granting transport permission to shift people.  Zaid Patel, president of the Islamic Information Centre, said the spike in number of Markaz visitors testing positive is due to a high percentage of testing in a targeted group.  Muslim leaders argue that though 30,955 suspects are in quarantine in the state, the government conducted tests on only 748 people. And all those, who attended the Jamaat meeting are subjected to corona tests and this explains the high number of positive percentage. All over the country only about 35,000 people were tested, the lowest in the world. In other countries it is 100 to 500 times more than those tested in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-rivals-too-now-back-tablighi/articleshow/74940201.cms||Syed Akbar
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Collect bill payments sans penalty till April 25, activists tell Tangedco||Coimbatore: Flaying Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) for extending due date for payment of bills without penalty to just April 14, consumer activists and traders in the city said the move was unlikely to benefit the public as lockdown would be in force even on that day, restraining the movement of people. They said the public would benefit only if the due date for bill payments were to be extended by another 10 days to April 25. While payment of electricity bills is not an essential activity, the consumer activists and traders said all the Tangedco offices have been collecting bill payments daily, prompting people to step out of their houses in violation of lockdown rules. Tangedco had on March 27 announced the plans to allow consumers, whose bimonthly bills had to be generated between March 22 and 30, to pay bills as per the previous bimonthly readings until April 14 without incurring penalty and disconnection charges in view of Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent national lockdown. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “This is a pointless move as the lockdown will be in effect even on that day. How will people come out and pay their bills? Do they want the entire Tamil Nadu population to queue up in front of electricity board offices to make payments on April 15 and again put them back at the risk of Covid-19 attack?” Tangedco communication also hints that consumers, who do not pay by April 14 night, might face disconnection of services and would have to bear with disconnection and reconnection charges. “While the net savvy could make payments online, those who pay in person will have to flout lockdown norms and come out to settle their dues on April 14,” the activist said. A couple of other sources said the bill payment desk at the electricity board offices were open across the district. R Shivashankar, a senior citizen from Vadavalli, said, “Electricity is an essential service, but paying bills is not an essential activity. But Tangedco is still accepting bill payments in person, almost encouraging people to come out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collect-bill-payments-sans-penalty-till-april-25-activists-tell-tangedco/articleshow/74939409.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kozhikode||NIT-C’s aerosol box to aid medical personnel||Kozhikode: National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C) has come up with a protective device for frontline medical professionals in the battle against Covid-19 by developing a reusable aerosol box which can be used for safe airway management of Covid-19 patients. The transparent box provides enhanced protection from droplet spillage and possible aerosols generated during intubation of Covid-19 patients. Intubation is the process of inserting a tube, called an endotracheal tube, through the mouth and then into the airway of the patient. This is done so that a patient can be placed on a ventilator to assist with breathing. The simple safety gear was developed by NIT-C based on a request from the department of anaesthesia of the Kozhikode government medical college and it has been provided to the hospital. “The aerosol box will be of help to doctors, especially anaesthesiologists, during airway management of patients by providing an additional layer of protection during intubation procedure, which may involve aerosol generation,” Dr Basheer PMA, nodal officer of Covid- 19, department of anaesthesia, Kozhikode government medical college, said. He, however, added that though the aerosol box provides enhanced protection, the doctors and staff cannot ignore PPE kits during airway management. “The aerosol box seperates the doctor from the patient by acting as a barrier. The medical professionals can perform the intubation procedure by standing behind the patient’s head and looking through the transparent box and inserting hands through the holes provided in the aerosol box. As the box is made of acrylic, it can be sanitized and reused. The material cost is just around Rs 3,500,” said Dr Subramanyan N V, assistant professor, department of physics, NIT-C. NIT-C researcher Muhammed Shafeeque of the School of Materials Science and Engineering (SMSE), who was part of the team, said that Kozhikode government medical college authorities asked for ten more aerosol boxes which will be supplied by Thursday. The team also comprised Dr Hanas T of the SMSE and Dr Jimmy Jose of the department of Computer Science and Engineering. NIT-C director Prof Sivaji Chakravorti in his note of appreciation said that the NIT-C team developed the aerosol box for safe airway management of patients, keeping up with its tradition of institutional social responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nit-cs-aerosol-box-to-aid-medical-personnel/articleshow/74937525.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Many pick hooch to keep nCoV away!||VIJAYAWADA: The non-availability of liquor due to the lockdown has made some turn to hooch. With wine shops, bars and restaurants shut down, some liquor traders are brewing country liquor (hooch) in remote areas of the state and parts of Odisha and Telangana. Since the lockdown began, on average police and prohibition and excise departments seize at least 50 litres of hooch a day besides destroying raw material (jaggery wash). Sources said hooch-makers in Odisha, Telangana, and parts of Andhra Pradesh are adding sedatives to hooch. It is being taken to different parts of the state in vehicles, which transport vegetables. Expressing concern over the flow of hooch from Odisha, YV Bhaskar, deputy excise commissioner, Vizianagaram, said they have seized hooch worth Rs 10 lakh in the past 10 days. “Some people are adopting innovative methods to transport hooch. Tipplers should understand that hooch is being laced with sedatives and dangerous chemicals,” he said. The officials said despite the lockdown, some are transporting hooch to parts of Krishna and Guntur districts from Telangana. K Prasad, a tippler, (name changed) said he has no option except consuming hooch as all liquor shops and bars are shut. And a one litre bottle of hooch costs Rs 800 these days, he said. If people continue to drink hooch, it may lead to casualties, said activists of various organisations. In rural areas, some people are drinking hooch saying it will kill coronavirus, they added. It is being alleged that people are taking advantage of alcohol stores being closed by selling hooch at a steeper price. Given the demand, a litre of hooch is selling for Rs 800. But police are afraid that given its spurious nature there might be casualties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/many-pick-hooch-to-keep-ncov-away/articleshow/74937500.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 2, 2020||Kolkata||Citizens’ group seeks CM’s help to deal with medicine crisis in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A citizens’ advocacy group has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, expressing their desire to support the state by helping it provide PPE gear to at least one hospital. Having pointed to medicine crisis in several districts, they appealed for lifeline transport services for procurement of medicines from distributors in the city. The group comprising citizens and NGO practitioners, who have come together spontaneously to support the communities at work like health workers and law enforcement personnel, made an appeal to the CM to help them provide PPE, so that they would not get infected while dealing with Covid-19 cases. “We require permission to procure PPE items from registered vendors and manufacturers. The manufacturers in turn require permits to open their factories and procure materials while the material suppliers need permission to supply to the manufacturers. We need to get the supply chain for PPE started at the earliest,” said one of the signatories. The second issue raised by the group is the prevalent scarcity of medicines in several districts. Several medicine distributors in Burrabazar have to keep their shops shut as their workers are unable to get any transport to reach the city from districts. The group has urged the CM for solution in this regard. “Workers should be given movement passes or identity cards and protective gears. Railways should also start trains for such essential services,” said another signatory. The group comprises Science Communicators Forum’s secretary Abhijit Bardhan, Equidiversity Foundation director Anindita Majumder, Swayam director Anuradha Kapoor and Development Research Communication and Services Centre president Ardhendu Sekhar Chatterjee among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-group-seeks-cms-help-to-deal-with-medicine-crisis-in-city/articleshow/74939413.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Coronavirus positive cases spike to 29 from 1 in district in 1 day||COIMBATORE: Two days after TOI reported that 28 people from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi are likely to test positive for Covid-19, health secretary Beela Rajesh on Wednesday confirmed that 21 people from Mettupalayam, six people from Annamalai and one person from Podanur tested positive for the virus. Sources say test results of seven from Annur and 14 from city limits, who also attended the Delhi meet, are awaited. The district administration and health department initially received a list of 61 people who attended the meet and managed to trace 57 of them. However, since Tuesday morning, many attendees who didn’t feature on the list, have come forward for tests voluntarily after they developed symptoms. “We have 90 people in admission so far. Sixty people in ESI Hospital, 21 in Mettupalayam GH and nine of them in Annur GH. All the 21 patients in Mettupalayam GH are attendees of the meet in New Delhi and have tested positive. Seven more people in ESI Hospital, including six attendees of the TJ meet from Pollachi, have also tested positive,” collector K Rajamani said. “We are awaiting the results of seven more people admitted and isolated in Annur GH and a few more people in ESI Hospital. These people whose results are awaited have also attended the meet," he said. The 28 cases declared on Wednesday alone spikes the number of Covid cases in the district from one to 29 in a single day. Officials expect it to go up further on Thursday, when more cases get reconfirmed in other labs in the state. “The numbers will further spike once results of those from Annur and corporation limits arrive,” a health department official said. Besides, the Tablighi Jamaat delegation, the Erode Railway Hospital doctor’s husband also tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. He has anyway been under quarantine at ESI Hospital since his wife developed symptoms on Thursday last week. The doctor, her mother, maid and 10-month-old son had tested positive on Sunday. Besides the doctor’s family and Tablighi jamaat returnees, the Spain returnee and one from Tirupur, who returned from London, are also undergoing treatment for the virus. “The symptoms of the patients who attended the New Delhi conference seem to be more severe than those who returned from abroad and even the doctor’s family,” said a CMCH doctor. “While the girl who returned from Spain is asymptomatic, the doctor’s family and the Tirupur patient’s symptoms are much milder,” he said. “However, the New Delhi returnees’ families are yet to develop symptoms, so they have been advised quarantine,” he added. The health department who is now working on tracing contacts of the 28 new positive cases is also planning to initiate the containment plan around them. “This includes drawing a 5 km radius around their houses and going door to door to check for people suffering from fever or shortness of breath. However, since 21 of them are from Mettupalayam, their 5 km radius for many of them will be common. The same applies for Annamalai. So, we are confident about being able to pull it off,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-ve-cases-spike-to-29-from-1-in-dist-in-1-day/articleshow/74939417.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Kadapa steel plant plans on track despite corona threat||VIJAYAWADA: The outbreak of coronavirus and its impact on India’s economy is unlikely to have an effect on the proposed steel plant in Kadapa district, industry sources said recently. “The gestation period for a steel plant is four years. The foundation stone for the 3 million tonne per annum steel plant in Kadapa was laid in December last year. The coronavirus will have little impact on the timeline for the project,” Arnab Kumar Hazra, assistant secretary general of the Indian Steel Association (ISA), said. According to Hazra, at current prices a one million tonne steel plant would cost Rs 7,000 crore. The Kadapa plant is thus estimated to cost Rs 21,000 crore. The plant is likely to use iron ore from Anantapur district. The state government allocated Rs 250 crore for the project in the Budget presented to the state assembly in July last year. The steel plant’s managing director P Madhusudan has said after the budgetary allocation that the Rs 250 crore would be used to conduct an environment impact assessment (EIA) report and design an environment management plant (EMP) for the plant. The allocation would also be used to build a compound wall around the land in Jammalamadugu mandal of Kadapa district where the plant would be built.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kadapa-steel-plant-plans-on-track-despite-corona-threat/articleshow/74937521.cms||Shaukat Mohammed
April 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 19, including foreigners, detained in Samastipur||PATNA: Altogether 19 religious preachers hailing from Nepal, Bangladesh and other parts of the country were detained in Samastipur district on Wednesday evening and subsequently quarantined within hours of the list of the returnees from Tablighi Jamaat was provided to the state government. According to the list made available to the police headquarters, 57 foreign nationals who visited the Delhi Markaz, are in Bihar. The officials said 32 were from Bangladesh, 13 from Indonesia, four each from Malaysia and Thailand, two from Kyrgyzstan and one each from Australia and Myanmar. A senior police officer said all the 19 detainees were put under quarantine after medical examination. “Their samples have been sent to Patna for further test,” he said, requesting anonymity. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Shubani said a list of 86 people, who had attended the meeting at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, was made available to the state government. “We are trying to locate, isolate and made them to go for medical test,” he said. “A joint team of the police and doctors has been assigned the task,” he added. When asked about the 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals, who were earlier picked up from Kurji locality in Patna and subsequently quarantined in two mosques at Samanpura and Phulwarisharif on March 23, Subhani said, “We have to verify it.” Sources said while some of them were staying in a flat at Samanpura near Raza Bazar, others were living in a mosque at Phulwarisharif. The state health department officials had collected samples of altogether 17 religious preachers in the aftermath of Nizamuddin incident. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said 37 out of the 86 people listed have been traced. Of them, 10 belonged to Madhubani, one to Sitamarhi and four each to East Champaran and West Champaran district, respectively. Altogether nine people from Gaya had visited the Delhi Markaz and three of them returned on March 11. Six were still in Delhi. Pandey said the Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and the district police personnel have been roped in to trace the foreign nationals staying in Bihar and visiting one district after another. Meanwhile, seven people, who had visited the Delhi Markaz, had gone missing from Katihar. A senior official of the home department said the special branch has been asked to cooperate in tracing them at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-including-foreigners-detained-in-samastipur/articleshow/74937529.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur’s disinfection tunnel a runaway hit||TIRUPUR: Visitors to the Thennampalayam vegetable market in Tirupur on Wednesday were in for a surprise after they were asked by civic body officials to pass through a 16 feet long Disinfection tunnel. A first-of-its-kind in Tamil Nadu, the tunnel was inaugurated by Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Wednesday. Designed and developed by D Venkatesh, an expert in the water treatment business in Tirupur, the tunnel is made of stainless steel and costs Rs 1 lakh. Read the entire story on TOI+  Innovations in times of Covid19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupurs-disinfection-tunnel-a-runaway-hit/articleshow/74939426.cms||Mayilvaganan
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Hungry souls rejoice as food aggregators restart business||Coimbatore: With the state government allowing restaurants to offer takeaway services and food aggregators to operate during the lockdown period, people are heaving a huge sigh of relief.People, especially senior citizens and bachelors who could not return home, were relieved to see messages from Swiggy, Zomato, Daily Grubs and pizza chains like Domino’s Pizza, informing them they were back in business but in a smaller scale.“We always depended on food from messes because we find it cheaper than hiring a cook, buying groceries and maintaining a kitchen. We were surviving on ready-to-cook noodles, pasta and fruits,” said T Mangal, a college student whose parents are in Dubai.An R S Puram-based octogenarian couple, who live alone, were shocked when their cook refused to turn up for work from last Tuesday. “We didn’t know what to do for food. Our neighbours helped us with some food which we could supplement by making idlis and dosas,” said T Srinivasan. “But after seeing food delivery businesses opening, we subscribed for two meals. We are independent again,” he told TOI.A young couple who has been looking after their three-year-old child without any help heaved a sigh of relief seeing Swiggy online again. “Though the options are not great, at least we can have a meal when we don’t want to cook or do dishes,” said Bharath Rangarajan, an advertising professional.S Gurukrishna, founder of daily meals subscription service Daily Grubs, said he has been getting a lot of new customers, mainly senior citizens from Sunday night after reopening. “Such people can’t go out to buy food or groceries. Many of my clients are working people or young couples living alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hungry-souls-rejoice-as-food-aggregators-restart-business/articleshow/74939425.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Backlog, no e-passes plague delivery apps in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Mobile application-based companies that deliver essential commodities are struggling to deliver orders on time in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. Most of the companies have a backlog of orders and are unable to make deliveries before at least three days from the date of booking. “Since the ‘janata curfew’, every day the number of orders is increasing considerably. We are not able to deliver all orders made on any one day and this is how the backlog is increasing,” said K Rama Rao, an executive with an app-based delivery company. Executives at delivery companies said a number of reasons was behind the recent surge in orders. Many customers are avoiding leaving their houses, markets are reporting a shortage of commodities and at many areas, rythu bazaars have been shifted to an open field, beyond the reach of those without a private vehicle. “On Tuesday I have tried to place order for vegetables and groceries on a popular delivery app. But the expected delivery time showed was on April 5, Sunday. I had to give up before placing the order and went to the local grocery shop,” said Manish Kumar, a software executive stranded in the city. Further, the delivery companies said that after 10 am, some police officials are forcing delivery executives to turn back. “Recently, we had a meeting with the district collector and other officials. They said they still could not establish a mechanism to issue e-passes for delivery of essential commodities. Such a system is in place in Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad,” said Dinesh Reddy, owner of an app-based delivery company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/backlog-no-e-passes-plague-delivery-apps/articleshow/74937510.cms||Arpit Basu
April 2, 2020||India||Enforce lockdown rules in letter & spirit, states told||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday cautioned states against allowing exceptions to the lockdown other than those permitted under the consolidated guidelines issued by the home ministry under the Disaster Management Act. The warning came in the wake of states like Kerala and Meghalaya allowing sale or home delivery of liquor for "health" reasons.  No exception for sale or delivery of liquor is allowed under the home ministry guidelines. In a letter to state chief secretaries, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said allowing exceptions other than those in the guidelines was a violation of lockdown measures and defeated the efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19.  "All state governments/UT administrations are requested to strictly implement the lockdown measures issued by MHA," the home secretary told the chief secretaries. The Kerala government had on Monday allowed issue of special passes for drinkers with withdrawal symptoms to purchase liquor from the excise department. They had to carry a doctor's prescription .  The Meghalaya government too has allowed home delivery of liquor against prescription issued by a registered medical practitioner. "Warehouses may be allowed to sell liquor as a special case up to April 14," an excise department statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/enforce-lockdown-rules-in-letter-spirit-states-told/articleshow/74940204.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: FIR against Bharatmala manager||JAIPUR: An FIR was registered against Vipin Singh, the manager of Camp Godu of Bharatmala Project, and contractor Ramsevak in Bikaner where the workers of the project left the workplace during lockdown. FIRs have also been registered against five in Bikaner district for breaching quarantine restrictions. The advisory issued by the administration clearly stated that no company or firm would let its employees leave the camp without permission during the lockdown. But in violation, seven people, including Ramsevak were caught by police heading towards Uttar Pradesh near Raisar, an official said. District collector Kumarpal Gautam, on returning from Dungargarh to district headquarters, noticed some workers leaving on foot and enquired about their destination. The workers said they were associated with the Bharatmala project and going to their village in Uttar Pradesh on foot. The collector then directed the officials to take action against the concerned under Section 188 of the IPC for violation of prohibitory orders. An FIR was registered against five people for violating restrictions imposed during their quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-bharatmala-manager/articleshow/74939429.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||Oil cos, power PSUs, SBI gear up to fight Covid-19||Kolkata: Oil marketing companies like Indian Oil (IOC), BPCL and HPCL have initiated measures for its employees and associates following coronavirus outbreak. Oil PSUs — ONGC and IOC — contributed Rs 300 crore and Rs 225 crore, respectively, to the PM Cares Fund. Other PSUs — Power Finance Corporation, NTPC and NHPC — have put in a total of Rs 1,125 crore. SBI employees pledged Rs 100 crore to the PM Cares Fund. The 2.6 lakh employees will contribute their two days’ salary. This is perhaps one of the biggest commitments by employees of an organisation. Last week, the PSU bank had announced a commitment of 0.25% of its FY20 profit in support of Covid-19 control. An OMC spokesperson said: “Personnel like LPG showroom staff, godown-keepers, LPG mechanics and LPG delivery boys, retail outlet customer attendants, truck drivers, including bulk/pack transporters, are risking their lives to ensure delivery of fuel to customers and fellow citizens. As a goodwill gesture and in recognition of the services rendered in these difficult times, an ex-gratia amount of Rs five lakh has been announced in case of death of any above-mentioned personnel due to COVID-19.” Besides, IndianOil’s retail outlet Kanchanjungha Service Station in Jalpaiguri District distributed rice, groceries and vegetables to local tea garden workers and labourers as the Cover-19 crisis has brought the region to a halt. The entire workforce of ONGC is functioning 24x7 to ensure production and delivery of oil and gas. Employees are working from home through video conferencing to provide necessary support to the employees who are performing their duties on extended stay in the field. “I am confident that we, the 30,100-strong ONGC community, shall together tide over this hard time and keep the ONGC flag flying high,” said its CMD Shashi Shanker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oil-cos-power-psus-sbi-gear-up-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/74939433.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Erode||Leopard falls into 50-ft well, rescued in Tamil Nadu||ERODE: A leopard that fell into a 50-ft well was rescued after four hours of struggle by the forest department officials near Sathyamangalam in Erode district on early Wednesday morning. Forest officials later released the leopard into Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on the same evening. According to forest department officials, they were informed by K Shanmugam, 45, of Pudukuiyanur village near Sathyamangalam that a leopard was floating in his irrigation well. “The water level in the 50-ft well was nearly 20ft,” a senior forest official from Bhavanisagar forest range said. He said the leopard may have fallen into the well on early Wednesday morning. They rushed to the spot and initiated rescue operations. “The leopard was furious, so it took nearly two hours for us to reach the animal with a net,” thet officer said. After the forest officials rescued the leopard from the well using a net, veterinary doctors immediately sedated the animal with tranquilizer. “It got tranquilized within 10 minutes,” the officer said. The leopard was shifted to a cage and later released in Thengumarahada forest in Nilgiris district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/leopard-falls-into-50-ft-well-rescued/articleshow/74939431.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 5 held after chase for injuring cop||Five people were arrested on Tuesday in Dharmapuri district for injuring a police sub-inspector who tried to stop their car. The accused were arrested after a chase that lasted for an hour. The accused have been identified as V Palani, 53, of Anumanthapuram village near Palacode, K Annamalai, 50, K Ponnappan, 24, M Govindaraj, 33, and M Venkatraman, 37. Police said on Tuesday evening, Mahendramangalam station inspector P Dakshinamurthy was on vehicle check duty on the Dharmapuri-Palacode state highway when the incident happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-held-after-chase-for-injuring-cop/articleshow/74939430.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar to get 500-bed hospital in a month||HARIDWAR: To tackle Covid-19 pandemic, a 500-bed hospital will be constructed within a month in Haridwar. District administration has claimed that a prefabricated structure of the hospital will be constructed under the guidance of Central Building Research Institute and IIT Roorkee. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “An expression of interest has been issued and the interested firms and companies will give presentations on April 3 at my office for constructing the prefabricated structure of 500-bed hospital in Jagjeetpur. The selected firm will have to construct a fully functional hospital by April 30. This building will be constructed under the guidance of experts of Central Building Research Institute and IIT Roorkee. This prefabricated building will be part of a medical college and it will help us in treating the rising number of Covid-19 cases.” At present, Haridwar district, which has a population of about 20 lakh, has limited healthcare facilities with only two ventilators in government hospitals. In view of the coronavirus outbreak, a 100-bed Mela Hospital is being used as isolation centre for suspected patients and for those found Covid-19 positive. CMO Haridwar Dr Saroj Naithani told TOI, “We have borrowed a few ventilators from private facilities and so far, 752 isolation wards in private hospitals and government Ayurvedic colleges have been reserved for Covid-19 cases and suspected patients. The new 500-bed hospital will help us a lot in dealing with Covid -19 cases.” Recently, the Centre also gave its nod for construction of a medical college in Haridwar district. The Haridwar Nagar Nigam has already handed over 25 acres of its land for construction of the facility in Jagjeetpur village, located five kilometres away from Har Ki Pauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-to-get-500-bed-hosp-in-a-month/articleshow/74938788.cms||MS Nawaz
April 2, 2020||Business||CIL posts record output of 84.3MT in March||Kolkata: Maharatna Coal India (CIL) has recorded an all-time high coal output of 84.3 million tonne (MT) during March 2020 posting 6.5% growth compared to 79.19 MT that it reported in March 2019. In producing 3.85 MT on March , CIL has set up a new record for the highest ever production in a day since inception. The company closed the fiscal 2019-20 with an annual coal production of 602.14 MT achieving 91% of the target. “After the company’s production was severely impeded on account of excess and prolonged monsoon during the first half of the fiscal, we could recover much of the lost ground in the second half,” said an official of the company adding CIL as whole produced 120.3 MT more coal in H2 than it did in H1.” Against 240.93 MT production during April-September 2019, CIL produced 361.21 MTs in the next six months from October 2019 to March 2020. CIL has also added that the thermal power plants of the country are flush with coal stocks with 44.68 MT sufficient for 28 days. “Many of the thermal plants have requested CIL to regulate coal supplies to them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cil-posts-record-output-of-84-3mt-in-march/articleshow/74939439.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Decomposed carcass of big cat found||Udhagamandalam: A two-year-old leopard was found dead in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Wednesday.Forest department staff had found the carcass near Uppallah Odai in Masinagudi range of MTR. According to MTR buffer zone deputy director Srikanth, the animal had died 15 days ago. Assistant veterinary surgeon Dr Gochalan conducted postmortem in the presence of forest officials, members of NGOs and local representatives. “Nails and canine of the animal were found intact. The sex and the cause of death of the animal could not be ascertained as the carcass was decomposed. The leopard might have died due to some disease or fall from a tree.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/decomposed-carcass-of-big-cat-found/articleshow/74939434.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Stranded workers of industrial estates get essentials||Panaji: Thousands of migrant workers employed across some of the industrial estates in Goa finally managed to get their hands on essential grocery items after the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) on Wednesday began to distribute food supplies. GSIA distributed packages with essential food items including oil and pulses at Verna, Pilerne, Madkai, Kundaim and Tuem. In the coming days, the industry body could take the initiative to other industrial estates. “Many of these workers are contract labourers who do work like packaging, gardening, maintenance or cleaning,” GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said. Over 1,000 workers, most hailing from Karnataka, Maharashtra and Bihar among other state, are stranded in and around the Verna Industrial Estate. Due to the lockdown, these workers have been unable to return home. Trucks with groceries sufficient for 1,000 people were sent to Pilerne, Madkai, Kundaim and Tuem each. “We managed to sources the material from various places, but the stock of dal and other essentials are dwindling and there is no supply,” Kochkar said. “We are giving the packages for Rs 500 each, but if a person has no money, we give it for free,” Goa has been in a lock down since March 22 with most grocery stores shut since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-workers-of-industrial-estates-get-essentials/articleshow/74939851.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Steps taken to contain local transmission in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: LIC Colony in Fingerpost area and Kandal area in the district have been cordoned off as a measure of local containment plan, with eight residents from these two localities getting admitted to the isolation ward at the Ooty government hospital. The eight, two of them from Ooty, three from Coonoor and the remaining from Kotagiri, had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi recently.As per the directions of district collector J Innocent Divya, all the 30 municipal wards in Coonoor have been cordoned off and people are not allowed to move from one ward to another. All the shops have also been closed. In Kotagiri town, Bazaar Road and surrounding areas have been sealed and no movement of people and vehicles is allowed. Stating that they were awaiting test results of the eight, Divya said, “We have sealed the surrounding areas of their residences to contain local transmission of the virus. People there have been instructed not to venture out. People from outside won’t also be allowed in.” Essential items would be home delivered in those localities. “Contact numbers of volunteers have been given to the residents, who could call them if they require any essential commodities. However, vegetable markets have been arranged in other areas of these localities,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/steps-taken-to-contain-local-transmission-in-nilgiris/articleshow/74939442.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Sugar mill launches sanitisers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: State-owned Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (GSM) Limited has launched a high-quality hand sanitiser for prevention of coronavirus. People can buy ‘GSM hand sanitiser’ for Rs 50 per bottle of 180 ml. General manager Kesar Lal Meena said the mill has been working to provide hand sanitisers to people across the state at affordable rates following its shortage in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. He said on the instructions of the state government and as per the guideliness of the World Health Organization (WHO), the firm began production a high-quality hand sanitisers at its units in Jhotwara (Jaipur), Mandore (Jodhpur), Ranpur (Kota), Hanumangarh and Udaipur Reduction Centres of the sugar mills. “Since March 25, 13.80 lakh sanitisers have been distributed. Now we have started commercial production, which will be sold in the market. Its MRP has been fixed at Rs 50 per bottle of 180ml,” he said. The sanitiser has 70 per cent alcohol and prevents infection quite effectively. He said as long as there was a demand for sanitisers, the units will produce it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sugar-mill-launches-sanitisers/articleshow/74939436.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Promote all students of Class X, say Tamil Nadu teachers||COIMBATORE: Amid the continuing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, there has been a growing chorus of voices among teachers to cancel Class X board exams and promote all students. Several teachers associations across the state, including representatives of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association, have said the state government should cancel board exams as a lot of parents and students are stressed owing to the lockdown. The first call to cancel board exams was given a few days ago by P K Ilamaran, president of Tamil Nadu Teachers Association, when he said it would be inappropriate to ask Class X students to revisit their old syllabus once again as the academic year is almost over. “Instead of the board exam, the state should come up with an entrance exam to let students choose the group they want to study in Class XI,” Ilamaran had said. S A Rajkumar, president of Tamil Nadu Arts Teachers Welfare Association, in a communication, said several students have not been able to study for their board exams due to uncertainty arising from the 21-day lockdown, and it would not be fair to ask them to write the exams at this juncture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/promote-all-students-of-class-x-say-teachers/articleshow/74939435.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Comics help take minds off Covid-19 gloom||MANGALURU: Those bored by the endless number of memes that the Covid-19 pandemic has spawned, can now take a break. PDF files of age-old classics such as ‘Sad Sack’ and ‘Phantom’ are doing the rounds on social media, with comic enthusiasts sharing their collection with others to kill boredom and lighten the mood that the 21-day nationwide lockdown has triggered. Happy to relive the past with these comics is Praveen Bhat, an information analyst with IT firm Bellwether. “It was a pleasant surprise to see these comics in PDF format in one of the WhatsApp groups that I am in,” Bhat said. “Having grown up with a heady dose of action that comic characters such as Phantom brought to life for us in our childhood, it was a trip down memory lane,” he said. For Nithin Kamath, another comic buff, who grew up on a diet of Bahadhur, Mandrake, Tarzan and Zorro, WhatsApp forwards were a God send. “The lockdown is getting on to everyone’s nerves, and amidst the constant endeavour to come up with something new to address boredom, these comics gave a big sense of relief,” he said. Having forwarded the same to his friends, Nithin says the #CoronaLockDownChallenge he posed now, is to share more comics. Some of the vintage comics that are being shared are Tarzan from March 1948, Sad Sack from July 1979, Phantom series 312, no 17, 71, and more. For Jyotsna, a homemaker, these forwards took her on a trip down memory lane to the late 1970s and 1980s, when their house was flooded with these comics. “I still have some of these original comics published by Indrajal Comics with me, and read them whenever time permits,” she adds. Nithin admits that he was about to clear the chat of the WhatsApp forward of the comics in one of the groups. “But for the auto download that happened due to the Wi-Fi connection, I would have perhaps done so. The familiar outline of Phantom that I received enthused me to check the other forwards,” he said, adding it was far more enjoyable than sifting through the mindless and morbid projections and theories abounding about Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/comics-help-take-minds-off-covid-19-gloom/articleshow/74918775.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: IISc’s ventilator prototype may be ready in three weeks||BENGALURU: To address the shortage of ventilators in India, a team of engineers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is building a prototype of an electro-mechanical ventilator from scratch, using only components found or made in India, based on guidelines issued by the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. “This ventilator is expected to be ready within the next couple of weeks. Anyone can use it free of cost,” says TV Prabhakar, principal research scientist at the department of electronic systems engineering (DESE) and one of the founders of the project. In a statement, Gaurab Banerjee, associate professor at DESE, said the team has been working for the past 10 days on the technology and that it is hopeful of delivering it to manufacturers by the end of April. “Many ventilator components are not manufactured in India. So we built some parts and co-opted others. For example to store and mix air and oxygen they reused sedimentation tanks found in household RO water purifiers. The mixing process parallels those in gas turbines and industrial burners, where the ratio is carefully controlled,” a team member, Pratikash Panda, assistant professor at the department of aerospace engineering (DAE), said. To maintain pressure levels, the team used sensors similar to those used to gauge pressure in car tyres. Controlling the pressure at which gas is pumped into the patient’s lungs is crucial as too much could cause severe damage. “By using fundamental concepts of fluid and gas dynamics, we are able to accurately estimate and control pressure, volume, and oxygen concentration of the air delivered to the patient,” said team member Duvvuri Subrahmanyam, assistant professor at DAE. The team is also getting inputs from doctors to simplify the interface and create a dashboard preloaded with approved settings. This would allow it to be operated quickly in an emergency even by untrained technicians or nurses. “They just have to press a button that says pneumonia or Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), and all the settings will come up by default within a certain range,” says Banerjee. The project was initially launched by Banerjee, Subrahmanyam, Prabhakar, Panda and HS Jamadagni (former Professor, DESE) at IISc, as well as a Bangalore-based engineer, Manas Pradhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iiscs-ventilator-prototype-may-be-ready-in-three-weeks/articleshow/74938801.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram JC goes undercover to verify rumours||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Vizianagaram joint collector, G Ch Kishore Kumar, took market surveillance to a different level when he decided to go undercover and present himself to vendors as a common customer. Amid rumours of vendors hoarding essential commodities and selling them at a higher price, Kumar decided to check on the vendors himself. He went to the market yard in the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, where the vendors from the Ganta Stambham and fort area were shifted following the corona scare. He went about buying vegetables dressed as a common man and interacted with the vendors. The joint collector told TOI, “ I wanted to find out for myself and verify the truth.” The collector said there was no real discrepancy in the rates at which vegetables and other essentials were being sold and the rates prescribed. He added that most of the vendors were selling the goods for a reasonable rate and as per the rules laid down. The joint collector dismissed allegations of vendors selling veggies at prohibitive prices as rumours. The district administration has made it clear that anybody found hoarding or selling essentials for a rate higher than the prescribed price would be dealt with strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-jc-goes-undercover-to-verify-rumours/articleshow/74937564.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 2, 2020||India||Media bodies welcome SC's fake news order||NEW DELHI: The National Broadcasters Association on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order directing the media, including print, electronic and social media, to ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic related to the coronavirus pandemic is not disseminated. The NBA, in a statement, said it agreed that media should report responsibly and weed out any "fake news" in social media while telecasting news on coronavirus crisis.  Appreciating the Supreme Court's acknowledgement of the freedom of press and the court's assertion that it does not intend to interfere with the free discussion, debate and coverage about the pandemic, it also welcomed the government's daily bulletin through all media avenues including social media to clear people's doubts. "This would help media immensely to clarify the doubts and enable them to do accurate reporting," the NBA statement said. The apex body for print media, the Press Council of India also issued a statement advising all media to adhere to the SC orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/media-bodies-welcome-scs-fake-news-order/articleshow/74940207.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Janamaithri police to the rescue||Thiruvananthapuram: Ever since the nation went into lockdown, stories of policemen coming to the aid of those in need have been coming out. The latest in the series is the act of Janamaithri Community Police officials of Vanchiyoor police station in the city who came to the aid of a critically ill patient in the city on Wednesday when her family could not find any transportation facility to take her to hospital. The 76-year-old patient, Vasanthakumari, is currently under treatment at Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. According to Vasanthakumari’s son-in-law Venukuttan Nair, she had a round of fits on Wednesday morning. “She was already bedridden for the past few months, having neuro problems. We dialled ‘108’ for ambulance service as we normally do, but none of their ambulances were available as they were all on Covid-19 duty,” said Nair. After this they called the local police. A team of officials led by Janamaithri Community Relations Officer Sureshkumar immediately rushed to the house at Kunnumpuram near Vanchiyoor. They also summoned the police ambulance. The officers also helped to carry Vasanthakumari, whose room is on the first floor of the house, to the road where the ambulance was parked. Venukuttan Nair said that by night Vasanthakumari showed slight improvement in her condition. In another instance, the Janamaithri officials at Kovalam visited the camps were guest workers were staying and supplied them essential food materials. Meanwhile, the city police have increased their vigil at city borders following the death of a Covid-19 patient at Pothencode. The police have opened checking points at regions that share border with Pothencode panchayat in this regard. On Wednesday, 48 cases were registered till 5pm in connection with the breach of lockdown. As many as 35 vehicles were also seized. This include 31 two-wheelers three autorickshaws and one car. Meanwhile, Nemom police registered case against a spare-parts shop owner who opened his shop violating lockdown guidelines on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/janamaithri-police-to-the-rescue/articleshow/74937587.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Surat||2 held for leaving workers stranded in Valsad||Surat: Two separate offences were registered by police against two labour contractors in Valsad district in the past two days for alleged violation of public notification and leaving their labourers stranded. Seven people, including the two labour contractors, were arrested by Umargam and Bhilad police in this connection. Police arrested a labour contractor in Bhilad on Tuesday after he allegedly asked six labourers working in a brick-making unit to return to their native villages in Madhya Pradesh. Milan Ahir, a resident of Mohangam in Umbargam taluka of Valsad, was booked for alleged violation of prohibitory orders after the labourers were spotted by police near Mohangam railway crossing in Bhilad. Labourers told police that it was Ahir who had asked them to leave the site. “The labour contractor was arrested for leaving the labourers stranded and also to send a strict message to all such employers,” said Sunil Joshi, superintendent of police, Valsad. Meanwhile, a labour contractor and five labourers were arrested from an area under Umargam police station limits on Wednesday. Police nabbed five labourers of Uttar Pradesh walking on road towards Sanjan. The labourers informed police that they were employed in a company located at Umargam GIDC and lived in an accommodation provided by labour contractor Anup Kumar Singh. Since the company has shutdown its operations due to lockdown, he had asked the labourers to vacate their houses, they told police. Police arrested the contractor and the labourers for violating the prohibitory order in force in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-held-for-leaving-workers-stranded-in-valsad/articleshow/74938390.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Ration cardholders to get Rs 1,000 government dole from today||COIMBATORE: The district administration is all set to distribute the dole of Rs 1,000 and essential commodities through fair price shops from Thursday. According to officials, they have distributed tokens to almost all the beneficiaries. An official with the office of district supply officer said the distribution of essential commodities would start at 9am on Thursday at all the ration shops. The dole would be distributed to 100 people a day in each ration shop, the official said. Pointing out that the fund and other items had reached the godowns of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation a couple of days ago, the official said ration shop staff have collected the cash and supplies that were required for distribution on Thursday. To ensure physical distancing at the shops, slots have been marked for the beneficiaries at a distance of every 1m. As a precautionary measure, staff at the ration shops have also been provided with masks and gloves. The district administration has appointed 12 nodal officers to ensure smooth distribution of doles at the shops. “A mobile monitoring team has been formed under the supervision of nodal officers for the purpose,” the official said. He said they had been distributing tokens to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps for the past three days. “It will be completed soon. There are about 10.23 lakh beneficiaries, comprising both rice and sugar card holders, in the district.” It is to be noted that there are 1,418 fair price shops in the district, with each having anywhere between 350 and 1,500 card holders. The official said at least 331 shops were having 1,500 card holders and that distribution of doles might be delayed at those shops. “We have, however, given specific directions to complete the work before deadline.” The beneficiaries would receive Rs 1,000, rice, 1kg dal, a palm oil packet and 1kg sugar. Depending upon the number of family members, the quantity of rice would vary from 12kg to 20kg. There are 9.76 lakh rice card holders in the district. The official said sugar card holders would only be eligible for 1kg each sugar and dal , rice and palm oil packet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ration-cardholders-to-get-rs-1k-govt-dole-from-today/articleshow/74939447.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Free counselling to boost sagging spirit of denizens||Coimbatore: Educational institutions and other organizations in the city are now offering free online and telephonic counselling to people who are stressed out and anxious about Covid-19, and those feeling lonely because of lockdown. For instance, the department of psychology at the Rathinam Group of Institutions has been offering free online counselling service through WhatsApp and phone calls for the past one week. Professors said they have been receiving calls from all the age groups. Sajeeth Kumar, head of the department, said a majority of the callers were in the age group of 50 to 60, who were more depressed about the situation. “A 65-year-old woman called us. She lives alone and her son is in Spain with his family. She said she was worried about her son. Living alone can be difficult at these times.” He said the problem with the callers in general was overthinking. “People with fever or those who have returned from abroad think they have Covid-19 and worry themselves out. We speak to them and motivate them. We also offer them tips to relieve their stress and anxiety.” Pointing out that people were afraid that they would die if they contract Covid-19, another source with the institute said they had also been busting such misconceptions by informing them about how people worldwide have been recovering from the disease. “One of the important suggestions that we offer the callers is to reduce the time they spend consuming news and on social media, where there is an overload of information on Covid-19, and spend more time with their families in doing productive things,” Sajeeth said. Nitya Gurukula, a city-based organization, has also started a free online counseling session for people who feel lonely and stressed out because of the lockdown. Sudha Sundaram, a representative of the organization, said, “We will offer free online counselling through the lockdown period. We will arrange online video sessions on Zoom and also provide counselling through WhatsApp and mail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/free-counselling-to-boost-sagging-spirit-of-denizens/articleshow/74939443.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Business||SPMPT handles 63 MT despite Covid-19 slowdown||Kolkata: Despite the Covid-19 scare across the country and the subsequent lockdown, the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) continued to handle essential cargo at the ports of Kolkata, Haldia and Budge Budge after taking necessary precautions. Till March 31, SPMPT handled nearly 63 MT of cargo. This could have been 65 million tonnes for the financial year 2019-20 had traffic not been hit since January this year due to the coronavirus scare globally. “All operations are going on at the ports with co-operation and support from labour unions, workers, stakeholders, agents and port employees. All precautionary measures including maintenance of social distancing, wearing of Personel Protection Equipment, sanitization are being taken. The port also appeals to everybody to carry on providing their assistance to ensure the movement of essentials,” SPMPT chairman Vinit Kumar said. Essentials do not necessarily mean consumer or food items but also raw materials to keep industry running in these difficult times. Between March 29 and March 31, eleven vessels arrived at the Haldia Dock Complex (HDC) and nine sailed out after completing cargo operations. Lighterage operations were also carried out in a few vessels at the Sandheads and Sagar taking the total cargo handled at HDC during the three days to 1,88,506 tonnes. The cargo handled included Paraxylene, Naptha, LPG, Coking Coal, Thermal Coal, Container, Steel, Limestone, Steam Coal, Butadine and Benzene. Receipt and dispatch of cargo by road and rail was also undertaken by the port with its own manpower. “At the Kolkata Dock System (KDS), nine vessels arrived and eight sailed out after completing cargo operation during the three days. During this period, 3,181 TEUs of containers were handled and the major commodities included raw paper, raw plastic, steel, electronic items, solar panels and pharmaceuticals. During this period, 2,700 tonnes of break bulk, 16,122 tonnes of liquid cargo including high speed diesel and lube oil were handled at KDS,” an official said. According to him, video conferences have also been held with all stakeholders including shipping lines, agents, transporters , importers and exporters for smooth movement of cargo. Close coordination is also being maintained with customs and state authorities and police for online clearance and movement of goods. To promote rail movement, 50% discount in terminal haulage charges has also been provided. The Ministry of Shipping has advised for remission of various charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spmpt-handles-63-mt-despite-covid-19-slowdown/articleshow/74939444.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 2, 2020||Delhi||CBSE unveils course on applied maths||NEW DELHI: Starting this year, students in classes XI and XII wanting to pursue economics and commerce as an undergraduate college degree can choose a new mathematics subject. CBSE on Thursday announced that “applied mathematics” will be a subject from this academic session. Earlier, applied mathematics was a skill-based subject. CBSE said the idea behind this change was because the existing syllabus of mathematics aligns well with science subjects, but not with commerce or social science in college education. The introduction of this subject is also a part of the systemic reforms under National Curriculum Framework 2005. “Affiliated schools who have permission for running mathematics course at senior secondary level shall be automatically eligible to run this course with the availability of necessary infrastructure and human resources,” said a CBSE circular. Teachers said introduction of the new subject will lead to focused studying as per the need in higher studies. Rajpal Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Dwarka Sector 10, said, “Earlier, CBSE had a mechanism in which all students would study 70% of the maths syllabus, while 30% was divided between science and commerce students. It’s a good thing if a similar thing is being applied now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-unveils-course-on-applied-maths/articleshow/74939457.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar DM Neeraj Khairwal assumes charge as Kumaon commissioner||NAINITAL: With incumbent Kumaon commissioner Rajiv Rautela retiring on Tuesday after serving as Kumaon commissioner for almost two years, Neeraj Khairwal assumed charge as the new commissioner on Wednesday morning. Khairwal, who is also the district magistrate (DM) of Udham Singh Nagar district will hold additional charge of Kumaon commissioner. Soon after assuming charge, Khairwal said that his focus in the coming days will be to ensure contain of the spread of novel Coronavirus. “We have established control rooms in each district of the division and our focus in the coming days is to make sure that the Coronavirus situation remains under control. We have been vigilant till now and no positive cases have been reported from Kumaon so far and our aim is to make sure that we do not relax until the pandemic subsides,” Khairwal said. The new commissioner also directed all the officers and workers involved in the fight against Covid-19 to remain vigilant. “People should not be scared of Covid-19. They should just follow the guidelines and orders issued by the government and make sure they should maintain social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-dm-neeraj-khairwal-assumes-charge-as-kumaon-commissioner/articleshow/74938794.cms||Prashant Jha
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Cops seize 1,440 liquor bottles||COIMBATORE: Police seized 1,440 liquor bottles from three people near a Tasmac outlet on Athipalayam Road at Periyanaickenpalayam on Tuesday. A Muthu, 45 and M Ramachandran, 50, from Sivakanga district and P Kalagnar, 29, from Madurai were trying to sell the liquor, police sources said. They were arrested under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, 1937 and were later released on bail. Police also arrested D Sudhagar, 24, a resident of Madukkarai, for attempting to sell alcohol near the Madukkarai market on Tuesday and seized 46 bottles of liquor, Rs 23,000 and a two-wheeler from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-seize-1440-liquor-bottles/articleshow/74939454.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 5 truck drivers held for bid to ride home guest workers||COIMBATORE: The city police arrested five lorry drivers on Tuesday for attempting to transport as many as 250 migrant workers to their native places in Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.Police identified them as H Rajendra Singh, 40, J Balaram, 33 and B Anil Kumar, 28, from New Delhi and R Indar Pal Singh, 28 and R Mukeshpaty, 32, from Uttar Pradesh. A police team conducting vehicle check at the check post set up near AG Pudur Bypass in the city had stopped the lorries with Haryana and New Delhi registration numbers around 2:30am. Cops found guest workers sitting under tarpaulin sheets in the vehicles. Preliminary investigation revealed that they were natives of Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh working in Anaimalai, Pollachi, Echanari and Kinathukadavu here. “The workers had met the lorry drivers at a dhaba and had sought their help to reach their native places as public transportation facilities are suspended due to the lockdown. They agreed to pay for the travel,” a police officer said. “They had boarded the vehicles from Echanari after midnight and were caught within an hour.” Police let off the workers with a warning and arrested the drivers under sections 269, 270 and 143 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act for1988. They were later released on station bail. Police have seized the five lorries. Police later secured Gopal from Madhya Pradesh, MP Malla and Durkesh from Rajasthan, who had introduced the workers to the drivers. The trio was staying in Echanari and working in local units, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-truck-drivers-held-for-bid-to-ride-home-guest-workers/articleshow/74939452.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Indore||Indore gets 31 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours; Madhya Pradesh count 98||INDORE/BHOPAL: A whopping 31 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore between Tuesday midnight and Wednesday, taking its tally to 75. The city also got its first child corona patients, three kids aged 5 to 8 years, and first police officer to test positive. The day’s count included Khargone’s first Covid-19 case, a 65-year-old hotel owner from Mandleshwar who had died during treatment on March 29. His test came positive late Tuesday night. On a happy note, however, Gwalior’s first Covid-19 patient tested negative, so did 13 first contacts in Jabalpur. All of them may be discharged on Thursday. Indore, which is in total lockdown, now accounts for 76% of MP’s tally of 98. Collector Manish Singh had on Tuesday said the city should “mentally prepare” for the Covid-19 count to rise to 150. With the Khargone death, MP’s toll has gone up to six, half of them in Indore. In Wednesday midnight’s bulletin, new Covid-19 cases were reported for the first time in five localities — Snehlataganj, Samajvad Nagar, Ambikapuri, Gandhi Nagar and Moti Tabela. Health officials could not confirm any travel history or contact history in 11 of the cases. Only one of the patients had a contact history with a patient. The bulletin said the condition of 8 patients of Indore’s 75 patients is critical. Amid the grim tidings in Indore, there was news of hope from other areas — 48 test reports in Gwalior came back negative and 13 people in Jabalpur, who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients, were discharged from hospital quarantine after 14 days as they all tested negative. In Jabalpur, 27 samples have tested negative in the past few days and the condition of all eight patients is stable. In Satna, all 14 suspected patients tested negative. Lockdown is in force in all districts, but Gwalior and Bhind were closed completely like Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-gets-31-more-corona-cases-in-24-hrs-state-count-98/articleshow/74944813.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||IMA launches ambulance service scheme||Thiruvananthapuram: The Indian Medical Association has launched an ambulance service scheme at subsidized rates for those who are finding it difficult to reach hospitals. The ambulance chain network will operate with the support of Kerala police, Dr Ramesh Kumar Foundation and private ambulance operators association. The decision was taken in view of the lockdown in the state. This has resulted in the people finding it difficult to reach the hospital during emergency situations. Hence, now they can contact the ambulance toll free number 91881 00100 for availing this service across the state, said Dr John Panciker, state convener of the IMA ambulance project. At present, this chain has 1,500 ambulances across the state. For small ambulances, the charge will be Rs 500 for 10km and Rs.15 for every additional kilometre. For big ambulances, the charge would be Rs 600 for 10km and Rs 20 for every additional kilometre. Dr John Panicker said the government has given the permission to operate this ambulance network in the lockdown season along with the 108 ambulance chain of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ima-launches-ambulance-service-scheme/articleshow/74937608.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Kapra corporator’s mission: No one sleeps hungry||HYDERABAD: With the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown leaving many scrambling to find their next meal, a corporator from Kapra has gone about trying to ensure he can feed as many mouths as possible. Swarnaraj Sivamani, corporator of Kapra Division-1, has been coordinating efforts to feed as many as 600 people every day. While cooked food is arranged with the GHMC’s help, Sivamani has fed an additional 300 families by asking people to contribute and through his own donation. Sivamani uses his own mini truck to pick up and deliver food across four locations which house hundreds of migrant families. Most of these families are from Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bihar and have been working as construction labour. Several women also work as domestic help and have been without work since lockdown began. Helping Sivamani is a group of youngsters whom he knows through his association with numerous social causes over three decades. Till now, apart from the meals provided by the GHMC, 1,300 kg of rice has been donated by community members, says Sivamani. “The donation is not only in kind. We are asking people to give groceries and essential items for the poor and homeless. Many people have come forward to help in this time of need,” he says. The corporator has also started a group called ‘Helpline’ for anyone who has medical health issues or trouble sourcing food. “It is not always possible for the underprivileged to get medical attention at the right time. Often, they ignore initial symptoms. In case there is an issue, a friend who is a doctor will be available to them for consultation,” he said. “With Sivamani’s help we are giving out packages which contain 5 kg rice, 1 kg dal, oil, haldi, chilli and even snacks like biscuits for children. The local MLA and police have been backing everything we are doing,” said Pawan Kumar, a ward member from the area. While lauding Sivamani’s efforts as an example to follow, Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS) secretary, CS Chandrashekar, says there is more to be done. “It is very important for elected representatives to come forward and take up their responsibilities to feed those who are jobless and homeless. It is also the social responsibility of each resident to contribute,” the FNECS secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporators-mission-no-one-sleeps-hungry/articleshow/74939604.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: House surgeons want ‘special mention’ about handling Covid-19 cases||CHENNAI: House surgeons working at government hospitals across the state have requested the government to recognise their extended period of service by making a special mention about handling Covid-19 cases in their final completion certificates. Around 2,500 candidates from the 2014 batch, who began their compulsory rotatory residential internship (CRRI) last March, are working in government hospitals as house surgeons. Right now, these medicos, posted in other wards, are kept as reserve force for Covid-19 cases. Their internship period ended on March 28 but was extended by a month in wake of the coronavirus crisis. Though this is an opportunity for these young professionals to gain the experience of handling a pandemic at the very start of their careers, it comes with challenges. House surgeons said they would have less time to prepare for post-graduation (PG) and will fall behind in seniority when compared to their counterparts from private medical colleges who have completed their CRRI. "We’ll have less time to prepare for NEET-PG scheduled in January 2021 and Medical Recruitment Board’s hiring process for medical officers, if any," said B Arunandhi, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association (TNMSA). It will be better if the state can urge the Centre to postpone NEET PG 2021, he said. At present, most government medical college and hospital administrations have stopped issuing CRRI completion certifications for their original posting period (March 2019-March 2020) so that they can register with the State Medical Council. TNMSA has requested the health department to mention about their service rendered during the pandemic in their completion certificates or in a separate certificate as a token of appreciation which its say will be "highly encouraging". Also, TNMSA has asked the government to sanction salary and ensure that house surgeons will also be one of the beneficiaries of incentives announced for all healthcare workers involved in handling the pandemic. It requested the government not to deduct any amount in the name of food and accommodation charges during their extended period of service from their salaries. The association stressed on the need for providing Personal Protective Equipment including N95 masks and hand sanitisers in sufficient quantities to all house surgeons as role of healthcare professionals might be crucial in the coming days with the number of cases on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/house-surgeons-want-special-mention-about-handling-covid-19-cases/articleshow/74939451.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to collect one roti from each house for strays||JAIPUR: To feed stray animals in the city, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) from Thursday onwards will start ‘Har Ghar Ek Roti’ project. Under this project, one chapati will be collected from the household to be later on fed to the stray animals. It has been started after complaints were received from the public that they are not been able to feed stray animals any more due to lockdown. Hence, JMC has decided to put two sacks on every hooper which will collect the chapatis in the morning at the time of garbage collection. Additional Commissioner JMC, Arun Garg said that this initiative will be successful without any expense. “Though we have been providing food to the stray animals but public has been complaining that they are not able to do so. Hence, with the help of 600 BVG company hoopers, in the city we will be collecting chapatis in the morning. We have already given 1200 sacks to the hoopers. In the afternoon after their shift is over, at 16 garbage transfer station points in Jaipur, hoopers run by JMC will collect these chapatis and distribute them to the stray animals,” said Garg. Already a 13 routes chart has been prepared for this and JMC managed hoopers will feed animals on those routes. If there is an access of chapatis then it will be sent to Hingonia Gaushala in the city. Recently, JMC has started feeding people two times a day and have been serving food to 1 lakh people every day. Along with the Akshay Patra Foundation, everyday JMC has started to serve 8000 chapatis to dogs all over the city all expense bear by JMC. For birds, eight quintals of seed were purchased that is being fed them every day. This is the first time that through people’s contribution stray animals are being fed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-collect-one-roti-from-each-house-for-strays/articleshow/74939453.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||92 nationals of 8 countries taken to their embassies||DEHRADUN: As many as 92 nationals of eight countries, who had come to Rishikesh to learn yoga, were taken back to their respective embassies in four buses on Wednesday. The foreign nationals include 37 from Spain and 22 from Sweden. Rishikesh is a major hub of tourists, adventure sports and yoga activities. Each year, visitors in high numbers come to different areas of Rishikesh, including the prominent ashrams and Tapovan area, for yoga, meditation and adventure sports. The stranded foreigners too had come to Rishikesh some time ago and were in the area when the lockdown was announced in the country. Through their embassies, the foreign nationals had approached the Centre and after due clearance, they were sent to Delhi. Sources said that the 92 foreign nationals were taken to Delhi in four buses. Prior to their journey, thermal scanning of each individual was also carried out, the sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/92-nationals-of-8-countries-taken-to-their-embassies/articleshow/74938809.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Deliver vegetables to households: MP||Coimbatore: The district administration should introduce a system to deliver a package of five days-worth vegetables at a nominal cost to households in association with traders to prevent people from thronging markets, member of Parliament P R Natarajan said. In a communication to the Coimbatore collector, the MP said that people and sellers are flocking to markets at Gandhipuram, Ukkadam and Town Hall ignoring the measures taken by the district administration to ensure social distancing. “The Thoothukkudi corporation has been delivering vegetables to homes at an affordable cost. If Coimbatore can follow this, it can control crowds,” he said. “Officials should talk to vegetable traders and ask them to fix a nominal price. The collector should consult with the corporation commissioner and use the corporation vehicles to deliver vegetables to homes. For the 100 wards in the city, one day can be fixed for each ward. The administration can use volunteers for the exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/deliver-vegetables-to-households-mp/articleshow/74939448.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||Indore gets 31 more coronavirus cases in 24 hours; Madhya Pradesh count 98||INDORE/BHOPAL: A whopping 31 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Indore between Tuesday midnight and Wednesday, taking its tally to 75. The city also got its first child corona patients, three kids aged 5 to 8 years, and first police officer to test positive. The day’s count included Khargone’s first Covid-19 case, a 65-year-old hotel owner from Mandleshwar who had died during treatment on March 29. His test came positive late Tuesday night. On a happy note, however, Gwalior’s first Covid-19 patient tested negative, so did 13 first contacts in Jabalpur. All of them may be discharged on Thursday. Indore, which is in total lockdown, now accounts for 76% of MP’s tally of 98. Collector Manish Singh had on Tuesday said the city should “mentally prepare” for the Covid-19 count to rise to 150. With the Khargone death, MP’s toll has gone up to six, half of them in Indore. In Wednesday midnight’s bulletin, new Covid-19 cases were reported for the first time in five localities — Snehlataganj, Samajvad Nagar, Ambikapuri, Gandhi Nagar and Moti Tabela. Health officials could not confirm any travel history or contact history in 11 of the cases. Only one of the patients had a contact history with a patient. The bulletin said the condition of 8 patients of Indore’s 75 patients is critical. Amid the grim tidings in Indore, there was news of hope from other areas — 48 test reports in Gwalior came back negative and 13 people in Jabalpur, who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients, were discharged from hospital quarantine after 14 days as they all tested negative. In Jabalpur, 27 samples have tested negative in the past few days and the condition of all eight patients is stable. In Satna, all 14 suspected patients tested negative. Lockdown is in force in all districts, but Gwalior and Bhind were closed completely like Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/indore-gets-31-more-corona-cases-in-24-hrs-state-count-98/articleshow/74939456.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||4 booked for sheltering clerics at home||Nagpur: The police have booked four persons in Kusumkota Buzrug village in Melghat hills of Amravati district for allegedly providing shelter to eight clerics coming from Madhya Pradesh to the village. The village located 3 km from the tribal town of Dharni is close to MP border. The clerics had reached the village on Wednesday. Those booked have been charged with violating curfew rule as they did not inform the police about the people coming from outside. The local Bajrang Dal and BJP activists had taken up the matter with the police. The clerics belong to a group of Muslim preachers that often moves from place to place and stays in people’s homes. The clerics maintained that they belonged to Amravati city and were on their way back. They said they had not attended the Delhi event of Tablighi Jamaat and claimed they had lived in Burhanpur and Khandwa districts of MP for two months each on a religious tour. The clerics have been taken to a shelter home in Dharni for medical tests. Offences have been registered against only those persons in whose homes the clerics had stayed, said a police official. The development was confirmed by Dharni tehsildar Atul Patole. The cop said these clerics could not be directly linked with Tablighis at this moment. BJP’s president for Dharni Appa Patil said the party workers had intimated the police after they saw outsiders in the village. “We informed the Police Patil Shastri Malviya who took it up with the police,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-booked-for-sheltering-clerics-at-home/articleshow/74949022.cms||Shishir Arya
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||15 positive cases in Kadapa, retired doctors requested to volunteer||TIRUPATI: The state witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases with Kadapa district alone reporting 15 cases on Wednesday. Till Tuesday, there were no positive cases in the district. With most of the positive cases in the last 24 hours linked to Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the convocation at Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia Dargah at Delhi between March 15-17, state deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha and district collector CH Harikiran held a series of meetings on Wednesday to streamline the containment strategy. Harikiran held a meeting with Indian Medical Association and appealed to retired and private doctors to extend medical assistance. The collector said 4,941 persons returned from abroad to the district in the last three months and out of which 213 people had completed 14-day home isolation period. Nearly 3,064 people have completed 14 to 28 days home isolation and 1,664 have completed 28 days home isolation period, he said. ‘’But with about 3,277 persons still under home isolation, and new positive cases reported in the district, private and retired doctors should come forward to provide medical assistance,” said the collector. The collector directed the officials to ramp up facilities at all quarantine centres in the district. He asked all those who returned to the district after attending the religious congregation or foreign countries to get tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/15-positive-cases-in-kadapa-retd-doctors-requested-to-volunteer/articleshow/74937605.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Academic stakeholders offer lending hand to admin||KOLHAPUR: The academic stakeholders associated with Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) are offering different kinds of assistance in the fight against COVID19 spread. SUK vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde too has appealed to all the teaching and non-teaching staff members of the university departments and affiliated colleges to donate their one-day salary to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF). “The world has come to standstill due to the pandemic and to stop the spread of the infection, everyone should act according to the administration’s guidelines and stay indoors. With the financial support, we can abide by our social responsibility,” he said. The Kolhapur-based Shri Swami Vivekanand Shikshan Sanstha has pledged Rs 1 crore help to the CMRF. In a press statement, the officials of the institution said they would ensure every kind of help to the state government. It added that all the staff members of the teaching and non-teaching staff have donated their one-day salary towards this cause. Ichalkaranji-based DKTE Society’s Textile and Engineering Institute is offering masks to the administration. In a press statement, the officials said that its Centre of Excellence is working on non-woven masks and Ichalkaranji Garment Cluster is working on a three-layered mask. “The mask’s inner and outer layer is made of cotton, while the middle layer is made of non-woven material. The cotton helps in absorbing the moisture, while the non-woven material helps in resisting infectious particles,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/academic-stakeholders-offer-lending-hand-to-admin/articleshow/74938817.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2 more test positive for Covid-19 in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: Two more persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday.  There are ten persons presently in isolation wards after being tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. The two persons who were tested positive on Wednesday are residents of Pothencode and Manacaud. One of the patients, aged 30, was under home isolation and another person, aged 61, was admitted to isolation ward in General Hospital. The 61-year-old person who is a resident of Kallatumukku at Manacaud is a staff at Dubai airport. The second person arrived from Sharjah. He was included in the primary contact list of the Malappuram native who was earlier tested positive and is currently under treatment at Medical College. He was asymptomatic. The 61-year-old person also did not show any symptoms. Both of them arrived on March 22. This is the second positive case from Pothencode, which is currently under complete lockdown for 21 days, where all residents of 18 wards along with people in border areas of other local bodies have been asked to maintain strict home quarantine. The health authorities have begun contact tracing of both the cases. Abdul Azeez, the Pothencode resident who died on Tuesday was admitted to Medical College Hospital on March 23. The latest positive case from Pothencode had travelled in the same flight in which the Malappuram native, who was tested positive, had travelled. A total of 17,981 persons are under home quarantine in the district at present. As many as 77 persons have been put under observation in hospital and 20 persons were admitted to hospital on Wednesday. The authorities said that the condition of two kids aged eight and 13, who were tested positive on Tuesday, is stable. Meanwhile, district collector K Gopalakrishnan visited the border and inspected movement of goods here on Wednesday. The collector held discussion with the officials of the checkpost at Kaliyikkavila. As per the discussion held with Kanyakumari district administration, an agreement was made to allow goods movement. People’s movement across borders is also being regulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dist/articleshow/74937624.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cops seize 1,900 vehicles in one day for lockdown violation||BENGALURU: Intensifying their crackdown on all vehicular movements in violation of lockdown restrictions, Bengaluru police on Wednesday seized nearly 1,900 vehicles. Cops warned violators that their vehicles would be released only after the lockdown period is over. The move drew severe criticism, with several Bengalureans taking to online platforms wondering how could elderly people be asked to walk in the sun to buy essentials or for medical emergencies. “This is not an April Fool’s prank. Two/four wheelers are banned from use till the 14th of April. We will SEIZE your vehicle if you CEASE to ignore this lockdown regulation,” tweeted Praveen Sood, state’s DG & IGP. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao also took to Twitter, giving details of the vehicles seized, along with an instruction to ‘walk to your grocery shop’. Later at 7.43pm, Rao tweeted that they had seized 6,852 vehicles till 7pm Wednesday. Police began the drive on March 24. The confiscated vehicles included 6,321 two-wheelers, 227 three-wheelers, and 304 four-wheelers. On Wednesday alone, 1,713 two-wheelers, 75 three-wheelers and 80 cars and SUVs were seized. An earlier tweet by Rao suggesting Bengalureans should walk to their grocery shop drew a barrage of questions. The main concern raised was how would people who live 3-4km away from their grocery stores buy essentials without their vehicles. “Sir, near by we have a small shop. We dont get diaper for kids and grocery are very limited. The nearest hypermarket is 3 to 4 kms from my location. Is it fine to go in Car?” wrote Twitter user @ronmania2009. Rao replied: “Your vehicle is liable to be seized if caught.” A Twitter user, @CRamanaKumar, said: “Difficult to understand the sheer absurdity of the police diktat. If one needs to get provisions/medicines not in walking distance & which are too heavy to carry home, will the cops/state provide the necessary transport? Wonder if its been thought through properly at all.” “Not acceptable-first you ask us not hoard and now stop us from making trips to groceries/medical stores/veggie shopping!” tweeted @gayathripradeep. “Online stores are cancelling our orders. we would need to go out to buy groceries. How will the police help in this case? We will need to travel by two wheeler. please clarify this for your people in Bangalore, said @parivesh87. “We needed permission to move our 83yr old uncle...took us all day and we couldn't get through the helpline for such issues...nothing works. No one knows anything,” said another another Twitter user on the handle @JyothiNair76. 200 medical emergency passes per stationOn Wednesday evening, police commissioner Bhaskar Rao announced that 200 medical emergency passes, which residents can use and return on a daily basis, will be issued at each police station in the city. He said more details about the passes would be released later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-cops-seize-1-9k-vehicles-in-one-day-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/74938825.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: JCTSL staff wait for salaries||JAIPUR: At a time when the state government is requesting private employers not to deduct salary of employees, Jaipur City Transport Services Limited (JCTSL) staff is waiting for two months’ salary. With no pay since February, a total of 925 drivers and conducters are struggling to survive. JCTSL union secretary Babulal Nangali said, “Our staff was deployed during the lockdown. We were dutiful and worked without protest. But, money is required to buy essentials.” The union alleged that the salary of JCTSL employees was always delayed as the corporation claims it is running in losses. The situation is similar with Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC), but their salaries are given on time . A senior JCTSL offical said, “The request is in process and employees would recieve the remuneration in the first week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jctsl-staff-wait-for-salaries/articleshow/74939463.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||In 1st foreign case, NIA to probe Af gurdwara attack||NEW DELHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA), in its first probe involving an act of terror against an Indian citizen on foreign soil, has filed a case in connection with the March 25 bombing on a gurdwara in Kabul, Afghanistan. Not only was an Indian national - Tian Singh from New Delhi - killed in the attack apart from 26 others, but one of the attackers is also suspected to be an Indian youth from Kasaragod in Kerala. Muhammad Muhsin, a school dropout from Trikkaripur village in Kasargod, had left India for UAE in July 2018 and is suspected to have travelled further to Afghanistan to join Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) there. I SKP later claimed responsibility for the attack and an Islamic State group-linked media put out a photograph of Muhsin claiming him to be one of the suicide bombers. Though IS message had named him as Abu Khalid al-Hindi, NIA sleuths managed to unmask his real identity with the help of his family in Kasaragod. N IA has now registered a case in connection with the said attack under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and IPC. O n March 25, unknown gunmen had stormed into a gurdwara in Kabul and fired indiscriminately, killing 27 devotees and injuring several others. A n Indian citizen Tian Singh,from New Delhi, was also killed in the attack. A s per the preliminary investigation, one Muhsin from Kasaragod, Kerala and others who had joined ISKP, are suspected to have been involved in the attack. This is the first case of its kind that NIA has registered after NIA Act was amended last year to empower the agency to investigate terror cases which are committed at any place outside India against Indian citizens or affecting the interests of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-1st-foreign-case-nia-to-probe-af-gurdwara-attack/articleshow/74940211.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In a 1st, 4 positive cases found in public surveillance||AHMEDABAD: The door-to-door survey and mapping of the symptoms paid off for the city municipal health department as four out of eight positive Covid 19 cases--three from Bapunagar and one from Chandkheda-- who were confirmed on Wednesday was a result of health workers’ house visits. These Covid positive patients had no travel history neither were they aware of coming in contact with any known Covid patients. A senior AMC official told TOI, “The three persons included three members of a family in Bapunagar – a couple and their teenage son – and a 65-year-old woman from Chandkheda. They were found to have all three symptoms – cough, fever and respiratory issues.” For the first time on Wednesday the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation A(MC) took an unprecedented step of releasing names of all the Covid-19 patients in city with an appeal that all those who came in contact with these poeple come forward for medical checks. Ahmedabad currently records 36% of the state’s total Covid-19 positive cases with 31 (29 from city + 2 from Ahmedabad rural) cases and on Wednesday, it recorded the steepest single-day spike with eight new cases. The AMC has already deployed multiple measures to identify the spread of Covid-19 and possible pattern based on contact tracing and identification of clusters. AMC has initiated mapping of all residences with the positive cases and through contact tracing, they have identified 622 persons – three of who are under hospitalization and 518 under home quarantine. “The central government has already identified Ahmedabad as one of the hotspots in India due to exponential rise in the number of cases. On March 20, the city had recorded its first three cases,” said the official. “In a matter of 13 days, the number has risen 10-fold with an average two cases added between March 21 and 30. The city had earlier recorded a spike on March 23 with 6 cases – the day when Gujarat had recorded 11 cases.” However, Ahmedabad has the highest number of positive persons with international travel history – 15 – compared to the local infection cases (10) followed by domestic travel (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-a-1st-4-ve-cases-found-in-public-surveillance/articleshow/74939488.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KWA uniondemands food,transportation facilities||Thiruvananthapuram: All Kerala Water Authority Employees union (AKWAEU) has petitioned chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and water resources minister K Krishnankutty to address the issues of staff engaged in emergency water supply. The union complained that employees of KWA who work in rural areas have been suffering without food and transportation at the time of lockdown. “The KWA has insufficient quarters facility. The pump houses, most of them located in rural and remote areas, also lack enough facilities. Staff are not getting enough food while they are doing overtime without any allowance,” the AKWAEU said in a statement. The union state working president M M Geroge said the government should take necessary steps to overcome the shortage of staff due to pension of employees in the month of March, April and May. “It must be ensured that the mass retirement won’t affect the water supply system,” he said. The organisation has also asked KWA to ensure necessary security measures such as masks and sanitizers for staff engaged in helpline services, distribution of water in cans and tankers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kwa-uniondemands-foodtransportation-facilities/articleshow/74937640.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||No select liquor supply to tipplers: V Srinivas Goud||Prohibition and excise minister V Srinivas Goud ruled out allowing select liquor supplies to those suffering from alcohol withdrawal symptoms. He said though the department is losing huge revenue due to the lockdown, public safety is of paramount importance to the government, the minister told Koride Mahesh. Excerpts from the interview. There has been a surge in the number of cases of tipplers addicted to liquor and toddy are being admitted to the Government Mental Hospital due to ithdrawal symptoms. Has the government initiated any measures to prevent such cases?It has come to our notice that scores of people severely addicted to alcohol were facing mental and physical problems. But, the government is implementing lockdown to tackle a much bigger crisis. Instructions have been given to excise officials to coordinate with sarpanches and panchayat secretaries in the rural areas and municipal authorities in urban areas, identify addicts and provide treatment. But, there are no medical facilities in the rural areas for patients suffering from withdrawal symptoms.According to doctors, people develop symptoms days after they stop consumption of liquor like headache, hallucination, seizures, nausea and anxiety. In the initial stages, family members can help them overcome such problems by taking them to local doctors. However, some people are directly bringing them to Institute of Mental Health at Erragadda. The Kerala government has decided to allow liquor to tipplers to tackle such issues. Do you have any such plan?At present, the government has no such plans to sell liquor to addicts on a doctor’s prescription or online. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao will take a call in future. The purpose of closing all commercial establishments and wine shops was to avoid congregation of people and maintain social distancing. We are also looking at how other states like Karnataka are handling this situation. Is the government losing a huge excise revenue due to lockdown?It is true the government is losing about Rs 60 crore a day and Rs 1,800 crore overall due to closure of wine shops and toddy compounds. But, the CM has already said public safety and health is more important than revenues. To discourage liquor consumption in the state, the government had last year increased rates of liquor. Is there any ban on sale of toddy in villages?Daily labourers and poor people consume toddy in the villages and even in the city. As there is a complete lockdown, toddy sale has also been stopped. If toddy is not extracted from the palm tree for three consecutive days, the tree goes useless. The government will try to help the toddy-tappers in other ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-select-liquor-supply-to-tipplers-goud/articleshow/74939473.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Clinics opened, only patients following social distancing to be examined||KOLHAPUR: After a gap of 10 days, most clinics in the city have reopened; however, the doctors have warned that they will not check a patient if he/she does not follow social distancing and hand sanitising protocol. Doctors said that the infection can spread from one person to another if proper sanitation and social distancing is not maintained. Kunal Shinde, a general practitioner from Rajarampuri, said, “We have been asked to follow the standard operating procedures by our association before checking the patients. We are provided with sufficient number of N95 masks and gloves. We will also get glasses to cover our eyes. The masks and gloves have to be thrown away after certain hours of use. We have made it mandatory for the patients to wash their hands with sanitisers, cover their mouth and nose with masks or handkerchiefs. Also, we will make arrangements for ensuring that social distancing is maintained between patients. Those who do not follow the rules will not be examined.” The administration has maintained that the personal protective equipments (PPEs) will only be provided to doctors handling Covid-19 patients. The details of patients visiting the clinics are to be recorded and the symptoms should be asked by the assistants before letting them in the doctor’s cabin. A senior district official said that opening of private clinics will help to reach out to patients with Covid-19 symptoms. “Many people do not know the symptoms of coronavirus disease and they simply take medicines from nearby medical stores. As the clinics have opened, patients with symptoms such persistent fever, dry cough and breathing issues can be referred to one of the 11 centres for further screening,” said an official. Some doctors claim that they may not be able to handle patients in large numbers and cannot ensure social distancing. The administration has, however, assured them that local policemen have been appointed for security, adding that they will ensure discipline among patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/clinics-opened-only-patients-following-social-distancing-to-be-examined/articleshow/74938831.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan falls short of 3,000 quarantine beds||JAIPUR: The state government is falling short of 3,000 more beds to meet the target of achieving 1 lakh beds for self-quarantine. The state had earmarked a target of identifying one lakh beds with even distribution division wise for the said purpose. The total figures were, however, achieved after 10 days of the announcement made by CM Ashok Gehlot, but several places initially identified were later dropped due to poor facilities, distance and location. A chain of schools has offered two of their schools located in Transport Nagar. “I have offered my school buildings to Jaipur commissioner Anand Srivastave for using the manner they want. Later, I learnt that as both the buildings are located in the densely populated areas, government showed less interest,” said Jameel Khan, director of the chain of schools. In Ajmer, they first identified Vishram Sthali in Kayad to be the Ajmer division’s biggest quarantine centre, but later it was dropped. “The place is on the Jaipur-Ajmer highway and located on the outskirts with meeting bare minimum facilities. The reason we pulled back is that it was used as a resting place for lakhs of devotees during the annual Urs. Also the place spread in acres of land was not cleaned after the conclusion of urs in early March,” said a government official. The beds were identified by the state after exploring all possible places and zeroing in on those meeting the criteria. It has also acquired places offered by civil society members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-falls-short-of-3000-quarantine-beds/articleshow/74939478.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||This Hopcoms staffer ensures menu variety remains undisturbed||Bengaluru: When entire Bengaluru has shut shop, neighbourhood veggie and provision stores are keeping kitchens running. A Hopcoms outlet on Rest House Road in Ashok Nagar is the sole source of essentials for people residing off MG Road, Church Street and Brigade Road. With the otherwise bustling commercial locality having fallen silent, Chaluvaraju PS and other sales staff at the Hopcoms outlet are going the extra mile to make sure residents are comfortable during the nationwide lockdown. Chandru, as Chaluvaraju is fondly known to people, has been working at Hopcoms for close to 20 years now. With the city under a lockdown, Chandru has been working to cater to twice the number of people he usually does. He starts his day at 3am by travelling from his home in Basavanagudi to Lalbagh to collect vegetables, sorts them and opens his shop by 6.30am. He closes it only by 2.30pm. While on a normal day, 75-100 people would visit his store, now, at least 150-200 people throng the outlet for vegetables. “Even sales have doubled, but so has our responsibility to help people,” says Chandru, who, in between his busy schedule, also delivers vegetables to the doorsteps of senior citizens. “I make at least 10-15 such home deliveries every day. I have an assistant at the store who takes care of things while I’m gone. These are senior citizens whose children live abroad and have been our customers for years. I feel it’s my responsibility to make sure they get their supply of vegetables and take them myself. After all, it’s a matter of years of trust,” he says. At the store, he ensures his customers stand at least three feet apart and don’t crowd at the counter. “This takes a lot of time and the stipulated hours are not sufficient to serve all the people in need. I wish the authorities allow people to come out for longer to purchase vegetables,” he adds. Though his family fears the situation, Chandru says he is more than happy to fulfil his duty assigned by his department. “I always wear a mask and make sure I’m following all the precautions. After all, we can fulfil our duty only if we are healthy. Also, this job has provided me with a livelihood for years and I would never stop working in any circumstances,” he says. Concerned about farmers Chandru is also concerned about the farmers who are forced to dispose of their produce after being denied entry into the city. “In order to help people get their regular supply of vegetables, we also have to make sure the movement of farmers is not hampered. We are all connected and hope they are allowed to enter the city seamlessly,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-hopcoms-staffer-ensures-menu-variety-remains-undisturbed/articleshow/74938852.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Social distancing goes for a toss at rice distribution in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The much-required social distancing was not seen to be followed on the first day of distribution of 12 kg rice on Wednesday, as white ration card holders thronged the fair price shops in large numbers. While serpentine queues were witnessed at many FP shops across the state with people waiting for their turn to get rice, the distribution did not begin in many centres as well and people returned disappointed. The white ration card holders expressed ire over the officials and the FP shop dealers for not distributing the rice. In urban areas, particularly Hyderabad, card holders started to arrive at the shops from 7 am, although they did not open until 9 am. In rural areas, time slot token distribution began from 7 am. At these centres, social distancing was observed to be followed. Officials sent back large number of card holders and told them to come as per the time mentioned in the token. “We are giving 100 tokens per day in our FP shop limits so that social distancing could be enforced,” said a dealer of FP shop in Dabirpura. Officials said over 2.50 lakh metric tonnes of rice has been already supplied to over 17,000 FP shops in Telangana. “Card holders should not be disappointed as government will ensure that rice is given to everybody. This is a continuous programme until the last cad holder gets rice. We appeal to the people to please take time-slot tokens and come to the FP shop as per the time and date allotted to them,” said civil supplies commissioner Satyanarayana Reddy. Another 60 lakh metric tonnes of rice would be supplied to the FP shops in a phased manner as per the exhaustion of existing stocks in every district. As per the records of the Telangana government, there are 87.59 lakh white ration card holders in the state comprising 2.80 crore beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-rice-distribution-in-t/articleshow/74939493.cms||Roushan Ali
April 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Special containment plan for Tablighi Jamaat group||CHENNAI: Several more of those who participated in the three-day Tablighi Jamaat conference from Tamil Nadu agreed to be tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday and the state health department rolled out a special plan to contain the cluster. The aim, officials said, is to ensure the infection is not passed on to the community Finally, 1,103 participants across 15 districts were isolated and tested, while their family members are being taken to government quarantine facilities or advised to stay in home quarantine under the supervision of religious leaders and government officials, said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. “All family members and close contacts of participants who turn positive will be tested between the fifth and the 14th day whether or not they show symptoms.” Until now, the state authorities had tested people showing symptoms after they were found having a travel history. Their family members or close contacts exhibiting the symptoms were also tested. “In this case, testing will be done whether or not the family members show symptoms,” he said. Several people who tested positive for the virus did not show any symptoms of the infection, but they can spread the infection to family members and members of the community, he said. The decision was made as per ICMR guidelines and the real time risk assessment prepared by state public health officials. Health secretary Beela Rajesh said the state has 17 testing centres including 11 in the government sector and a capacity to test 5,000 samples in day. “We will be adding at least six more labs soon in the government sector to increase the number of daily samples,” she said. Samples for 658 of the 1,103 people have been drawn. While some are still being processed, 110 turned positive today [Wednesday],” she said. In the quarantine facilities, district authorities have ensured that the vulnerable including the elderly and people with chronic ailments such as diabetes, hypertension and heart or kidney diseases are isolated from the rest. “If other members in the family are infected they may pass on the infection to the high risk group even if they don’t show symptoms,” officials said. Officials have cordoned off the 5km containment zone around houses of people testing positive, preventing entry and exit. Sanitary workers are disinfecting the area with handheld machines. Health workers have been directed to do house-to-house screening in the zone for people with symptoms of the viral infection and create a line list of high-risk patients, including the elderly and those with chronic ailments such as heart and renal conditions. Patients showing symptoms and their caregivers will be provided with masks and will be counselled about the virus. “People among high risk groups and those vulnerable will have to be in self isolation. Our counsellors and volunteers will talk to people about safety measures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/special-containment-plan-for-tj-group/articleshow/74939483.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘In talks with local players for 2 drugs’||Ahmedabad: State health department officials on Wednesday said that they are in talks with the state-based drug manufacturers to procure adequate stock of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, the two drugs which are currently used by the doctors to treat Covid-19. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Wednesday said that the control trials of the drugs have shown encouraging results where the positivity gets turned into negative sampling in a matter of about six days in majority of cases. The state is also employing the same treatment methodology. As on Wednesday evening, the state had 87 cases out of which seven have been discharged, six are dead and three are on ventilator. “Seventy-one of the patients are currently under hospitalization and stable,” said Ravi. “We have adequate stock of the drugs. Moreover, Gujarat has the biggest manufacturers of both the drugs who are in contact with us and have assured us all possible support,” said Ravi. Ravi said that Gujarat currently has adequate stock of protective gears including N95 masks and PPE kits for the medical staff treating COVID-19 patients directly. “We have also asked the hospitals – which have the protective gear, and which doesn’t have cases – to provide the surplus stock to other hospitals,” she said. On Wednesday, the 1100 helpline for mental and physical well-being of those under quarantine received 366 calls including 192 for the symptoms such as depression and stress. “We expect to add 1,000 ventilators in our healthcare system. For operating them, we will need about 3,000 skilled human resources. To ensure that, we have identified 9,000-odd persons and started training them. In Ahmedabad, we have started training 800 persons including doctors, physiotherapists, dentists and Ayush doctors,” said Ravi. “Similarly, in Rajkot and Vadodara the efforts are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-talks-with-local-players-for-2-drugs/articleshow/74939486.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Volunteers reach out to residents in remote areas||Thiruvananthapuram: An initiative to provide medicines and other requirements at doorstep has been started in Kattakada constituency. It was a number of calls requesting to arrange medicines for people in Kattakada received through call centre that led Kattakada MLA I B Satheesh to start an initiative. People staying Kattakada need to put a request to nearest call centre or through a representative and the requested items, including medicines, provision or vegetables, will be delivered at the house by volunteers. Around 122 volunteers have registered for the initiative. The group has been providing medicines free of cost to people from financially poor families. “Most of the requests are for gloves and masks from hospitals and medicines from residents under quarantine. Once we had to arrange medicine from Balaramapuram for a person at Pallichal as the medicine was no available in local medical store. We put a request through social media and people informed us about its availability. Many people are helping us with sponsorship and we also arrange fund by ourselves to purchase medicines for people who cannot afford it. Volunteers and Asha workers deliver the medicines,” said Vishnu M S, who is in-charge of the activity. The six panchayats under Kattakada constituency have been assigned to one volunteer each, who takes note of the addresses and requirements.  In addition to medicines, provisions and vegetables are also arranged by the group for the people under quarantine. “People under quarantine send us requests for provision and other requirements and we arrange them without any delivery charges. They just need to pay the bill amount. We use sanitizer and mask while delivering the goods,” said Rajiv K V, a volunteer in Malayinkeezhu panchayat. The counselling centres started as part of Oppam, a project to make Kattakada a women-friendly constituency, are receiving calls following Covid-19 outbreak. “The number of calls has increased in the past one week. Mostly calls, which are received by medical officers, are related getting infected. There are people who call and give fake information about a Covid case in their locality. We warned them not to spread panic,” said Mahesh A R, coordinator of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/volunteers-reach-out-to-residents-in-remote-areas/articleshow/74937676.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Salem||All 103 Delhi meet attendeess from Salem region under observation||SALEM: All the 103 delegates who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi are being closely monitored by district collectors in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts  In Salem district, health department officials have identified 25 delegates who had participated in the Nizamuddin congregation, while three people have come forward and disclosed themselves on their own. “Out of 28 delegates, 12 have been isolated in Mettur government hospital, while 14 are in Salem government hospital… two are admitted in Attur government hospital,” a senior official from the health department said. Blood samples of all the delegates have been sent for tests.  In Namakkal, 20 delegates have been identified for isolation. “Of them, 14 are isolated in the district headquarter hospital in Namakkal town while the rest are in Rasipuram government hospital,” said Namakkal district collector K Megraj.  Dharmapuri district has traced 4 people and Krishnagiri has identified 6 participants. “All have been isolated in the district government hospitals,” health department officials said. In Erode, 45 delegates have been isolated in IRT Perundurai government hospital. “Of them, 16 have tested positive, including two new patients,” said S Soundammal, deputy director of health services, Erode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/all-103-delhi-meet-attendees-s-from-salem-region-under-observation/articleshow/74939477.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Markaz in Mallepally to remain closed indefinitely||HYDERABAD: Intensifying their search for Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended a conference in Delhi, and putting them in quarantine, Habeeb Nagar police on Wednesday shifted nine members of Jamaat, including its sadar (president) Mohammed Ikram Ali, to ESI Hospital at Erragadda for Covid-19 tests. Meanwhile, the regional Markaz of the Jamaat, which is located at Mallepally, has been closed indefinitely. On Wednesday morning, medical and health department teams along with the Habeeb Nagar police reached the Mallepally Markaz (Jamaat’s headquarters in Telangana ), and shifted all nine members of Jamaat including its sadar to the hospital in ambulances. After five persons from Telangana who had a travel history to Delhi’s Markaz at Nizamuddin died on March 30, authorities swung into action and identified 603 persons of Jamaat in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits who were at the conference. Although the process of conducting tests on Jamaat members and their kin was started by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and health officials on Tuesday, the nine members were still staying at the regional Markaz. The state government has announced that it would discharge the 10 Indonesian preachers after their treatment at government-run hospitals, but it was finding it hard to accommodate them in the city. In the wake of the nationwide lockdown and ban on flights, foreign Jamaat members have no other option but stay put at the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/markaz-in-mallepally-to-remain-closed-indefinitely/articleshow/74939491.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||200 from South Gujarat were in Delhi's Tabhligi Jamat Markaz||AHMEDABAD: A majority of the nearly 200 people from south Gujarat districts, who had either attended the Tabhligi Jamat Markaz in Nizamuddin, Delhi, or were present in the area, have been identified and quarantined. This includes two people who came in contact with the 70-year-old man from Bhavnagar who died of the viral infection on March 26.  Bhavnagar police have also traced all 17 persons, 13 from the city and four from Botad, who had visited Nizamuddin and quarantined them. In Surat, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said 43 of the 72 persons who are reported to have attended the event or came in contact with persons who had, have been shifted to a government quarantine facility. Many have not yet returned to the city, Pani said. Surat district authorities were sent list of 21 persons whose presence was found in the area around Nizamuddin Markaz. Preliminary investigation revealed nine were part of the event while others were present in the vicinity. Their addresses were found from mobile numbers shared by the Delhi government. One person from Mahuva village of Surat district was traced to Hansot town in Bharuch and he was quarantined there. Another person from the same village was in Tamil Nadu and was quarantined there. The location of a staff member in the New Delhi office of BJP Bardoli MP Prabhu Vasava was also found in the area, sources added. In Navsari district, 16 people suspected to have some Nizamuddin connect were quarantined on Wednesday, D H Bhavsar, chief district health officer, told TOI. Bharuch district administration has tracked 38 people from the district who had visited Nizamuddin, but did not participate in the event, said the Bharuch epidemic medical officer (EMO). In Valsad district, 19 of the 39 identified have been home quarantined while 20 are still outside Gujarat, collector C R Kharsan, collector, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/200-from-south-guj-were-in-delhi/articleshow/74939487.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Assagao locals give food items to needy||Panaji: Residents of Assagao got together on Wednesday to feed the underprivileged during the ongoing lockdown. With less money in hand, poor access to food items and difficulty in moving around for fear of police action, the underprivileged were left helpless, sources said. Some farmers in Assagao grow rice, chavli and alsalnae and this produce was sourced by a citizens’ group and distributed among migrants and workers who are out of jobs now. “We reached out to the North Goa deputy collector for a travel pass and provided them with food,” a volunteer said.  “Labourers who were working at a construction site in the village said that they’ve nearly exhausted the rations given to them by their contractor. They were worried that they would have to starve for the rest of the days,” volunteers said. They have distributed 100 rations in the village through the day. “There is a food crisis in Assagao and everyone is tackling their own problems. We decided to find a solution with whatever we have growing within the village but we need to do more,” a volunteer said. Together, the volunteers want to raise more locally-grown food and distribute it among the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assagao-locals-give-food-items-to-needy/articleshow/74939865.cms||Nida Sayed
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||173 people from Uttarakhand who attended different Jamaats in past 28 days quarantined||DEHRADUN: As many as 713 people from Uttarakhand attended regular jamaats in different parts of the country since January 1 this year and police are in the process of verifying the identities of all of them, according to Uttarakhand police. Of the 713, 173 have been quarantined after they returned back to their respective homes in the Himalayan state in past 28 days. Speaking to TOI, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, said, “People who attended the jamaats and returned in January and February itself are in safe zone, as lots of time has passed since their arrival. However, 173 people who returned in the past 28 days are being quarantined.” Speaking about the people who participated in Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, Kumar said, “There were 26 people from across Uttarakhand who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat and all of them have not returned and currently are in New Delhi. We have cross-verified this fact from their homes and their mobile location.” ‘Markaz Nizamuddin’, the Delhi headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat has been in the limelight after thousands of people took part in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 1 to 15. Over 100 positive cases and seven deaths are reportedly linked to the congregation. According to senior police officials, strict action is being taken against people who attended the jamaat and returned back home without informing the authorities. “We received information that five people from Pauri district participated in the jamaat recently. All five have been booked under relevant sections and kept in quarantine. Similar cases have been reported from Udham Singh Nagar district and action is being taken against them too,” said Ashok Kumar. The DG law and order said that he has also made an appeal to everyone who has attended jamaat in past 28 days to intimate the district authorities or police immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/173-people-from-ukhand-who-attended-different-jamaats-in-past-28-days-quarantined/articleshow/74938859.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Relaxation in lockdown results in panic buying||MANGALURU: A nine-hour window to purchase essentials starting 6am on Tuesday, after the 78-hour total lockdown that the Dakshina Kannada district administration imposed to control Covid-19 cases in the district, saw serpentine queues of people outside grocery stores and vegetable shops. The irony of this move was not lost on the authorities, as social distancing went for a toss, despite repeated pleas by harried policemen deputed to control people at these spots. Even the assertion by district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, that the prices of essential items will be controlled, was a non-starter, just as the move mooted by Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel to supply essentials to the doorsteps of people is still in the works. A meeting that the Mangaluru City Corporation(MCC) had with wholesalers and retailers for doorstep delivery, and contact numbers of such vendors being distributed to the people, too did not work out, with no response being received from the given numbers, when people tried calling. On the other hand, queues for milk and newspapers was thin, given that these items were exempted during the lockdown period. With transportation of vegetables from Central Market to suburban markets being a major issue, prices at these markets put them out of reach for most. “The market was flooded with vegetables, but the crowd was too much to handle. Police came and asked all the shops at Central Market to close down,” was widely commented on WhatsApp. At Kadri, traffic on the four-lane two-way road was restricted to a one-way two-lane road, to help people buy vegetables. Chairs were placed on the road for people to sit, to ensure that social distancing norms were adhered to. In other places, such as the Hopcoms outlet and vegetable market at Karangalpady, it was each one for himself. Given the chaos, netizens urged the district administration to take a few lessons from neighbouring Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. The administration that later relaxed purchasing hours from Wednesday, decided that retailers could source vegetables from the wholesale Central Market from 11pm to 4am, and sell in their areas from 7am to 1pm. The market premises will be off limits for the public and guarded by police. Even sales in the constricted Surathkal Market premises has been banned, stated an official note from the department of information and public relations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/relaxation-in-lockdown-results-in-panic-buying/articleshow/74918869.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Surat||GJEPC contributes Rs 21 crore to PM CARES||Surat: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has contributed Rs21 crore to PM CARES fund, pledging its support to combat COVID-19 pandemic in the country on Wednesday. GJEPC chairman Pramod Kumar Agarwal said, “Nation is facing an unprecedented crisis and needs service of organizations and their resources like never before. In such a time, the GJEPC has stepped forward to show its solidarity and support towards all the initiatives undertaken by the government to fight COVID-19.” Agarwal added, “The government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated proactive measures to contain the spread of the virus in the country. GJEPC’s contribution will help make a difference to several initiatives undertaken by the government to combat COVID-19.” According to Agarwal, economic situation of the country has taken a severe beating. Most affected is daily wage workers. It is important to take adequate care of these workers and support them wholeheartedly. “We have made separate provision of funds for helping daily wagers in gems and jewellery sector. We will be soon making announcement on the release of the funds for the welfare of the workers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gjepc-contributes-rs-21-crore-to-pm-cares/articleshow/74938429.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Differently abled women on a mask mission in Chittorgarh||JAIPUR: Masks are in short supply, but the crisis is acute once you move away from big cities. There is an urgency to produce more at a rapid clip and the clock is ticking for 26-year-old Sweta Garu in Dagla ka Kheda village of Chittorgarh. “I have been on the sewing machine non-stop, around eight hours day although I have to take small breaks because of the problem in one of my legs. The government needs masks urgently, we have a target and doing leisurely is the last thing on the mind,” said Sweta, undeterred by her locomotor disability. Like Garu, all the eight members of her self help group who have some form of the orthopedic impairment or the other, are on a mission to complete the first order of 8,000 masks for the district administration. In normal times, they would work together under one roof, but to follow social distancing norms they are now working from their homes. For 45-year-old Salma Bano from Bassi village, making masks fills in a sense of pride. It's a rare opportunity for her to contribute to the war on the pandemic. That she is able to make about Rs 400-500 a day just adds to her enthusiasm and motivation. “We are hearing the mahamari (pandemic) has put lives of lakhs of people at risk globally. The virus is increasing in India too. Masks can help people save themselves from getting infected. In our area, people don’t have as many masks as required and government wants us to meet some of the requirements. I feel happy to be part of the mission to keep people safe from the virus,” said Bano over phone. Before the government order came for masks, the group was engaged in making carry bags, doormats and other household materials using discarded clothes. They would sell them in fairs and bazaars. For training, getting sewing machines and finding market access, they are helped by Nabard, CUTS and some companies. There is a struggle to meet the demand for masks and the poor and marginalized people still don’t use them in the absence of supply as well as because they cannot afford it, says said district supply officer Beezal Surana. “We ask for donation in the form of clothes, which are then given to the members of the SHG. In the span of 7 days, we have already received about 2,000 masks for distribution among the needy people. We will need as many as masks they make,” said Surana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/differently-abled-women-on-a-mask-mission/articleshow/74939523.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 2, 2020||Delhi||FIR for 44 buses carrying migrants in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has registered an FIR to probe the use of Delhi Transport Corporation and Cluster buses for ferrying migrant workers from parts of the city to the Anand Vihar terminus to further board private buses that would take them to UP and Bihar. Police had nabbed 44 DTC drivers ferrying migrant workers on the ITO Bridge on Sunday. In the complaint, a policeman posted at the picket check point on the ITO bridge said that the buses were stopped around 7am. During the enquiry, the passengers told the cops that they had boarded the bus from different parts of west Delhi and were travelling free of cost. When the bus drivers were questioned they claimed that there “orders from the top levels” to ferry the migrant workers. A case was registered under Epidemic Diseases Act and the IPC at Shakarpur Police station. The police team briefed the passengers about the lockdown and the ban on travel on any form on public transport. During this the bus drivers argued that no charges were taken from the passengers even though the buses were being run under orders from the DTC authorities. Following this incident, the central government had suspended Renu Sharma, additional chief secretary, transport and Rajiv Verma, principal secretary, finance. While Satya Gopal, additional chief secretary, home and land buildings departments, and Ajay Kumar Arora, SDM Seelampur, were served show cause notices for failing to comply with the lockdown orders.  TOI could not get a response from the Delhi Transport Corporation or the transport minister Kailash Gehlot. Meanwhile, some operators of private buses ferrying migrant workers from Delhi to other states claimed that about 30 buses in which workers of essential services were being transported have been stalled at different ISBTs across the city. Delhi Police had stopped the buses from plying since they did not have the requisite permits to ply within the city limits. Private buses that can run on both CNG and diesel were hired at lower rates to ferry the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-for-44-buses-carrying-migrants/articleshow/74939485.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||13 people who attended Jamaat in Moradabad held for defying lockdown||RUDRAPUR: Udham Singh Nagar police on Wednesday arrested thirteen people at the city railway station, who they claimed were returning from a Jamaat event held in Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh. They were booked for attending the event defying the lockdown. They were taken to a hospital for thermal screening and later quarantined. Superintendent of police (SP) city Devendra Peencha said that all thirteen of the arrested persons are residents of Haldwani city area. “These people had gone to Moradabad to participate in a Jamaat event. As buses and trains are not running right now, they decided to walk along railway tracks. Police noticed them and took them for Covid-19 screening at a hospital. They will be quarantined and kept under observation, as per protocol,” Peencha said. “They have all been booked for violating section 144 of the IPC and additionally been charged with section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC,” the SP added. Peencha also clarified that the accused were not present at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin.  “A primary investigation revealed that none of them attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, which has led to several cases of coronavirus emerging in differnt parts of the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-people-who-attended-jamaat-in-moradabad-held-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/74938867.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Mangalwar Peth families that fled traced, no new cases||KOLHAPUR: Officials said healthcare workers are now in touch with most of the families that had fled the Mangalwar Peth area after two positive Covid-19 cases had emerged from there. Some of the families had left the locality after the first case emerged last Thursday. On Sunday, the area saw the second case after the sister of the first infected person also tested positive. More families then left the area fearing a spread. “But we have now traced all of them — there are 12 families. No individual from these families has shown any symptom. We have, however, asked them to stay at home for at least a week. They have also been asked to report their daily status to our staff,” said a doctor from the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), who is part of the surveillance team. The doctor added that healthcare workers have been told to check on these families once every day. The administration has also sealed a gate of Bhaktipuja Nagar in Mangalwar Peth. It was found open. Locals claimed the shutdown has caused major inconveniences, including to the supply of essentials. But officials said all measures have been set in place to ensure residents are receiving supplies. Community groups too have been helping residents with goods. On Wednesday, there were no reports of any positive cases from the area and officials said they were cautiously optimistic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mangalwar-peth-families-that-fled-traced-no-new-cases/articleshow/74938853.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||72 Gujarat jamaatis identified, says DGP||AHMEDABAD: According to a press release from the director general of police’s office, as on March there were about 1,746 persons at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz. Of these 216 were foreigners and 1,530 were Indians. On March 28, central agencies advised all states to collect the names of Indian Tablighi Jamaat workers and locate them on ground to have them medically screened and to quarantine them. The inquiry by Gujarat police found that 34 Tablighi Jamaat workers in Ahmedabad, 12 in Mehsana, 20 Bhavnagar, 4 from Botad and 2 from Navsari, had attended the Markaz. Jha directed field units to identify such members of the Tablighi Jamaat , prepare detailed reports of their travel routes and identify those who came in contact with them and ensure they are screened and/or quarantined with the help of district medical teams to conduct medical screening of these persons and to quarantine them. The press release said that mobile phone data is being analysed to identify those who may have been at the Markaz from March 14 to March 23. A Bhavnagar man of about 70 had gone to Delhi on March 9 via Ahmedabad and had visited the Markaz on March 10, with a group of 15 others. He developed Covid-19 symptoms and died on March 26. He subsequently tested positive for Covid-19. The others members of the group have been placed under quarantine in Bhavnagar and efforts are being made to identify their primary contacts after their return. According to the press release the two groups of Tablighi Jamaat workers had come to Ahmedabad in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/72-gujarat-jamaatis-identified-says-dgp/articleshow/74939490.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||Death of college girl: Modasa court orders release of two accused||Palanpur: Two of the three accused arrested in connection with death of a 19-year-old girl in Modasa village in January, were release by a local court in Arvalli district on Wednesday.District and session judge A K Rao released Darshan Bharwad and Jigar Parmar, after the cops investigating the case, filed a report saying that they could not find evidence establishing involvement of the duo in death of the M Com student. The girl’s body was found hanging by the tree in Sayra village of Modasa in January.However, one accused Bimal Bharwad remains in jail as he has been charged under section 306, 201and 504 of IPC besides Atrocity Act, said additional public prosecutor DS Patel.Death of the girl had triggered lage-scale protest by the people in Modasa, alleging that she was murdered and raped. However, postmortem report had concluded that the girl had committed suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/death-of-college-girl-modasa-court-orders-release-of-two-accused/articleshow/74937725.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘India cannot relax its guard; needs to ramp up testing strategy’||Chirantan Chatterjee, ICICI Bank Chair Professor at IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) is the chairperson of the Centre for Management of Healthcare Services (CMHS) at IIM-A, and is a visiting fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University. In conversation with Parth Shastri, Prof Chatterjee said that the current situation is both a bane and boon for India, and the need of the hour is to ramp up healthcare expenditure, not to relax guard, and to adopt an aggressive testing strategy for quicker and widespread identification of potential infectious persons. Excerpts from the interview: What’s your take on the projection for Covid-19 spread in India? Do you think it would follow the global pattern?n Take my thoughts with caution, since I am an economist and not an epidemiologist. Overall, I don’t see any reason why it wouldn’t. From China to Italy and Iran, we have seen sudden spikes after community or local transmission began. Everyone is attempting to flatten the curve and increase healthcare capacity alongside in preparation. Social distancing is however a short-term strategy – we are in here for a long haul and cannot relax our guard at least till May end. No healthcare system could be prepared for such a pandemic – but what are the lessons for India?n I think actually that healthcare systems could surely be prepared for it. Look at our health sector spending – while defence budget is going up dramatically, we are spending 1.5-2% of our budget on health. It’s also politicized. We must bring it up to 5-6% (of GDP expenditure). We also need a central public health officer (CPHO) on the lines of Canada – they have one since the SARS 2003 outbreak. It’s more important as health in India is a state subject and it will reduce coordination costs. The CPHO can function as a nodal officer for harmonizing central and state efforts like capacity building, community testing, treatment protocols and managing misinformation. We need a professional as a CPHO. What are the opportunities?n As I see it, the big opportunity is in research and development (R&D) for middle-income countries like India. We’ve lost focus on core competencies in bio-pharmaceuticals which was there few decades back. With firms like Shantha Biotech, we used to have a great reputation in creating vaccines. Over the last two decades, that focus has moved more towards diagnostics and prevention. Covid-19 presents the opportunity to India to create a discovery driven life-science economy with participants from Indian bio-pharmaceutical sector. And this is not just about drug re-purposing – we’re talking about new biological entities and vaccines. Institutions such as NIV, CCMB and NCBS need to be supported to be at the forefront of our Covid-19 battle and India’s national innovation system will need concentrated funding, respect for biology and not just chemistry, and attention to innovations to build tomorrow’s pandemic preparedness. How do you see India’s methodology of testing for Covid-19?n As time elapses, my sense is, we have go to as wide as possible – aggressive testing at community level is required. We are much bigger than Taiwan or South Korea, so it’s complex, but all potential carriers of virus should be identified through methods such as Kerala’s door-to-door surveys. USC health economist and my co-author Neeraj Sood has also recommended widespread randomized testing, which I agree with. Based on experience so far, we also need to think about dose responses within patients and not just across patients, states, and countries, following author and doctor Siddhartha Mukherjee’s recommendation the other day in a New Yorker article. Also, notable here, is to understand the host response system in fighting Covid-19. Government should study the work of former professor of medicine in University of Virginia, David Fedson, who has worked with the host response system approach to combat Ebola in Africa. We hear about the kits in South Korea which are cheaper and provide faster results. Can it work here? n From what I understand, it's a situation of dealing pragmatically with uncertainty - the South Korean kits can give 90% test accuracy with 2.5 hours turnaround time. Tomorrow, if the cases increase rapidly, we may need kits with 5-minute turnaround time. We see the classic iron triangle in healthcare between cost, quality and access. What we need are kits to dynamically match our needs depending on scale, accuracy and agility to pivot by our healthcare regulators. How the current outbreak and lockdown will affect economy and society?n I hope it brings structural and systematic change in people’s behaviour. We would stop spitting on roads, wash our hands better – it could be an advantage turning the crisis into a moment of societal change like Winston Churchill had once said. Lastly, what would be your five suggestions for India?n Ramp up healthcare spending to 5-6% of GDP, build more hospitals and attend to human capital shortage in healthcare, depend more on real (and not voodoo) science and scientists, ponder creation of a unified health service system and engage in regular, transparent and empathetic two-way communication with citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/india-cannot-relax-its-guard-needs-to-ramp-up-testing-strategy/articleshow/74939508.cms||Parth Shastri
April 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa donates one year’s pay for Covid-19 crisis||BENGALURU: Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has announced that he will donate an entire year’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight Covid-19. Handing over a cheque of Rs 24.1 lakh to chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, Yediyurappa urged more ministers and legislators to come forward to donate during a grave crisis like this. Official sources said the CM gets a fixed salary of Rs 2 lakh per month apart from a host of perks, including conveyance and rent-free accommodation, among others, which range between Rs 2 to 3 lakh. Deputy chief minister Govind Karjol also donated Rs 5 lakh towards the relief fund. In a tweet on Wednesday, Yediyurappa appealed to citizens to do their bit and contribute in whatever capacity possible to help the state in fighting the coronavirus outbreak. It is a very difficult time that we are all going through. And it is important that we fight this epidemic together… https://t.co/FKkZG3aYfF— B.S. Yediyurappa (@BSYBJP) 1585711326000Inspired by Yeddyurappa’s decision, home minister Basavaraj Bommai too contributed a month’s salary to the CM’s relief fund. Animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan contributed three months’ salary for the purpose. Meanwhile, former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda has urged the CM to allow movement of ambulances and vehicles ferrying patients with serious health issues at the Karnataka-Kerala border. He also demanded the state government lift ban on fishing in the coastal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yediyurappa-donates-a-years-salary-to-fight-covid-19-spread/articleshow/74938876.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Woman heldfor sellingillicit liquor atKattayikonam||Thiruvananthapuram: In a major catch, excise officials in Kazhakootam range, on Wednesday, detained a 62-year-old woman, who was engaged in sale of illicit liquor at Kattayikonam. The place is not far away from Pothencode panchayat, where a 21-day home quarantine is in force for its residents. Excise officials identified the accused as Lalitha and also seized six litres of hooch from her possession. Officials has strengthened its vigil amid lockdown as the production and sale of hooch had increased following the closure of of government liquor stores.  The officials, however, did not record her arrest as it was not safe to send her to the prison due to Covid-19 outbreak. Hence, they recorded a case against her and sent her home. However, a probe has been launched to find the source of the hooch seized from her. The excise team would be interrogating her in this regardin the coming days. “She only revealed that someone had supplied her the contraband. This could mean that a bigger gang is currently operational in the district, brewing hooch and supplying to bootleggers like Lalitha,” an official, who was part of the team that made the catch, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/woman-heldfor-sellingillicit-liquor-atkattayikonam/articleshow/74937731.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Chennai||Rescue us, plead Indians abroad after Air India flies stranded foreigners||CHENNAI: Air India’s charter flights from Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi to evacuate stranded foreign nationals have led to a renewed demand from several Indians stranded in the UK, Singapore, Malaysia and Europe for rescue flights to bring them home. Air India operated a flight from Chennai to Frankfurt via Hyderabad on Tuesday. The evacuation continued on Wednesday, when a Qatar Airways aircraft landed in Chennai to pick up 295 French nationals. Though international commercial flights have been suspended, special flights by Air India and also foreign airlines have begun to evacuate foreign nationals in the country because of the shutdown. Seeing the tweets about these flights being operated though India has banned international commercial flights, many have taken to Twitter asking the Union government to rescue them. A tweet in response to Chennai airport’s post on Air India flight to Frankfurt said: "India is keen on sending passengers who are stranded in India. That too in AirIndia flights. And we Indians stranded around the world are ignored. Use rapid tests for Indian citizens on arrival and put us on quarantine rather than shutting the doors for us. This too shall pass!" In other tweets, two people have asked about rescue flights for students stranded in France and for Indians in Singapore. An airport official said that foreign nationals are returning by ferry flights - planes that come to pick up only the stranded - based on the arrangement with those countries. Mahima Gupta, a student, who is at Kuala Lumpur, said that those stranded there approached the Indian consulate when they heard about foreign nationals being evacuated from India. "The consulate is saying that we are supposed to stay put and all our efforts to go back are of no use," she said. M K Ajith Kumar of Asia Pacific Travels said Indian citizens stuck in Malaysia have started to run out of money. "The planes that take foreign nationals from here can return with the stranded Indians from Europe and the UK. Similar arrangement can be made for people stuck in Southeast Asian countries." The special flights ferried 160 people from Chennai, 115 from Kolkata and 100 from Hyderabad to Frankfurt. The Qatar Airways plane from Doha flew empty to Chennai to pick up the French citizens on Wednesday. A foreign carrier will fly to Chennai to rescue Malaysian nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rescue-us-plead-indians-abroad-after-air-india-flies-stranded-foreigners/articleshow/74939498.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court wants details of markaz||AHMEDABAD: Concerned over the “Tablighi Jamaat crisis” in Nizamuddin in Delhi, the Gujarat high court on Wednesday sought complete details from the Centre and the state government of the participants in the religious congregation, foreign participants, the number of attendees from Gujarat, and actions taken to quarantine them. The bench headed by Chief Justice Vikram Nath took up the issue on the basis of news reports that nearly 200 from Gujarat had participated in the congregation in Delhi and some of them have returned and one of them passed away after being found coronavirus positive. The HC sought to know the reality from the law officers. The Gujarat government told the HC that it was waiting for complete details from the Centre, which said that it was to get them from the Delhi government. The Centre told the HC that it would share the information with all states about the travels of the participants. The HC ordered the Centre and the state government to furnish all information by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-wants-details-of-markaz/articleshow/74939507.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases breach 100-mark in Rajasthan; 4 patients in SMS hospital test negative||JAIPUR: In the highest single-day rise, 27 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in the state on Wednesday taking the total count to 120. These include 11 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet in Delhi. While four are from Churu district, seven are from Tonk district. Meanwhile, the congested bylanes of the crowded Ramganj area here has become a nightmare for epidemiologists as 13 more persons tested positive for Covid-19. The infected are relatives of the first two persons who were infected with the virus. So far, 26 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Ramganj, with the first case reported on March 26. In addition, two more tested positive in jodhpur and one in Alwar. In Jodhpur, the health department officials found a 65-year-old person infected with the virus, but he did not have any history of travel to any countries nor any history of contact with any Covid-19 positive persons. “We are Investigating how he contracted the infection,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. One 61-year-old, who was evacuated from Iran and kept in quarantine at the Army Wellness Centre in Jodhpur, was also diagnosed with the disease. So far, 18 evacuees from Iran have been found infected with the virus. The 13 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Ramganj have already been quarantined. “They are kept in RUHS hospital as they were in the contact list of the first two Covid-19 cases from Ramganj area. Since they do not have any symptoms of the virus such as cough or fever, they have been kept in RUHS and have not been shifted to SMS Hospital. Their treatment has started in RUHS hospital,” said a senior SMS Hospital doctor. The health department has intensified the screening in Ramganj area with more teams being deployed to conduct the door-to-door survey. At SMS Hospital, four more persons undergoing treatment tested negative for the disease. The doctor of a private hospital, who was the first to test positive in Bhilwara, as well as his wife have tested negative for the disease, said a SMS Hospital doctor. Besides, one person from Jhunjhunu and one from Jaipur, who came from Spain, has also tested negative. “Four persons undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital tested negative on Wednesday. who Now, 14 persons have been cured of Covid-19 at SMS Hospital. We have not reported any death due to the disease,” said a hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-cases-breach-100-mark-in-raj-4-patients-in-sms-hosp-test-negative/articleshow/74939502.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Till now, Covid fight on right path||Thiruvananthapuram: Though Kerala was the first state where Covid-19 was detected in the last week of January, the first three patients from Wuhan were safely isolated and cured by mid-February as Kerala had planned everything to fight the spread of the disease. Its real fight against the contagious virus began on March 8 when three positive cases arose in Pathanamthitta. The trio arrived from Italy, the then hotbed of Covid-19, mingled freely with friends and neighbours while travelling extensively in central Kerala. Three weeks later, the state isolated almost 1.63L persons and recorded 252 new positive cases till Wednesday. But, a quick analysis of the pattern of spread in the past three weeks has brought some amount of confidence to health department with experts saying that the number of positive cases may reach 500 in the next two weeks after which the curve will begin to flatten. There is some relief that the lockdown has curbed the import of new cases. On Tuesday, Pothencode panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram and five bordering wards were put under quarantine for three weeks as officials couldn’t find the contact of Abdul Azeez (68) who succumbed to coronavirus. Though authorities didn’t mention anything about community spread, the precautions at Pothencode resemble the standard protocol followed during a community spread. This week, six villages of Kasaragod were totally locked down by the police in a similar manner. State planning board member Dr B Ekbal, who is also a member of the expert group formed by government on Covid-19, said that Kerala has contained the spread of virus to community from the positive cases. “Our biggest advantage is that we went for a total shut down at the right moment. This might be the reason why India reported less cases compared to other countries. There might be an argument that we didn’t do tests on asymptomatic people. Now is the time for a social surveillance and maximum possible tests,” he said. IMA secretary general Dr R V Asokan said infections here are limited to clusters and it offers excellent prospects for containment. “No one can predict when we can put an end to the spread of this virus in a community. Communities differ in countries, states and districts. At present, we are on the right path and have done well. Now an epidemiological study in the community is imminent. Only after such a detailed study, we can take a decision on continuing restrictions or relaxing lockdown,” he said. Experts believe that the 21-day lockdown has arrested the spread of the virus. They also fear that if the lockdown is relaxed and people are allowed on the streets, things might change. “As per international standards, there should be restriction for 45 days. Then we can claim to be safe because the incubation period of people with the virus would be completed. We had the last flight from abroad on March 22 and hence till April first week, we still have the possibility of reporting more cases,” said state secretary of Kerala Government Medical Officers Association Dr GS Vijayakrishnan. “We have prepared a report on the need for social surveillance that must begin now. This report would be presented before state Covid cell in a day or two. We need a grassroots-level support to make this effective. A random testing of people will ensure how safe we are,” said Ekbal. Vijayakrishnan said social surveillance in state should go on till April end so that we can ensure that carriers and their primary contacts are traced and cured. For health department, which foresaw Pathanamthitta as a boiling point, the sudden surge of cases in Kasaragod was a surprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/till-now-covid-fight-on-right-path/articleshow/74937728.cms||Rajiv G
April 2, 2020||Coimbatore||With workers not turning up, tea factories in Nilgiris draw a blank||Udhagamandalam: Tea manufacturing factories in the Nilgiris are staring at uncertainty in the wake of the lockdown as their employees have refused to turn up for work. The apex body of 15 cooperative tea factories in the Nilgiris (INDCOSERVE),had on Tuesday decided to kickstart work at four factories from Wednesday, but the decision didn’t find favour with workers. On Tuesday, in a meeting with officials from all 15 cooperative tea factories in the district, it was decided to start production as a trial measure in factories at Kinnakorai, Kaikatty, Ithalar and Mahalinga. Over 22,000 small tea farmers are attached to the 15 factories in the hills. B.B.Sivakumar , chairman of INDCOSERVE, told TOI, “The workers showed no inclination to come for work on Wednesday, given the situation… we will hold a meeting on Saturday to draw a plan for tea production”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-workers-not-turning-up-tea-factories-in-nilgiris-draw-a-blank/articleshow/74939497.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Private firms introduce remote work policies||Panaji: As state governments across India rush to contain the spread of coronavirus, Goa’s private sector seems to have gotten its act together, with many firms adopting social distancing measures and good hygiene practices. From introducing remote working policies to distributing sanitiser, and from cancelling all travel to setting up support groups, Goan companies are trying it all to keep their employees safe. Many architecture, advertising and IT startups have allowed their employees to work from home, or work on rotation in shifts. “Everyone is hoping to ‘flatten the curve’ and this can happen if every individual meets fewer people in their daily life. We feel it is our social responsibility to allow people to work from home, because in the IT sector, we can do it,” said chief executive officer of Browntape, Gurpreet Singh. Along with Browntape, another tech firm Vacation Labs has rolled out a remote working policy. Companies where remote working is not practical, especially those engaged in manufacturing and marketing, offer their employees hand sanitisers and have also introduced mandatory screening. The state government has already ordered the closure of all schools, colleges and universities in the state till March 31. It has also ordered the closure of cinema halls, gyms, clubs, night clubs and cancelled some school examinations as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. To limit exposure to the virus, which has yet to gain a foothold in Goa, some companies have discouraged food and package delivery services at their offices. A mental health institute has set up a Whatsapp group for all employees, including drivers, to disseminate credible information about the coronavirus, offer health tips and to also offer mental support to those stressed about the pandemic. President of Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar said that this is also an opportunity for companies to think about their future plans. “All sectors should start looking into how companies can bounce back and hit the ground running, once the threat is over. People usually don’t have the time to do this, so this is a good opportunity to sit back and try to figure out how to be the first mover when the economy resumes,” Kochkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-firms-introduce-remote-work-policies/articleshow/74939869.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Chevella murder case: Cops nab one for death of 35-year-old woman||HYDERABAD: Nearly a fortnight after the naked body of a woman was found on the Tangedupalle-Vikarabad road, Chevella police have apprehended one of the accused in the sensational murder case, but manhunt for the main accused is on hold due to the Covid-19 restrictions in place. The main accused is from Maharashtra. On March 17, the body of the 35-year-old woman was found under a bridge on Tangedupalle-Vikarabad road. The assailants strangled the victim and bludgeoned her face with a boulder to make it difficult for police to establish her identity. Two bangles, a ring and gold chain were found on the body. Police verified CCTV camera footage on Tangedupalle-Vikarabad route for about 20 kilometres between Chilkur and Vikarabad. They had also examined locals and one of them provided information about a parked car near the bridge on March 17. Based on the description given by the person, police verified CCTV cameras and found a car rental portal logo on the vehicle. Using the available leads, police contacted the car rental company and identified the person from Hyderabad, who took the car on rent. The suspect was picked up from his place recently and he reportedly confessed to have committed the murder in collusion with a friend from Maharashtra. The accused also said that the victim was a housewife from Sikkim and she has two children. “The accused befriended the victim through Facebook and she met him in Maharashtra. From Maharashtra, they came to Hyderabad and she stayed in a place at Madhapur.While they were in Hyderabad, the accused had an argument with the victim and he killed her. With the help of a local friend, he hired a car and dumped the body at Tangedupalle. The victim’s family lodged a missing complaint in Sikkim,” a Chevella police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chevella-murder-case-cops-nab-1-for-death-of-35-yr-old-woman/articleshow/74939514.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Abattoir may reopen, with limited operations||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s lone slaughterhouse at Ghazipur may soon be reopened, but with reduced processing limit and multiple restrictions aimed at preventing any possibility of further spread of coronavirus cases. A senior municipal corporation official told TOI that a consultative process is currently under way to re-open the abattoir. Cooperation of other agencies, including Delhi Police, is being sought to prevent any possibility of crowding. On March 24, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC)’s veterinary department had announced an abrupt closure of the slaughterhouse which was objected to by the meat merchants. Another official said that the number of slaughterings may be reduced for the next few weeks. “We will also have to regulate the number of animals that are being brought to the animal market,” he added. “Only Ghazipur border may be used for the purpose and the number of cattle may be fixed at 1,000 or 2,000. A policy is being framed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/abattoir-may-reopen-with-limited-ops/articleshow/74939509.cms||Paras Singh
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||SUK hostel buildings to be converted into Covid-19 hospital||KOLHAPUR: The district administration is planning to convert the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) hostels into Covid-19 hospital. There are over 3,000 rooms in various hostels of the university. Currently, owing to the virus outbreak, no academic session is going on and the exams have been postponed. Students living in these hostels had left for their respective homes just before the announcement of the 21-day lockdown. The officials of the district administration have prepared a report stating that a 1,000-bed hospital can be developed in various hostels of the university. District collector Daulat Desai visited the university on Wednesday and had discussion with the university officials. According to the district administration officials, who were involved in the discussion, the university has agreed to the plan, but has raised some concerns. One of the concerns was that after lockdown the university is planning to conduct the exams and providing accommodation to the students will be a major challenge. A senior district administration official said, "The university officials have suggested us to use the hostels belonging to the department of technology. The hostels have a capacity to accommodate 500 people. They also need time to shift the belongings of the students and put them in a safe place. We will take the call on the suggestion by Thursday." Currently, the rooms are locked up, the keys are with the students. The report of the district administration states that both ICU and isolation wards with a total strength of 1.476 beds can be set up in various buildings on the university campus. The arrangement will be made in such a way that one room will have only one bed. Also, there is a need to repair the toilets, doors, windows of the buildings and set up the facilities like clean drinking water and communication systems. The officials claim they are working at war footing to set up the hospital since the number of Covid-19 cases are likely to increase. Meanwhile, Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital has been converted into Covid-19 hospital. All the in-house patients have been moved to private hospitals and the OPD has been shifted to Seva hospital in Line Bazaar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-hostel-buildings-to-be-converted-into-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/74938878.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Deputy CM rubbishes claims of attending Tablighi event||TIRUPATI: Following allegations that deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Markaz Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 15-17 which has since emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 cases, Amzath Basha on Wednesday clarified that he was not in the national capital at the time. The deputy CM said the allegations were part of a conspiracy by some sections of the media to corner him and the state government. “I will not take this mischief lightly. It is unfortunate that lies are being spread about my visit to Delhi. I had gone to the national capital, but it was in connection with a case in the Supreme Court on March 2. I stayed at Andhra Bhavan and returned to the state capital the next day and attended a cabinet meet,” Basha said. “Being a VVIP, every movement of mine is recorded by protocol and I have nothing to hide. As a responsible minister, if I had attended the religious congregation, I would have voluntarily got myself tested. But there is no truth in the media reports that I attended the Delhi event,” he added. The deputy CM also told reporters that he would file criminal cases and defamation suits against the media outlets that have made the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dy-cm-rubbishes-claims-of-attending-tablighi-event/articleshow/74937737.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 2, 2020||Pune||70 out of 136 Nizamuddin event participants from Pune district traced||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Wednesday as many as 111 out of a total of 182 people from the Pune division (Solapur, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Pune districts) attending the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi earlier this month had been traced and efforts were on to track the rest. “Of the 182 persons, as many as 136 were from Pune district. We have managed to trace 75 of them and referred these people to quarantine facilities where their blood samples and swabs were being collected and sent for test,” he said. “Seven persons from Satara, four from Sangli and 15 from Solapur districts have also been traced. A total of 10 out of 21 people from Kolhapur district have been tracked down,” he said Mhaisekar, the Pune divisional commissioner, said, “We have also sought the police’s help for tracing the remaining people on the basis of their call data records. At least 51 people from Pune appear to have moved to some districts in other states and another five to other districts within the state. Some of the individuals have changed their SIM cards and the police have come across some additional information about seven persons, who came in contact with these people.” In all, a total of 94 of the 105 traced individuals across the division had been quarantined, he said. The names and details of these people were obtained from the Delhi government, he said. “We are also looking for the people who came in contact with these people,” he said. In Pimpri Chinchwad, additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said, “Total 23 people from Pimpri Chinchwad attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. On Tuesday, we have received a list of 33 people from the state authorities and we found that 23 of them are actually residing at the addresses given in the list, while the remaining 10 are not residing at the given addresses.” A senior Pune police officer police told TOI, “The 136 participants from Pune district include those from Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural parts of the district. A joint effort is on to find out those still haven’t been traced. Last night, we visited the houses of some of these people, but the same were locked. Their neighbours told us that these people left their homes after watching news about the Tablighi Jamaat event on television. They have switched off their cell phones.” Another officer involved in tracing these people said, “Some of them have changed their cell phone numbers. We are trying our best to reach them. The worrying factor is that they are moving. We have requested their neighbours to alert the police or the local health officials, if these people and their family members return.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-out-of-136-nizamuddin-event-participants-from-dist-traced/articleshow/74939506.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 2, 2020||Amaravati||Volunteers in Amaravati brave virus scare, hand over pensions||AMARAVATI: Braving the Covid-19 scare, village and ward volunteers across the state disbursed welfare pensions on Wednesday. The volunteers started the distribution early morning and covered nearly 94 per cent of the houses by evening. The cash distribution by the government during the lockdown came as a relief to the elderly, the differently-abled, single women, transgenders and dialysis patients. The government’s decision to allow portability in disbursement of pensions has come a big respite to the elderly and patients who were stuck in areas other than their native places due to the lockdown. The beneficiarues were allowed to receive their pensions at their present residence. As part of containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP), the nodal agency for disbursement of welfare pensions, directed village and ward volunteers to start disbursement only after dawn. Keeping in view the launch of disbursement of pensions early in the morning last month, SERP mission director Rajababu asked volunteers to start their operations later in the day to avoid catching cold in the early hours. Since most of the pensioners were the elderly, the SERP administration took utmost care not to allow the volunteers become silent carriers of the flu. In Kadapa, the home district of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, 94 per cent of pensions were disbursed by afternoon. The volunteers handed over pensions to nearly 3.05 lakh beneficiaries against the total beneficiaries of 3.26 lakh. In Chittoor district, the home town of opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu, nearly 93 per cent beneficiaries received pension by afternoon. Nearly 4.6 lakh beneficiaries received pensions against the total of 4.9 lakh. The volunteers reached 100 per cent target for dialysis patients attached to government hospitals as they reached out to nearly 4,074 people. Around 4,733 dialysis patients attached to private hospitals also received pensions on Wednesday. Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said they were proud of services rendered by the volunteers. He said nearly 52 lakh pension beneficiaries have received their pension at their doorsteps before afternoon. He said they would reach out to the remaining six lakh beneficiaries as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/volunteers-brave-virus-scare-hand-over-pensions/articleshow/74937770.cms||Samdani MN
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Drones deployed to sanitise Nizamuddin Basti area, civic staff to be screened||NEW DELHI: Drones have been deployed to disinfect, monitor and sprinkle sodium hypochlorite solution in and around Nizamuddin Basti—the country’s biggest corona hotspot right now. “A drone can carry five litres of disinfectant at a time. It can move fast even in narrow lanes and cover more distance in less time, which saves both time and energy. Minimum manual intervention also decreases the infection risk among the workers,” said a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official. The sanitisation drive was held in Nizamuddin Basti, Nizamuddin West, the dargah and Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, and adjoining areas. “This is for the first time that SDMC has used drones and deployed two fire tenders for spraying 1% sodium hypochlorite solution,” said the spokesperson of the civic body. Earlier this week, the north corporation had used drones to carry out sanitisation exercises in Keshavpuram, Shapkurpur, Sawan Park, Chandrawal Nagar and Lal Bagh areas among others. Meanwhile, four public health field workers wearing full body suit sanitised the entire Markaz building from inside. “We have also deployed 40 disinfectant spraying teams and four tankers,” Om Prakash who is supervising the disinfection drive in the area added. In a separate development, SDMC announced that all the garbage collectors, sanitation workers and cleaning staff who were either involved in the clean-up operation of the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters or in garbage collection from the area, will be screened for any Covid-19 like symptoms. TOI had on Thursday highlighted how these workers could have possibly come in contact with the contaminated municipal waste. A senior health official from SDMC said: “If any of the workers shows the symptoms, we will keep them in 14 days quarantine and get their samples tested further.” “While so far no worker has shown any coronavirus symptoms, we are not taking any chances. A panel of doctors from Kalkaji Colony Hospital will screen a batch of workers at Jangpura executive engineer office at 10am on Friday,” added another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drones-deployed-to-sanitise-area-safai-staff-to-be-screened/articleshow/74957679.cms||Paras Singh
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Housing Board yet to offer 16,000 flats to house patients||JAIPUR: To take on coronavirus, many schools, hotels and properties have opened their doors for people who are struggling to meet both ends during lockdown period. However, the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) which has 16,000 vacant flats is yet to any solace to the suffering people. Residents in the state have volunteered to make arrangements for migrant workers and develop quarantine as well as isolation facilities at their private buildings. However, the Rajasthan Housing Board has yet not announced any plans to put forth its vacant properties for the same. According to sources, in Jaipur over 3,500 vacant flats are available. These apartments are in Pratap Nagar, Indra Gandhi Nagar along with other RHB areas which could be used as wellness facilities for lodging COVID-19 patients and suspects. These buildings are liveable as they have electricity, water and sewage facility along with a kitchen to allow individuals and families to spend their quarantine duration. Many of these buildings are vacant for several years and are unlikely to be sold anytime soon as the ongoing lockdown puts auction plan of the housing board on hold. “As many of these buildings are in poor condition, it might need a lot of time and money to make them inhabitable,” said an official on the reason for them not being turned into isolation facilities. To identify and isolate corona suspects in the state, Jaipur district collector has instructed the officers to make one quarantine centre each at all subdivision headquarters in the district. These centres are to be set up in hostels, colleges, schools or hospital buildings in the subdivisions and have to have adequate food, living and drinking water along with toilet facilities for the suspects who are being quarantined there. These centres that are to come up at Sanganer, Jaipur and Amber subdivisions will have a capacity of 2000 persons while others will have a capacity of 500 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhb-yet-to-offer-16000-flats-to-house-patients/articleshow/74939511.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Tracking down Tablighi participants an arduous task||Kozhikode: It will be an uphill task for the authorities to identify the Tablighi Jamaát workers who had attended various programmes held at the headquarters of the organisation at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. The state government has entrusted the intelligence wing of the police to track down the Tablighi workers after it was reported that many of those who attended the meetings have contracted Covid-19. Police have thus far identified 52 people who had attended the All India Mashoora programme held at the Nizamuddin Markaz from March 7 to 10. Among them, 10 people are from Kannur, eight from Malappuram, six from Kottayam and five from Thiruvananthapuram. Some of them have returned to Kerala on March 11 by flight and the rest by trains. Police have also identified another eight Malayalees who were at the Markaz on March 14 and 15. They were sent to Ethiopia and then to the Gulf for religious propagation by Tablighi authorities and returned to the Markaz on March 14. The government has not received a comprehensive picture on the Malayalee participation in the programmes at Markaz. A conference was held for Tamil Nadu members in the third week of March but it is not known whether Malayalees too had participated in the meeting. Moreover, some Malayalees have moved to other states in India after taking part in the conferences at Markaz. Tablighi workers contacted by the TOI said that one Dr Mukthar, the state Amir of the organisation, may have a correct picture of the Malayalee participation in the programmes. But Dr Mukthar was not available over the phone even after repeated attempts by the TOI. Dr Sadiq, a worker of the Tablighi, said the organisation does not offer official memberships. “It is a spiritual movement for self-purification. Anyone can be a member and can leave at any point of time,” he said. “Tablighi is an apolitical movement that doesn’t react to any social or political developments. A group of 10 to 12 persons is called a Jamaát, which will travel throughout the country for religious propagation,” he said. The Markaz at Nizamuddin is a sort of control room for the activities of Tablighi in the country from where each Jamaát will get instructions. “They work mainly inside the Muslim community, especially among the so-called anti-socials with the aim of reforming them. Tablighi is almost like Sufism,” Dr Sadiq said. “The mainstream society doesn’t know much about Tablighi Jamaát because the members don’t interact much with the society and are not concerned with worldly affairs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tracking-down-tablighi-participants-an-arduous-task/articleshow/74937784.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Two deceased suspects test negative for Covid-19||KOLHAPUR: The swab reports of the two deceased Covid-19 suspects came negative on Wednesday, said the district administration officials. The two patients were suffering from pneumonia and were admitted in Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) and city private hospital on Tuesday, where they succumbed to their ailments. As a precautionary measure, the swab samples of the patients were sent to the NIV, Pune. This is the third such incident in the past one week, where the deceased swab sample came in negative. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday appealed to the citizens to act as volunteers and keep a close eye on the home quarantine suspects. He said that they should avoid frequent visits to buy essential commodities, to minimise the spread of infection. “Considering the current outbreak of the infection in the cities like Mumbai, Pune, and other parts of the country, staying indoors is the only safe option,” said Desai. He asked citizens to monitor the ones, who have returned from foreign countries or other cities, and remain home quarantined during their stipulated time. “If such individuals roam around the city area and if the infection spreads, it will be difficult to contain. Hence, it is very necessary to keep watch on such citizens.” Desai said people are finding excuses to buy essential commodities. “Now is the time to restrict your usage. If you manage to restrict yourself, we can contain the spread of the infection,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-deceased-suspects-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/74938891.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||Tablighi Jamaat: 32 people from district traced, to be quarantined||NASHIK: The Nashik police and district administration has traced 16 people from Nashik district, who had travelled to New Delhi for the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month. All of them have been placed in quarantine, said Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare. The district collector said they had received details from the state government about 32 people, who had reportedly travelled to New Delhi. “After verifying, it was revealed that 16 of them are in Nashik. All of them have now been quarantined. They had left New Delhi between March 15 and March 25,” he said. He added that all 16 are asymptomatic at the moment. “Three of them have been home quarantined, 13 have been institutionally quarantined. The officers will keep watch over them during the 14-day period,” Mandhare said. Nashik Municipal Corporation’s health officer Rajesh Tryambake said, “We are keeping them in institutional quarantine at the Zakir Hussain Hospital in Dwarka. They are not facing any health complication. But to be on a safer side, we have kept them in quarantine.” Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil said they swung into action soon after they received the list. They traced 16 people identified in the list provided by the state government. The names and contact details of these remaining 16 people have been passed on to the offices concerned to ensure appropriate measures are taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tablighi-jamaat-32-people-from-district-traced-to-be-quarantined/articleshow/74939994.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Miraj lab trial results awaited, functioning likely from Thursday or Friday||Kolhapur: The district administration is awaiting quality control (QC) results of tests conducted at its newly-installed Covid-19 testing facility at the Miraj Government Medical College on Tuesday. The trial test results are awaited from the NIV, Pune. Sanjay Salunkhe, district civil surgeon, Sangli, told TOI, “The QC 1 test was done on Tuesday and QC 2 test on Wednesday. The said results will be compared with the National Institute of Virology (NIV) results. If everything goes well, the lab will be functional from Thursday or Friday.” “The dedicated lab will prove to be helpful for the region and the detection rate too will be improved. Eventually, it will help in containing the spread of Covid-19 infection in the district and in the nearby districts as well,” he said. Abhijeet Chaudhary, district collector, Sangli, had earlier said that the machine has been provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and will prove quite helpful for speedy detection of the swab sample results. State Minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that the lab will resolve the swab testing issue for Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, and Ratnagiri districts. Meanwhile, the district information office, Sangli, said that the district has put around 1,048 people under home quarantine while 49 have been put under institutional quarantine. A total of 1,436 people have returned from foreign. The office also said that 22 people from Miraj have been placed under institutional quarantine while 27 from Islampur have been placed under institutional quarantine. It further stated that to date, 248 people have completed their 14-day quarantine period and have been discharged accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/miraj-lab-trial-results-awaited-functioning-likely-from-thursday-or-friday/articleshow/74938903.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||Lockdown inspires artists to get creative||Panaji: Middle-aged Sada-resident Poonam Naik feels the added responsibility these days of keeping the elderly members of her family safe from the outside world, where the Covid-19 infection lurks. She is one of the Goans whose lockdown experience has taken the visual form in Mandrem-based artist Kedar D K’s recent series ‘Lonely Residents’.  Kedar is only one of the artists, who has sought to express the unexpected feelings citizens are experiencing in these unusual circumstances. “Being an artist, I found the situation tense as most of people face great difficulty in being indoors only. On the social media, I asked friends and acquaintances to share with me a picture of themselves in their house and a brief text about how they are using this quarantine time and how they feel being locked at home. I feel these drawings of ‘Lonely Residents’ will give them a realisation that the house is a great sea to explore,” Kedar said. He hopes that these portraits, which he draws and shares online, “will make these people feel good and make them forget the tense situation”.  Artist and print-maker Vijay Bhandare, based in Thana, Cortalim, is similarly expressing the angst of the lockdown using different mediums.  “The typical Goan living the village life is a curious being. He likes to wander in the fish market every morning and chat up on street corners. Even when if he does not want to buy an expensive kingfish, he will still stand there checking out the day’s catch and watch the reactions of the other buyers. I completely support the lockdown, but such village folks are unaware of the seriousness of the disease and suddenly find themselves caught up in an unfamiliar situation,” Bhandare said. Another pen and ink work shows the coronavirus crawling on the skin of two individuals as they lock their hands. The lockdown has inspired Chaitali Morajkar to revisit one of her recent artworks which shows a woman gazing outside the window, in a seemingly endless wait, as her face is a slow ticking clock. In the coming days of the lockdown, the artist plans to give it the shape of a new painting. “At times, it feels like time haunts us, the way we keeping running around as per the time. Now that we are in a lockdown, time doesn’t seem to pass as quickly. So insecurity, lack of freedom, unexpected danger, all emotions have come flooding to us,” said Morajkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-inspires-artists-to-get-creative/articleshow/74939874.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||‘Provide aid only in presence of officials’||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration issued an order on Wednesday stating that all NGOs, residential groups, and other organisations can distribute free food to those in need only in presence of police personnel or administrative officials. The decision was taken after reports of brawls taking place during free food distribution surfaced, said a communication from district magistrate’s office. In Dehradun, several NGOs and voluntary groups are providing food and other daily essentials to those who have been the worst hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/provide-aid-only-in-presence-of-officials/articleshow/74938901.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital admin identifies 8 Jamaat groups that traveled to Nainital||NAINITAL: The Nainital district administration has identified eight different Jamaats that travelled to the district since January 2020. While three of them stayed at different mosques in Haldwani, three stayed in Ramnagar and two travelled to Nainital. The administration has also identified eight people who came in contact with the Jamaat that travelled from Nizamuddin to Nainital between March 13 and 20. Police teams reached their homes, after they were informed by the residents and took them for quarantine at night itself. “We have identified many family members and close relatives of those eight people who are believed to have come in contact with the people of the Jamaat that travelled from Delhi to Nainital’s Jama Masjid. All of them have been taken to the KMVN hotel where they are quarantined,” said an official. Meanwhile, according to details given by the district administration to the state government, 25 people of two Jamaats that travelled to Ramnagar are in quarantine since March 23. While one of these Jamaats had come to Ramnagar from Nizamuddin, the other came from Moradabad. Both of them reached Ramnagar on March 20. “On March 23, both these Jamaats were screened by the health department and have since been quarantined at two mosques in the area,” read the report given by the district. The report also states that a 14-member Jamaat had traveled to Markaz Nizamuddin from the district and are right now in Amravati district of Maharashtra. Speaking to TOI, Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal said that the administration is working to trace all those who are suspected to have come in contact with people who were part of the Jamaat and the medical team will screen all of them and they will be quarantined. “We are tracing all the people who may have come in contact with them. All the protocols will be followed so that the threat of the virus can be minimised as much as possible,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-admin-identifies-8-jamaat-groups-that-traveled-to-dist/articleshow/74938909.cms||Prashant Jha
April 2, 2020||Nashik||NMC gives relief to property tax defaulters||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided not to impose 2% penalty on those who are unable to pay the property tax owing to the coronavirus outbreak. The waiver will be applicable for three months – from March to May. Also, the civic body has decided to increase the incentive period for prompt tax payers by a month – from April 1 to July31. The previous incentive plan was for a period of three months starting on April 1 and ending on May 31. A civic official said, “We are giving relief to the citizens as per the directives from municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. We will not slap monthly penalty on property tax defaulters for three months, but will start imposing penalty from June if the dues are not cleared.” He added, “Property tax defaulters owe over Rs 100 crore. We could not conduct the recovery drive in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Earlier, Game had issued a circular to introduce incentive schemes for prompt tax payers who pay complete annual property tax bills during the first three months of the financial year 2020-21. Accordingly, those who pay the annual tax in April will get 5% rebate, a 3% concession for payments made in May while for those paying the tax in July will get 2% discount. Now, the civic administration has made some marginal changes in the incentive scheme for prompt property tax payers. “As per the new circular, those who pay complete annual property tax in April and May will get 5% concession, while those paying the taxes in June will get 3% discount. People who will pay their annual tax in July will get 2% rebate,” the official said There are over 4.50 lakh property tax payers across the six divisions of the municipal corporation. These divisions are Nashik East, Nashik West, Panchavati, Nashik Road, Cidco and Satpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gives-relief-to-property-tax-defaulters/articleshow/74939998.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 2, 2020||Nashik||60 clinics for respiratory problems only||NASHIK: The district administration has asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to run dedicated clinics to diagnose those with respiratory problems. The officials held talks with the IMA and both parties agreed to start these clinics in certain pockets, where these patients can be treated without endangering the general public. “People from the IMA met us offered to work in cooperation to detect possible Covid-19 cases in the interiors of Nashik city. This is being done to ensure there is early intervention,” collector Suraj Mandhare said. Currently, there is a shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) across the globe. Nashik is also affected by the same problem and many private practitioners are not risking staff or equipment to treat those with respiratory conditions. It has also been found that some Covid-19 infections may not display identifiable symptoms early on. “Doctors and healthcare workers are reluctant to treat people without protective equipment. Besides, sanitising the clinics every day with the chemical solution is an expensive job. With dedicated clinics coming up, people will be able to get treatment faster,” Sameer Chandratre, the IMA president said. The plan is to identify clinics of specialists who can render the service. “Nashik can be divided in six major pockets and dedicated clinics can be identified. They will handle only respiratory issues on specific days — turn by turn. So while one clinic will only handle the respiratory issues on Monday, others may be open for other ailments. This will ensure none of the other patients are infected from Covid-19," Chandratre said. He said doctors in the other clinics will now be able to direct all suspect cases to the dedicated clinics. “This will cut down the risk of patients and even medical practitioners from getting the infection,” the IMA head said. These clinics will start operations as soon as possible. Licence to 23 sanitiser producers With hand sanitizer being the key ingredient for personal safety and hygiene, manufacturing licences have been granted to 23 companies to make sanitisers. These companies include 10 pharma companies and 13 distillery operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-clinics-for-respiratory-problems-only/articleshow/74939999.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Steps taken to extend film crew’s visa’||T’puram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government has intervened to ensure the safety of a Malayalam film crew, including director Blessy and actor Prithviraj, stranded in Jordan. “The government sent a letter to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan seeking support for the group. We have also received an e-mail from the Indian embassy in Jordan ensuring all required support,” he said. Earlier, state cultural affairs minister A K Balan, in a Facebook post, said it wouldn’t be practical to arrange for the 58-member cast and crew’s transportation back to India in the prevailing situation when all international flights remain cancelled. “But, there’s no need to worry, as government will be providing all necessary support to ensure their safety. The group’s concern is with regard to expiry of visa. Required steps have been taken to extend their visa period, as informed by the union minister,” Balan said. Meanwhile, Prithviraj (who is now in a desert camp in Wadi Rum along with the film crew), in his Facebook post on Wednesday, said their next best option would be to return to India at the first available opportunity.  “As we had originally planned to stay and shoot in Wadi Rum till the 2nd week of April, our accommodation, food and supplies are taken care of for the immediate future. But obviously, what happens beyond that timeline is a matter of concern,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/steps-taken-to-extend-film-crews-visa/articleshow/74937833.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||Cops to get support of more home guards||NASHIK: The district administration has decided to provide 500 more home guards to Nashik city and rural police in the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak. The rural and the urban police had sought 500 homeguards collectively. As many as 145 homeguards have been deployed in Nashik city already to help the police maintain bandobast. The city police have put up barricades across the city and the rural police have sealed the borders of the district and towns. “People want to move for urgent work and police are under stress to maintain vigil at the checkposts. The services of homeguards are being hired. The city police have demanded 200 homeguards for the purpose,” a city police officer said. The police department is maintaining round the clock bandobast of the borders of their jurisdiction and it is a long drawn battle against the virus. The police department has arranged duties in three shifts. “These homeguards will relieve the police from their static duty so that they can be spared for their mobile duties in which they can check for violators in the lanes and by lanes of the urban areas and the interiors of the rural areas. This is the reason the homeguards are being demanded,” the officer said. The homeguards are volunteers working to assist the police during the bandobast, especially during the peacetime. There is no law and order problem but the police have to enforce prohibitory orders. Other times, they perform their own work related to agriculture, garage owner, agriculture labourer, or from any profession. They are presented honourarium for their contribution to the police at such times. Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare has said that the office has sought home guards from the state government. “There are 1,500 homeguards in the district and since we need their services to fight the outbreak, we will be bearing their cost fully,” he said. Similar, the rural police have demanded support of 300 homeguards for bandobast across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-to-get-support-of-more-home-guards/articleshow/74940001.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||15 test positive for Covid-19 in Kadapa||TIRUPATI: Andhra Pradesh witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases with Kadapa district alone reporting 15 cases on Wednesday. Till Tuesday, there were no positive cases in the district. With most of the positive cases in the last 24 hours linked to Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the convocation at Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia Dargah in Delhi between March 15-17, state deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha and district collector CH Harikiran held a series of meetings on Wednesday to streamline the containment strategy. The collector said 4,941 persons returned from abroad to the district in the last three months, out of which 213 people had completed 14-day home isolation period. Nearly 3,064 people have completed 14 to 28 days home isolation and 1,664 have completed 28 days home isolation period, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-kadapa/articleshow/74939535.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 2, 2020||Goa||15 test -ive for virus, results of 49 awaited||Panaji: The laboratory test reports of 15 suspects came negative for Covid-19 while reports of 49 persons were awaited on Wednesday. Goa has five confirmed cases of Covid-19 and the patients are being treated at the ESI hospital in Margao. As many as 30 persons were home quarantined and 12 were lodged in various medical facilities across the state on Wednesday. A few of them had travel history, a health official said. Ten persons were admitted to the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and 14 swab samples sent for testing. Some suspects have been quarantined at GTDC residencies as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-test-ive-for-virus-results-of-49-awaited/articleshow/74939872.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eye in sky to keep watch over rooftop parties and gatherings||PUNE: Better watch out if you think you can hoodwink police by going on morning and evening walks on the rooftop terrace of your society. While using drone cameras in Sinhagad Road recently, the police found many people walking and chatting on the terraces of their residential buildings. "The people had gathered on their terraces for walks and to have a chat with their neighbors and friends,” said inspector Ashok Shelke of Haveli police station. Shelke said that some people were found having picnic on their terraces. "They were cooking chicken or mutton, playing cards and carrom. Some people in Nanded, Dhayari and Khadakwasla are still going for swim in canal waters. Drone cameras are being used to shoo them away," he said. “People should not gather on the road or rooftops of their residential buildings. They should practice social distancing. Such gathering defeats the purpose of lockdown, thus we are appealing to people to stay at home,” said superintendent of police, Pune rural, Sandeep Patil. “The drone monitoring is restricted to discouraging rooftop gatherings and group activity and has nothing to do with owners of individual bungalows and row houses taking a walk on their terraces,” he said. With police taking stern action against morning and evening walkers on the road in lieu of the nationwide lockdown, many had started going to the society terraces for walks. “Once people are spotted on rooftops, a police van immediately reaches the building, urging people to retire to their homes. They are also warned of legal action under section 188 of IPC for not following orders,” Shelke said. “Now, after spotting drones in the sky people rush to their homes,” he said. Shelke said that many highrises have come up in areas along Sinhagad road. “It is impossible for police to keep a watch on rooftops to avoid gathering of people, but with the drone cameras the work has become simpler,” he said. Police have now decided to install loud siren on drones to shoo away people from terraces and swimmers from Khadakwasla lake, he said. The Pune rural police have been using drone cameras to keep a check on non-essential travel. Police have started using drones in Wagholi, Sinhagad road, Narhe, Loni Kalbhor, Loni Kand, Lohegaon, Baramati and Lonavla. In last two days, police have impounded over 800 two-wheelers from people for travelling without any valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eye-in-sky-to-keep-watch-over-rooftop-parties-and-gatherings/articleshow/74939525.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||Supply dept to give 3-month worth grain by end of April||NASHIK: The supply department, which has limited capacity to handle grain stocks, has started providing the same to beneficiaries for April with a promise to finish the three-month target by the end of April. The supply department provides grains at subsidized rates to families that are below the poverty line, and have saffron and yellow ration cards, under the Center’s public distribution system (PDS) through fair price shops (FPS). The food is lifted from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns, one of which is at Manmad in Nandgaon taluka of Nashik district. “We have to lift the grain from FCI and take it to the taluka godown. After that, the FPS shopkeepers take the same to their shops and distribute among the people. Right now, we do not have godowns large enough to stock the grains in our district,” district supply officer (DSO) Arvind Narsikar said. The officer said the office distributes about 32,000 metric tonne (MT) of grains every month and the entire capacity collectively with the district is not more than 15,000 MT. “Usually the food grains are released in batches to the taluka godowns. In the current situation, supplying the entire stock of grains in one go is impossible as it would require storages of up to 96,000 MT,” the officer added. The supply office, however, has decided to ensure that all the ration is provided to the beneficiary by the end of this month. “We have already started the delivery of goods for April. The beneficiaries are also being appealed to go to the ration shops where they will get the grains for the current month. Thereafter, the distribution for May and then June will be picked up,” the officer said. The officer clarified that there were no orders or guidelines as to who all would be the beneficiaries of the scheme other than the regular ration card-holders. Some people said that anybody could get the ration by filling up forms, but there were no such forms, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/supply-dept-to-give-3-month-worth-grain-by-end-of-april/articleshow/74940003.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Government issues SOP to tackle corona cases in urban areas||VIJAYAWADA: With the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases witnessing a surge in Andhra Pradesh, the state government has laid down a standard operating procedure (SOP) to prevent, control and manage the spread of the virus in urban areas. As part of the SOP, a first-level surveillance will be carried out by primary teams comprising ward volunteers along with Asha (accredited social health activist) workers and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife) of the ward secretariat. If necessary, an additional ANM will be attached to the ward secretariat by redeployment of surplus ANMs in the district or by availing the services of unemployed and private sector ANMs. For slum areas, resource persons from Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (Mepma) will be members of the primary team. The nodal officers appointed for special shelter centres, which house homeless and destitute persons, and slum areas will also be part of the primary teams. Medical and paramedical staff from urban health centres will be part of the secondary team, which will be responsible for all high risk cases and symptomatic people identified for closer surveillance and testing. House surgeons may also be part of these teams. One secondary team will be constituted for each ward in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Guntur, while one team each for two wards in other municipal corporations and one team each for three (up to five wards) wards in all other municipalities. The teams can be positioned either through redeployment of surplus staff or by availing the services of private and foreign-trained doctors. The overall functioning of the primary and secondary teams will be supervised by a municipal health and surveillance team consisting of a programme officer or a senior medical officer deputed by the concerned district health, revenue or police authorities. Speaking to TOI, a state health official said, “Even though the number of cases in the state are relatively modest at present, experiences from other countries reveal that urban areas are more vulnerable to rapid spread of the infection. Moreover, urban settings have some common characteristics, many of which are disruptive factors that need to be addressed comprehensively for effective preparedness to tackle the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-issues-sop-to-tackle-corona-cases-in-urban-areas/articleshow/74937797.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Senior citizens should avoid visiting banks: Satara admin||KOLHAPUR: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has appealed to the senior citizens, especially the pensioners, to avoid going to the banks unless it’s urgent owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Rahul Mane, a bank manager, said there is indeed a possibility of pensioners coming in high numbers. “We are waiting for instructions from higher authorities on how to tackle if such a situation arises,” he said. “Banking falls in essential services, but senior citizens should take the current situation in account and avoid visiting any bank. If any need arises, we can visit the respective pensioner, this can be arranged,” Mane said, adding that the district has around 18 nationalised banks and 16 private banks. According to Mane, looking at the current lockdown situation, there is ample cash available across the 658 ATMs across the district and citizens should not panic, neither should they be worried about the cash flow. “Commercial transactions are very low at the moment and that is why there is no shortage of cash. We are ensuring that all the precautions are followed at the ATM kiosks and banks to avoid the spread of infection,” he said. Shravan Kshirsagar, deputy collector (Kolhapur), told TOI that the district has around 1.30 lakh pensioners. “We have given strict instructions to follow social distancing and use of sanitizer in banks that are operational,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sr-citizens-should-avoid-visiting-banks-satara-admin/articleshow/74938910.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||Tribals take to social distancing in Nandurbar||NASHIK: Tribal people in Nandurbar district have stuck themselves to social distancing and have adapted the norm of ‘wait for turn’ till the person in front finishes purchasing. Implemented since a week, the residents of Akkalkuwa taluka of Nandurbar district have started practising social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19. People in this taluka wait for their turn to buy goods from shops instead of rushing along and violating the norms. “Coronavirus affects the respiratory system. Since the infection is taking the world by storm, we have decided to ensure that we do not encourage or promote contact between us and any other person. Hence, we have adapted ourselves to social distancing,” Ganpat Valvi, a resident of Akkalkuwa taluka said. There is an open space behind the tehsil office which has been used for open bazaar. The territory of each of the vendor has been marked and the citizens have been asked to ensure they keep distance from each other to discourage the spread of virus. “There are about 70 vendors who otherwise would do their businesses in lanes of the town. With the orders of the district collector to ensure social distancing, the vendors have been banned from doing business in their regular areas and instead shifted to the new place — behind the tehsil office,” CK Valvi, block development officer (BDO) Akkalkuwa, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribals-take-to-social-distancing-in-nandurbar/articleshow/74940004.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 2, 2020||Rajkot||15 migrant labourers sent back to Mundra||Rajkot: As many as 15 migrant labourers from Bihar working in Mundra Port in Kutch district were intercepted while they were being transported in a container at Bhadreshwer check post near Mundra on Tuesday night.“We arrested the container driver, identified as Vinay Rai (26), and the cleaner, identified as Pravin Rai (20), for allegedly breaking the coronavirus lockdown order,” said H S Vaghela, head constable with Mundra marine police station.“We dropped the labourers back to Mundra at their respective sites,” said Vaghela.According to the police, all the labourers were from Bihar. “They were being taken to Gandhidham from where more labourers were supposed to join. These labourers were then leave for Bihar either through Ahmedabad route or after reaching Rajasthan,” added Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-migrant-labourers-sent-back-to-mundra/articleshow/74937846.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||NDMC mayor warns doctors skipping work of action||NEW DELHI: A day after four doctors working on contract at Hindu Rao Hospital submitted their resignations alleging because of non-availability of personal protective equipment (PPE), North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Avtar Singh on Thursday went there to assess the situation. Singh said that all facilities were available for the medical staff and warned of action against the doctors who were “running away from their duties”. “We have provided PPE to everyone screening suspected patients. We are taking care of food, accommodation and other facilities for the medical staff, including doctors and nurses. But we can’t tolerate disobedience. Nobody can run away from their duties in this crucial time,” said the mayor, adding that the contract of the four doctors will not be renewed. Hindu Rao has created a 50-bed isolation ward for emergency, while the sanitation staff have been tasked to keep the campus sanitised. On Wednesday, a few doctors raised concern over the quality of coveralls provided to them, making them susceptible to infection. “Poor quality disposable coveralls and PPE will defeat the purpose of wearing them. It is important that the administration looks into the matter,” said a doctor. “We don’t support resignations due to non-availability of PPEs because these are only meant for doctors conducting the screening,” he added. The standing committee chairman of north corporation, Jai Prakash, on Thursday met the hospital administration and was informed that there was no dearth of PPEs. “If there are any gaps, we will fill them for the safety of doctors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayor-warns-docs-skipping-work-of-action/articleshow/74957690.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: 19 suspects admitted in isolation ward||KOLHAPUR: As many as 19 people were admitted to the isolation ward on Wednesday in Satara district. Of these, 16 have a foreign travel history while the remaining three came in contact with positive patients. Swab samples of all the patients were collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. “Those with travel history include 14 men and two women, while who came in contact with positive patients are all women. One of the women suspects has been complaining of cold and fever,” Amod Gadikar, Satara district civil surgeon, said. A media brief from Gadikar added that the 11 suspects who were admitted to the isolation ward on Tuesday have tested negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, Aniruddha Athalye, Satara district health officer (DHO), said they have prepared a 100-bed quarantine facility at Khavli Navoday Vidyalaya campus – around 53-km away from Satara city. “At this quarantine facility, the suspects will get two-time meal, tea, and other facilities from the state government. For safety issues, masks and sanitizers will also be provided,” he said. He added that until April 1, as many as 41 people were quarantined at this facility, of which 11 have completed their 14-day quarantine period and have been discharged. “At present, 30 individuals are under quarantine at this facility,” he said. According to Athalye, two permanent staff members remain at the facility, while the medical officers visit the facility twice every day to keep a check on the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-19-suspects-admitted-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/74938920.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||‘Supply chain of essentials to regularise within a week’||MARGAO: Tucks carrying grocery items and essentials have started coming into the state enabling stockists and distributors to replenish stocks. However, market sources said it may take up to a week for the supply chain to be restored and normalised. General secretary of the All Goa FMCG and Telecom Distributors Association Chetan Kapdi said that supply of goods in a traditional supply channel — from company to stockiest/distributor to wholesaler to retailer — comprises an 8-day cycle. Explaining their predicament, Kapdi said, “Retailers closed their shops when they ran out of stocks. Now when goods have started coming in, distributors find the retail units closed and get no orders for supplying the goods. So it’s like, retailers have closed down because distributors don’t come, and distributors can’t supply goods to retailers as they are shut.” The association met the chief minister on Tuesday and Kapdi hoped that the supply chain would be normalised within a week. He said they have decided to “function in normal fashion” from Wednesday. “The CM has urged all distributors and retailers to keep their shops open. We have assured all our members of providing whatever assistance they may need, and to resolve any problems they might face,” Kapdi said. The guidelines have been sent to all members of the association, numbering over 240, he said.  “All distributors should issue passes (on their letterheads) to their respective staff and ask them to come for work. All distributors should paste a pamphlet on their delivery vehicles stating ‘Carrying FMCG Goods/Essential Commodities’. All distributors should educate their staff about maintaining social distancing and hand sanitation,” the guidelines read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grocery-supply-likely-to-regularise-in-week-says-distributors-assoc/articleshow/74939875.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus outbreak: Bihar reports two more cases, tally rises to 24||PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: A 35- year- old man from Nalanda and a 40 year old woman from Gaya—both with travel history to the UAE—tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases to 24. The two had recently returned from Abu Dhabi and Dubai respectively. In the past 48 hours, eight people, who recently returned from foreign countries, have tested positive in the state. Four of them from Siwan and one each from Gopalganj, Begusarai, Nalanda and Gaya. The last two being the latest ones to test positive for the virus. The Begusarai case was reported late on Tuesday night. The 24-year-old man had recently returned from Dubai. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said 19 samples of foreign returned people were collected for test and one came back positive. “This person was asymptomatic,” Verma said. He added, “Now nineteen people of his family have been quarantined and their samples will be tested. We have started disinfection work around his home. Health workers are screening everyone in his neighbourhood." The spurt in cases of people with travel history to foreign countries could be attributed to the state health department’s directive issued last Sunday to test all persons, who had recently arrived from foreign countries, irrespective of symptoms. “Around 1,600 samples of people, who have returned from foreign countries, have been collected for testing so far,” chief secretary Deepak Kumar said on Wednesday. When asked about the 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals, who were earlier picked up from Kurji locality in Patna and subsequently quarantined in two mosques at Samanpura and Phulwarisharif on March 23, Subhani said, “We have to verify it.” Sources said while some of them were staying in a flat at Samanpura near Raza Bazar, others were living in a mosque at Phulwarisharif. The state health department officials had collected samples of altogether 17 religious preachers in the aftermath of Nizamuddin incident. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said 37 out of the 86 people listed have been traced. Of them, 10 belonged to Madhubani, one to Sitamarhi and four each to East Champaran and West Champaran district, respectively. Altogether nine people from Gaya had visited the Delhi Markaz and three of them returned on March 11. Six were still in Delhi. Pandey said the Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and the district police personnel have been roped in to trace the foreign nationals staying in Bihar and visiting one district after another. State health department wrote a letter to civil surgeons of all the district with names and contact numbers of the 86 people and asked to get all of them quarantined and collect their samples for test. Madhubani district administration has identified seven persons who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and came back on March 30. They were identified as Md Sahid of village Jamsam, Md Israfil and Md Jainul Haq of Jamsam under Pandaul block, Abdul Jaleel and Md Yunus of village Tirhuta under Baboobarhi block, Md Sadiq of village Ghormohna under Laukha block and Md Nazir of village Dostpur under Khajauli block. Meanwhile, seven people, who had visited the Delhi Markaz, had gone missing from Katihar. A senior official of the home department said the special branch has been asked to cooperate in tracing them at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-reports-two-more-cases-tally-rises-to-24/articleshow/74937850.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 2, 2020||Pune||341 booked, 616 vehicles seized for lockdown norms violation in Pune||PUNE: The city police on Tuesday booked 341 people for the offence of disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code after they were found violating the lockdown directives. The police also issued notices to 1,069 people, asking them to show cause why action should not be taken against them for violating the lockdown orders, besides, impounding 616 vehicles of wanderers in the city in the past few days. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Shirish Sardeshpande told TOI, “We have seen that large number of people, including educated ones, come out on roads without valid reason and give vague replies to justify their act when stopped at check-posts or other places. For instance, people give reasons like appointment with dentist or show old medical prescription and empty LPG cylinders to justify their movement. Peth area residents want to travel to Market Yard for making purchases among other reasons.” Sardeshpande said, “Apart from registering cases, we have issued notices to large number of people asking them why an offence should not be registered against them for violating the government’s order. The replies given by the individuals will be scrutinised before taking a call on initiating prosecution against them.” He said, “We have also impounded vehicles and kept them on the premises of the police stations and other places for dissuading people from coming on roads. A policy decision will be taken on releasing the vehicles.” Sardeshpande’s Zone I counterpart Swapna Gore said,” People are coming out for no reasons. We have issued notices to them for breaching the government’s directives after they failed to furnish passes which the police issue in case of an emergency movement. People are offering funny reasons. A Kothrud resident, whom we issued notice, said he was travelling all the way to Deccan Gymkhana for buying fruits. The others were caught for reasons like purchasing curd and grinding wheat at flour mills, among other reasons.” She added, “We are using three drones for monitoring the movement of people within the limits of Khadak, Faraskhana and Samarth police stations,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/341-booked-616-vehicles-seized-for-lockdown-norms-violation/articleshow/74939528.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body starts issuing property tax bills online||PUNE: The civic body has taken to the online medium to issue property tax bills for the new fiscal (2020-21) after the prevalent lockdown prevented it from printing and dispatching over 10.5 lakh of them. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now started uploading the bills in the property tax payment system which can be accessed through the civic body’s website. The PMC said a property owner could access his/her tax bill by accessing www.punecorporation.org or propertytax.punecorporation.org. The administration has planned to send the bills to respective property owners on their registered e-mail addresses along with SMS alerts on their phone numbers. The printed bills would be dispatched only after the lockdown ended, a civic official said. As per records, the PMC has e-mail addresses of over 7.5 lakh property owners and about 9 lakh have provided their mobile numbers so far. An official from the property tax department said, “The physical copies of the bills are dispatched every year in the first week of April. The administration has not been able to print and dispatch the bills in this challenging situation. So we are making elaborate arrangements for the citizens to find out their property tax amount for the year 2020-21.” “The property owners will have to follow some easy steps to get their bill details through the online system. Various online payment gateways are already functional. The civic body offers 5-10% discount on general tax if the entire property tax is paid in one go. We do not want citizens to lose on the discount which can be availed till May 31,” the official said. The property tax department said it has uploaded the fresh demands for the 2020-21 fiscal in their online system. The property owner would be able to get details of the property tax to be paid for the current year after logging into the system. Sources in the administration said a significant number of citizens were already opting for online options to pay the tax and the rest were likely to not face any hurdles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-starts-issuing-property-tax-bills-online/articleshow/74939532.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 2, 2020||Goa||Cargo vessel comes for repairs to MPT, spooks villagers||Panaji/Vasco: The arrival of a 79-metre long bulk carrier with 16 crew members sparked concern in Rassaim and Quelossim forcing authorities to shift the vessel on Wednesday evening to Mormugao Port Trust limits. The river sea vessel (RSV) belongs to New Era Shipping Pvt Ltd and had come to Rassaim for repairs. The vessel which operates between Jaigad port and New Mangalore Port returned to its home port on March 30 after business slowed down due to the coronavirus crisis. “This vessel has been operating in Indian waters and as such there is no reason to quarantine the vessel. However, we have contacted the marine police and we have offered to get the health department to check the crew and clear them. After the health department clears them, we will remove the crew,” said New Era Shipping Pvt Ltd managing director Atul Jhadav. The vessel was in Goa on December 29 for repairs and has returned to the ship repair yard at Rassaim after the Indian Register of Shipping inspection report recommended additional repairs. “The vessel has been operating between Mangaluru and Jaigad port. With congestion of cargo at both the ports and the slowdown in business, we decided to bring the ship to Rassaim, which is its home port,” said Jhadav. Spooked by the arrival of the ship, locals created a furore amid rumours that the crew could be infected by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Officials have informed the South Goa collector and the health department. Authorities also asked New Era Shipping to shift the vessel away from the two villages till the tension dies out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cargo-vessel-comes-for-repairs-to-mpt-spooks-villagers/articleshow/74939876.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Merc to set up Covid-19 hospital||PUNE: Mercedes-Benz India has tied up with the local authorities in the Chakan area of to set up a temporary hospital equipped with isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. “The facility, to be ready in the next 10 days, is in Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s housing area, which has 374 rooms,” the company said, adding, “It can be ramped up to a 1,500 bed facility in a matter of days, if required.” The company plans to donate the medical equipment to the Civil Hospital of Khed after the passing of the Covid-19 phase. “The assets from the isolation wards will be donated to the tribal youth hostels,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/merc-to-set-up-ncov-hospital/articleshow/74939541.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||People acted smartly on April Fool’s Day: Cops||KOLHAPUR: After police had warned of strict action against anyone found spreading rumours about Covid-19 on the social media, the flow of pranks and fake news related to coronavirus was less on Wednesday, April Fool’s Day, Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh had appealed to the people to stay away from spreading messages that may create confusion among people regarding coronavirus or related to the lockdown. “Strict action will be taken against those who will be found spreading any kind of rumours or wrong information in this regard,” he had said. According to police, a tab was kept on all social media platforms but they did not come across any such message. “We did not come across any kind of message that was spreading any rumour or was prank. The flow of messages was also less indicating that people decided to remain quite on April 1,” a police officer said. Police had threatened to book violators under section 140 of Maharashtra Police Act and section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-acted-smartly-on-april-fools-day-cops/articleshow/74938945.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Sufficient food stock to cater needs of people: APMC||KOLHAPUR: There is enough stock of essential commodities that can cater to the requirement of the Kolhapur people, said city grain merchants registered with Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). Even with the country-wide lockdown, the APMC in Kolhapur is receiving a regular supply of vegetables, which is 20% less than normal but enough to meet the requirement of people. The officials said that the city requires a proper supply chain to make sure that these essential commodities reach the citizens. Mohan Salape, secretary of Agricultural Produce Market Committee, Kolhapur said that the supply of vegetables has reduced by marginal 20% due the transportation ban during the lockdown. “It will take time to streamline the transportation but the vegetables we receive daily are sufficient to cater to the need of the people of Kolhapur district. What we need is the good supply chain of vendors from APMC to streets as the locations of the vegetable markets have been changed,” he said. Salape said that the cancellation of weekly markets in the various towns and villages has also resulted in a drop in the demand for the vegetables. “What we receive is supplied to the vendors as per their requirement,” he added. The grain merchants said that enough stock of essential commodities is coming on a daily basis, which can last until April 15. “The closing down of all the major shops in the district has also affected the sale of the commodity. The material is available and we are supplying to the local shops as per their requirement,” said Kishor Tandle, grain merchant. Meanwhile, the police have instructed the vegetable vendors to run their shops with social distancing as often the crowd is seen at vegetable markets. “We appeal to the vegetable vendors, who are interested in selling vegetables to take their cart to the street. We welcome them, the police will provide them passes to commute on the city streets,” said Tanaji Sawant, police inspector in-charge of Local Crime Branch, Kolhapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sufficient-food-stock-to-cater-needs-of-people-apmc/articleshow/74938932.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Goa||With no skilled labour, paddy crops to be hit||Margao: Farmers engaged in paddy cultivation in the current rabi season are worried. While the crop has matured in most places and reached the harvesting stage, the harvester machines may not be available to them for want of trained technicians who are usually sourced from outside the state. Highly placed sources in the agriculture department acknowledged the problem but exuded confidence of tiding over the situation. “It isn’t that bleak for Goan farmers. This being the rabi season, paddy is cultivated only in irrigated areas, unlike during the rain-fed kharif season where the cultivated area is much large. Had this crisis occurred during that season, agriculture would have immensely suffered. As regards non-availability of technicians for combined harvester machines, the agencies offering mechanised services will find solutions for the problem,” a senior official of the agriculture department told TOI. Sources explained that most of the operators and technicians of harvester machines hail from neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka and are brought to Goa only during the time of harvesting. “As they cannot be brought to Goa now in view of the prevailing lockdown situation, farmers may have to resort to manual harvesting. Many farmers in some places have already completed harvesting operations in this manner,” a source familiar with the agricultural practices in the state said. At places where migrant workforce would be utilised for harvesting operations, sources said local labourers have substituted them. “The work gets delayed as the efficiency of the local labour is relatively low, but nevertheless, work has not been hampered to that extent,” a source said. The harvesting season in Goa will reach its peak in the next 10 days, it is learnt. Guidelines to all the zonal agriculture officers are being issued for making the machinery available to farmers to harvest the crops. The directorate of agriculture on Monday has started issuing travel passes for farmers engaged in agricultural operations, thus facilitating transportation of harvested agri-produce to procurement centres and markets. Sources said 23 tonnes of vegetables was procured by the state’s horticulture department from across the state, which were sold through its various outlets across the state on Monday. However, sources said, farmers have been facing hardships in obtaining seeds and fertilisers as agriculture societies dealing in such commodities have kept their outlets closed. Sources in the agriculture department said farmers were not allowed to procure fuel for weed cutter and irrigation pump sets at several petrol pumps on Monday, while reports also came in of farmers being prevented from going into the fields at Sangolda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-skilled-labour-paddy-crops-to-be-hit/articleshow/74939880.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 2, 2020||Delhi||In 5-day operation, 2,361 moved out of Delhi's Markaz Banglewali mosque||NEW DELHI: After a huge operation lasting almost five days, Delhi Police evacuated the Markaz Banglewali mosque. In all, 2,361 people were taken out from the building and sent to different hospitals and quarantine centres. The last batch was evacuated at 3.30am on Wednesday. Police have named six people, including Tablighi Jamaat head Muhammad Saad Kandhlawi, in an FIR for violations of provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code. Police sources disclosed that Kandhlawi has been untraceable for the four days now. The cops are contemplating matching voice samples of the maulana with the voice in an audio clipping heard exhorting people not be scared of the novel coronavirus and calling it a conspiracy against Islam. In the audio clip posted on a YouTube channel named Delhi Markaz, the speaker is heard saying during a sermon that there was no need to follow the social distancing rule as advised by the Union government. The speaker termed the pandemic as a “conspiracy to keep Muslims away from following their religion and from fellow Muslims.” The voice in the clipping says, “Where will you run from death? Death is in front of you. This is the time to seek blessings from the almighty. You cannot waste time visiting doctors. Yes, there is a virus, but 70,000 hoors are with us and if they can't save us, who will?” The speaker goes on, “Who says if we meet then the virus will spread? This is a plan to end the brotherhood among Muslims, to keep them away from each other.” The FIR says that the named Tablighi Jamaat members were responsible for allowing people to gather at the Markaz mosque despite a notice issued to them on March 24, a day after a nationwide lockdown was ordered. That day, the sub-divisional magistrate and police had arranged to evacuate over 1,200 lodgers of the mosque, but eventually around 2,000 more people were allowed to reach the Markaz in batches through the day and allowed to stay there. On Wednesday, the police sealed and sanitised the Jamaat building. The residents of the adjacent buildings too have been asked to stock up and lock themselves inside their houses until the area is completely sanitised. The cops also sanitised Nizamuddin police station that shares a wall with the Markaz masjid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-5-day-op-2361-moved-out-of-mosque/articleshow/74938963.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||CP to award Nakabandi team of Mhasrool police for sincerity||NASHIK: The commissioner of police, Nashik, will give a special award to a Nakabandi team of Mhasrool police for not falling prey to a police decoy team that that offered money to the Nakabandi team in exchange of allowing them to travel.  Pandharinath Dhokane, senior police inspector of the Mhasrool police station said that the decoy operation took place on Monday and he was unaware about the same. The police team will be given a cash award for their sincerity. Given the lockdown, the police have put up Nakabandis in various parts of the city. After complaints from people about police personnel at the Nakabandis, commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil had prepared a special decoy team to check how the police personnel were functioning. The decoy team went at the Nakabandi on Peth Road and requested the police personnel to let them proceed through the Nakabandi point in exchange for some cash. However, the police personnel refused it. Later, the decoy team brought the incident to the notice of the senior police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-to-award-nakabandi-team-of-mhasrool-police-for-sincerity/articleshow/74940007.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Number system backfires, 17 % ration card holders claim free ration on the opening day risking social distancing norms||Thiruvananthapuram: Ration shops across the state witnessed heavy rush on Wednesday, the first day of distribution of 15 Kg rice as a calamity relief. The crowding, however, was mostly the result of the confusion triggered by the government than the urgency felt by the beneficiaries. Following the false impression that free ration may be available only till April 5, around 17 percent of cardholders claimed their free ration on Wednesday itself. This accounted for the distribution of around 15,00,000 tonnes of food grains on a single day, despite working hours of the shops been cut short to 5 pm. This, say officials in Civil Supplies Department, could lead to a shortage of stocks in most ration shops as the facilities for transportation of food grains from depots to shops are under heavy stress. CM had announced that card numbers ending with 0 and 1 would get the ration on April 1 and those that end with 2 and 3 would get it on the next day, and the process would continue in this fashion till April 5. "The civil supplies department was not aware of the ration card number based distribution system until Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced it on Tuesday evening. The department was ready with another plan which the civil supplies minister had announced on Monday. We have 20 days for the distribution of free rice. But the number system, which was announced for five days only, triggered confusion among the majority of cardholders as they thought the 15 kg free grains would be available only till April 5," sources in the civil supplies department said. Food and Civil Supplies Minister P Thilothanan had on Monday announced that free ration would be distributed for priority cardholders during the forenoon hours and to the non-priority sector cardholders in the afternoon till April 20. The queue system or any other further arrangements to ensure social distancing norms can be devised by the shop owners themselves, he had said. Following the heavy rush in ration shops and blatant breach of social distancing norms mooted in the fight against Covid-19, food and civil supplies department informed by noon that the free ration distribution would last till April 20 and hence there was no need for them to make long queues in front of ration shops. The crowding also prompted Thiruvananthapuram district administration to warn about the same. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his daily news conference on Wednesday said the free food grain distribution received an overwhelming response. The grains were distributed to the great satisfaction of the dispensation which noted the camaraderie shown by people and organisations in ensuring that social distancing norms are followed by people in the queue, the CM said. He, however, added that people need not rush to the shops as there was enough time for everyone to claim theirs. According to sources, it was an intelligence input from the police that prompted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to announce a number based distribution system, under the impression that it would further slim down the crowd when coupled with the restrictions being implemented by the food and civil supplies department. However, the number system announced by him confused the arrangements of civil supplies, leading to unwanted crowding in front of ration shops on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/number-system-backfires-17-ration-card-holders-claim-free-ration-on-the-opening-day-risking-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/74937872.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t communalise Tablighi Jamaat issue: Muslim scholars||HYDERABAD: Cutting across the ideological divide, some Muslim religious scholars have extended support to Tablighi Jamaat. Though initially many non-Tablighi groups blamed it for the spread of the virus, Muslim leaders from all schools of thought came forward and said that the issue should not be communalised. Perhaps for the first time, religious scholars from Barelvi, Deobandi and other schools of thought, who otherwise do not see eye-to-eye with Tablighi Jamaat, supported it. Sufi leader and Seerat-un-Nabi Academy chairman Moulana Syed Ghulam Samdani Ali Quadri said though he was ideologically opposed to Tablighi Jamaat, he would support it on principles. “The congregation in Delhi began on March 15. There was no lockdown or ban on congregations. People in Markaz could not move out due to sudden lockdown. There was no transport facility. It is wrong to blame the Jamaat,” he said. Moulana Arshad Madani of Jamiat Ulema Hind said people were stranded at the Markaz due to sudden lockdown. He also found fault with the authorities for not granting transport permission to shift people. Moulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani of Islamic Fiqh Academy, said the government should have given sufficient time for lockdown. Zaid Patel, president of the Islamic Information Centre, in his message said the spike in number of Markaz visitors testing positive is due to a high percentage of testing in a targeted group. He said similar results could come out if people, who attended different political and religious congregations, were also tested. Muslim leaders argue that though 30,955 suspects are in quarantine in AP, the government conducted tests on only 748 people. And all those, who attended the Jamaat meeting are subjected to corona tests and this explains the high number of positive percentage. All over the country only about 35,000 people were tested, the lowest in the world. In other countries it is 100 to 500 times more than those tested in India. They also cited several instances when large gatherings were held during the period of Markaz meeting, and later during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-communalise-tj-issue-muslim-scholars/articleshow/74939544.cms||Syed Akbar
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Calls flood PMPML helpline||PUNE: The helpline numbers of the city transport utility have received over hundreds of calls, mostly related to queries when its services will resume at full capacity, since their launch on Thursday. PMPML officials said three helpline numbers (020-24545454, 020-24503211, 020-24503223) for public and internal communication received 50-60 calls each before noon every day. A PMPML representative said most of the calls are from those engaged in emergency services. Another official said some callers wanted to know about the MSRTC and train services. A common concern for many was about the efficacy of 020-24545454, the only helpline number meant for citizens. “I tried calling and could connect after trying for nearly 20 minutes,” said Abhinav Kale, who’s attached to a private clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/calls-flood-pmpml-helpline/articleshow/74939536.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 2, 2020||Nashik||60 undertrials released on parole from Nashik jail||NASHIK: Sixty undertrials, who have been charged with small offences, were on Wednesday released from the Nashik Road Central Prison on emergency parole, as per the directive of the state government in view of the coronovirus pandemic. According to the state government directive, inmates who fit into the category of being released on emergency parole should be released for 45 days, following which they will have to surrender, unless the government extends their parole. “We had sent a list of 140 undertrials, who were charged with smaller offences and facing punishment of less than seven years if convicted. These inmates were in judicial custody,” said Pramod Wagh, superintendent of Nashik Road Central Prison. “Police vehicles were arranged to transport the undertrials to their respective places across the city and district,” he said. There are approximately 3,000 inmates in the Nashik Road prison. The authorities said that around 40% of them are convicts serving various terms of imprisonment for offences and the remaining are undertrials and in judicial custody. The state government decided to release undertrials as well as convicts from jails on emergency parole because they are overcrowded and may result in the fast spread of the coronavirus in case one of them contracts it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-undertrials-released-on-parole-from-nashik-jail/articleshow/74940005.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police extend prohibitory orders till April 14||PUNE: The city and Pimpri Chinchwad police have extended the prohibitory orders and vehicle ban till April 14 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. The police had started implementing prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC on March 23. Earlier, the ban was valid till only March 30. The Union government issued national lockdown orders till April 14. So, the new extension orders were issued. Joint police commissioner of Pune Ravindra Shisve issued the orders banning the gathering of five or more than five persons till April 14. The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate also issued an order stating the same. The ban applies to gatherings of people in government and private establishments as well as on cultural activities, sports activities, social gatherings, among others. Only the persons involved in essential services will be exempted. The ban on plying of vehicles has also been extended from March 31 to April 14, a statement released by the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-extend-prohibitory-orders-till-april-14/articleshow/74939545.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan jail department video call facility for prisoners’ kin||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Jail Department on Wednesday launched the initiative of E-Mulaqat by which the inmates’ families can book an appointment online for physical visitation as well as for video calls. Initially, it has been launched as a pilot project in Jaipur Central Jail. In view of the lockdown, the online appointments for video calls will be operational in the beginning. The families can book the appointments on National Informatics Centre (NIC) website which provides software and technical support to the prisons. According to the new system, for fixing an appointment for video conferencing, a person has to fill a form on NIC site following which a time slot will be fixed by officials, an email will be sent to the appointment seeker with a link, time of call as well as a pin. On the set time when the person goes on the link and fills in the pin, the call will start. R K Reddy, DG, Jail, said, “Initially the facility for video calls has been introduced in Jaipur to see how effective it is as well as to check the pros and cons before introducing it in the remaining eight central jails. This project was in the pipeline for quite some time and after the lockdown, we found that the inmates were getting desperate to see their families so we decided to make this operational. Online bookings for physical visits will be introduced at a later date. We have also handed out pamphlets to the prisoners to make them aware of the facility.” The inmates will be given a duration of five minutes to see and speak to their families on video calls. A database of approximately two lakh visitors has also been prepared. Once the online booking for physical visits is operational, it will reduce the queues outside the prisons and give the administration a fair idea of the crowd that is to be expected on any given day, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jail-department-video-call-facility-for-prisoners-kin/articleshow/74939547.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nashik||Migrant workers happy with facilities but feel homesick||NASHIK: Of the 750 people, who were held by the city police on Sunday, 302 of them have been kept at the Social Welfare department hostel at Nasardi Bridge on Nashik Pune Road. While the district administration is taking care of their food and medical care, the migrant labourers want to be left on their own so that they can either proceed to their native villages or to Mumbai, which they left after the lockdown. The 750 migrant labourers have been kept in different facilities across the district where they can be provided food and medical care. Among them the 302 migrant labourers who arrived from Mumbai, Thane, etc either walking or by trucks and tempos are trying to while their time at the Social Welfare department hostel. Various organisations have come forward to provide them with food, water bottles, soaps, etc. A senior official of the Nashik tehsildar office said, the aim is to take utmost care of the migrants. We also want to ensure that they do not escape from the facility. To ensure this, we have kept around-the-clock police bandobast. At the same time, security guards are also provided in every building where they have been kept. In every room four migrants are kept. There is also one couple which has been kept in a separate room. While all care have been taken of the labourers, the migrants look homesick and they even talk about it. Many said that had they been left on their condition, they would have managed to reach their native village somehow. Some said that they would be satisfied even if they are allowed to go to Mumbai. Meanwhile, other said that they have got the facility to recharge the batteries of their cellphones, which was very good and they were now in the position to speak to their family members and get to know about their situation and also tell theirs. The stream of members of various NGOs is continuous to provide food, water bottles, soaps, etc to the migrants. One among them is however, unwell. The officials of the Nashik tehsil office said that the concerned person is being checked by doctors coming regularly there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrant-workers-happy-with-facilities-but-feel-homesick/articleshow/74940008.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 2, 2020||Goa||Goa government to start online medical consultancy||PANAJI: Citizens unable to visit doctors during this lockdown period need not worry as Goa government, in association with Clinikk Healthcare, has introduced a medical teleconsultation service. “We need to take medical help to the doorstep of people who are unable to reach the health centre. This is a step towards medical health and redefining healthcare. The government will bear the expense on behalf of the citizens during this lockdown,” health minister Vishwajit Rane said. The service, which can be availed in three languages — English, Hindi and Konkani — will see doctors provide free detailed study, and customised and accessible opinions. Citizens can dial 6366449060 to seek a medical consultation. “Specialists and assistants available 24X7 will provide advice on your problems and help identify next steps which may further include tests, medicine recommendation or lifestyle change,” a Goa Medical College (GMC) official said. Prescriptions will be forwarded through WhatsApp or SMS. The teleconsultation service also encompasses diligent after consultation support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-spurs-govt-to-start-online-medical-consultancy/articleshow/74939877.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||BJP campaign feeds 21L in need||Bhopal: With a target to help 45 lakh needy people stranded in the lockdown amid the COVID-19 outbreak, the BJP in Madhya Pradesh has reached almost 21 lakh people under its nationwide `feed the needy' campaign to serve them food, ration and vegetables. The party workers have also taken up the task of serving migrant workers and labourers at the border areas of MP under the programme. "Workers migrating from other states have been stuck in between during the lockdown. There are several workers reportedly from Bundelkhand who are stranded in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangena, besides, other states. The BJP workers through their contacts are providing them with meals, shelter, medicines and other necessities," said BJP state president, VD Sharma. BJP leaders said that several migrant workers stuck on the state borders near Tikamgarh, Niwari, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Morena, Betul and Seoni were being provided food and essential things by the party workers. "We have so far collected Rs 5 crore for the PM relief fund through the contribution by party workers. In Bundelkhand, Rs one crore has been deposited in the fund while, Rs 30 lakh have been released for buying ventilators in three districts. The BJP MLAs have contributed one month salary and a minimum of Rs 10 lakh each in the PM relief fund," he said. BJP leaders said that national president JP Nadda had asked to identify at least one crore party workers across the country, who could take the responsibility to feed five families a day during the lockdown in view of Covid-19 outbreak. The state BJP has involved more than 50,000 workers to serve people at various locations and district headquarters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-campaign-feeds-21l-in-need/articleshow/74938954.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Lax medicare for us in Kiev: Telangana, Andhra Pradesh students||HYDERABAD: A group of medical students from the Telugu states stuck in Kiev, Ukraine, complained that they are not receiving proper medical care. Even a face mask is hardly available. There are around 250 Indian students. In a video, the students said that the second largest country of Europe is under lockdown due to the pandemic. They are under home quarantine and are facing food shortage. “We are facing a big problem here. We are staying in hostels which are housing people from different countries. Even proper medical precautions are also not being taken,” a student said. “We want to come back to India,” they appealed in the video. Deputy speaker T Padma Rao brought the issue of the students to the notice of IT minister K T Rama Rao and asked if the students could be offered any help in the wake of the prevailing situation. Responding to the deputy speaker, KTR said, “All of us are aware of the international travel restrictions. We will have to wait. If they need any help in Ukraine, we will work with the MEA to do the needful.” Meanwhile, Telangana students who were put up in a hotel in London by Telugu associations vacated the place. The students were informed earlier that they would receive help only until March 31. A few students are hopeful that they would be vacated by a special flight. A few students are hopeful that they would be vacated by a special flight. Andhra Pradesh DGP, Gautam Sawang held a video conference with the students from AP stuck in London and assured that measures would be taken to help them. He, however, did not give any assurance regarding evacuation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lax-medicare-for-us-in-kiev-t-ap-students/articleshow/74939561.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Sharad sugar mill MD booked for letting cane cutters go home||KOLHAPUR: Hatkanangle police have registered a case against the managing director of Sharad cooperative sugar mill for violating the lockdown rules and granting permission to cane cutters to migrate to their villages. Minister of state for health Rajendra Patil Yadravkar is the chairman of the mill. Speaking to TOI, Patil said, “If the person has done wrong, he is liable to be booked by police. When I learnt about this, I personally asked the police to initiate action against those involved. No one will be spared if found violating lockdown rules.” According to the police, the permission to the cane cutters to migrate to their natives villages was granted through the official letter from the mills. The incident happened on March 31 and overlooked the lockdown and prohibitory orders, said police. According to police, the managing director of the mill gave permission on his official letterhead to the labourers to go home as the cane crushing season had come to an end. This, however, came to the notice of the state sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao. Rao wrote to Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai that “The MD of Sharad Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Ltd, Hatkanangle, has permitted labourers to go back to their native villages. This is in contravention to the guidelines of the governments of India and Maharashtra. In the present circumstances, suitable action against officers concerned of the above mentioned sugar factory permissible under prevalent acts may be initiated at your level.” “The government of India has declared lockdown period of 21 days starting from March 25. This office has instructed sugar mills to take all precautionary measures against speed of coronavirus,” said the letter further. Following this, Desai directed the authorities concerned to initiate action against the MD and a case was registered with Hatkanangle police station. He has been booked under section 188, 269, 270 and 291 of IPC and section 51 (B) of National Disaster Management Act-2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sharad-sugar-mill-md-booked-for-letting-cane-cutters-go-home/articleshow/74938960.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 2, 2020||Pune||Onion rates dip below Rs 10/kg for the first time this season in Pune||PUNE: Onion was auctioned in the range of Rs8-17 per kg at Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard in Gultekdi on Wednesday — the first instance of its wholesale price dipping below the double-figure since the beginning of the ongoing season in January. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) officials attributed the slump in the onion’s wholesale price to dip in demand for the produce. Also, they pointed out that the commission agents, who facilitate auction of the farm produce, opened their shops after a break of two weeks. As such, the intake of fresh onion was high in the market. “A total of 11,534 quintals of onion arrived in Gultekdi yard on Wednesday. This was more than expected and hence, the prices fell sharply in the open auction,” said Dattatray Kalamkar, the head of vegetables, fruits, onion and potato division of the market yard. He said, “Usually, hoteliers and other eateries in the city buy a bulk of onions, but these establishments are closed because of the lockdown. So, there wasn’t much demand for onion in the open auction, which drove the price down to the season’s lowest so far. The onions sold at Rs8 per kg was of low standard. But till date, even this type of onion was being sold above Rs12 per kg.” The APMC officials claimed that there was adequate supply of kitchen staple, but retail vendors were selling the produce at high price. “Outside market yard, vendors are selling onion for anything between Rs35 and Rs40 per kg. People need not worry about the intake or supply at least for next four weeks,” Kalamkar said. The wholesale price of potato also took a dip from Rs22-25 per kg two days back to Rs20-22 per kg on Wednesday with 15,281 quintals of potato arriving in the market. The arrival was a surplus, the APMC officials stated. “Maximum potato is purchased by vada pav or pav bhaji vendors, which are closed these days. We expect further fall in prices in the coming days,” Kalamkar added. The five sub-markets across the city, too, received surplus onion and potato supplies. Balasaheb Deshmukh, the chief administrator of AFMC, appealed to farmers and commission agents not to bring produce in a large number as only 400 vehicles of vegetables are permitted nowadays every day. “Maintaining social distance and avoiding mass gathering is necessary in the current situation. If we get more than 400 vehicles, the market would be crowded and following or implementing the government guidelines would be impossible,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onion-rates-dip-below-rs-10/kg-for-the-first-time-this-season/articleshow/74939553.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Pune||Supply up, edible oil prices stabilise||PUNE: Wholesale prices of edible oil stabilised in the Gultekdi market yard on Wednesday following the arrival of sufficient supply. An oil can of 15 litre was sold for anything between Rs1,100 and Rs2,400 as against last week’s Rs1,500-to Rs3,000 when the market faced an acute shortage. “Many oil mills and companies could not send their vehicles because of the lockdown. This led to the price rise. The administration is now allowing the vehicles carrying oil to commute. The supply has improved and prices have stablisied,” said Nitin Raskar, head of the grocery section at Market Yard. “The market has received 198 quintal of edible oil. This supply is adequate to meet the city’s current requirements. Some shopkeepers took advantage of the situation last week and sold oil at high rates,” he added. Agricultural Produce Market Committee officials said intake of foodgrain such as rice, jowar and wheat was adequate and the prices were stable. The market has received 21,000 quintal of rice, 2,770 quintal of wheat and 700 quintal of jowar, respectively. “We also got around 2,300 quintal of pulses of all types. The prices are in the range of Rs11,000 to Rs 11,500 per quintal. This is the average market rate,” Raskar said. The supply of edible oil to Maharashtra from neighbouring Karnataka had been hit with the border between the two states being sealed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the ensuing nationwide lockdown. Maharashtra depends on the Virabha region and Karnataka for edible oil. Supply had been halted in Vidarbha because the drivers and workers were not reporting to work. Edible oil was also not reaching from Karnataka ever since the inter-state border has been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/supply-up-edible-oil-prices-stabilise/articleshow/74939557.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Bhopal||100 under quarantine at Kolar med college hosp||Bhopal: About 100 people are under quarantine in a private medical college in Kolar and many more are under home isolation and quarantine in other facilities across the state capital. The idea of quarantine is to prevent spread and break the chain of spread of COVID-19, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Sudhir Dheriya. Dheriya in a recent video posted on social media, showed him going home from work after five days. It is a similar story for almost all health workers and health department officials and employees across Madhya Pradesh, leading the fight against COVID-19. They urge people to stay home as they treat and care for those at risk or with COVID-19. Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Lydia Bourouiba in a ground-breaking paper ‘Potential Implications for Reducing Transmission of COVID-19’ highlights best approaches for source control to potentially improve protection of front-line workers and prevent disease from spreading to the most vulnerable members of the population. He writes, “There is a need to understand the biophysics of host-to-host respiratory disease transmission accounting for in-host physiology, pathogenesis, and epidemiological spread of disease,” according to Dr Bourouiba. WHO, CDC classification systems employ various arbitrary droplet diameter cut offs, from 5 to 10 μm, to categorize host-to-host transmission as droplets or aerosol routes. The rapid international spread ofCOVID-19 suggests that using arbitrary droplet size cut offs may not accurately reflect what actually occurs with respiratory emissions, possibly contributing to the ineffectiveness of some procedures used to limit the spread of respiratory disease, warns the study. *** GFX The need for quarantine: Current understanding of host-to-host transmission in respiratory infectious diseases are predicated on a model of developed in the 1930s 2020 China report suggests coronavirus 2 virus particles could be found in the ventilation systems in hosp rooms of COVID patients Given various combinations of an individual patient’s physiology and environmental conditions droplets of all sizes can travel 23 to 27 feet (7-8 m) Latest WHO recommendations for COVID-19, advises healthcare workers to maintain a 3-feet (1-m)6 distance away from a patient or suspect Currently used surgical and N95 masks are not tested for these potential characteristics of respiratory emissions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/100-under-quarantine-at-kolar-med-college-hosp/articleshow/74938975.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 2, 2020||Goa||Food woes start to wane on Day 8||Margao: With shelters for the needy in place and food supply system getting streamlined, people’s hardships eased to an extent. Though citizens were able to procure what they required, stocks of essential supplies were exhausted within hours of stores opening. Voluntary organisations and social activists have been engaged in packing food for the needy at various centres set up by the government across the state. Some charitable groups also provided essential supplies free of cost to the old, infirm and poor. Milk supply was found to be normal on Wednesday in most parts of South Goa. Long queues were, however, witnessed at many of the state’s horticulture outlets. Though vegetables were sold at reasonable rates, stocks were soon exhausted at many places. At other vegetable stalls, produce was priced at a premium, but that didn’t deter buyers. Chicken and eggs continue to remain in high demand and retailers continue to price them at a premium. Several agencies have begun delivery of fruits, bread, vegetables, meat and other groceries. While contact details of dealers have been making the rounds on WhatsApp groups, the more enterprising retailers have started their own apps for delivery service. Fish is also seen being sold at many places across Goa sourced from either Cutbona and Betim jetty or from smaller fishing vessels that land on the state’s beaches. The jetty will remain shut from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/food-woes-start-to-wane-on-day-8/articleshow/74939881.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tablighi Jamaat members fall in line after NSA intervenes||NEW DELHI: On March 28, a section of Tablighi Jamaat members at Nizamuddin refused to let police and other officials enter Alami Markaz to conduct a medical examination. They locked themselves in and a confrontation seemed imminent by midnight, said an intelligence official. It was then that Union home minister Amit Shah asked national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval to step in. Around 1.30am, Doval reached the spot with five-six ministry and intelligence officials. A source said Doval clearly told the religious heads that they would have to follow the rule of the land. He explained it to them that the virus would not target anyone based on religion and, hence, they should get themselves checked in their own interest, the source added. Doval, it is learnt, also spoke to some foreign-based members asking them to extend full cooperation with the law enforcement authorities. The Tablighi members held an internal meeting in the early hours before agreeing to be shifted to hospitals and quarantine centres in batches. Police then noted down their particulars and began the evacuation process. It took the cops around 100 hours to shift everyone. The 75-year-old NSA went to the spot despite many advising him to avoid Nizamuddin, which was suspected to be heavily affected by the highly contagious novel coronavirus, said an intelligence official. During the recent riots in northeast Delhi, too, Doval had patrolled the district along with newly appointed police commissioner S N Shrivastava to ensure violence stopped completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-members-fall-in-line-after-nsa-intervenes/articleshow/74938984.cms||Raj Shekhar
April 2, 2020||Delhi||Nizamuddin's Markaz headquarters: Cramped quarters, no food for visitors||NEW DELHI: The people who were evacuated from Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, revealed that they had to lie in the halls of the first and second floors at a gap of inches as the building was packed beyond capacity. Shaheed Hamid, a trader from Tamil Nadu who was evacuated on March 29 and reached home on Tuesday, said the rooms meant for guests were crammed with people. As a result, people had to be allowed to sleep in the halls. The visitors were asked not to tell anyone outside how they had been boarded. The Jamaat members said that Banglewali Masjid has six floors with rooms on either side of the building. Initially, the management had provided food to the visitors twice daily, but stopped a few days after the lockdown. People were asked to step out and get their meals. They were also asked to stay put until the lockdown period was over. Family members of 63-year-old Jasimuddin, who had attended the Jamaat from south Bengal, said that he was untraceable for the past one week. “We have been getting news about the evacuation from news channels, but don’t know about my father’s whereabouts. There are all sorts of reports. If my father contracts the disease, it will be difficult for us to get him treated,” said Mahfizuddin, a resident of Kultali village in South 24 Parganas. Mufti Javed (25) from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh had reached the masjid two months ago. Since then, he had been residing on the third floor. He told TOI, “I’m at the quarantine centre in Narela and our tests have been conducted. The doctors told us tests will be conducted every 24 hours.” He claimed they were aware about novel coronavirus and had been provided masks and sanitisers. There was an in-house doctor there too. However, several mobile videos showed that no one inside Alami Markaz was wearing a mask. In fact, they were all cramped together in the halls maintaining no social distance. Most were either sleeping on a mattress or a sheet. When TOI contacted Aftab, a resident of Ghaziabad whose name was on the list of people at the mosque, he denied that he had gone there. “I was at home. I have never been there and neither have my family members,” he added. A worried Zakir Hussain breathed a sigh of relief after speaking to his elder brother, Saddam Hussain (30), who had left for Alami Markaz on November 29. The family is from Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. “We could not get in touch with him for the past few days. But we spoke to him last night at the centre in Narela,” said Zakir. Mohammad Irshad from Karnal in Haryana was admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital. The 65-year-old said, “Four of us are here. I don’t know where my bags are. I haven’t bathed for eight days now. My family is worried, but I told them I will come back once the check-up is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cramped-quarters-no-food-for-visitors-at-nizamuddin-markaz-say-evacuees/articleshow/74938989.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
April 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government banks on khadi units for masks||JAIPUR: The state has now turned towards khadi to fill in the gap for face masks that are in huge demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are 16 khadi centres in the state currently producing fabric masks to bridge the supply gap. The khadi board has a target to produce at least 10,000 such masks, of which 3,000 have already been supplied to district administration and other public offices for free distribution. After the chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged that the state units should put in efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state, the production of masks was started at the khadi units. These masks, made up of khadi fabric, though may not be as effective as the medical grade N95 or surgical masks, yet the fabric masks offer some level of protection, especially helping to prevent infection caused due to involuntary touching of one’s face. Studies suggest that on an average, humans touch their face nearly 20 times an hour. In a contagious environment like this, it can lead to transmission of pathogens from objects touched by a person to his/her mouth. Thus, they are fit for use for the general public as they visit shops or other utility places. In addition, these khadi masks have other advantages as they can be washed and reused. It also helps in reducing cross contamination and as more people use fabric masks, there are more medical-grade supplies left for those in actual requirement of a medical-grade mask. “These masks cost nearly Rs 18 per piece and are being provided for free. The cost of these is being borne by the khadi units,” said an official at the khadi board. The khadi board has been assisting such mask manufacturing units by providing them with logistical support which is crucial as the state stays in lockdown. Considering the demand, the khadi board is likely to exceed its own target and help provide access to more masks, while trade with other countries remains affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-banks-on-khadi-units-for-masks/articleshow/74939556.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Dehradun||Boy, 18, from Jamaat flees from isolation centre in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: An 18-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who was quarantined in Mela Hospital, escaped from the facility on Wednesday. However, he was traced at Brahmpuri Colony and was re-admitted to Mela Hospital later in the day. The boy had come to Haridwar from Assam and was isolated to ascertain if he is coronavirus-infected or not. Dr Rajesh Gupta, chief medical superintendent of Mela Hospital, told TOI, “We were waiting for the 18-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member but when the ambulance reached our facility, we found that he had run away. However, our team managed to capture him from Brahmpuri colony.” The official added that two other members of Tablighi Jamaat who were complaining of sore throat have been put in isolation centre and their samples are being sent for coronavirus test. Meanwhile, the health department has isolated around 150 members of Tablighi Jamaat for 14 days and has kept them in quarantine facilities across the district. According to district administration, 14 Tablighi Jamaat members, who came to Haridwar district before and after lockdown, have been traced and quarantined so far. District’s chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani told TOI, “The hunt for other members of Tablighi Jamaat, who attended an event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin with coronavirus-infected patients, is still going on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/boy-18-from-jamaat-flees-from-isolation-centre/articleshow/74938972.cms||MS Nawaz
April 2, 2020||Kolhapur||24 from Kolhapur attended Tablighi event, 5 returned, others still in Delhi||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district administration has identified all 24 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi last month. Five out of the 25 returned to Kolhapur on March 16. A screening process — after they entered Kolhapur — found that they did not have any symptoms. But authorities put them under quarantine on Wednesday as a precautionary measure. Abhinav Deshmukh, the superintendent of police, said: “These five individuals who had returned after attending the New Delhi conference were screened in Kolhapur and sent home. But they were placed under quarantine on Wednesday, a day after we received an alert from the central government.” Daulat Desai, the district collector of Kolhapur, said: “The 19 remaining participants are still in Delhi. We are in touch with them and they are safe there. We have asked them to alert us as soon as they are back in Kolhapur.” The district administration said the first five individuals were part of a group of 10 people who had returned to Kolhapur from Delhi on March 16. All the 10 were screened upon their return. Seven persons from Satara had attended the programme in Delhi and all have been sent into institutional quarantines. Shekhar Singh, the district collector of Satara, said: “The seven people from here were tracked down after we held meetings with the community heads. Their throat swab samples have been sent to NIV in Pune. Three of the reports have come back negative. We are now waiting for the other reports. All are under institutional quarantine.” In Sangli, the district administration said two persons from the district had participated in the conference. Both have been quarantined. Their swab samples will be sent to the laboratory, district administration officials said. And finally, the Solapur district administration has traced all the 17 people who have travelled to Delhi. They have been quarantined too. Sangli officials said they are in the process of collecting the samples from the 17 individuals for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/24-from-kolhapur-attended-tablighi-event-5-returned-others-still-in-delhi/articleshow/74938979.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Family members of 463 Tablighi Jamaat attendees to be monitored||HYDERABAD: Shaken by the events unfolding across the country due to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the government has decided to send all attendees to state-run quarantine facilities in the city. Multi-disciplinary teams scoured the city for the second consecutive day on Wednesday and tracked down 463 of the 630 attendees so far and sent them to quarantine facilities. Though only some with symptoms were sent to state-run quarantine centres on Tuesday, the rest were also sent for isolation on Wednesday. “ Initially the plan was to home quarantine asymptomatic people and inspect their health for 14 days, but following orders from government, we shifted them to quarantine centres,” a GHMC official, requesting anonymity, told TOI. The family members of the 463 attendees would be under watch too. Home quarantine stickers were also pasted on houses of the attendees and extensive sanitisation was taken up in those areas. The teams had identified the returnees from Charminar , Khairatabad, Yosufguda, Banjara Hills, Secunderabad and Gajularamaram. “Identification of the remaining is underway, the details of their tests will be given out in medical bulletin,” a GHMC official said. “We were unable to trace a few people based on their residential address. We contacted them on phone,” a GHMC official said. The entire process went off without a hitch, GHMC officials said. An official monitoring inspection in the IT corridor said the returnees complied with instructions. “A person who attended the TJ event did show any symptoms, but his neighbours insisted he be shifted to hospital. The person volunteered for a check-up,” a GHMC official from Serilingampally zone said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-members-of-463-tj-attendees-to-be-monitored/articleshow/74939595.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Steel City market in panic after man complains of breathlessness||JAMSHEDPUR: Panic gripped a vegetable market near Christian bustee under Sonari police station area here on Wednesday after a man complained of breathlessness while getting down from his car to buy vegetables. He was immediately rushed to the hospital after the locals feared that he may be a Covid-19 patient, but was discharged later in the evening as he was feeling uneasy due to gastritis, civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said. Meanwhile, after the man was shifted to the hospital, the district authorities shut down the vegetable market immediately and asked people to vacate the place. Later, the entire area was sanitized by Jusco. The administration has appealed to the masses here to declare on their own if they had taken part in the religious function at Nizamuddin in Delhi in mid-March. Such people have been advised to undergo a test at MGMMCH. On Tuesday evening, the district administration had picked up 19 persons from Musaboni area in Ghatshila and two from Jamshedpur’s Jugsalai, who are believed to have taken part in the religious function at Delhi. All of them have been shifted to isolation wards in the district and are being tested for novel coronavirus, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-market-in-panic-after-man-complains-of-breathlessness/articleshow/74938528.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Rims doctors rue PPE scarcity, Banna Gupta promises fresh stock||RANCHI: With Jharkhand recording its first Covid-19 case on Tuesday, the state health department started working overtime to shore up basic medical equipment. However, the availability of Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), thermal scanners and ventilators is still not up to the mark and is affecting the preparedness of the state. On Tuesday evening, after the first positive case of novel coronavirus in Jharkhand was shifted to Rims’ trauma centre for treatment, junior doctors of the state-run medical college boycotted the duty roster due to lack of protective equipment. Speaking to TOI, state health minister Banna Gupta conceded that there is a shortage of basic protective equipment, but added his department is hoping to receive a consignment in three days. “Till now, we have procured 500 PPEs in addition to the 1,000 we had in stock. We have ordered 1,000 more, which will be delivered in three days,” Banna said. About thermal scanners and ventilators, Banna said, “I do not have the exact number of thermal scanners available with the health authorities as they have been sourced from various agencies, but we have ordered 250 scanners for Jharkhand and are awaiting delivery.” He added, “We have around 200 ventilators in state-run and private hospitals and have placed an order for 300 more. These are scheduled to arrive this week.” About how will the government expand screening exercise in view of the shortage of basic necessities, Banna said, “I had a meeting with Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday and he has assured me that the pending stock will be delivered soon.” He added, “The medical consignment, which includes thermal scanners, PPE kits and ventilators, were supposed to be delivered to us by now, but since the demand from states that are in a worse condition than us increased, our consignment got delayed.” Meanwhile, health workers deployed on Covid-19 duty are scared and have raised concerns and fear of getting infected from the highly contagious viral infection. “We never refused treatment to patients with symptoms of the novel coronavirus, but after the first positive case in Ranchi, we feel we might end up producing more cases if we aren’t provided with the required protective gear. How will the healthcare workers combat the threat if they do not feel safe?” said a resident doctor of Rims deployed on Covid-19 duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-docs-rue-ppe-scarcity-banna-promises-fresh-stock/articleshow/74938371.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Day 1: Only 8 veggie markets opened, chaos as social distancing not followed||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) move to start vegetable markets at 24 playgrounds or open places in the city to prevent overcrowding didn’t meet the desired outcome on the first day. To begin with, the NMC could start the markets only at eight places. There was chaos at most places, including Reshimbagh ground which was thronged by citizens who ignored social distancing norms. Earlier, the NMC had closed down Cotton Market, weekly and other roadside markets while district collector Ravindra Thakare had allowed entry to only 100 vehicles in Kalamna wholesale vegetable market. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe announced that 24 open spaces would be converted into vegetable markets across nine zones, excluding Satranjipura. On Wednesday, TOI found that NMC’s plan did not take off at 16 places due to logistical issues and some vendors were not ready to set up stalls. The NMC succeeded in making a few markets operational at Reshimbagh ground, Zingabai Takli, Yeshwant Stadium, Budhwar Bazaar, Rajabaksha, Mangalwari Bazaar and Jaitala. There was an unprecedented rush at Reshimbagh ground where farmers had set up their vegetable stalls. As the word spread that vegetables were available at cheaper rates here, residents from south Nagpur started pouring in. Even retail buyers thronged the ground throwing caution to the wind and lockdown rules were forgotten. Many people entered the ground with their vehicles and hundreds of vehicles were parked outside the ground even as the police watched helplessly. “The NMC had marked circles for social distancing but many did not pay heed to it,” said Surekha Patle, a resident of Sakkardara who visited Reshimbagh ground. “It was very chaotic,” she said. The temporary market on an open space in Zingabai Takli too received good response. Here, the Mangalwari zone has set up a public address system through which buyers were continuously being told to follow guidelines. Even drinking water bottles were provided to vegetable vendors who came from Koradi Old Naka. Vegetable buyers here seemed satisfied with the initiative. Manoj Borkar, a buyer, said that farmers were selling fresh vegetables at cheaper rates. “The facility has also saved our money otherwise spent on fuel as earlier we had visit designated market places like Cotton Market or Kalamna market which are at some distance,” he said. Rohit Malshettiwar, a resident of Kamgar Nagar in north Nagpur, was anguished as no market was set up in this part of the city. The NMC had announced to convert an open space at Samrat Nagar into vegetable market, but it could not materialize as the place is covered with shrubs. On Wednesday, the PWD and health department officials from Ashi Nagar zone were levelling the ground. Ward corporator Manoj Sangole was also present to monitor the work. A senior official admitted that there was chaos at some markets but assured that things will fall into place from Thursday. The official added that the other markets will be operational soon. The NMC also claimed that 36 farmers, whose list was published on social networking sites, have started door-to-door delivery of vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-1-only-8-veggie-markets-opened-chaos-as-social-distancing-not-followed/articleshow/74938999.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Bengal baraatis stranded in bride’s village in Ramgarh||RAMGARH: As many as 75 baraatis are stranded in the bride’s village in Argada owing to the lockdown which came into force soon after the marriage was solemnised on March 23. The bride’s family are arranging food and lodging for the stranded guests. The guests have been accommodated at the local panchayat bhavan in Argada. Sources in Monika Jagdall’s (bride) family said social distancing norms are being maintained at the building. The groom, Rakesh Deep, hails from Nichupoda village in West Bengal’s Asansol. Deep said, “I thank my wife’s family and her relatives for taking such good care of us. We feel completely safe here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bengal-baraatis-stranded-in-brides-village-in-ramgarh/articleshow/74938556.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Tipplers deal with life’s longest ‘dry’ stretch||Ranchi: Tipplers in the state capital are dealing with a crisis of sorts as there seems to be no end to the long stretch of “dry days” that has come into force due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. With liquor shops now closed for 11 days, this is the longest “dry” period most liquor lovers in the city have experienced. Jharkhand has been under a lockdown since the March 22 ‘janata curfew’, two days before PM Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown from March 24. While shops offering essential services are allowed to function, the shutdown has led to closure of bars and liquor stores across the state. In a lighter vein, a regular tippler said, “I used to tease my friends in Bihar after they banned liquor a few years ago. I can now feel their plight and understand what they go through on a daily basis.” On a more serious note, people are now fast running out of their stock of booze at home. “As soon as the lockdown was announced, I rushed to the grocery store to buy some essentials. The liquor stores did not open on March 22 due to the janata curfew and they have remained closed ever since Modi-ji extended the shutdown by three weeks,” Tarun Kumar, who works with a private firm, said. While some had predicted that a lockdown was inevitable given the circumstances, many were taken by surprise. Adarsh Thakur said, “I did not purchase liquor on March 21 because I didn’t see the lockdown coming,” he said. He called up a few friends asking them to make some arrangements, but he found no help. While responsible drinkers are rationing and managing with whatever they have at home, some people are now approaching bootleggers for their daily fix. Officials in the state excise department said a handful cases of bootlegging has been reported in Ranchi and across Jharkhand. “A few complaints were received about small retailers selling a handful of bottles at inflated rates on the sly. But on the whole, no major incident of smuggling has been reported during the lockdown,” a senior officer in the department said. Bootleggers claim the police is being extremely strict with the lockdown and sourcing liquor illegally has become a big challenge. “Unlike the usual dry days which last for just one or two days, this one is going to last for several weeks,” said a 26-year-old man who works at a liquor shop, and since the closure, he has been procuring the liquor from some retail shops and bars and selling it illegally at a premium. With sales halted, the department has issued temporary licenses to 12 bottling units across Jharkhand to manufacture alcohol-based sanitizers. “The licenses have been issued till June 31,” state excise director Gajendra Singh said. “The department had issued a separate order to all liquor retailers asking them to comply with the lockdown,” he added. The department on Wednesday said 204 retail stores state-wide have not renewed their operational licenses for the new fiscal year. As per estimates, there were 1,604 licensed liquor stores in Jharkhand in 2019. A city-based liquor store owner, who has not renewed his licence, said: “It was difficult for me to sustain as the annual licence fee is Rs 2.5 crore. This is way higher than the amount we paid before the state took over retail sales for a brief period before handing it back to private hands.” Meanwhile, even smokers are finding it difficult to arrange for their daily quota of cigarettes. While the lockdown has shut down cigarette and paan shops statewide, grocery stores have also run out of stock. “Police are stopping us from going to the stockists and dealers. Even if we are managing to reach them, the stockists are charging us more than MRP in every pack of cigarettes and tobacco products,” S K Agarwal, a grocery store owner in Doranda, said. With cigarette stocks now thinning, smokers are settling for cheaper brands by paying a hefty premium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tipplers-deal-with-lifes-longest-dry-stretch/articleshow/74938252.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Anger, dismay, guilt among Muslims in Ranchi||RANCHI: Muslim organizations in the city have expressed anger and dismay as social media was flooded with posts portraying Tablighi Jamaat members as criminals. Socio-religious Muslim outfits in Ranchi appealed to the people to cooperate with the administration with screening the possibly infected people and also urged people from other communities not to blame the Tablighi markaz for spreading the novel coronavirus. Shahar kaazi Kari Jaan Mohammad said they have been cooperating with the administration ever since the PM called for a ‘janata curfew’ on March 22. “We made announcements from mosques and asked people to stay indoors and offer namaz from their homes. Friday prayers at mosques were also cancelled and people followed the directives,” he said. He, however, pointed out that it was wrong to claim that the members of Tablighi Jamaat were “hiding” in mosques. “No foreigner can come to us without informing the government and the local administration. It is wrong to say that they were hiding. “On Thursday, Hindpiri OC had come to inquire about the foreigners and the authorities were very much aware about their presence in Badi Masjid,” he added. Hasan Rumi, state convener of Muslim Majlis-e-mushawarat Khurshid, said the blame game is part of a larger political conspiracy. “When the government at the Centre imposed a lockdown all of a sudden, authorities in Delhi failed to control the gathering of labourers at the city-state’s border. Their failure came into focus and they raised the markaz issue to divert attention,” Rumi said. Rumi added that with its international headquarters in Nizamuddin, Delhi, Tablighi Jamaat has been sending its members to different parts of the country through the year and the Intelligence Bureau has detailed information about all foreign members who come to India. “How can anyone believe that the government was unaware of the congregation? What option did the Tabllighi members have once the lockdown was imposed,” Rumi asked. Moulana Qutubuddin Rizwi of Edar-E Sharia, however, expressed guilt for the lockdown orders being violated in some parts by members of the Jamaat. “Members of the Jamaat should have behaved responsibly in view of the emergency-like situation the country and the world are dealing with,” he said. Academician and scientist Dr Abdul Wadood said while that the members of Tablighi Jamaat may have been in the right legally, they failed to fulfil their social duties. “The situation across the world was deteriorating since the first week of March. Even before the government announced the lockdown, we started observing social distancing and many events of the university were cancelled. How could an international organisation like Tablighi Jamaat fail to postpone its people-connect programmes. They should have asked members to observe social distancing even before the lockdown was announced,” he said. Wadood urged everyone to set aside communal discussions and fight the virus collectively to ensure people remain healthy. “We can settle our differences and find out whose failure it was when the crisis is over. For the time being, everyone should cooperate with the administration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/anger-dismay-guilt-among-muslims-in-ranchi/articleshow/74938435.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 2, 2020||Surat||Doc fights virus, odds with equal zeal||Surat: A 50-year-old senior doctor at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and part of the team that is working to develop Covid-19 hospital in record time despite being allegedly manhandled by the cops during duty. The in-charge assistant resident medical officer (RMO) of NCH is, however, resiliently working on for Covid-19. "I think it is an opportunity for a doctor to work at this time of crisis. I am round-the-clock and supporting my colleagues who are giving their all in this situation," said Dr Onkar Chaudhary, who was reportedly hit and abused by few a policemen and a private person on March 24 when he was driving his car near Gujarat Gas circle. The man in civvies stopped Chaudhary and asked him to show his identity card. Chaudhary had already put up a notice on his car about his profession and involvement with the duites in fighting the spread of Covid-19. But even amid this, the man allegedly abused Chaudhary and later a few other cops too joined in the insult and reportedly punched Chaudhary in the back even after checking his ID card. "It was a shocking, but the incident did not deter me. I am continuing my duties after reporting the issue to senior police officials and my department," Chaudhary told TOI. "Sometimes one has to work in challenging situation and that is the actual role of a doctor," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doc-fights-virus-odds-with-equal-zeal/articleshow/74938441.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||54, who came in contact with Malaysian woman, sent to Khelgaon quarantine||Ranchi: A day after the 22-year-old Malaysian woman, who was staying in Hindpiri area, tested positive for Covid-19, the district administration on Wednesday started a door-to-door screening and sanitization process and 54 persons from the area who were suspected to have come in contact with the woman were shifted to the Khelgaon quarantine centre. Their blood samples were collected at the Covid-19 block of Rims. Speaking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “We had deployed 10 contact-tracing teams along with health workers who identified 54 persons from five houses in Hindipiri area which were used by the woman and her group. All the 54 suspected patients have been transferred to the quarantine centre in Khelgaon after medical examinations were conducted and their blood samples were collected. Our teams are continuously working to trace more people who might have come in their contact.” With these 54 people being tested for Covid-19, the total collection of blood samples across the state stands at 445, including 257 at Rims and 30 st MGM in Jamshedpur. Meanwhile, doctors at Rims’ trauma centre started medication on the state’s first Covid-19 patient and said she is stable, but continues to be asymptomatic.  “The patient is being administered medication and she is stable and hasn’t shown any symptoms,” said Dr Devesh, professor at the PSM department of Rims. Devesh added, “The woman is young and has better immunity and thus continues to be asymptomatic despite testing positive for Covid-19. We need to test all the people who came in her contact as they too might be asymptomatic, but could be infected.” Earlier in the day, a team of health workers along with the district administration and police officials led by Town CO Prakash Kumar reached Hindpiri area and started evacuating the suspects. The district administration team had to face resistance from the locals as they weren’t ready to allow the women to be shifted to quarantine centres. The suspects were taken to Rims only after a few locals interfered and convinced the family members to undergo the tests. Soon after the suspects were transferred to Rims, a cleanliness team of Ranchi Municipal Corporation sanitized all the five houses and conducted similar drives across the area amid a curfew which was imposed on Tuesday evening. According to sources, the Tablighi Jamaat group, which was camping in Ranchi since March 17, has stayed at three different mosques in the area as a part of their religious outreach programme before they were detected and sent to quarantine centres. The group was also examined by a health department team from the Sadar Hospital on March 25 who declared them fit. “The Jamaat was scheduled to stay at Masjid-e Ambia, their second stop, between March 21 and 24. However, after the ‘janata curfew’ was imposed on March 22, I wrote to Hindpiri police station on March 24 about their arrival and asked them do the needful, but the authorities turned up only on March 28 after which they were shifted to the quarantine centre on March 29,” said Sajjad Idrisi, sadar of Masjid-e Ambia mosque on Nala Road in Hindpiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/54-who-came-in-contact-with-malaysian-woman-sent-to-khelgaon-quarantine/articleshow/74938157.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 2, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Legal step likely against those who hosted Tablighi Jamaat group||RANCHI: A day after a foreign national, who was a part of the Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for Covid-19, Ranchi Police are contemplating legal action against the people who hosted the group without providing prior information about their arrival to the city. Speaking to TOI, Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said, “Right now we are verifying the credentials of the foreign nationals who were part of the religious group and were found from a mosque and private residences in Hindpiri area on late Sunday night. I have instructed a DSP rank official to conduct an enquiry about their Visas and whether they had completed all the necessary documentation upon their arrival to the state capital. After examining the facts, we will initiate necessary legal action against the culprits.” Meanwhile, police sources confirmed that the foreigners did not inform the foreign registration office in the state capital upon their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/legal-step-likely-against-those-who-hosted-tablighi-group/articleshow/74938491.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Private doctors wearing raincoats as ‘PPE not available’||NAGPUR: First they were forced to open their private clinics, and now doctors from city are compelled to purchase raincoats in bulk “due to unavailability of personal protection equipment (PPE)”. Many of them also posted their pictures on social media with the new “dress code”. A doctor having hospital on Wardha Road said that the decision was taken by their seniors, although unofficially, after district collector Ravindra Thakare and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Munde warned them of faction if their clinics are not opened. “Raincoats aren’t allowed in medical field and can’t replace PPE. This is just a temporary arrangement till PPE is made available by the government,” he said. Even after the warning, many of them are yet to open their shutters and are ready to face the consequences. “At the most, the government would file case against us and that too would take a long time. But we don’t want to expose ourselves to a highly contagious virus. We are, of course, ready to serve as a national duty but with proper protection gear. If we are infected, who will save the patients?” a doctor said. Many from the medical fraternity have downed their shutters due to the lockdown, leading to suffering for common citizens. Numerous complaints have been filed by aggrieved citizens after finding clinics of their doctors closed. A citizen’s daughter is suffering from cancer. On Wednesday morning, she wasn’t feeling well, so he called her regular doctor. However, the doctor didn’t pick his calls and when he went to the clinic it was closed. Admitting that many of them have preferred not to open their clinics, doctors told TOI they were discouraging patients from coming to clinics. After the stringent warning from district administration, some of them opened their establishments, but with shutters half down. “The clinic were open only for a couple of hours as we don’t want to risk even the patients. Even N-95 masks were in shortage, as public had purchased them in bulk after the virus outbreak, they said. Some of them raised concern over news that doctors and supporting staff at places like Rainbow and Panorama were quarantined after it was found that positive patients had visited there. Doctors said same can happen to them if any such patient visits their clinics and they would be forced to go under quarantine at MLA Hostel for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-docs-wearing-raincoats-as-ppe-not-available/articleshow/74939026.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha also sees influx of migrant labourers||Nagpur: Even as hordes of migrant workers have left Nagpur or other parts of the region, with majority of them heading for Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha has also seen influx of migrant workers migration due to Covid-19 scare. As many as 80,000 people working in cities like Mumbai and Pune have rushed back to their villages in western Vidarbha. Majority of them are from Buldhana, Washim and Akola districts, and had come back before the lockdown, said sources. Piyush Singh, commissioner of Amravati division, which covers five districts of western Vidarbha, said after primary check-up, each one them has been home quarantined. Arrangements to screen them were made at bus stops and railway stations itself, he said. “Apart from it, another 110 returning from Surat have been stopped from going further and kept in camps in Akola on Wednesday. They were working as diamond workers at the city in Gujarat. Groups entering Amravati division from western Maharashtra too have been stopped,” said the officer. The Amravati division includes Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Washim and Amvarati districts. The commissioner for Nagpur division, Sanjeev Kumar, said there has been no incidence of reverse migration in his area. The division includes Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts. Other than this, over 29,000 workers trying to move out of the region to their native places have been kept in various shelter homes. These include 19,600 in Amravati division and 10,000 in Nagpur, according to the respective divisional commissioners. The Jabalpur division of Madhya Pradesh that has districts like Seoni, Balaghat, Jabalpur and Chhindwara, which are close to Nagpur, has seen more than 45,000 migrant workers coming back. Vidarbha gets a large chunk of migrant labourers from these districts of the neighbouring state. Divisional commissioner (Jabalpur) Ravindra Mishra told TOI that since March 20, 45,401 persons came back to their villages in his area. “Those returning were not coming from Maharaashtra alone. Migrant workers have been returning from Delhi, Noida and other parts of the country too,” said the officer. Out of these, 600 in whom the symptoms were seen were kept in isolation. However, no further sign of Covid-19 infection was seen in them and majority of them have also been cured of the symptoms. Other than that, nine persons had attended the Tablighi Jamat event at Delhi. They are being examined too, said Mishra. The quarantine centres have been set up in different districts like Balaghat, Seoni and Chhindwara. Balaghat had the highest influx back at 24,578 persons, said a source in the district collectorate. The Madhya Pradesh borders have been sealed now. Seoni, which borders Nagpur, had 11,000 persons coming through the inter-state border check-point at Khawasa village. District collector Praveen Singh said four persons where found to have major symptoms of Covid-19 infection but have all tested negative. The other two are a businessman and a mountaineer who had gone to the area bordering China, said the officer. Screening has also led to detection of some cases of tuberculosis, the source said. Over 700 workers have been stopped from going further and kept in camps at Maharashtra-Chattisgargh border, said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-also-sees-influx-of-migrant-labourers/articleshow/74939056.cms||Shishir Arya
April 2, 2020||Surat||3D printing firm creates face shields for COVID-19 warriors||Surat: A 3D printing company is helping the front-line Coronavirus warriors in the city stay protected with a face shield that saves the user from the threat of airborne contaminants. City-based Sahajanand Technologies Private Limited (STPL) has not only devised these lightweight face shields but has also been distributing these for free among police, doctors and nurses in the diamond city amid shortage of safety equipment. In the last two days, the company, using its own 3D printers and laser cutters to make the visors, have delivered many shields to the hospitals for its medical staff. The simple design consists of a laser-cut clear plastic shield that covers the face and a printed visor band that fits across the users’ forehead. A standard-three hole punch is used to make holes in the plastic shield so that it can be clipped onto the visor. The transparent biocompatible polylactic acid (PLA) plastic sheet that forms the shield can be replaced or sanitized. The firm also provides extra plastic sheets. So far, more than 2,000 face shields have been distributed among the police, health workers and doctors in the New Civil Hospital and the SMC-run SMIMER hospital.Talking to TOI, manager of STPL3D, Kuntesh Radadiya said, “While the police force, doctors, nurses, NGO workers and employees in essential services are tackling COVID-19 crisis upfront, we want to help them by making these protective face shields.”Radadiya further said that the face shields can be worn with the face masks. The company has set a target of distributing about 10,000 face shields to the health workers, police and NGO workers involved in the fight against spread of Coronavirus in the city. Appreciating the face shields, police commissioner, RB Brahmbhatt said, “Each police personnel is checking more than 100 people every day and these face shields have definitely been a boon. We are thankful to the STPL3D company for providing the shield free for the police fraternity.”Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said that such masks are used widely in hospitals in the foreign countries. “This is the first time that the company in Surat is providing the shields to the health workers, doctors and policemen. We have appreciated their efforts to fight the virus in the diamond city and especially for distributing the safety gear for free,” Naik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3d-printing-firm-creates-face-shields-for-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/74938480.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Jobless & missing family, migrants wish to be home||Nagpur: The anxiety and depression was clearly visible on the faces of migrant labourers at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)-run shelter at Guru Ghasidas community hall in Dipty Signal on Wednesday. It was not that NMC was not treating them well. The migrants do not want to live here for two reasons – they had become jobless due to coronavirus and they were worried about their family back home and wanted to be with them. There were some exceptions like Vinod Arkase, 22, from Betul in Madhya Pradesh. Arkase worked in a hotel at Chhatrapati Chowk but due to lockdown the owner asked him to go and also did not pay pending wages. He says, “I will wait till April 14 when the lockdown ends and join again at the same place. If it gets extended then I will somehow leave the city.” However, Arkase doesn’t have a family. His parents passed way when he was young. Dipty Signal home shelter has 29 people. Of them, 17 migrants from MP, Chhattisgarh and Telangana were stopped by police in various parts of the city as they were going to their native places. Besides, 12 of them were already there earlier. The capacity of this shelter is 30. First these migrants were taken to the main shelter in Sitabuldi from where they were sent here after medical check-up. Shelter’s caretaker Subhash Dahate of Lilai Jankalyan Mahila Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha, Prem Nagar, said, “We are treating them well. There is 24x7 water facility, clean toilets, soaps and beds. In case of any health problem they are referred to NMC diagnostic centre.” Dahate said, “Food and tea is being served in both shifts. On some days, packets exceed the requirement as nearby traders also pitch in. Extra food is distributed among the locals. Yet, migrants are keen on leaving.” Raju Goswami, a beggar from Kaddhora near Raipur, came to Nagpur as police were evacuating all such elements there. “I reached Itwari station on March 20 and wanted to go to Haridwar but train operations were withdrawn. I was in Itwari for four days. Later, I was dropped here by police. Though all is well, I want to be home,” said Goswami. Similar views were expressed by Mohammed Ali (18) and MG Salauddin (21) from Devaria in UP. “We worked as labourers doing civil works. After lockdown we decided to walk 1,800km to our hometown but were stopped by policemen at LIC Square and were sent at this shelter. We are missing our family members and now want to return even if lockdown is withdrawn,” they said. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has asked authorities to provide all facilities to these migrants. As per the official figures, 13,562 migrants are living in 141 shelter homes in the Nagpur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobless-missing-family-migrants-wish-to-be-home/articleshow/74939076.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Helping poor but demand-supply gap is huge, say social organizations & NGOs||Nagpur: A group of 20 students were stuck at one of the boys hostels without food and water since the last couple of days. They made an appeal through social media after which an NGO run by a lawyer rushed to their help. Many such organizations and NGOs are coming forward to help the migrants and those staying at shelter homes. Not only they are providing food, but also helping senior citizens get their medicines. However, many of them complained that the number of such people is much more than they are anticipating. Even volunteers, who can drop essentials to the needy, are difficult to find. They appealed to the government to lend them a helping hand so that they could reach out to persons who’re in dire straits. The Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar, Pachpaoli, is sending a huge number of about 8,000 to 10,000 parcels of packed food at various places in the city, but they’re finding it difficult to reach everyone. “Wherever we’re going with parcels, the number of persons are much more which includes children,” said Jasmit Singh, a volunteer. NGOs like Janmanch are supplying sacks containing foodgrains, oil and salt in areas like Vihirgaon, Shrikrishna Nagar slums, Wadi, Surabardi etc. “So far, we’ve supplied over 300 sacks to the needy and migrants. At all places, the people rush in large numbers. Undoubtedly, more help is needed in such unprecedented crisis,” said its president Pramod Pande. Organizations like Nuri Mehfil Tajabad (Baba Taj Roti Bank) and Taj Ka Langar have joined hands to help the poor and migrants. “We’ve over 80 kits that also contain sanitizer, apart from rice and pulses. Of course, the number of needy persons is huge but we’ve zeroed on poor women who are widows or staying with children in areas like Bada Tajbag, Manewada, and Mahal,” said activist Mohammed Zoeb. The VNIT Alumni Association is providing kits containing foodgrains prepared from Swaminarayam Temple to NGO Niramay which is working on ground for the poor and migrants. “Some kits were distributed to daily wagers at Panchpaoli and also to NGO Parinde Foundation for providing to the needy in other areas,” chairman Shashikant Chaudhary and treasurer Uday Kamat said, adding that more help is required. Youth bodies like Samata Sainik Dal are helping poor labourers at MIDC Hingna and adjoining areas, mostly from other states, with packets of foodgrains and essential things. “We’ve so far distributed packets in areas beyond MIDC like Deori. However, the requirement far exceeds the supply, as the number of people is huge. We’re also falling short of volunteers,” activists Tufan Kamble and Ritesh Deshbhratar said. All these organizations have collectively appealed to citizens to come forward and help them in carrying this noble task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/helping-poor-but-demand-supply-gap-is-huge-say-social-organizations-ngos/articleshow/74939121.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 2, 2020||Nagpur||Last few migrant workers leaving fast||Nagpur: Satish Parte, Harbhendra Singh and others were perhaps among the handful last who were finally leaving for their native village in Madhya Pradesh. Working at a site in Shankarpur off Wardha Road, they said the contractor was ready to feed them, yet they preferred going back. “The contractor is ready to provide us food but not wages. We would rather go back. We have our farms in the village,” said one of them. Even as majority of the workers have already left and Madhya Pradesh government has sealed the borders, the last batches continued to be seen walking towards Jabalpur. As TOI drove towards Mansar on the Nagpur-Jabalpur highway for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday, not more than 50 workers were spotted. Most of them had held on hoping that things may improve soon, but finally left. Manoj Vivande, who was with another group, said that they waited at the site in Sonegaon till the stock of grains they had lasted, and had to leave after that. Others have already left, he said. Siddique Khan said that he was relieved only today by the contractor working for Mahagenco’s power plant at Khaparkheda, as Rakesh Kumar said he only came to know about coronavirus today and was leaving now. Back in the city, Bhanusingh and his wife Geetabai were seen working at n Orange City Water Works Private Limited’s (OCWPL) repair site. From Mandla in Madhya Pradesh, Bhanusingh said that there are 30 others at the settlement in Nara who have not left. They continue to get work here and did not leave as vehicles were not plying. They did not prefer to walk down as Mandla was more than 300km away, he said. The contractor, Ajmail Haque, said they were among the last batch left and are being taken care of. A source in the infrastructure sector said that the migrant workers are generally paid an advance when they begin from their villages. This for the subsistence of their family members who stay back. They get a small advance every week for sundry purchases and the wages are paid every 20 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/last-few-migrant-workers-leaving-fast/articleshow/74939131.cms||Shishir Arya
April 2, 2020||Surat||Sumul dairy to incentivize its employees with extra payment||Surat: The Surat District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (Sumul) has announced extra payment for all its employees including the truck drivers, loaders and those involved in the supply of milk in the city during the lockdown and the outbreak of COVID-19.Talking with TOI, Sumul dairy chairman Raju Pathak said: “When the entire city is under lockdown, our people at Sumul are ensuring that the supply of milk reaches every nook and corner of the city and district. Hence, we have decided to incentivize our employees with extra payment to boost their morale.”Pathak added, “Sumul is supplying about 11 lakh litres of milk and about 2.5 lakh litres of butter milk in Surat and Tapi districts respectively. Despite the rapid spread of COVID-19, the drivers and loaders of the milk supply vehicles are working with determination.”According to Pathak, the Sumul dairy is also planning to incentivize the members of the pastoral community who are ensuring the supply of milk to the collection centres of Sumul across the districts in Tapi and Surat.Manish Bhatt, marketing head, Sumul dairy, said, “The incentive scheme announced by the Sumul management will boost the confidence of the employees, drivers and loaders. They are doing the most challenging job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sumul-dairy-to-incentivize-its-employees-with-extra-payment/articleshow/74938506.cms||---
April 2, 2020||India||Truckers flag shortage of drivers; claims they have gone home||NEW DELHI: Despite Centre’s clear instructions to make the movement of cargo vehicles seamless across the country, truckers’ associations have been raising several issues that are still coming in their way. They claimed the availability of drivers has reduced to 15 for 100 trucks as compared to 58-60 drivers per 100 trucks before Corona breakout. “Many are finding reasons to return home and they are scared. While the demand for movement of essential commodities is increasing frantically, supply is not even close to matching it. Not more than 10% of trucks are running and drivers are finding ways to return home,” said an office bearer of All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA). He claimed that warehouses and factories where trucks need to be unloadws trucks were still not open. Both AITWA and All India Motor Transport Congress, a pan-India truckers association, said instructions of MHA to allow trucks to operate have not gone down yet in many places. The Centre has issued specific instructions saying that all goods vehicles irrespective of what they are carrying should be allowed to move on. AIMTC alleged that high-handedness by the personnel manning the checkposts and nakas were causing harassment. There were also sporadic cases extortion and beating of drivers, it claimed. AIMTC also demanded that the government should consider bringing drivers under Rs 50 lakh insurance cover as it has been done for doctors and paramedics, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/truckers-flag-shortage-of-drivers-claims-they-have-gone-home/articleshow/74940249.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Surat||Surat RTO to trace1.5L auto drivers||Surat: The regional transport office (RTO) has embarked upon a mammoth task of reaching out to the about 1.5 lakh auto drivers in the city and district following the announcement by the State Government of providing them with financial relief during the lockdown period. Regional transport officer (RTO), DK Chavda said, “We are taking the assistance of the auto unions in the city and district to reach out to the auto drivers for state government’s financial relief. The application forms have been given to the auto union leaders for distribution among auto drivers for seeking financial aid.” A meeting of the auto unions and the RTO was held on Monday where it was decided that the application forms will be distributed to the auto drivers through the auto unions. The RTO inspectors will collect the filled up forms from the unions and forward them to the state government for the financial relief. “The forms have to be submitted in time-bound manner before the lockdown ends. The auto drivers have to submit their bank account details, driving licence, passport size photographs and residence proof for availing financial relief. The financial aid will be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries,” said Chavda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-rto-to-trace1-5l-auto-drivers/articleshow/74938527.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mangaluru||21 from Dakshina Kannada who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi event traced, quarantined||Mangaluru/Karwar/Koppal: As many as 21 people from Dakshina Kannada, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin were traced and isolated at a hospital here. Their health checkup is being done, and their throat swabs will be sent for testing. No one from Udupi attended the event at the Markaz building in Nizamuddin, according to the Udupi district administration. In an official communique, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that all the people who attended the event were contacted and brought to the hospital. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that he has personally verified the list and found that no one from Udupi attended the event. There were rumours spread that a dozen people from Udupi were part of the event in Delhi. Jagadeesha added that the central government had declared a hotspot list, where chances of transmission are more. “In the state, there are 1,328 members on the list, and 16 of them are from Udupi, from whom the possibility of transmission is more. They are under home quarantine, and we are observing them. I want to make it clear that they have no connection with the Nizamuddin case,’’ he added. TMA Pai Covid-19 Hospital at Udupi started functioning on Wednesday. All three patients at Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, have been shifted to TMA Pai Covid-19 Hospital. The Covid-19 Hospital will be a treatment facility, exclusively for Covid-19 positive cases. The public won’t have access to it. Walk-in patients will not be entertained, and only Covid-19 positive cases shifted from existing isolation facilities will be admitted. Six Delhi returnees quarantined Shivamogga: District health officer Rajesh Suragihalli on Wednesday informed that six people, who returned from Delhi on March 28, have been quarantined at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. The health department is checking their travel history and finding out whether they attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin. So far, 55 samples have been collected in Shivamogga, of which 46 have tested negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, as summer is advancing, water scarcity is looming large. The civic body has hinted at water rationing in the coming days. Opposition leader in the corporation, H C Yogesh, has appealed to people to use water judiciously as the Tunga River is drying up. Eight attendees quarantined in Koppal The Koppal district administration on Wednesday traced and quarantined eight of the 342 people from the state who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, which has been dubbed as a ‘super spreader’ of Covid-19. The district was put on high alert after reports emerged that hundreds of people from the state had attended the meet, and that they could be potential carriers of the coronavirus. Deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar stated: “We have looked into all the 14 people who were suspected of attending the Tablighi Jamaat event from the district. We visited the homes of eight people and tested them. None of them showed any Covid-19 symptoms. Three others are in other states, while three others are using sim cards given by people from Koppal district,” he said. “The state government has started testing the quarantined people for Covid-19 symptoms, and begun identifying those who came in contact with them after returning to the state. In fact, some of them have tested negative for Covid-19. More tests are under way,” he stated. Throat swabs of 2 sent for testing The Uttara Kannada district administration has sent throat swabs from two people from Dandeli for testing. Deputy commissioner Harish kumar K said that these two people had returned from Nizamuddin in Delhi after attending a Tablighi Jamaat event. Both of them had returned to Dandeli long back, and were under quarantine and observation. Their quarantine period of 14 days was over, but despite this, their swabs were collected and sent for testing. Some officials said that the search is on for more people who had attended the religious function at Nizamuddin, as it is suspected that a large number of people from here had attended the function and returned. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttara Kannada has gone up to 9, of which 8 patients are being treated in the district and one is in a Mangaluru hospital. All these persons are from Bhatkal. On Tuesday, another person tested positive for Covid-19 here. The new patient is said to be the brother of the person who had returned from Dubai on March 20, and was in quarantine. Of the 8 Covid-19 patients, 7 are being treated at the INHS Patanjali hospital in Karwar, which belongs to the Indian Navy. The man who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, too will be shifted to the Naval hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/21-from-dakshina-kannada-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-in-delhi-event-traced-quarantined/articleshow/74937183.cms||---
April 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Kasaragod patients deprived of healthcare facilities in Mangaluru, Manipal||Mangaluru: Against a backdrop of both the state and central governments tightening restrictions to enforce the lockdown, those with kidney-related diseases are among those who find themselves stuck in a particularly difficult situation. Across Dakshina Kannada district, there are more than 230 patients who visit Mangaluru to undergo dialysis at the Government Wenlock Hospital, which also offers service to patients from Kasaragod in neighbouring Kerala. However, with the Wenlock Hospital having been turned into an exclusive facility for Covid-19 infection, those who were undergoing treatment at the hospital were shifted to various other healthcare facilities across Mangaluru. Furthermore, Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojary assured all the patients at Wenlock that they would not have to shell out any additional money for treatment at the private institutions. Unfortunately, those afflicted with renal disorders in various parts of the district and Kasaragod are unable to visit Mangaluru owing to the lockdown, and they are growing increasingly worried about being deprived of dialysis for such a long duration. The chairman of the Kasaragod District Panchayat Development Standing Committee Harshad Vorkady has written to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seeking his intervention to ensure hassle-free passage of those with renal disorders to Mangaluru. In his letter to Vijayan, Vorkady has written, “Owing to the lockdown, the Karnataka government has barred entry of vehicles from Kerala. The people of Kasaragod depend on doctors and hospitals in Mangaluru and Manipal, particularly those who need dialysis, in addition to those undergoing treatment for cancer and other serious disorders. These people are suffering greatly owing to the prevailing situation.” Vorkady confirmed to STOI that he had asked the Kerala CM to communicate the plight of the Kasaragod residents to the Karnataka government, and ensure that they are free to visit hospitals in Mangaluru and Manipal. Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers and Karnataka MP DV Sadananda Gowda said, “I have spoken to officials in the Dakshina Kannada district administration. They have expressed their helplessness to treat more patients, and requested that those from other states not be allowed to Mangaluru for the time being.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kasaragod-patients-deprived-of-healthcare-facilities-in-mangaluru-manipal/articleshow/74936985.cms||---
