April 3, 2020||World||US Congress raises concern after Pak overturns Briton's death sentence in Daniel Pearl murder||In the first US reaction after Pakistan’s unexpected decision to reverse the conviction on Omar Saeed Shaikh for the murder of US journalist Daniel Pearl, the US Congress called upon Pakistan to “demonstrate a commitment to addressing a longstanding terrorism problem.” Eliot Engels, chairman of the US House Foreign Relations Committee tweeted, “Deeply concerned by Pakistan court’s overturning of convictions for the abduction & killing of Daniel Pearl. It’s critical Pakistan demonstrate a real commitment to addressing its longstanding terrorism problem by holding those involved accountable.” The US administration is yet to react to the developments in Pakistan. A Pakistani court overturned Shaikh’s conviction of murder, keeping it to a charge of simple kidnapping with a seven-year prison sentence. With Shaikh having served prison time for 18 years, he could go free, if the decision is not challenged by the Pakistan government. Pearl’s father, Judea Pearl, in a statement said, “It is a mockery of justice. Anyone with a minimal sense of right and wrong now expects Faiz Shah, prosecutor general of Sindh to do his duty and appeal this reprehensible decision to the Supreme Court of Pakistan.” Omar Shaikh was one of the three terrorists freed by India in 1999 in return for the passengers of Indian Airlines flight IC-814, which was hijacked by the Taliban to Kandahar. The others were Maulana Masood Azhar, who later set up the Jaish-e-Mohammed and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/us-congress-reacts-after-pak-overturns-britons-death-sentence-in-daniel-pearl-murder/articleshow/74957273.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula MLA gives Rs 50 lakh to buy ventilators||PANCHKULA: Haryana Assembly speaker-cum-Panchkhla MLA Gian Chand Gupta has given Rs 95 lakh from voluntary grant to purchase five ventilators worth Rs 50 lakh for Sector 6 civil hospital and Rs 45 lakh to the Panchkhla civic body for sanitation works. The Panchkula sdministration also extended timings of essential commodities shop till 6.30pm. These do not include dhabas and chemist shops. Time to pay electricity, water and sewerage bills has also been extended.The MLA said ventilators were most effective for patients suffering from coronavirus. “Amid this crisis, I have donated money to purchase five ventilators for Sector 6 civil hospital. Apart from this, in order to maintain proper sanitation in the city, Rs 45 lakh has been given to the MC to carry all necessary sanitation works without any stoppage.” The MLA will also bear expenses for breakfast and tea being distributed at Sector 17 shelter home. “I have asked the deputy commissioner (DC) to make sure that all those who had come after attending Tablighi Jamaat event are properly checked otherwise the entire purpose of lockdown will be wasted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-mla-gives-rs50l-to-buy-ventilators/articleshow/74957318.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
April 3, 2020||World||World Bank to roll out $160 bn emergency aid over 15 months||WASHINGTON: The World Bank on Thursday approved a plan to roll out $160 billion in emergency aid over 15 months to help countries deal with the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic. The board of the Washington-based development lender announced the first set of fast-track crisis funding, with an initial $1.9 billion going to projects in 25 countries, and operations moving forward in another 40 nations, the bank said in a statement. "We are working to strengthen developing nations' ability to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and shorten the time to economic and social recovery," said World Bank President David Malpass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/world-bank-to-roll-out-160-bn-emergency-aid-over-15-months/articleshow/74957513.cms||---
April 3, 2020||India||Blocking newspaper delivery is a legal offence: Top lawyers||NEW DELHI: The country’s top lawyers have expressed concern over the continued disruption in the distribution of newspapers even when they have been categorized an essential service and said that obstructing delivery not only impedes the availability of reliable information at a time of unprecedented public heath emergency but also constitutes an offence under the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA). Renowned lawyer Harish Salve, who has served as solicitor general and who represented India at International Court of Justice to save Kulbhushan Yadav from imminent execution in Pakistan, expressed serious concern over difficulties and impediments being faced by newspapers in distribution. Read AlsoTOI is back in Mumbai and PuneBut while many housing societies have instituted admirable systems and processes to facilitate distribution of newspapers among their members, some are yet to do so. They may not realise it, but they are denying their residents – citizens of India – of their right to information, which is vital to "In this world of social media, where gossip and propaganda are elevated to the status of the gospel, the printed word on a responsible newspaper is clearly an essential service. In these difficult times, news in articles by responsible journalists, which informs without creating a sense of panic or despair, is essential for survival", Salve told TOI. "Newspapers are clearly an essential commodity particularly in these warlike conditions where we are fighting an invisible enemy of whom we know so little, and where information and intelligence is the only weapon available to mankind," he said in what could be seen as sagely warning to those trying to disrupt delivery of newspapers to homes during the lockdown. Read AlsoTo our readers: Fighting fear with factsAs India goes into lockdown to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, it has become more important than ever to make sure that the public gets accurate information. The world has not seen a health crisis of such proportions in a long time. Sure, social media serves as a vital means of communication, socialSolicitor general Tushar Mehta, said, "There is no restriction in distribution of newspapers. It is included in the essential services. So, no one should hinder distribution of newspapers." Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who has been additional solicitor general, said circulation of newspaper is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by both Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution guaranteeing right to free speech and profession, respectively. "The only method to achieve dissemination of ideas and information is by circulation of newspaper. One does not publish a newspaper to keep it in godowns," he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsA M Singhvi, one of India's celebrated constitutional experts , said the fundamental right of a resident to receive a hard copy of the print newspaper, the pleasure of flipping through it with a hot cup of tea, the advertising revenue behind these pages which rightfully funds not only free speech but the latter’s foot soldiers, namely print journalists, weighs heavily on one scale." While acknowledging the dilemma faced by RWAs in instituting “reasonable restrictions to entry, arising from understandable apprehensions during these difficult times,” Singhvi said, “On balance, with proper hygiene and safeguards by printers and suppliers, I would lean clearly and heavily in favour of facilitating distribution of newspapers.” Rakesh Dwivedi, another top constitutional lawyer, said "I need newspapers more than biscuits in the morning. People of my age feel better with a hard copy of the newspaper. Since print and electronic media has been included in essential services, the newspapers should be allowed to be distributed freely.” While declaring 21-day lockdown, the Union government included print and electronic media, including newspapers, among essential services that ought not to be hindered. The decision was meant to ensure uninterrupted distribution of newspapers among the general public by extending protection under ESMA, 1981, under which obstruction of the provision of essential services is treated as a punishable offence. Once an item is covered under ESMA, as is the case for newspapers during the lockdown period, any hindrance to its distribution would fall foul of Sections 5 and 6 of ESMA, 1981. These two sections make it abundantly clear that those who disrupt distribution of an essential service could be arrested without warrant and face imprisonment up to one year. What Salve and Singh said in the context of newspaper circulation has been the consistent stand of the Supreme Court in its rulings since 1950. In ‘Ramesh Thapar vs state of Madras’ [1950 SCR 594], which pertained to ban on entry and circulation of a journal in the state of Madras, the SC had said, "There can be no doubt that freedom of speech and expression included freedom of propagation of ideas, and that freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation. Liberty of circulation is as essential to that freedom as the liberty of publication. Indeed, without circulation, the publication would be of little value." Again in 1958 in the Express Newspapers case, the SC had ruled, "Freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas, which freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation…The liberty of the press is an essential part of right to freedom of speech and expression."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/blocking-newspaper-delivery-is-a-legal-offence-top-lawyers/articleshow/74957838.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: 141 fresh cases in Delhi, 129 of them Tablighi members||NEW DELHI: In a huge upsurge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi recorded 141 new ones on Thursday, among them a senior resident at AIIMS and his pregnant wife. The Tablighi Jamaat evacuees accounted for 129 of the fresh cases. About 50km away, at the Jhajjar campus of AIIMS, another 52 of the Jamaat members tested positive. A disturbing aspect has been the unruly behaviour of these evacuees at all the hospitals which is posing a serious challenge to the medical staff and has compelled state health secretary Padmini Singla to write to the Delhi police commissioner for adequate deployment. The state’s total count of Covid-19 cases has now climbed to 293, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra (338) and Tamil Nadu (309), driven mainly by the high positive rate of the Jamaat followers. Nearly 2,000 members of this religious group had been evacuated from its Nizamuddin headquarters after some of them were found positive for Covid-19 in Telangana. They had attended a religious congregation at Nizamuddin. Around 536 of the evacuees were found to be symptomatic and were shifted to nine hospitals while the rest were sent to isolation units in the state. Dr Nutan Mundeja, director general of health services in the Delhi government, told TOI that most of these evacuees in hospitals are testing positive for the disease. “Of the samples sent so far, only 20-25 have tested negative. A majority of the samples are positive,” she said. According to Dr Mundeja, this could be because these people were living in close proximity inside the building. “They were sharing the same washrooms and utensils. I don’t think the results are surprising,” she said. Of Delhi’s count of 293 cases, 182 are that of these evacuees. Two of them — a 64-year-old man from Tamil Nadu and another man in his 70s from the Nizamuddin area — died of the infection at Lok Nayak Hospital recently, taking the state’s toll to four. Sources said 150 of the evacuees are also admitted at AIIMS Jhajjar. “We have received test reports of around 60 of them. Of those, 52 are positive,” said a senior official. The doctors monitoring them say most of them are likely to be positive for Covid-19 because they are highly symptomatic. “We are not discharging those who have tested negative. They will be tested again because chances are they might test positive again,” said a doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital, where 227 of the evacuees are admitted. Another 152 are admitted at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in the capital. Senior doctors at these hospitals are complaining that these men were not willing to follow the treatment or isolation protocols. There were chaotic scenes at RGSSH on Tuesday when one of those quarantined attempted to jump to death. “He was saved by the doctors. Also, some of the patients have been abusing nurses and junior doctors and insisting that they be allowed to leave. We don’t know how to control them,” the doctor complained. State health secretary Singla had to write to the Delhi Police chief on Thursday for the deployment of adequate police force at the hospitals and quarantine centres to control them. “Yesterday, it was reported by RGSSH that one of the inmates… attempted suicide but was rescued by the hospital staff. In another incident, two inmates quarantined in the Narela DDA facility escaped and were later tracked down in Patparganj,” she wrote, pointing out that the evacuees were creating a law & order problem, making the job of the medical staff difficult. Nurses at AIIMS Jhajjar said the ones admitted there were banging on the doors on Wednesday night demanding they be allowed to leave. Meanwhile, the AIIMS resident has become the eight doctor in Delhi to test positive. He was working with the physiology department. All the hospital employees who came in touch with the senior resident have been asked to go into self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-141-fresh-cases-in-delhi-129-of-them-tablighi-members/articleshow/74957999.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 3, 2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Common, staggered lockdown exit plan needed, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Indicating that there is need for a coordinated approach to lifting of restrictions after the national lockdown ends on April 14 to ensure that the gains of social distancing and isolation in the fight against Covid-19 are not lost, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked chief ministers to consider a common exit strategy once the lockdown ends. “It is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once lockdown ends,” Modi said, urging state chief ministers to brainstorm and send suggestions. His comments could indicate the Centre may seek to keep hot spots or risk zones for the disease under restrictions. It can point to a stock-taking at the end of the lockdown as Modi said the global situation remained far from satisfactory and he cautioned about a possible second wave of the virus’s spread in some countries. Coronavirus: Follow TOI's Live BlogAsserting that the common goal for the country was to ensure minimum loss of life, Modi said in the next few weeks, testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should remain the areas of focus. Home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan and defence minister Rajnath Singh were with the PM. The PM highlighted the necessity of maintaining supply of essential medical products, availability of raw materials for manufacture of medicines and medical equipment. Read AlsoHow Tablighi Jamaat meet led to Covid-19 spreadOf the total Covid-19 cases in the country, almost 20 per cent have been found to be with linked to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet. Also, 19 people connected to the meet have died in different states and toll is likely to rise. Telangana reported nine deaths, Delhi, Maharashtra and J&amp;K reported two“It is necessary to ensure availability of separate, dedicated hospital facilities for Covid-19 patients. To increase the availability of doctors, states should tap into the resource pool of Ayush doctors, organise online training and utilise paramedical staff, NCC and NSS volunteers,” Modi suggested. He urged chief ministers to set up crisis management groups at district level and appoint surveillance officers. He said data must be taken from accredited labs for testing — this will ensure congruence in data of district, state and Centre and called for a staggered release of funds to beneficiaries under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to avoid crowding at banks. Though the government has given some relaxation from lockdown to harvest crops, the PM said it was necessary to continuously monitor and maintain social distancing as much as possible. He asked the states to think of other platforms for procuring grains apart from APMC, and explore the possibility of creating pooling platforms for rural areas, like that in ride-sharing apps, which can be used for this purpose. Chief ministers appreciated the PM's decision for a lockdown which has helped check the spread of the virus in the country. They mentioned their efforts of maintaining social distancing, tracking suspect cases, identifying and quarantining suspect cases arising from the Nizamuddin markaz, containing community transmission, boosting medical infrastructure and strengthening the medical workforce. Shah talked about the need to implement lockdown more strictly in some states and the importance of effective district-level implementation of the guidelines issued by the Centre. The health secretary explained the rise in number of cases in India, spread of cases from Nizamuddin and preparations to tackle medical cases arising out of further spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/common-staggered-lockdown-exit-plan-needed-pm-modi/articleshow/74958033.cms||---
April 3, 2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Nearly 65% of 544 new all-India cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat’s event in city||NEW DELHI: The explosion of Covid-19 cases caused by the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) event continued to unfold for the third consecutive day, when at least 295 delegates from across the country who had attended the religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month tested positive for the virus, accounting for more than 60% of the 485 confirmed cases across India till around 11.45pm on Thursday. The countrywide coronavirus count, which had crossed the 2,000 mark barely a day earlier, zoomed past 2,500 with Delhi (141), Maharashtra (88) and Tamil Nadu (75) adding big numbers. Coronavirus: Follow TOI's Live BlogAt least eight Covid-19 deaths were reported, pushing the countrywide toll to 70. The health ministry has confirmed 2,069 cases and 54 deaths. Delhi led the tally on Thursday with 129 of the total 141 confirmed cases being linked to the Tablighi meet. This was followed by the four southern states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka which together accounted for 143 Tablighi delegates or their contacts testing positive. While 74 of the total 75 cases in Tamil Nadu comprised TJ delegates or their contacts, 26 of the 27 positive cases in Telangana were linked to the Nizamuddin congregation. In Karnataka, 11 of the 14 cases were Tablighi delegates or their contacts. In Andhra, all 32 cases which reported positive had the Tablighi link. Read AlsoCovid-19 in India: Common, staggered lockdown exit plan needed, says PM ModiPM Modi on Thursday asked chief ministers to consider a common exit strategy once the lockdown ends, indicating that there is need for a coordinated approach to lifting of restrictions from April 14 to ensure that the gains of social distancing and isolation in the fight against Covid-19 are notSimilarly, all the confirmed cases that were reported by Madhya Pradesh and the north eastern states of Assam, Manipur and Arunachal on Thursday were linked to the Tablighi meet. Madhya Pradesh reported five fresh cases (four of them foreigners), Assam three and Manipur and Arunachal one each. Read AlsoHow Tablighi Jamaat meet led to Covid-19 spreadOf the total Covid-19 cases in the country, almost 20 per cent have been found to be with linked to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet. Also, 19 people connected to the meet have died in different states and toll is likely to rise. Telangana reported nine deaths, Delhi, Maharashtra and J&amp;K reported twoIn Rajasthan, three of the 13 positive cases were linked to the congregation while in UP Tablighi delegates accounted for at least two of the total 10 cases. In Maharashtra, which had the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday after Delhi, eight of the 88 positive cases were linked to TJ. The Covid-19 tally in Delhi as well as the southern states Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has multiplied in the last three days because of the Tablighi link of the positive cases. At 143, Andhra’s total tally has registered a three-fold increase in positive cases in the last two days. State nodal officer A Srikanth said health authorities had carried out tests on 758 Delhi returnees and 91 of them tested positive. This translates to nearly 16% of the Markaz participants from AP testing positive. “We have details of all the participants from Andhra Pradesh. Officials in districts have been tracking the details of the remaining,” said Srikanth. In Assam, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that total 503 delegates from the state had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. “We have been successful in establishing contact with 488 of them and have so far collected 361 samples,” he said, adding that the state government was trying to trace the 15 others who had attended the congregation. Across country, around 50 medical professionals – who may not be essentially involved in Covid-19 management – have also been found positive for the disease, prompting medical associations to demand more protective equipment. One senior resident doctor at AIIMS and his wife, who is in advanced stage of pregnancy, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-in-india-nearly-65-of-544-new-all-india-cases-linked-to-tablighi-jamaats-event-in-city/articleshow/74958094.cms||---
April 3, 2020||India||New testing strategy for Covid-19? Rapid antibody tests in hotspots||NEW DELHI: The government is likely to expand its testing strategy for Covid-19 to allow use of rapid antibody tests in symptomatic cases in “hotspot” areas though these results will need to be confirmed by an RT-PCR test using throat or nasal swab to detect the presence of genetic material of the coronavirus. The rapid tests will be conducted on symptomatic cases and even those testing negative in antibody tests will be home quarantined, official sources said. The effort is to contain hotspots that can become centres of transmission of the disease, a task that has become even more urgent in the wake of migrant workers reaching homes in certain areas that have been tagged as high-risk zones. Coronavirus: Follow TOI's Live UpdatesWhile a final decision on this is expected by Friday morning, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an interim advisory on Thursday on the use of the rapid antibody test, also known as serology test. “The empowered group has taken a decision that testing needs to be expanded. ICMR is working out the modalities and a final decision will be taken by tomorrow,” an official said, adding that even those with “milder symptoms” in identified hotspots will be tested under the new protocol. Read AlsoCovid-19 in India: Common, staggered lockdown exit plan needed, says PM ModiPM Modi on Thursday asked chief ministers to consider a common exit strategy once the lockdown ends, indicating that there is need for a coordinated approach to lifting of restrictions from April 14 to ensure that the gains of social distancing and isolation in the fight against Covid-19 are notICMR chief epidemiologist Dr RR Gangakhedkar said at the regular government briefing on Thursday that the testing protocol is being reviewed in the light of some new tests and a decision will be taken by Friday morning. The health ministry’s surveillance department along with state governments have identified 61 hotspots with large number of cases and 10 high-risk zones with fewer cases but higher density of people. Sources said the rollout of the new testing norms will depend on availability of testing kits which are expected to be available shortly. “ICMR has ordered around a million serology testing kits from China and South Korea. They will arrive any time but whether that is going to be enough is a question. The final decision depends on who do we want to test given the limited availability of testing kits,” another senior official said. The decision was taken by the Empowered Group, one of the 11 formed to consider various aspects of the Covid-19 crisis, that is looking at disease surveillance, testing and availability of hospitals and isolation beds etc. At present, symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days, symptomatic contacts of positive Covid-19 cases and symptomatic healthcare workers are tested for coronavirus. Apart from this, on March 21, the government and ICMR revised its strategy to include all hospitalised patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) for testing. Following an increase in positive cases after the exodus of workers from cities to their villages and the recent spread of the infection through Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the government has been restructuring its Covid-19 containment strategy to focus on hotspots and high-risk zones. The hotspots and high-risk zones are villages or small towns and even districts in some cases depending on the load of positive or suspected cases. The containment strategy for Covid-19 will be focused around these two categories and resources are deployed accordingly, a health ministry official said. According to the interim advisory, CE-IVD approved kits can be used directly for antibody tests after approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and intimation to ICMR. Currently, there are four countries—China, South Korea, Japan and the US—manufacturing antibody testing kits to detect Covid-19. However, amid a huge demand for these kits and reagents, most of these countries are holding back stocks for their own use as all of them are faced with the crisis. Till Wednesday, there were 126 public labs, with only 38% capacity utilisation. Besides, 51 private labs have also been approved by ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-testing-strategy-for-covid-19-rapid-antibody-tests-in-hotspots/articleshow/74958117.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 3, 2020||Mysuru||Nine people in Nanjangud display symptoms; ward in government hospital designated screening centre||MYSURU: Amid rising fears of more Nanjangud residents falling prey to Covid-19, nine individuals who were quarantined in the temple town in Mysuru district, exhibited symptoms of the infection on Thursday. Stepping up measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Mysuru district administration designated an entire ward at the Nanjangud Government Hospital Hospital to screen those who have been asked to quarantine at home. This ward has been isolated from the rest of the hospital. A team of healthcare personnel who have been specially trained to deal with patients suspected of having Covid-19 and those displaying symptoms has been entrusted the responsibility of supervising the six-bed ward. All patients will be subjected to a thorough screening process at the ward, and if the staff deem it necessary, those displaying certain symptoms will be moved to the Mysuru’s designated Covid-19 hospital. Officials in the district administration said that the dedicated ward would function round the clock, while a private hotel had been rented to house those who are to be quarantined. Currently, Nanjangud, with 756 people quarantined in the taluk, has the dubious distinction of having the highest density of people in isolation with respect to population. Of the 19 Covid-19 cases reported across the district, Nanjangud is home to 17 of them. Sources confirmed to TOI that nine individuals, all of whom had been in primary contact with infected patients, had exhibited symptoms of Covid-19. “Of the nine people, seven are Nanjangud residents while two are from Mysuru. We have collected their throat swabs and sent them for examination. We are waiting for the results,” a source said. Authorities suspect that a visitor, who had an international travel history, to Jubilant Life Sciences, the epicentre of the ‘cluster case’ in Karnataka, could have triggered the chain reaction in Nanjangud. In the meanwhile, cops are leaving nothing to chance, and are enforcing the lockdown thoroughly. As many as 200 vehicles were seized from motorists who stepped outside their homes without reason. Simultaneously, those in adjoining villages are growing anxious about the infection spreading to their rustic habitats. That residents of Heggadahalli in Nanjangud taluk expressed reservations over the entry of health department officials, who were in the village to collect samples of water following multiple cases of diarrhoea being reported there. The officials were compelled to visit the village with police protection. Dairy farmers from Nanjangud villages who took milk to the procurement centre in Biligere were turned away by the officials, prompting the ryots to head to Kuppavalli procurement unit. SWR hiring healthcare personnel to deal with crisis The Railway Hospital in Mysuru having been designated the Covid-19 facility in the district, officials of South Western Railway have decided to supplement the existing workforce by hiring doctors, nurses and pharmacists on contract for three months to attend to the patients. The Railway Hospital will work in tandem with the Covid-19 facility that the district administration has set up. Suspected patients are being tested, and infected individuals are being treated in isolation at the Railway Hospital in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nine-people-in-nanjangud-display-symptoms-ward-in-govt-hospital-designated-screening-centre/articleshow/74954744.cms||HM Aravind
April 3, 2020||Patna||Ex-Army officer comes to rescue of many||PATNA: Amid 21-day nationwide lockdown when health workers, scientists and government officials are busy fighting Covid-19 pandemic, a retired Army general is helping those who are struggling to meet their basic needs. Retired lieutenant general A K Chaudhary and his team have provided shelter to over 150 migrant workers, who have reached state from across the country to return home. “We have set up screening camps at the entry points in several districts, including Hajipur and Samastipur. The migrant workers are also being provided food at the government schools where they are accommodated,” he said. Chaudhary said food packets are also being distributed among families of daily wage workers in different localities of Patna. “In a bid to ensure that street vendors, rickshaw pullers and other daily wagers don’t sleep with empty stomach, we are distributing food packets to them. The mission will continue till the situation becomes normal,” he said. Chaudhary said coronavirus has also created confusions among people, especially those who are uneducated. “We have reached out to people in villages to end the misconceptions. Several awareness programmes are being organised to educate them about the pandemic in the right way,” he said. Chaudhary said he was advised by many to not to return to his hometown in Bihar after retirement, but he came back to provide all sorts of help to the needy people. “I came out in support of the needy even during acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) outbreak in Muzaffarpur and waterlogging in Patna last year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-army-officer-comes-to-rescue-of-many/articleshow/74955018.cms||Archi Rani
April 3, 2020||Surat||Don’t get scared, have faith in self and God: Second Covid-19 survivor||SURAT: This 23-year-old young businessman was not scared when the doctors at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) told him that he was tested positive of Covid-19 on March 20. Rather, he was happy of doing ‘great service’ to the society, his family and the government by deciding to visit the NCH on developing the suspected symptoms. Meet Faizal Chunara, 23, a resident of Karimabad Society at Ghod Dod Road, who has become the second Covid-19 patient to have fully recovered and discharged from the NCH on Thursday. “I believe in myself and my almighty Allah. Unfortunately, I tested positive of Covid-19, but I was not scared or worried. I had gone to the NCH on my own when I felt tingling pain in my body after returning from the business tour from Dubai and Sri Lanka. I did not want to risk the health of my family members, acquaintances and the society at large” says Faizal, who is into the import-export business and keeps shuttling between India, Dubai and Sri Lanka. “For most part of the month, I am travelling abroad for business, but I never felt jet-legged in all these years. The feeling on March 19 was something different and called for urgent medical attention” added Faisal. Faisal, who returned from Dubai and Sri Lanka tour was admitted in the isolation ward of the NCH with the suspected symptoms on March 19. On March 20, his samples tested positive of Covid-19 and that he was shifted in the special isolation room at the NCH. “Once it was confirmed, I was put on medication and had to undergo regular body tests. In a day, I was gulping down more than 20 different types of medicines. I was strictly asked not to touch the main door and I was allowed to stand in the balcony of the room” said Faisal. Faisal, who has been advised home quarantine for 14 days, says “I am waiting for the lockdown period to get over on April 14 as I have to visit Dubai on April 15 for business purpose. If things are fine in India and Dubai, I shall be able to start my work soon” Sharing his experience at the NCH, Faisal said, “I will never visit any private hospital for treatment. We have the best of the best healthcare system at the NCH. Though I felt staying in a locked hostel room for 14 days, but the doctors and nurses at NCH are very adorable and caring. I had carried my laptop with me, which was my best companion as I managed to complete all my audit and other business related work from the special isolation room” “I would listen to music and spent my time reciting the verses from the Quran. It is my advise to all the Covid-19 patients that we can fight the disease with self-determination and keeping faith in the almighty god” says Faisal. About 21 close contacts of Faisal including his younger brother and mother—his father is in London where he runs a small store—and other family acquaintances were shifted to Samras hostel of VNSGU. “All my close contacts have completed 14 days of quarantine and by the grace of almighty Allah they all have tested negative of the virus”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dont-get-scared-have-faith-in-self-and-god-2nd-survivor/articleshow/74956564.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Migrant worker on way home dies in Rohtas||PATNA: A 40-year-old migrant worker, who was trying to get home, died in Rohtas district late on Wednesday evening. The victim, Vilas Mahto, died at Dehri-on-Sone when he along with co-residents was on way to his native village under the Bhagwanpur block in Vaishali district from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh on foot. The victim’s brother in-law, Mishri Mahto, (55), said on Thursday that Vilas complained of severe pain in his abdomen as soon as group of seven migrant workers reached Dehri-on-Sone on NH-2 in Rohtas district en route to Patna on Wednesday. “We inquired about the hospitals in the nearby locality but they all were closed because of the 21-day lockdown. Vilas was wreathing in pain and we all watched him helplessly. He breathed his last as no help came from anywhere,” he said with tears rolling down his cheeks. According to Mishri, also a migrant worker from Vaishali district, Vilas could not be admitted to a hospital as no vehicle was available. The roads wore a deserted look and residents remained indoors. “Had he been provided treatment on time, he could have survived,” he lamented. Vilas was suffering from appendicitis and his condition deteriorated after covering a long distance on foot. “He left Praygraj despite pain in his abdomen. We reached Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay junction on a goods train. From there, we travelled in a truck and then covered a few kilometers on foot. The road construction company, which had employed us for repair and construction of roads told us to leave the place due to the lockdown on March 24,” Mishri said. Police officials from Dehri town police station reached the spot only when Vilas had died. The body was subsequently sent to Sasaram sadar hospital for postmortem. Dehri Town police station SHO Subodh Kumar said on Thursday that the body was handed over to his relatives around 2 am on Thursday. “He was suffering from appendicitis,” the SHO said. Ashok Kumar, who performed the autopsy at the Sadar hospital, said, “No mark of external injury was found on the body, which suggested that it was not a case of unnatural death.” Rohtas civil surgeon Janardan Sharma could not be contacted for his comments. Sources said his relatives left for Bhagwanpur in Vaishali district, about 200 km from Rohtas, by an ambulance. A visibly upset kin of the victim said, “Vilas had visited his native village ahead of Holi and left for Allahabad on March 19 to resume work there. But destiny had something else in store for him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrant-worker-on-way-home-dies/articleshow/74955081.cms||Ramashankar
April 3, 2020||Patna||Tejas flays CM Nitish Kumar on Covid-19 preparations||PATNA: While extending RJD’s support to the Nitish government in battling the Covid-19 pandemic, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also assailed the CM for lack of preparation on several fronts. In a statement issued on Thursday, Tejashwi said that RJD, as a responsible opposition, is ready to offer any help. “Thank you honorable chief minister Nitish KumarJi, you finally chose to address Bihar on the 18th day, while other CMs have repeatedly addressed their people. Bihar was anxiously waiting to hear from you on the alertness, awareness and preparedness so far made by the state government on social, economic and healthcare fronts,” Tejashwi said. He added, “But to Bihar’s disappointment, these were vaguely addressed in the CM’s speech. He compared this pandemic with floods and drought all along your address, which is not the fact. Covid-19 is a health pandemic and it requires a more serious approach.” It may be mentioned here that Nitish had addressed the people on steps being taken by the state government, through videostreaming from his 1, Anne Marg residence in Patna on Wednesday evening. Tejashwi further said, “The CM did not given any update on the stockpile or procurement of testing kits, PPE, masks, ventilators, ICU beds, gloves, sanitizers, which doctors, first responders and all of us have been demanding from day one. We are lowest in testing, whereas testing is the first step to contain the spread.” Talking about the issue of migrant workers, Tejashwi said, “The CM said that 3000 calls were received by control rooms set up by the government with 40 teams. However, our party office attended over 4000 calls in the last five days and we arranged food and helped thousands of Bihari’s stranded across the country. We are helping migrants by co-ordinating with respective state governments, volunteers and personal contacts, which primarily should have been done by the Bihar government. On their arrival, migrants were ill treated by the police, hauled up like animals, ferried in garbage carrying trucks.” He urged Nitish to expedite the containment measures by conducting more tests. “Lockdown, coupled with these efforts will only help to win the battle. It is a marathon and hence a comprehensive action plan is required,” Tejashwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-flays-cm-on-covid-19-preparations/articleshow/74955001.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Business||E-tailers refund buyers, sellers have to wait||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Thousands of merchants whose non-essential item orders were cancelled on Amazon India and Flipkart have to wait longer to get their payments cleared. The development comes even as these e-tailers start initiating refunds to thousands of customers who had to scrap their orders of non-essentials made before the lockdown, two people aware of the matter said. The wait for merchants on Amazon India will be till the items get ordered again. On Flipkart, payments that were supposed to be made on April 1 will come a week later. Some consumers have already started getting refunds, but others still have to wait. Like Delhi-based Manish Kumar, who had ordered an air-conditioner on one of the online marketplaces before the lockdown kicked in. He cancelled his order when he realised that the shipment will not be delivered. But the amount that he paid was not been refunded and, what’s worse, he could not contact anybody at customer service. Amazon said it has temporarily paused return pickups and has also deferred movements of already picked-up items, because of which a few customers may see a delayed refund. Amazon India is sending non-essential products, which were shipped already or were out for delivery, back to its own warehouses or sellers’ fulfilment centres. “For cancelled orders with non-essential items, refunds are currently being initiated. Given the guidance of the government and the volume of orders we could not deliver, there may be slightly longer timelines than usual,” an Amazon India spokesperson said. “In the current unprecedented crisis, we are taking the appropriate right calls for our customers, keeping in mind the present situation and advisory from the government,” a Flipkart spokesperson said. The company added there were no delays in settling payments with sellers. Online sellers for both Flipkart and Amazon, however, mentioned in their group chats that payments were getting delayed by at least a week, or even more in some cases. This comes at a time when merchants are worried over their cash flows as no new sales are happening either. Merchants said they are concerned as they have been informally given an indication that sale of non-essentials on Amazon may not begin immediately after April 14, which is supposed to be the final day of the current 21-day lockdown. “There are payment delays across marketplaces like Amazon, Flipkart. In such situations, sellers are facing credit risks. There needs to be a safeguard in place. Government should not expect sellers to pay salaries during lockdown,” said a spokesperson of AIOVA, a group of online vendors. Amazon India said it has waived several fulfilment and storage fees for sellers whose non-essential orders had to be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-refund-buyers-sellers-have-to-wait/articleshow/74957749.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 3, 2020||Business||Sachin Bansal infuses Rs 2,928cr in banking co||Bengaluru: Flipkart co-founder Sachin Bansal is leading an infusion of over Rs 3,000 crore in his technology-led financial services startup Navi Technologies, according to ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) filings sourced from Tofler. Along with Bansal, who has invested Rs 2,928 crore, others including former HDFC Bank DMD Paresh Sukthankar and bankers from JP Morgan, Standard Chartered and Bank of Sharjah have also invested in the venture. TOI had reported on January 21 that Bansal will transfer bulk of the proceeds from the sale of his stake in Flipkart to Walmart. While Bansal has invested Rs 253 crore in cash, Rs 1,636 crore has been done by transfer of debt papers of multiple companies while remaining comes through the transfer of his stake in microfinance firm Chaitanya Rural Intermediation Development Services (CRIDS), whose subsidiary Chaitanya India Fin Credit has applied for banking license. The 38-year-old IIT-Delhi graduate, who had started Flipkart in 2007, is also adding more heft to his new venture by adding former RBI director and top ICICI Bank executive Nachiket Mor, who was till recently head of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in India, as a board member. Bansal has also acquired DHFL Insurance and Essel Mutual Fund to develop plays in insurance and asset management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sachin-bansal-infuses-rs-2928cr-in-banking-co/articleshow/74957830.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Report pneumonia or face action in Ahmedabad’||AHMEDABAD: Over the past 24 hours, civic medical teams in Ahmedabad have been directing leading private hospitals and respiratory diseases experts to immediately report cases involving Covid-19 symptoms. Pneumonia admissions have to be reported as well. The failure to report will invite penal actions, private hospitals and doctors have been warned. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that more than 100 doctors have downloaded the DrTeCHO app on their phones and some have begun reporting cases of acute respiratory illnesses, influenza-like illnesses, and pneumonia admissions. “We have approached the Gujarat chapter of the IMA (Indian Medical Association) to help us reach out to its members who have independent practice or clinics,” Nehra said. “The doctors have to download the app and report cases. If we learn about any lapse, punitive measures will be taken.” Initially, a few doctors faced login problems. A senior official in the AMC admitted that there was a problem in collecting consolidated pneumonia admissions data. The special app was launched for the collection of such data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/report-pneumonia-or-face-action/articleshow/74957746.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||‘ECR may incur Rs 207 crore loss during lockdown’||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) is expected to incur losses to the tune of Rs 207 crore due to the 21-day lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has cancelled altogether 663 trains originating from its five divisions from March 23 to April 14. “Approximately eight lakh passengers travel from different places under the ECR’s jurisdiction every day and yield Rs 9 crore as revenue. We have, therefore, assessed that the ECR will incur losses to the tune of Rs 207 crore during a period of 23 days because of the cancellation of all passenger trains,” the CPRO told this newspaper. He added, “The assessment has been done only on the basis of earnings from passenger reservation system (PRS) and unreserved ticketing system (UTS) counters. The losses can escalate as tickets booked online from different parts of the state have not been taken into consideration yet.” The ECR has already closed down its PRS and UTS counters and temporarily stopped providing Wi-Fi connectivity at all major stations under its five divisions. “We have given refunds to all those whose tickets were cancelled due to the lockdown,” the CPRO said. ECR distributes 10k food packets: The ECR has reportedly distributed approximately 10,000 food packets and water bottles among the poor at the Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Danapur, Barauni, Dhanbad, Samastipur, Narkatiaganj, Muzaffarpur and Gaya stations in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-may-incur-rs-207cr-loss-during-lockdown/articleshow/74955060.cms||Kumod Verma
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Maid in trouble after corona pyaar hai||KOLKATA: A domestic help from Kultoli in South 24 Parganas employed at a complex on Panditiya Road was found loitering on the streets on Thursday morning. When locals came to her rescue, she claimed that her employer had sacked her after she developed cold and cough. The official police version, however, is completely different. According to Rabindra Sarobar cops, the woman had herself quit the job stating that she was not feeling well and might be showing Covid-19 symptoms. Cops said they believe she was eager to meet a man and might have made up the whole story. “She left her job on her own. After we received a call, we traced her and took her for an examination,” an officer said. Doctors ruled out any chance of her falling ill due to Covid-19. “She was too eager to meet her friend and might have made up the Covid-19 story when confronted by locals,” said a police source. According to sources, residents of a slum cluster found her loitering and enquired after her. They then informed cops and KMC after she told them she had been sacked. The slum dwellers have now decided to house the woman for the time being. “We have provided her with food and shelter,” said a slum resident. The locals claimed the woman said her employer had insisted she stay back on Panditiya Road after the lockdown was announced. “It was not right of them,” said Mamoni Das, a resident of the slum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maid-in-trouble-after-corona-pyaar-hai/articleshow/74957256.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Milk wastage comes down after sweet shops reopen||KOLKATA: The reopening of sweet shops has led to resumption of chhenna supply from Hooghly and reduced milk wastage with a part being converted to dahi, ghee and chhenna. The supply chain for chhenna from Hooghly to sweet shops in Kolkata was restored on Thursday despite suspension of local train services. Supply from Burdwan will resume soon. “Sweet sales have not increased significantly, but fresh milk consumption has picked up. Sweet shops are converting milk into dahi, ghee and chhenna as well,” said Rajesh Sinha, president of the Jorasanko Dugdha Byabsayee Samiti. Some of the farmers have started making cream from the day’s produce themselves. The Hooghly supply came into the city in trucks in the early hours of Friday and was absorbed at the Hazra and Bhowanipore markets within hours. The Bowbazar and Natun Bazar markets, however, remained closed on Thursday. “The amount of chhenna that has reached the markets is less than half of the demand of sweet shops. But it is definitely a start. The current timings for sweet shops to be open are, however, not conducive for good sales as no one visits them beyond 1pm at the moment. We are requesting an 8am to noon timing,” said Jagannath Ghosh, secretary of the Mishtanna Byabasayee Samity. Meanwhile, the samity has alerted the CM about “police excesses” in Ichhapur where cops from Noapara police station were not allowing sweet shops to open. There is also a rift among sweet manufacturers in the state regarding reopening of shops. While those in the city opened on Wednesday following the state government’s orders, and the move was welcomed by the Paschimbanga Mishtanna Byabasayee Samity, a group of shopowners belonging to the samity have written to the chief minister saying it was not safe to open shops because “it was a business where contact and touch was bound to happen”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/milk-wastage-comes-down-after-sweet-shops-reopen/articleshow/74957223.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 3, 2020||Business||About 15% EV dealers to shut shop post lockdown||CHENNAI: More than 200 dealers or 15% of the 1,400 odd electric vehicle dealerships across the country will likely shut down once the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted, said the Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (SMEV), the apex body for the EV industry. EV manufacturers say most dealerships of two wheelers and e-rickshaws, particularly in tier -3 or 4 towns, are owned by first time entrepreneurs who don’t have the financial bandwidth to survive this crisis. Typically it is much cheaper to put up an EV dealership with overheads being as low as Rs 3-Rs 5 lakh. But that also means these small businesses are not in a position to pay rent and salaries till the lockdown lifts because the going will still be tough in terms of sales. “The EV industry is in a vulnerable stage and a network collapse is expected once the lockdown ends. Most EV dealerships are small operations and there is no backup support. Since these dealerships are not capital heavy, they attract small investors,” said Sohinder Gill, director general, SMEV. A dealership in a C-class town must sell at least 10 electric two wheelers and 4 e-rickshaws a month to stay profitable. This year, the EV market sold 1,60,000 two wheelers, 40,000-50,000 re-rickshaws and 5,000-6,000 cars and buses. Those who buy the e-rickshaws are bottom-of-the-pyramid consumers who will be worst hit by the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/about-15-ev-dealers-to-shut-shop-post-lockdown/articleshow/74957419.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 3, 2020||Business||E-tailer companies see order spikes with fewer delivery execs||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Online grocers Bigbasket and Grofers, besides top e-tailers like Flipkart and Amazon India, are beefing up operations for delivery of essentials as they struggle to fulfil increasing consumer demand due to lack of delivery personnel on the ground. These platforms are operating at about half their original capacity as they struggle with the availability of curfew passes in a few cities. At the same time, orders on platforms like Bigbasket and Grofers have increased 3-4 times compared to normal days. For instance, Grofers saw 36,000 orders per minute when it opened up 10,000 slots in Mumbai on Thursday, leading to many orders not going through. “There was a setback in the informal workforce. But we are getting back to 60% capacity this week and are hopeful of being 100% in another week,” said Grofers CEO Albinder Dhindsa. For Flipkart, the situation is improving in many cities. While there are 3 lakh pending orders in Bengaluru and only 200 passes for delivery, in Lucknow delivery of essentials and fresh items has been launched due to easier availability of passes. In Mumbai, there is 60% attendance. In Delhi region the company’s warehouse in nearby Ballabgarh has been sealed as it is near a hotspot. Flipkart has begun delivering goods sourced from local retailers. It is also looking to use Ninjacart, a startup that sources fruits and vegetables from farmers and in which the Bengaluru-based retailer has a stake, to get more goods. Additionally, it is looking at wholesalers and public distribution systems. Bigbasket CEO Hari Menon said most of its supply chain issues with local authorities were ironed out, but labour shortage still remains an issue. “We are at 40-50% of our capacity and we are working on more solutions to solve this,” he said. The company was delivering about 45,000 orders a day last week, which is now at 85,000-90,000 as supply chain logjams ease out. Menon said the company wasn’t cancelling any orders now and is saving some of its delivery capacity to reschedule existing orders. Uber has already started doing some deliveries for the platform, while it is working with both restaurant and retailer associations to use their idle workforce since most of them, as sellers of non-essentials, are shut. A person aware of the goings-on said Amazon India was facing similar issues on manpower availability. An Amazon India spokesperson said it continues to resume services gradually, and it is operating in select pin codes in 40 cities. On average, most of the online grocers are taking at least 4-5 days to deliver after an order is placed. For Amazon’s Pantry, certain pin codes in Bengaluru, for example, are given a delivery timeline of 7-8 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tail-cos-see-order-spikes-with-fewer-delivery-execs/articleshow/74957729.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Residents make fake requests for free ration||Udaipur: The district administration is working relentlessly to ensure regular grocery supplies and free grocery kits to the needy people, but some are trying to take advantage of the situation. In Banswara, three such cases have been reported recently where residents had made false complaints to avail the free ration. SDM Parbat Singh Chundawat said three such cases came to light where residents feigned vulnerability whereas they had enough supplies at home. A woman from Residential colony in Banswara called the authorities for help claiming that she didn't have anything to eat but when the revenue teams went to her home, it was a pucca house where she lived with her mother in law. Both the women were recipient of monthly pension of 1 thousand rupees each. Similarly, a resident of Housing Board colony complained he had no food at home and the teams found out later that he had already availed 35 kilos wheat under the Antayodaya scheme. The revenue teams were shocked when they went to a house on a woman's call for assistance .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-make-fake-requests-for-free-ration/articleshow/74957975.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus survivors turn friends||PATNA: Rahul Kumar and Faiyaz Ahmad, who defeated the deadly Covid-19 virus and were discharged from Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday, are happy for two reasons – victory over coronavirus and their newly developed friendship. Phulwarisharif resident Rahul (24), a software engineering student, had returned to Patna from Scotland via England on March 19 and tested positive for Covid-19 virus on March 22. Patna City resident Faiyaz (29), who works in machine maintenance unit of engineering department of railways at Gujarat’s Bhavnagar, also tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22. Both were put in separate isolation beds facing each other at NMCH. Recalling the interaction with Rahul at the hospital, Faiyaz said, “Spending time alone in a room was quite difficult for me. Thanks to Rahul, I felt relaxed and confident. We fought the virus together and won the battle. He is a very optimistic person. We exchanged phone numbers and my negative thoughts subsided whenever I had a conversation with him.” Faiyaz returned to Patna on March 8 from Gujarat during the Holi celebrations, but he could not go back to the workplace owing to the lockdown. “During my isolation period, I kept reciting verses from Quran. I also learned that positivity and faith can help you in any situation,” Faiyaz said. Rahul, on the other hand, said returning home from the hospital after 10 days of isolation was a great feeling. “It was quite difficult to stay alone in a hospital room,” he said.” Rahul, a native of Phulwarisharif, said he watched online movies and chatted with his family and friends via video call. “I watched a lot of movies on my smartphones, mainly comedy ones. I also did cardio exercises in the morning. From time to time, the doctors and nurses gave anti-viral medicines,” he said. Rahul added, “I was quite confident of getting well and I also told the same to Faiyaz, who was really scared.” The two will now be on 14-day home quarantine as per the official protocol for discharged patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-survivors-turn-friends/articleshow/74955376.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 3, 2020||Patna||Mob attacks medical team in Munger trying to take six for isolation||PATNA: A team of doctors and paramedics were attacked at a village in Munger district late on Wednesday evening when they had gone to pick-up six people with suspected Covid-19 infection to place them in isolation. An FIR has been lodged against four named accused and 100 unknown people with the Kasganj police station. “However, it seems due to misinformation, residents started protesting against the medical team citing the reason that there was no proper facility for food and other amenities at the isolation centre,” Munger SP Lipi Singh said, adding, the medical team sought police assistance after which reinforcement was sent. “Someone threw a stone aimed at the ambulance but it hit a police vehicle. The situation was brought under control and the team was successful in bringing all six suspected persons to the isolation centre,” the SP said, adding, no one has been arrested yet. She said all six suspects had come in touch the state’s first Covid-19 positive case who had died. The deceased had sought treatment for renal failure in Munger before going to Patna. In Madhubani, police arrested four people from a village under Andhrathadi police station area on Wednesday night for attacking a police team which had gone there to disperse people who had gathered at mosque and inquire about people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Last week, a police team at a village under Rupoh police station area in Nawada district was pelted with stone after it had asked a gathering to disperse in order to enforce lockdown. Four cops, including Rupoh police station SHO Santosh Kumar, were injured in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mob-attacks-medical-team-trying-to-take-6-for-isolation/articleshow/74954927.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 3, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Cop beats two women, sent to lines||VARANASI: A policeman was sent to lines after a video showing two women, one of whom is pregnant, being thrashed by him went viral on social media in Ballia district on Thursday. A probe has also been ordered into the incident. According to reports, a policeman on patrol brutally beat the women during lockdown in Sahatwar area of Ballia district. Someone captured the incident in mobile phone and made it viral on social media. Soon after it came to the knowledge of senior authorities, the accused constable, Ashutosh Singh, posted at Sahatwar police station, was sent to police lines. Ballia ASP Sanjay Yadav said, “Immediate action was taken and the constable was sent to police lines. The CO has been asked to submit his report on the matter in two days. Appropriate action would be taken after the probe is completed.” Instructions have been given for medical treatment of the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cop-beats-two-women-sent-to-lines/articleshow/74955685.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Eight held for playing cricket in farm||Vadodara: Eight people from Padra town in Vadodara district were arrested on Wednesday night for flouting the public notification which prohibits gathering of more than four persons at a place by playing cricket in a farm. Police said on Wednesday night they were patrolling in Padra town and the area on its outskirts using drone cameras. A drone camera detected that several persons were playing cricket in a farm on Jaspur road. Cops raided the farm and arrested all eight people. The accused were Sohil Vohra, Razab Shah Dewan, Sikander Memon, Farhan Vohra, Aslam Malek, Sarfaraz Malek, Faizal Multani and Shakeel Malek. Last week too, six people were arrested by Padra police for playing cricket in a farm on the outskirts of Ghayaj village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-held-for-playing-cricket-in-farm/articleshow/74954537.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Crime continues unabated in Bihar||PATNA: Despite lockdown, crime continues unabated in Bihar. This seems to be true if the criminal incidents reported during the last 24 hours are taken into account. On Thursday alone, three incidents of murderous attack and two incidents of house burglaries were reported from Saharsa, Siwan, Nalanda and Patna districts. Earlier, a 14-year-old girl was raped in Nawada, a middle-aged woman was brutally assaulted in Gopalganj and burglaries were committed in Siwan district. A businessman was also killed in Sitamarhi district on Wednesday. Reports reaching the police headquarters said that a police constable, Santosh Kumar Suman, was shot at and injured by a gang of armed criminals in Saharsa district on Thursday. The incident took place when Suman, a native of Munger district, was returning to the Police Lines after finishing his duty in Saharsa. In Gopalganj, the Sidhwalia police arrested Rakesh Mahto on Thursday for his involvement in murderous attack on his wife at Dheha Supauli village following an altercation on Wednesday. In East Champaran district, unidentified miscreants took away mobile phones and other valuables from a shop under Dhaka police station on Wednesday night. Senior police officers posted at the police headquarters, however, claimed that the crime has substantially decreased during the lockdown. “Barring some petty offences, no major incidents of crime have been reported from any part of the state,” said an IG rank officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crime-continues-unabated/articleshow/74955111.cms||Ramashankar
April 3, 2020||Business||95% of 3 bks’ services from any branch: PNB||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: A three-way merger has resulted in Punjab National Bank (PNB) emerging as the second-largest lender in the country. In an interview to TOI, the bank’s MD & CEO CH S S Mallikarjuna Rao explains how he is implementing a merger amid a lockdown and what it means for customers and employees. Excerpts: What will be the changes in rules for employees of the merging banks? From the public face perspective, nothing has changed. From the employee’s perspective, nothing has changed as far as the delivery of services is concerned. So far as the employee benefits are concerned, we have adopted the best among the three banks. This is on residual benefits, which vary from bank to bank. The overall wage benefits are the same under the IBA agreement. Two banks will lose their board-level management. How will these lenders work? The government has already appointed one executive director from each of the merging banks on the board of PNB. Also, the outgoing MDs of both the banks have been appointed as officer on special duty in PNB. The GMs of the three banks will report to the PNB top management and its executive directors. What will change for the customer? Our objective is that the customer should not have any difference in enjoying the products and services, which they have been doing in three banks. In the process of harmonisation of products, there are some that will have a sunset. In other words, no more customers will be on-boarded to these products. But customers will have the advantage of newer products with additional features. For the customers of all banks, from day one itself, there will be interoperability in the branches for specified services, which should cover 95% of a customer’s requirements. The merger has come at a time when RBI has allowed banks to provide a moratorium to borrowers. How are you rolling this out? Incidentally, we happened to have a board meeting on March 27, when the RBI announced these measures. So, we managed to take an approval from the board the same evening. It is implemented in the amalgamated entities from April 1. We have sent an SMS to all borrowers, saying that three months’ instalments are deferred. But if the customer is comfortable with cash flows, they should pay. When will the bank identification codes change for the customer? On the IFSC and MICR codes, we have taken a dispensation from the RBI to continue until March 2021 by when technology integration will be completed. We plan to complete this in six months. There will not be any interruption or delay in cheque delivery or cheque payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/95-of-3-bks-services-from-any-branch-pnb/articleshow/74957791.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 3, 2020||Business||RIL to raise Rs 25,000 crore in tranches through NCDs||MUMBAI: Billionaire Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Industries (RIL) plans to raise Rs 25,000 crore through non-convertible debentures (NCDs). The amount will be raised in tranches and on a private placement basis, the company informed the stock exchanges. RIL, which operates the world’s largest refinery complex in Jamnagar, Gujarat, didn’t share specifics of the Rs 25,000-crore NCD issue and its utilisation purpose. RIL’s fund-raising move comes amid the coronavirus outbreak that has impacted stock valuations and delayed plans of a share-sale in its telecom, retail and refining businesses. The last time RIL tapped the NCD route was in March 2019. At that time, it had raised Rs 7,000 crore from institutional investors. From a high of just above the Rs 10-lakh-crore mark in mid-January this year, RIL has lost 32% of its market value to Rs 6.5 lakh crore now. Its shares were hit by the broader stock market rout triggered by the pandemic, which has shaved off BSE’s market capitalistion by almost the same magnitude as RIL’s to Rs 109 lakh crore from Rs 160 lakh crore. Accordingly, the net worth of Ambani’s shareholding in RIL too saw a sharp drop to about Rs 3.4 lakh crore from Rs 50 lakh crore on January 17, the day it was at the 2020 peak. Last week, Ambani and his family bought RIL shares worth Rs 9,000 crore from the open market, increasing their stake in the energy-to-education enterprise. Promoters of several Indian companies have been buying their shares from the open market in recent weeks taking advantage of the fall in stock prices and betting on a rebound after a coronavirus-induced rout. RIL’s refining, petrochemicals and consumer businesses have been impacted by the Covid-19 outbreak that has halted travel, restricted trade activities and forced lockdowns in several countries. Except grocery and telecom, RIL’s consumer unit could see a loss in revenue, according to analysts tracking the company. Analysts have also revised RIL’s refinery throughput and petrochemical sales as demand for air and road transportation fuels have been significantly impacted following the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-to-raise-rs-25000-crore-in-tranches-through-ncds/articleshow/74957763.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 3, 2020||Business||PM relief: Payouts will be staggered||Mumbai: Banks are taking measures to ensure an orderly distribution of Rs 500 to women holding basic bank accounts under a central government scheme announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. To prevent overcrowding, withdrawals will be allowed over five working days sequentially based on the last digit of the account number. This is first of the 3 monthly installments of the PM Garib Kalyan relief package, where a monthly sum of Rs 500 is being given to women beneficiaries of Jan Dhan Yojana. Earlier, bankers had said they would be taking the help of business correspondents or bank mitras to help disburse the benefits. Lenders had also requisitioned additional cash for rural branches and ATMs to facilitate the disbursement. The Indian Banks Association said the remittance was being done in a staggered manner to ensure social distancing. Those having account number with last digit 0 or 1 will be allowed to withdraw on April 3, those with 2 or 3 on April 4 and so on. , those having 4 or 5 on April 7, those with 6 or 7 on April 8, and lastly having 8 or 9 on April 9. After April 9, all beneficiaries may withdraw on any day. “Request all beneficiaries to kindly cooperate and ensure safety and comfort of everyone. As this money is being deposited in to the bank accounts, the beneficiaries need not rush for withdrawal, money can be drawn at your convenience,” the IBA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-relief-payouts-will-be-staggered/articleshow/74957839.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Private hospitals told to run emergency services, says Patna civil surgeon||PATNA: Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Choudhary has requested all the private hospitals and nursing homes to keep their emergency services open round the clock. “The private hospitals and nursing homes should run their outpatient departments (OPDs) for limited hours, but emergency services should function round the clock on all working days,” Dr Choudhry said. The private hospitals, however, have been told not to allow congregation of patients or attendants to avoid spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/run-emergency-services-private-hospitals-told/articleshow/74955411.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Surge in online orders bogs down delivery of goods in Patna||PATNA: Residents of the state capital have been facing inconvenience as most online grocery retailers are not fully functional owing to the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Many regular customers who placed orders online claimed that online stores are not able to make the deliveries as per their requirement. Danapur resident Seema Agarwal is upset that most online grocery delivery services are either claiming to be out of stock or taking several days to make the deliveries. “My order was cancelled after three days and that too without any prior notice. I had to perform ‘Ashtami Puja’ on Wednesday and I was totally relying on the online service as the grocery shops near my house did not have all the items,” Seema said. Online grocery delivery retailers, on the other hand, claimed that they have been forced to delay or cancel orders over the past few days due to several reasons, including scarcity of operational staff, shortage of supply and surge in demand of products. Shubham, an executive at an online delivery store, said, “There has been an unprecedented surge in online orders after the lockdown. Minutes after we started taking orders, the slots got full because of which many people were not able to place their orders. We are receiving hundreds of complaints via phone calls and emails but we are trying our best to fulfill the demands of every resident.” Online stores had to suspend deliveries in the city for a week after the lockdown. Before restarting the deliveries, they had to arrange for delivery agents, get sanction from the district administration and complete other formalities. “The warehouse had to be sanitized and all operational staff given proper masks, gloves and were told to follow the guidelines as precautionary measures to combat the spread of Covid-19,” Shubham said. Meanwhile, online food delivery services in the city are struggling to get food orders from residents as the number of orders have gone down by more than 80%. “The demand for online food was high during the first three-four days of gthe lockdown, but now it has gone down by 80%. These days we are hardly receiving five orders compared to around 40 orders a day earlier,” said Suresh Agarwal, marketing executive of an online food delivery site. Customers are reportedly staying away from ordering food online from restaurants as they are not sure about the safety and how the food is being handled. “We are not in the position to take risk as the virus is too dangerous. I would rather eat plain home-cooked food than have fancy restaurant food,” said Akshat Raj, a resident of Kadamkuan. The district administration has put out phone numbers for home delivery services across the city to avoid mass gatherings at wholesale shops. Vishal Kumar, the manager of one of the supermarkets that has been given sanction for delivering essential commodities to residents, said, “The day after the district administration launched home delivery option for residents, we got flooded with calls. The situation was the same at our other branches too.” He added, “In the beginning, people mostly placed orders for rice, wheat flour and cooking oil, however, now they have started ordering noodles, packaged food and other things too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/surge-in-online-orders-bogs-down-delivery-of-goods-in-city/articleshow/74954914.cms||Archi Rani
April 3, 2020||Patna||‘Migrant workers walk for 2 days to reach Patna’||PATNA: The relief camp running inside the Gardanibagh High School in Patna is a huge relief for those migrant workers who left their working place in or outside Bihar and are stranded in the state capital. Ravindra Paswan said he walked for more than 130 kms to reach Patna from Indrapuri Dam in Rohtas. “I was there for boulder pitching work. I along with seven others started walking on March 25 to reach our village at Hardiya under Chautham police station in Khagaria. We walked around 130km alongside the canal to reach Patna as some villagers told us that it will take us up to our native place,” he said. Paswan said they reached Patna on March 27 evening. He said some people in Patna informed us about the shelter here. “The contractor was paying me Rs1,000 per day. After the lockdown, he stopped giving us food saying he was not receiving anything ,” he said. Kamal Biswas, a mason working in Kerala, said he had to walk from Biharsharif in Nalanda to Patna for reaching the shelter here. “I reached Patna from Kerala by train on March 17. We were taken to Biharsharif by the administration. They informed me that I will get a bus for onward journey to may native place at Cooch Behar in West Bengal. However, there was no transport facility and I had to return on foot. It took me more than 12 hours to reach Patna last Thursday,” Biswas said, adding he came to know about the shelter from news. A group of eight migrant workers, including Ramekbal Yadav, also found the shelter after reaching from Agra on Tuesday evening. “We left Agra on March 26 and entered Bihar border around 10pm on Monday. From there we continued walking to reach Patna to get a bus to Kusheshwar Sthan in Darbhanga. People in Patna informed us about the camp after which we reached here,” he said.  Yadav said they paid Rs300 each to reach Kanpur and Rs200 more to reach Prayagraj by the state government bus. “At Prayagraj, UP police made us board a truck along with 50 others and we were dropped at the border,” he said. Yadav said they continued to travel by drinking water only. The district administration authorities at school said up to 120 persons could be accommodated there while maintaining social distancing.” At present 98 such workers are residing at the camp,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrant-workers-walk-for-2-days-to-reach-patna/articleshow/74955262.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 3, 2020||Patna||Three more air quality monitoring stations linked to CPCB server||PATNA: Three more continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in Patna, Gaya and Hajipur have been connected with the server of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The new stations have been installed at the Shikarpur Government High School in Patna City, Industrial Area in Hajipur and Kusdihra in Gaya to monitor real time and peak concentration levels of critical pollutants present in the air. The monitoring stations will display air pollution parameters, including oxides of sulphur and nitrogen. Levels of particulate matter suspended in the air as well as temperature, humidity, wind speed and other climatic conditions will also be recorded. Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) chairman Ashok Ghosh told this newspaper, “Hajipur got its first air quality monitoring station, which is now connected with the national grid. The number of such stations in Patna and Gaya has gone up to six and two, respectively.” According to the daily bulletin issued by the CPCB, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna stood at 119 on Thursday, which falls in the ‘moderate’ category. The overall index is calculated after taking the average of the AQIs displayed on the monitoring stations at the Indira Gandhi Planetarium (117), Birla Institute of Technology (141), Eco Park (88), S K Memorial Hall (114), DRM office in Khagaul (142) and Patna City (132). Ghosh said, “The level of pollution can go down if the green cover is increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-air-quality-monitoring-stations-linked-to-cpcb-server/articleshow/74955127.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 3, 2020||Surat||Surat: Woman dies, tests negative for Covid-19||SURAT: A 40-year-old woman from Ashwani Kumar Road’s Fulpada died in the SMIMER hospital on Thursday. She was admitted in the SMIMER for breathlessness, high fever and cold on April 1. However, she tested negative for COVID-19 in the evening.“Since her COVID-19 report was pending, we could not wait after her demise and decided to perform the last rite at the Ashwani Kumar crematorium. The disposal of the body was done as per the COVID-19 protocol of the government. The entire crematorium was sanitised and disinfected after the cremation,” said Dr. Ashish Naik, deputy commissioner, health, SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-dies-tests-negative/articleshow/74956770.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 containment zone created in Gaya||GAYA: A containment zone has been created in the Gurudwara Road locality of Gaya town following Covid-19 protocol. The zone was created after a woman tested positive report on Wednesday. An estimated 300 houses fall in the area notified by the district administration and both the entry and exit points of the zone have been sealed. Police have been deputed to execute the ban order. On Wednesday evening, a woman in her early forties with an international travel history, tested Covid-19 positive and she was immediately shifted to ANMMCH. The area of the containment zone has been fixed considering her house as the epicentre. According to a press release issued by NK Gupta, deputy director, public relations department on Thursday, “All nine members of the woman’s family have been evacuated and put in the isolation ward. Sample of all the nine persons have been collected and sent for test in a Patna-based virology lab.” The infected woman had reached Gaya on March 22, by an Air India (AI 433) Delhi-Gaya flight. On its return journey, the same flight has a stopover in Varanasi. Asked whether everybody in the sealed area will be tested, the DM said that as of now only those who came in direct contact of the Covid positive woman would be tested. Others may be tested only if they develop Covid-like symptoms. As part of the containment zone protocol, each and every house has been sanitised with disinfectants and all people living in those houses will remain under home quarantine for 14 days beginning Thursday. Earlier, the district administration also sealed the Paharpur area on the southern outskirts of the town, from where the first Covid case was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-containment-zone-created-in-gaya/articleshow/74955093.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Beating lockdown blues: Kolkata cops sing ‘We shall overcome’ to people on balconies||KOLKATA: From “We shall overcome” to improvising a popular Bengali song, cops in Entally and Gariahat took to the streets to cheer people confined to their homes. The police efforts were lauded by netizens, some of whom even urged them to do it in their neighbourhoods, too. A senior Gariahat officer said, “We have been trying to reach out to people, especially the elderly living alone.” The officer said they held a performance in Mandeville Gardens hoping to bring some cheer to people while stressing on the importance of the lockdown. A 15-minute impromptu act by 10 cops from Entally police station also went viral on social media. The men in uniform used a microphone to sing ‘We Shall Overcome’ to more than 600 residents from three high-rises, who then joined in from their balconies and rooftops. Inspired by scenes in Italy, where musicians have performed from balconies to lift the spirit of people amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the Kolkata Police officers said it was their way of saying thank you to all those who are staying home and making the lockdown a success. The man behind the idea in Entally, OC Debasis Dutta, said it was impromptu and the team did not rehearse or even plan to do it. “Entally police station has people from different strata of society. I knew that check-posts would help make the lockdown a success. But I felt we needed to reach out to people and explain that this action was necessary for their well-being. Ultimately, I sang the popular song that is so appropriate in these times,” he said. The officers went around two of the biggest societies — Convent Corner and Convent Garden — and told residents to be at their respective balconies around 4.30pm on Wednesday. “There was a speech in the beginning about the positives of the lockdown and I was ready to settle for the mundane. I got interested when I saw kids from the neighbourhood get ready to record something after cops spoke to them. I had no idea the officers would sing,” said Rajesh Khatri, a resident of one of the apartments. “This is a step to ensure everyone keeps healthy. This is not imprisonment. This is the time to spread hope and we are doing that,” Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beating-lockdown-blues-cops-sing-we-shall-overcome-to-people-on-balconies/articleshow/74957263.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 3, 2020||Business||Realty, airlines, auto dealers set to be worst hit by coronavirus||MUMBAI: Real estate, airlines, auto dealers, gems & jewellery and steel are the sectors that are expected to be the worst hit and have the least resilience in the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. While telecom, fertilizer, FMCG, pharmaceuticals and food industry will see a low impact and have higher resilience according to a report by ratings agency Crisil. Meanwhile, ratings agency Moody’s revised the outlook on India’s banking system to negative along with 12 others in the Asia-Pacific region, citing coronavirus related disruption. “A sharp decline in economic activity and a rise in unemployment will lead to a deterioration of household and corporate finances, which in turn will result in increases in delinquencies,” Moody’s said. Moody’s affiliate ICRA said that asset quality stress for lenders is likely to reflect with a lag of 1-2 quarters after the removal of the moratorium. According to Crisil, the impact of the pandemic would be determined by the intensity and duration of lockdown, duration of the epidemic and the fiscal & monetary steps that would be taken in response. “It is a black swan event and puts us in a situation which cannot be modelled,” said Gurpreet Chhatwal, president of Crisil Ratings. The agency had recently cut its growth forecast to 3.5% and now believes that there are downside risks to even this number. Around 4% of debt rated by Crisil is in sectors that are the least resilient category, mentioned earlier, and these are likely to see an adverse impact on credit quality. The sectors are expected to be weak performers because of the discretionary nature of goods and services and weak balance sheets. Of the 35 sectors that a Crisil study has looked at, 27 will face medium to a high level of disruption in the short erm. “Nevertheless, there are a sizeable number of sectors, which we believe are displaying a high degree of resilience and are expected to bounce back over the next six to nine months. Nearly 44% of debt is residing in sectors that are expected to be in the higher resilience category. These include pharma, fertilizer, oil refineries, power & gas distribution, and transmission,” said Somasekhar Vemuri, senior director at Crisil Ratings. On the lending side, home loans are seen to be the most resilient in the current environment. “The majority of the borrowers are salaried and we are not yet seeing any job cuts to any material manner. The gold loan segment in the near term is likely to be impacted in terms of collections coming to a standstill, but we expect it will recover quickly,” said Vemuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realty-airlines-auto-dealers-set-to-be-worst-hit-by-virus/articleshow/74957708.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal lockdown: Stricter action ordered against rule-breakers||KOLKATA: The state has ordered a renewed crackdown on those who are taking the lockdown lightly. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, in a video conference with superintendents and commissioners of police on Thursday evening, directed them to take stringent action against offenders after Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla directed chief secretaries to book the accused under The Disaster Management Act, 2005. Under the act, those flouting lockdown rules may be imprisoned for up to one year or have to pay a hefty fine. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sent out a stern warning against violations of lockdown on Wednesday. A section of people who were complaining against “police excess” during the first two days of the lockdown were found flocking to rations shops and markets, as well as to religious places, despite the lockdown. In a four-hour drive on Thursday, Kolkata Police seized 77 vehicles and arrested 980 people under IPC 188 for violating orders. The arrest count since the lockdown began has now reached 3,936. Taking a leaf out of the Railways book, cops devised a unique punishment for the offenders. Vehicles seized in one part of the city are being taken to the extreme opposite end to make matters tough for the violators. For instance, a car seized at Thakurpukur on Thursday was handed over to the owner at Vidyasagar Setu, after he walked the entire 12km stretch. The Union home secretary has asked states to take action under sections 50 to 60 of The Disaster Management Act and under Section 188 of IPC. Bhalla, in his letter, mentioned that offenders may face imprisonment if they refuse to abide by the lockdown rules. He also directed states to take legal action against those raising false alarms about the virus. Two persons were arrested from Bidhannagar on Thursday for making false claims about the disease. Under The Disaster Management Act, the administration can also take legal action against a person or a firm refusing the requisition made by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stricter-action-ordered-against-rule-breakers/articleshow/74957243.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka arms itself with legal, administrative steps to stop influx of patients||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty said, “Karnataka is on a firm footing on its decision to block roads leading to Dakshina Kannada from Kasaragod, in wake of Covid-19 cases increasing in the neighbouring district in Kerala. The state is also ramping up legal and other administrative steps to ensure that the state is not compelled to accept patients from Kasaragod, given the enormous strain on health facilities in Dakshina Kannada.” Dr Shetty, nodal authority on health facilities to tackle the coronavirus outbreak in the district, said that while the state will legally challenge the order of the Kerala high court, asking Karnataka to allow its border at Kasaragod to be opened for transportation of people facing medical emergencies, other measures have been mooted to prevent this eventuality. This includes invoking section 641 (b) read with section 58 (22) of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976. Section 58 (22) of the act empowers the commissioner of the civic body to prevent and check the spread of dangerous diseases. Accordingly, Ajith Kumar Hegde, commissioner, MCC vide order dated EST-18/CR (74)/2019-20, dated April 2, has banned the movement of vehicles carrying people who are afflicted or are likely to have come in to contact with Covid-19 patients, or are suspected to be suffering from such a contagious disease, in MCC limits. The commissioner, in the order, directed officials of the health section of the civic body to strictly enforce this order, and also instructed them to taken the help of jurisdictional police wherever necessary, as provided in the above act. In addition, the local gram panchayats and urban local bodies from where patients from Kasaragod could possibly enter the district, too have adopted resolutions banning the entry and presence of such people in their areas. Dr Shetty also referred to addendum order issued by the state government on March 31 (HFW 54 CGM 2020 dated March 13, revised on March 20 with addendum order dated March 21 and order dated March 23 with same number) that bars use of health facilities in Karnataka, by people from outside the state. It also places restriction on movement of patients from across state borders, in view of severe shortage of health facilities in the state, he said. Asserting that in normal circumstances, Karnataka would not have resorted to all these draconian and seemingly inhumane measures, Dr Shetty said these steps are necessary, in that Covid-19 positive cases in Kasaragod district alone far exceeds the total number of cases in Karnataka. “Karnataka has its own limitations in managing a health crisis of this nature,” he said, adding it cannot handle the influx of patients from Kasaragod into the district at this juncture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-arms-itself-with-legal-administrative-steps-to-stop-influx-of-patients/articleshow/74953813.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Darbhanga: Coronavirus test commences at DMCH||DARBHANGA: The microbiology department of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) started testing samples for Covid-19 collected from suspected patients from Thursday. The medical college and hospital in north Bihar was recently got a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting Covid-19 tests. The reports of the samples tested on Thursday will be available on Friday. Other places in Bihar where test for Covid-19 are being conducted are the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute (RMRI), Patna, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGMIS) and the process is underway for commencing the facility at AIIMS- Patna as well. Commencement of tests at DMCH will cater to the needs of many districts in Mithilanchal and Seemanchal region. In the preparatory phase at DMCH, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and extraction kits were brought from Patna, while screening and confirmation kits (SACK) were brought from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to make the hospital ready for testing samples. DMCH principal Dr HN Jha said, “ About 300 PPE kits, 200 for hospital for collection of samples and 100 for use by the microbiologists during testing has been received. Also, 200 SACK kits from NIV, Pune, for testing of 200 samples were received a few days ago. We have also received extraction kits for extraction of RNA,” he said. He added that trial run of the test was approved by NIV, Pune, on Wednesday and it gave its nod for the same. Dr Varsha Potdar, scientist- D at NIV, Pune, mailed principal mentioning that the test run worked well and permission was granted for assessing samples. DMCH supritendent Dr R R Prasad said, “Samples collected have been sent to the microbiology department for testing on Thursday and now we don’t need to send samples to Patna.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-test-commences-at-dmch/articleshow/74954940.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar seeks more PPE kits, ventilators at PM’s meet||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday urged the Centre to provide medicines and increased number of N-95 masks, PPE kits, C-Ply masks, RNA extraction kits and ventilators in proportion to the demand made by the state government. He was speaking at PM Narendra Modi’s meeting with chief ministers via videoconferencing in which Union and state ministers also took part to facilitate exchange of information on steps being taken by the Centre and the respective state governments for the containment of coronavirus and treatment of patients. “So far, 24 people have tested positive in Bihar and one person had died while two have recovered from the ailment,” the CM said, adding, “Of the total 24 who had tested positive, 12 were those who had come in contact with the person who had died.” However, the number of coronavirus positive cases went up to 30 in the state on Thursday evening. “The state government has been provided 50,000 N-95 masks against its demand of 10 lakh, 4,000 PPE kits against the demand of 5 lakh, 1 lakh C-Ply kits against the demand of 10 lakh, 250 RNA extraction kits against the demand of 10,000 of them, and not a single ventilator against the demand of 100 of them,” the CM said. Given the economic constraint brought in by the lockdown and high expenditures arising from the steps taken for the containment of coronavirus, the CM also said that the Centre should increase the cap on fiscal deficit from the existing 3% of the GSDP as mandated by Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act to 4% to raise the money required. He said the state government has created a corona eradication fund to which every MLA and MLC from the state has contributed Rs 50 lakh from the local area development (LAD) fund. Further, Union ministry of home affairs should take steps so that Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha MPs from the state are able to contribute Rs 1 crore each from their LAD fund to the corona eradication fund of the state, the CM said. He added that the MPs were advising that their share of contribution be spent in their respective constituencies, but it was not practicable as the contributions would remain unutilized with that kind of rider since the state has not been taking area-specific steps. That apart, the CM pointed out the recent rush of migrants from Delhi. As many as 1.74 lakh people, including 12,051 from abroad, had arrived in the state. While those from abroad have been kept in home quarantine, those in villages have been made to stay in schools. 18 lakh ration card holders get Rs 1,000 each: CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday transferred Rs 184 crore into the bank accounts of over 18.40 lakh ration card holders at the rate of Rs 1,000 per beneficiary through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) method. The CM said the remaining ration card holders would get the amount soon to tide over the strains brought by coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-seeks-more-ppe-kits-ventilators-at-pms-meet/articleshow/74955305.cms||Abhay Singh
April 3, 2020||Patna||Siwan civil surgeon bats for quacks, suspended||PATNA: Siwan civil surgeon Dr Ashesh Kumar was suspended for issuing an order asking his subordinates to engage ‘quacks’ to stem Covid-19 in the district, which has already reported five positive cases. Confirming the disciplinary action, health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said on Thursday, “The letter issued by the civil surgeon has already been withdrawn. He has been put under suspension and departmental proceedings have been initiated against him.” He admitted that the letter issued by the civil surgeon on March 31 had earned a bad name for the department. Another health department official, who didn't wish to be named, said, “It was an absurd decision.” The letter issued on March 25, a copy of which is with TOI, asked the sadar hospital deputy superintendent, Siwan, sub-divisional hospital, Maharajganj and all medical incharge officers of PHCs to identify and train these medical practitioners to treat Covid-19. They were also asked to identify private hospitals and provide the names and their cell phone numbers under their jurisdiction. When contacted, the suspended civil surgeon said, “The decision was taken at the district programme manager’s level. Since I was in a hurry, I signed the letter but couldn’t go through the content. Our motive was only to seek assistance of workforce at the village-level.” He, however, also raised the issue of dearth of MBBS doctors in districts like Siwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/siwan-civil-surgeon-bats-for-quacks-suspended/articleshow/74954985.cms||Ramashankar
April 3, 2020||Patna||85 Jamaat members from Bihar traced||PATNA: The state government has traced 85 Bihar residents and 35 foreign nationals who had attended Tablighi Jamaat, a religious congregation, at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said of 86 Bihar people, 85 have been traced. “While 42 of them are in Bihar, 42 are outside the state. All of them have been quarantined,” the DGP added. He said from the list of 57 foreign nationals, 35 have been traced and efforts are on to locate 22 others. “Of the 35 foreigners who have been traced, 25 are in Delhi and 10 in Bihar. All of them have been quarantined.” A senior official said the government has received a list of 4,597 people who were present in the neighbourhood of Nizamuddin between March 18 and 23. “The central government has traced them with the help of mobile location. Though these people had not attended the religious gathering, they were present in the locality,” the official said, adding these people will also be traced and quarantined. Meanwhile, all 17 foreign nationals from Kyrgyzstan and two locals who were accompanying them, have been tested negative for Covid-19, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said. These 17 nationals were staying in two different mosques in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/85-jamaat-members-from-bihar-traced/articleshow/74955326.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 3, 2020||Business||Companies look at making WFH interesting via fitness, fun initiatives||Chennai/Mumbai: For those who miss stopping by the water cooler to have a quick laugh or go for tea breaks because they are cooped up at home, their employers are ensuring their associates don’t miss much, while productivity and engagement levels remain intact. Corporates, big and small, across sectors are having fitness sessions, virtual team lunches and activities to keep the team bonding going virtually and to make sure employees blow off some steam.“At work, you meet team members at the coffee table, in the alley. This creates a sense of presence even if you don’t really interact with each other. However, during WFH mode this needs to be filled with constant interactions even if they are just prescriptive,” said a Snapdeal spokesperson. The company has come up with a ‘Snapdeal Radio’ with curated songs to start the day. These are sent to employees via email.Tata Consultancy Services for instance, is having live pasta sessions, yoga workouts and bringing in their pet to their video call sessions at work. “In addition,we also continue to encourage employees to take up courses on our digital learning platform which enables them to learn anytime anywhere. They are also encouraged to stay connected through competitions on Knome (TCS’ internal social network platform for employees),” said a TCS spokesperson.In a bid to improve productivity, some companies are also taking care of the employees lunch so that those among the workforce who can’t cook or arrange for food can put in 100% at work while their needs are taken care of. Local language social network ShareChat has tied up with Freshmenu to have their employees have their lunch as per their choice. “Our idea was to focus on sustaining productivity while keeping our employees in high spirits both physically and mentally,” said Swapna Nair, VP, HR, ShareChat.Other firms are having a tab on their fitness, considering their employees have a relatively more sedentary lifestyle while working from home. Recruitment company Randstad through its virtual walkathon challenge has its employees ‘steps tracked everyday using a mobile app. E-commerce company Snapdeal has a ‘Hustle for muscle’ exercise, through which it is encouraging employees to exercise at home with email nudges which include curated links to Zumba, Yoga, Walk at home, among others, which can be performed at home.Creative side of employees is always welcome. Tata Group’s Voltas is rewarding its employees to get creative about their workspace at home. “For instance, employees are urged to share a selfie/video with a brief description of how best they are utilizing their work-from-home routine. Employees’ best showcasing value-creation for the company along with building on a personal interest/hobby are awarded bonus points,” said Narendren Nair, EVP and CHRO, Voltas Limited||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/companies-look-at-making-wfh-interesting-via-fitness-fun-initiatives/articleshow/74957403.cms||Namrata Singh
April 3, 2020||Business||Earning capacity has gone, say micro lenders||Mumbai: Microfinance institutions are better placed to bounce back once the situation normalises on the back of relief measures taken by the government and the RBI, according to MicroFinance Institutions Network (MFIN), an association of micro lenders. MFIN CEO Harsh Shrivastava said the current situation is in some ways better than demonetisation for borrowers of microfinance institutions (MFIs) in rural areas as they have been allowed to defer repayments and given cash and foodgrain under the Garib Kalyan scheme. “In demonetisation, the earning capacity remained but all the cash was gone. This time, the earning capacity has gone because of the lockdown. But there is a moratorium on repayments. The challenge for everyone is to build the earning capability when the lockdown is lifted,” he said. According to Shrivastava, once the lockdown is lifted, the economic activity in rural areas will be back on track as people get on with their lives. He said that the demand for microfinance enterprises was expected to continue because most of them provide basic services like kirana stores. “One way to look at it is that if the impact of reverse migration lasts for a while, the demand for basic necessities in rural areas will also be there,” he said. Since March 2018, about 2.1 crore unique borrowers have been added. As on December 31, 2019, the industry served 5.6 crore unique borrowers through 10.1 crore loan accounts. As of December end, micro-lenders were managing 19 lakh loan accounts with an aggregate loan portfolio of Rs 3,733 crore and an average loan outstanding per account of Rs 20,132. This represents a year-on-year growth of 36% in the portfolio and 26% in loan accounts. Two-thirds of all microfinance lending is concentrated in the East, Northeast and South regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/earning-capacity-has-gone-say-micro-lenders/articleshow/74957873.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||nCoV impact: State defers reintroduction of detention policy in classes V & VIII||Kolkata: West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday announced that due to the impact of Covid-19, the reintroduction of the detention policy in classes V and VIII in this academic year will be deferred further. The minister said, “We shall not detain any student between pre-primary and Class VIII this year. Every student will be promoted.”Sources in Bikash Bhavan explained that the school education department is worried about the academic year being disrupted. “The first summative examination that was slated to be held in the second week of April in all government and government-aided schools has now been postponed. Hence, the school education department has been forced to defer the reintroduction of the detention system.”The minister’s statement, however, led to confusion as the academic year in schools under the state government is already rolling. “Our session begins from January. Hence, the decision taken by the state government is a tad early for schools in West Bengal. But, as there is no clarity over when classes can resume, lack of time to complete the syllabus and how the summative examination can be integrated within a short time, such a decision had to be taken so that no student is deprived due to the uncertainties,” the source added.The schools in West Bengal will remain closed till April 15 and there is no confirmation whether classes will begin any time soon. “Our major concern is for the students in classes X, XI and XII,” said a senior official.The government has already booked television slots for an hour every day to teach students specific topics and chapters. Details will be advertised soon through web portals and other means.“Students will be provided an e-mail ID and a free hotline number. All queries will be instantly clarified and addressed. This will be done to assist students in the senior classes, who will be appearing for the board examinations next year. Also, plans are afoot to hold such television sessions for the students of Class XII gearing up for competitive entrance examinations,” the official said. The government will soon take a call on informing students about the upcoming examinations in the remaining academic year.In each class of government and government-aided schools, students have to appear in three formative and three summative examinations. Up to Class VIII, marks of only three summative examinations are taken into account to consider the final results. For classes IX and XI, scores from all the three formative and three summative examinations are considered to promote a student to the next class. The first summative examination is held in April, the second in July and the third in December and the results are published thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ncov-impact-state-defers-reintroduction-of-detention-policy-in-classes-v-viii/articleshow/74957153.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Business||Indians make up 68% of 2.7L H-1B applications||Mumbai: A bulk of H-1B cap registrations, received by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), were for potential beneficiaries (workers) from India. Of the 2.75 lakh registrations received from sponsoring employers for workers they wish to depute or hire in the US, nearly 67.7% or 1.86 lakh were for those from India. Sponsoring employers also filed registrations for 36,300 (13.2%) Chinese workers. These registrations were for the 2021 filing season (for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021). A USCIS release states that roughly 46% of all registrations (or 1.26 lakh) were for prospective beneficiaries with advanced degrees from US educational institutions. While Indians constitute the bulk of new H-1B hires, it’s the multinationals rather than Indian-headquartered companies that are dominant employers. TOI had in its edition of March 28 reported that USCIS has completed the lottery process and that sponsoring employers would be informed by month end. From April 1, USCIS has begun to accept H-1B cap visa applications. This window for filing (for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021) will be open for 90 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indians-make-up-68-of-2-7l-h-1b-applications/articleshow/74957820.cms||Lubna Kably
April 3, 2020||Business||HDFC group commits Rs 150cr to fight virus||Mumbai: The HDFC group on Thursday committed Rs 150 crore to the PM CARES Fund to support the government in its measures to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. The HDFC group, in addition to the parent mortgage company, includes HDFC Bank and HDFC’s life and non-life insurance subsidiaries and the asset management company. “The HDFC group’s support to the PM CARES Fund is to commend the exemplary efforts of the central and state governments, armed & paramilitary forces, local police, healthcare professionals and sanitation workers across the country, who are working tirelessly day in and out to fight the pandemic,” said HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh. In the financial sector, the Indiabulls group had announced a Rs 21-crore contribution to the PM’s fund. Among public sector entities, LIC donated Rs 105 crore to the fund. The General Insurance Corporation too set aside Rs 22.7 crore from its social responsibility budget for the PM’s fund. Smaller entities also made their contributions. Distressed assets company ARCIL contributed Rs 1.5 crore, while AU Small Finance Bank said that it was distributing Rs 5 crore to the fight Covid-19. Among foreign lenders, Standard Chartered Bank said that it is contributing Rs 5 crore towards ration, meals and essentials for those effected by the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-group-commits-rs-150cr-to-fight-virus/articleshow/74957776.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Varanasi||Banaras Hindu University gets two new machines for coronavirus test||VARANASI: The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the department of Microbiology, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University received two new machines for Covid-19 tests on Thursday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma went to the VRDL for the inspection of available Covid-19 test facilities. He visited the laboratory with medical superintendent of Sir Sunderlal Hospital Prof SS Mathur and CMO Dr VB Singh. The DM said that the two newly-received machines will start functioning by Friday. Earlier, the laboratory had only one machine for testing the samples of Covid-19 suspected cases of 16 districts of eastern UP region. Recently, UP minister of state for tourism (independent charge) Neelkanth Tiwari had provided a fund of Rs 33 lakh for the purchase of new testing machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-gets-two-new-machines-for-covid-test/articleshow/74955713.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu offers incentives to medical gear makers||CHENNAI: To boost production and ensure ample supply of medical equipment, protective gear and drugs in demand due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government on Thursday offered a fresh package of incentives to manufacturers of the essentials. The incentive package will cover manufacture of equipment and drugs such as ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, multi para monitors, anti-malarial and anti-viral drugs in the state. The incentives include 30% capital subsidy subject to a ceiling of Rs 20 crore on investments made in eligible fixed assets. The capital subsidy will be disbursed in equal annual instalments over a period of five years. The investment made in manufacturing essential equipment including modifications/ upgradations carried out in existing lines will be considered. Units should commence commercial production by July 31, 2020, to be eligible. Other incentives include 100% stamp duty waiver, 6% interest subvention for working capital loans availed from commercial banks or financial institutions for two quarters (till December 31, 2020) as well as through state-owned TIIC (Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd). In the case of MSMEs, such manufacturing initiatives will be considered as part of ‘thrust sector’ for availing various applicable incentives. Investors may commence manufacturing of these items and related activities without any prior approval mandated by state laws, including nod from the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP). Necessary permissions may be obtained after the commencement of production. State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (Sipcot) and Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (Sidco) will provide necessary land/ sheds on short term or long term leases on a priority basis. MSMEs that come forward to manufacture medical equipment and drugs that will help the Covid-19 fight will be given priority under NEEDS, a scheme to promote entrepreneurship offered by the state government. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation will buy at negotiated rates at least 50% of the essentials manufactured between May and July this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-offers-incentives-to-medical-gear-makers/articleshow/74957712.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Couple run over in Jhalawar||Kota: A couple riding on a motorbike was killed after a speeding vehicle ran over them on Bhawanimandi-Misroli mega highway near Kuradiya Joga village under Misroli police station of Jhalawar district on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Ateek Mohammad (52) and his wife Sayara Bi (48), residents of Misroli town of Jhalawar district. Ateek was an egg seller who along with his wife Sayara, was going to Misroli from Bhawanimandi carrying egg boxes on the bike on Thursday morning. Around 7.30am, their bike skidded and they fell on the roadside. “A speeding vehicle came and ran over the couple. Both died on the spot,” Harlal Gurjar, SHO, Misroli police station said. Police have handed over the bodies to family members after post-mortem and lodged a case against the driver of the unidentified vehicle, the SHO said. Efforts were on to nab the driver, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-run-over-in-jhalawar/articleshow/74957977.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Churches suspend Sunday procession||Aurangabad: The traditional procession carried out on Sunday before Easter to commemorate the entry of Jesus into Jerusalem has been cancelled by all churches in Marathwada in view of ongoing lockdown. The spiritual leaders have appealed to the people to stay indoors and pray from home. Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Aurangabad Ambrose Rebello said that faithful people will not step out of their homes for the celebrations of the holy week from April 5 to 11. Bishop Rebello said that the ceremonies will be conducted alone by the priests. “Given the prevailing critical situation, I would like to reiterate that prescribed social distancing, hygiene protocols and sanitation of the spaces for the liturgical celebrations should be strictly adhered to,” he said in a letter to all the priests, religious and faithful of Catholic Diocese of Aurangabad. The diocese has encouraged every priest to make efforts to live stream the celebrations. While participating in the liturgical celebrations and devotional acts online the faithful should come together as a family in their home, dress appropriately, switch off other gadgets that could disturb them, put a white cloth on a table and place a crucifix and the Bible, recite the prayers and join in singing the hymns, the Bishop stated while issuing the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/churches-suspend-sunday-procession/articleshow/74957161.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 3, 2020||Goa||Candolim doctor’s comic frames find popularity online||PANAJI: ‘Dev daar dhaapta tenna, zonel ugodta’ (When God closes a door, he opens a window). Help others in need,’ is one of the messages portrayed in a series of comic frames drawn and circulated by Candolim-based endocrinologist Dr Vaibhav Dukle. The messages being conveyed by the comics range from how to keep Covid-19 at bay through personal hygiene, how to maintain social distancing, and how to help others during this time of lockdown. Using only his iPad, Dukle has created “fact-based” images that can help convey the message “positively” among citizens. The endocrinologist, who specialises in treatment of diabetes, thyroid imbalance and other hormone-related ailments, has coined or rephrased Konkani usages to make the message catchy. “At first, I made a couple of images using my iPad and shared them with family and friends over messaging apps and social media platforms. I received very good response and I was told how people liked the positive way in which the message was put across. I wanted to keep the message positive, without creating fear,” said Dukle. Now, the doctor said that he has decided to create one image for every day of the lockdown period, and release it online. The rhyme in Dukle’s messages that accompany the images made the comic frames quickly go viral. “I wanted to make Goa-specific drawings using our traditionally-used phrases,” he said. “I felt that would make the message more effective. Though people know about the novel coronavirus, there still needs to be more awareness. Some have not fully realised the seriousness of it, and that needs to be instilled in them.” He also said that the idea was to dispel misinformation. “If you look around, there is a lot of fake news related to the novel coronavirus circulating, so there is need for fact-based information,” Dukle said. “All my cartoons are fact-based and they put across only two simple messages — maintain good personal hygiene and maintain social distancing. Most people are following this, but there is still scope to spread the message to the rest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-docs-comic-frames-find-popularity-online/articleshow/74957713.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||All 34 from Ahmedabad who visited Nizamuddin Markaz healthy: CP||AHMEDABAD: City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia on Thursday said that 34 persons from Ahmedabad who visited the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi are healthy. “We have identified all the 34 persons, medical checks have been done of all and all of them were found healthy,” Bhatia told reporters at city police headquarters. Bhatia said that a team of city crime branch has been probing to learn if any other person from city had visited the Markaz. “But there are least chances, as there are very few followers of Nizamuddin in Gujarat. People who had visited the Markaz were natives of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who are living here in Ahmedabad,” said Bhatia. Bhatia stressed that people should refrain from spreading fake messages and posts regarding the incident while linking it with the novel coronavirus spread. The city police commissioner also said that some person had made a letter using defamatory language against a community aftert the Nizamuddin Markaz incident and a complaint has been already registered with Jamnagar police. Besides, city police has also began an inquiry to learn who had circulated the letter. He said that a team of cyber cell of city police has been monitoring content on social media and posts being shared on various social media platform. “If anyone is found sharing fake information, then legal actions will be taken,” he said. Speaking further on police efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19, Bhatia said that cops have also monitored movements of suspected patients and positive Covid-19 patients using their mobile tower locations. This is for the first time that police have been tracking patients’ locations in city using mobile towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-34-from-city-who-visited-markaz-healthy-cp/articleshow/74957753.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Online mock tests for Class X students soon||PANAJI: With the Class X state board exams deferred due to the lockdown, the directorate of education (DoE) along with the state council of educational research and training (SCERT) has announced that they will be conducting mock tests online in mathematics and science. The practice tests are meant for students of government and government-aided schools who will be answering the 2020 state board exams. The directorate said that subject-wise online classes on www.liveshala.com will also be starting from April 4, to be used via the Zoom app. Director of education Vandana Rao has also told schools that if teachers of Class X want to conduct online tests on any particular topic in any subject, it will be set up by the directorate, on request. She has also told schools that it is expected that they come forward in large numbers to take advantage of the facility. DoE and SCERT have tied-up with Jio-Embibe to “ensure that the learning of Class X students is not interrupted”. “The learning platform will be provided free of cost for students to learn, practise, and answer tests from the comfort and safety of their homes,” the directorate has told schools. The Class X exams of the Goa Board were set to begin from April 1, but were postponed due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Students can appear for online tests on the link https://www.embibe.com/mock-tes/cbse/10th-cbse-mocktest” the directorate announced. In the meantime, the online remedial classes on Live Shala for Class X students will cover the science subject topics of electricity, ray optics, light, periodic classification of elements, sources of energy, acids, bases and salts, and chemical reactions and equations. For mathematics, the topics covered will be circles, statistics, pair of linear equations in two variables, polynomials and constructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-mock-tests-for-class-x-students-soon/articleshow/74957720.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Health workers on Covid-19 duty face resistance from some residents||Aurangabad: Health workers and teaching staff of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) are engaged in the very important work of screening symptomatic or asymptomatic persons with travel history or those who had come in contact with confirmed Covid-19 patients by conduction door-to-door visits. However, residents in certain localities are video graphing these health works and accusing them of moving around the city in violation of the lockdown orders. The residents also said they will not answer any questions asked until they (the health workers and teachers) bring an authorised letter from the civic body. The AMC had roped in the teaching staff from its schools to join the health workers in conducting the doorstep visits for coronavirus-related inquiry. The visits started on Wednesday. In two separate cases, the staff faced opposition for residents. On Wednesday, when the health workers went to the Mominpura area of the city, a resident questioned how and why they (the health workers) were exempted from the lockdown. The man did not budge even after the workers, all women, showed him their identity cards and informed that they were on official duty to screen people for prevention of Covid-19 spread. In another incident at Indiranagar Baijipura, a man told the health workers that they will have to bring police protection and a letter of authority from the civic body. Subsequently, the Shikshak Sena, a teachers’ union, sought police protection for their members engaged in the activity. When asked, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey told TOI that the AMC teams were not doing any survey, but were carrying out screening as part of the coronavirus preventive measures. “Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar, district collector Uday Choudhari, municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar, city engineer Sakharam Panzade, deputy commissioners of police Meena Makwana, Rahul Khade and Nikesh Khatmode and I held a meeting. Subsequently, instructions have been given for the safety of our teams. They will be given police protection as they carry out their job,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/health-workers-on-covid-19-duty-face-resistance-from-some-residents/articleshow/74957166.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Sans workers, buyers, flowers on hundreds of acres wither||TRICHY: Seasonal flowers which have blossomed on several hundreds of acres in Anthanallur, Manikandam, Manapparai, Mannachanallur and Lalgudi unions in the district have been withering due to the non-availability of labourers as well as buyers due to the lockdown. However, bringing some relief to the farmers, the government has made arrangements for the flowers to be procured by a scent producing factory in Dindigul apart from giving permission to sell at temporary vegetable markets in the city. Several farmers from Koppu, Mani Nagar and Viyazhanmedu villages in Anthanallur union, K Periyapatti in Manapparai, Echampatti and Thiruvarangapptti in Mannachanallur, Pallakadu, Athavathur, Pothavur, Keerikkalmedu, Navalur and Thayanur from Manikandam union and also from Lalgudi and Musiri have raised a variety of flowers including jasmine, marigold, Indian jasmine and rose on about 1,400 acres in the district. “February to September is the season, particularly for jasmine. Despite being the peak flowering season, we have no avenues to sell them,” they added. “Ever since the lockdown was announced, we have not been able to sell flowers. Flowers are withering on the plant itself. We engage 10 to 15 labourers to pluck flowers. Hundreds of such labourers have also lost their income,” said M Sivalingam, a flower farmer from Pallakadu village. Deputy Director of Horticulture Department C Vimala told TOI that they have identified a scent factory in Dindigul and convinced the management to procure flowers. “They readily agreed,” Vimala said. “We have also permitted farmers to sell flowers at a few temporary vegetable markets in the city,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sans-workers-buyers-flowers-on-hundreds-of-acres-wither/articleshow/74957169.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University team working to build non-alcohol sanitiser chamber||AHMEDABAD: With the Covid-19 epidemic, the first thing one has to do wherever they go is to sanitize hands with an alcohol-based solution. While the lockdown has resulted in a severe cut in social visits, even for doctors this is painfu l, with complaints of drying skin. What about a sanitizer that can kill germs without the side effects of an alcohol rub? This was the idea in the pipeline for some time at the Department of Life Sciences, Gujarat University (GU), primarily for lab technicians who wear latex gloves or use isopropyl alcohol. Prof Rakesh Rawal of GU said that when the idea was at a nascent stage, the Covid-19 outbreak took place. “The early idea was to remove bacteria and thus the base was plasma. Now as we have to consider viruses, we added two more components which would pass through plasma and create a mist,” said Prof Rawal. “At smaller scale, it can be installed like a hand drier or at a larger scale, it can be installed like a doorframe for overall sanitization of a person or object.” The innovation by the team led by Prof Rawal is one of four sanctioned by the Gujarat University Start-up and Entrepreneurship Council (GUSEC) as part of its ‘Breakthrough Accelerator.’ Rahul Bhagchandani, group CEO at GUSEC, said ideas to combat the outbreak are pouring in and a platform was needed to channelize the efforts. “Under the initiative, we invited ideas related to Covid-19 for incubation and support before April 12. The second round deadline is April 22. We are getting support from multiple sources such as UNICEF, SSIP, TBI, TIDE and so on,” he said. Prof Himanshu Pandya, V-C of GU, said that through the Breakthrough Accelerator, they are leading a collaborative effort for implementable solutions for detection, assessment, containment and treatment of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-team-working-to-build-non-alcohol-sanitizer-chamber/articleshow/74957239.cms||Parth Shastri
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Postal staff may be roped in to deliver essentials||Jaipur: The resources of the postal department will be used for door-to-door delivery of essential goods and services to the people during lockdown. “The postal department and state government have come to an understanding,” said secretary, food and civil supplies Siddharth Mahajan. Mahajan said considering the possibility of shortage of labour in districts during the lockdown period, the district collectors could make use of the human resource and infrastructure at the disposal of the postal department. He informed that the district collectors concerned could acquire the services of the postal department under the Disaster Management Act. He said the postal department has more than 17,000 postmen spread across the country through which house-to-house post and cash is distributed. Instructions have been issued to the district collectors to utilize the labour force and other resources of the postal department during the lockdown period for service delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/postal-staff-may-be-roped-in-to-deliver-essentials/articleshow/74957978.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||Officials prepare vocation-wise data for lockdown fin aid||Varanasi: The national population register (NPR) exercise was put on hold following the announcement of nationwide lockdown, but the announcement of financial aid and free ration to daily wagers hit by the lockdown to prevent coronavirus outbreak has forced officials to start a count of workers as per their occupation. The exercise is being conducted to ensure proper implementation of relief measures to the intended beneficiaries. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Thursday, “The exercise to create a comprehensive database of every resident in the country with their details, including occupation, had to be undertaken between April and September. As per government directives, the training had also started. The last training session had been conducted on March 20, but the exercise was postponed due to lockdown.” “However, since the government announced financial assistance for daily wagers and labourers anticipating that their earnings would take a hit during the lockdown to prevent coronavirus outbreak we had to ask officials to start counting labourers and service providers of unorganised sectors,” said Agarwal. While the number of people without shelter in the city is almost clear, records of rural labourers, porters in different wholesale markets, unregistered labourers, autorickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers, rickshaw pullers and others are being collected. Officials said transfer of financial assistance money announced by government in this time of crisis to the beneficiaries, including registered construction labourers, of various schemes was not a difficult task. But, preparing data of the beneficiaries became obligatory, they added. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma assigned the task of finding out the figures to district urban development authority and executive officers of Gangapur and Ramnagar Palika Parishads. DUDA compiled a list of 3,272 people while other two agencies also gave figures of intended beneficiaries in the areas of their jurisdiction. Now, process is being initiated to ensure direct bank transfer of Rs 1,000 into their bank accounts. The DM asked the CDO to carry out similar survey in villages to find out people in these categories .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/officials-prepare-vocation-wise-data-for-lockdown-fin-aid/articleshow/74955728.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||IIT-Jodhpur comes up with special masks||JODHPUR: A team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Jodhpur has come up with indexable 3D printed face shields for healthcare workers and professionals attending coronavirus patients. The design of face shield consists of indexable transparent protective plastic covering attached to indigenously designed spectacle frame like 3D printed fixture and elastic thread. CEO of zila parishad Inder Jeet Yadav, who along with the (ADM City) Seema Kavia had experienced these masks, said the IIT has transferred the technology to a manufacturer who has the capacity to manufacture 5,000-7,000 masks. “We will talk to the manufacturer about the capacity and will ask them to produce the masks for us in a day or two,” he said. Besides this, National Institute of Technology (NIFT), Jodhpur, has designed a Personal Protection Kit (PPE) kit for medics and has come up with a sample piece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iit-jodhpur-comes-up-with-special-masks/articleshow/74957979.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Trichy||He went the extra mile to drop newspapers||Trichy: When the lockdown was announced last week, about one-third of the city had to go without newspapers. Though the situation continued for the next few days, some 3,000-odd houses in TVS toll gate region were among the lucky ones to enjoy seamless distribution of their daily newspapers. The credit for this uninterrupted supply goes to N Thiagarajan, 43, a street vendor whose presence of mind and prior planning ensured that people in his areas got their newspapers. On the day curfew was imposed on March 24, Thiagarajan had a plan for the next morning. “I received calls from paper boys who were apprehensive of venturing out. I took up the task of sensitising them,” says he.  “I told them this is the time when we should reach out to readers as they will be confined to their home. This is unlike on normal days when they rush for work and don’t get time to read the newspaper leisurely,” he said. Since rumours are also making the rounds on social media, people would want to know the truth from newspapers, he added. There are 16 street vendors including him who decided to wrap up the work by 7 am though the work stretches to 8 on usual days. He asked the other vendors in his area to finish the work early to reach out to the places that didn’t receive paper.  A smart phone mobile application also came in handy for him as it had the database of customers to whom he supplies papers. “Customers who didn’t receive papers will send a message based on which we could supply it as soon as we receive it,” said Thiagarajan. As he chose to go the extra mile to ensure that newspapers are supplied in these testing times, his family members have been worried over his health. But he says he has been extra cautious during work by using face mask, sanitizers and washing hands to ensure that he remains healthy. He has been spreading the message of staying safe among his subordinates as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/he-went-the-extra-mile-to-drop-newspapers/articleshow/74957186.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 3, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 scare drives 2 to suicide in 24 hours in west UP||Meerut: In two separate incidents, novel coronavirus scare pushed two men to commit suicide in Saharanpur and Shamli districts respectively. One of them included a symptomatic patient who was already quarantined in Shamli hospital. The other one, a Saharanpur resident, was a 38-year-old clerk in the Cane Development Board office in the district.In a note he left behind, the man said he was too scared of the outbreak to withstand it and hence was killing himself. According to police sources, the body of the deceased, identified as Adesh Saini, was first spotted by the neighbours hanging from a ceiling fan in his office.“Preliminary investigation revealed that Adesh Saini used to come to office daily. However, the office door remained open till late night on Wednesday. When inquisitive neighbours visited the office, Saini's body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. His family said he was suffering from depression for quite some time,” said Nakud police station incharge Sushil Kumar.In the Shamli case, the district magistrate has set up an inquiry. “The man was admitted to Shamli district hospital’s quarantine ward on March 31 as he had showed symptoms. His blood sample was also taken and sent to Meerut for tests whose results are awaited,” Shamli DM Jasjeet Kaur said.Earlier, on March 22, a 32-year-old man from Hapur who had developed symptoms of cold and cough committed suicide by slitting his throat with a shaving blade. In his suicide note, he said he feared he had Covid-19 and didn’t want to infect his children. Later, his test report came negative.In yet another case, a 23-year-old migrant labourer, who was quarantined in a school outside his village after he returned from NCR on March 28 in Fariya Pipariya village of Mitauli tehsil in Lakhimpur Kheri district, committed suicide late on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-scare-drives-2-to-suicide-in-24-hours-in-west-up/articleshow/74957185.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 3, 2020||Meerut||4 back from Tablighi Jamaat test positive in Meerut, 1 in Hapur||MEERUT: As many as four people, one from Sardhana and three from Kashi village, all of whom attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Thursday, taking the district tally to 24. While the one traced in Sardhana is an Indonesian man, the other three are from Jharkhand. Meanwhile, another 71-year-old man from Thailand, who had returned from the Jamaat, tested positive in Hapur for novel coronavirus on Thursday. “As many as four people, out of the total 76 samples, sent for tests at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. One person who tested positive was also from Hapur. All the five people in question had returned from Nizamuddin’s Tablighi Jamaat,” said chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. While one of four positive persons from Meerut was traced to Madina mosque in Sardhana, three others were traced to Kashi village in Partapur area here. “One sample of an already infected person was also tested. He tested positive again. All the positive patients are being shifted from Subharti Medical College to LLRM Medical College immediately and their treatment is being started,” said Dr Kumar. All the four cases from Meerut are in the age group of 16 to 22 years. “On Friday, an outreach campaign will be launched to trace the contacts of the four positive cases. Meanwhile, on Thursday, as many as 263 teams reached out to 1,84,575 people. The 24 contacts, who were traced on Thursday, were put into institutional quarantine,” said district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary. Meanwhile, in Hapur, the case was traced to Haawal mosque in Dhaulana tehsil. Instructions have been given to the local residents to stay indoors until April 3 morning or action will be taken as per the norms against them,” said Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh. Marked as one of the three hotspots for Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, Meerut has so far reported 24 confirmed cases. Notably, 17 of them were from one group – a 50-year-old man and his contacts. The man with no foreign travel history, travelled from Amravati in Maharashtra to Meerut in two trains, stayed in three localities, attended a wedding and prayed at two city mosques before testing positive here. All the areas he visited have been sealed and are being disinfected while his contacts, which are in excess of a hundred, are being screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-back-from-tablighi-jamaat-test-positive-in-meerut-1-in-hapur/articleshow/74957182.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed civic body chief caught on tape hitting pharmacist||Aurangabad: Pharmacies have exempted from the ongoing lockdown and are continued to operate as essential service providers. However, notwithstanding this exemption, Beed municipal council chief officer (CO) Utkarsh Gutte was caught on CCTV camera assaulting a local pharmacist with a baton on Thursday morning. Police officers clarified that only police personnel are allowed to carry a baton and use force — if and when needed — to control a situation. “Nobody, except the police, is allowed to carry a baton or use force. In this case, it is a matter of investigation. We will find out what exactly transpired between the pharmacist and the civic chief,” Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said. Pharmacist Shaikh Mumtaz, who was assaulted, said: “The civic body chief reached the counter of my pharmacy and tried to down the shutters. When I questioned him, he hit me with the baton.” He said the incident was caught on the CCTV cameras installed at the store. Mumtaz added that there was neither any violation nor any rush at the store when the incident took place. CO Gutte, meanwhile, said, “The pharmacist had been warned several times in the past to ensure social distancing. However, he did not comply. When we tried to close down the shutter of the pharmacy, he got into an argument with me.” When Gutte was asked why he was carrying a baton, which he used to hit the pharmacist with — he claimed that his intention was not to hit anyone. Locals alleged that the Beed civic body had also been using force against poor vegetable vendors citing violation of lockdown. Despite repeated attempts, district collector Rahul Rekhawar could not be reached for his comment. Pharmacies threaten to go on strike Arun Barkase, the state vice-president of the pharmacist and druggist association, while demanding registration of an FIR against the CO, has now threatened to go on a strike. “If action is not initiated against the CO, the pharmacy stores will go on a strike. He said that a written complaint has already been lodged with the Beed city police station. The incident has been caught in CCTV cameras installed at the pharmacy in the Bashirganj locality. The video went viral on social media drawing serious criticism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-civic-body-chief-caught-on-tape-hitting-pharmacist/articleshow/74957170.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 3, 2020||Goa||Goa schools to remain shut till April 14||PANAJI: The last circular of the directorate of education (DoE), on closure of schools due to threat of Covid-19 infection, had stated that institutes will be shut till March 31. This was based on the state government’s decision to enforce a lockdown till this date. However, no further circular was issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day lockdown up to April 14. The DoE on April 1 has now issued a circular to fill this gap which officially announces closure of all schools in Goa up to April 14. Some schools had contacted state officials pointing to the lacunae between the instructions of the state government and the central government, following which the was issued. In Wednesday’s circular, director of education Vandana Rao has said that the decision to shut the schools till April 14 is based on directives of the state disaster management authority, which stated that ‘all educational, training, research, coaching institutions shall remain closed’ during the entire period of the national lockdown. Meanwhile, the Central Board for Secondary Education said that Kendriya Vidyalaya and Navodaya Vidyalaya institutes, some of which are based in Goa as well,will now promote students of Class IX and XI on their school-based assessments like project work and periodic exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-to-remain-shut-till-april-14/articleshow/74957731.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Man with pregnant wife starts walking for home 150km away, gets lift||Aurangabad: Anil Rathod, a 27-year-old worker, left Wadgaon Kolhati in Aurangabad on Thursday morning on foot along with his 8-month pregnant wife and her 9-year-old niece, for Jamner, his native village in Jalgaon district. Without any work due to the lockdown, the young family decided to leave Aurangabad — where positive coronavirus cases have emerged — for the safety of their village. After they had reached Harsul T-point on the Jalgaon Road, about 30km from where they had started, the family was spotted by some policemen. The cops first reprimanded Rathod for stepping out with his pregnant wife and child, but then helped the young family get a lift. The policemen spotted a private car going toward Jalgaon and signalled the driver to stop. On questioning, it was found that he too was heading toward Jalgaon and was alone in the car. The cops requested the driver to take Rathod and his family along, and the driver agreed. Earlier, Rathod, who was photographed by TOI photographer in front of the Subedari Guesthouse, had declined the offer for shelter. Rathod, who had been staying at Wadgaon Kolhati, next to the MIDC industrial estate, said he had come to the city about six months ago to make a living. He used to do odd jobs, often with masons at small construction sites or home repair projects. “We waited for some time for the situation to cool down. But when the situation did not improve, we decided to walk to Jamner on foot,” he said. He said he had covered 30 km on foot in 5 hours. Rathod said people along the way had offered them food packets. Later in the evening, Rathod informed the TOI photographer that he had reached his home in Jamner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-with-pregnant-wife-starts-walking-for-home-150km-away-gets-lift/articleshow/74957181.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||BSF jawans follow safety precautions during duty||Jaisalmer: Despite the lockdown in the entire country, the BSF jawans are discharging their duties round-the-clock at the Indo-Pak border adjoining Jaisalmer. They are keeping a strict watch over the illegal activities across the border. All measures have been taken to prevent the jawans from coronavirus. The Times of India scribe reached the border and spoke to the jawans. Across the border, the Pakistani rangers stay inside their checkposts. There is no sign of activity or movement. Due to the lockdown in the country, BSF sector and battalion headquarters are sealed and no one can enter or go out of the premises. All the jawans are deployed at the border round-the-clock and there has been no reduction in operational duty. However, the group activities of jawans have been discontinued. The contact meeting usually held in the morning and evening is not taking place. Nobody can enter or leave the checkposts without sanitiser. All the jawans patrolling at the zero line are using sanitisers and masks. At the time of patrolling, they maintain a distance of two metres. “BSF is performing its duty with all the precautions. Entry of outsiders in BSF premises is prohibited. Also, the jawans cannot go outside. We have provided masks and sanitisers to BSF jawans to be used during foot and vehicle patrolling. Other operational activities are going on as usual,” BSF Rajasthan Frontier IG Amit Lodha said. BSF DIG M L Garg said that, “all precautions are being taken. Jawans are wearing masks on duty and maintaining social distance. Having lunch and dinner in groups has been stopped. They maintain a distance of two metres while eating. They have been given different timings and they come eat as per their turn. Besides, special attention is being paid to cleanliness. Jawans are asked to wash their hands frequently”. A doctor has been deployed at all battalions of the sector. For health check-ups and monitoring, nursing staff and medical assistance are available. Moreover, a quarantine ward has been made to keep the jawans and officers coming from outside under medical supervision for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawans-follow-safety-precautions-during-duty/articleshow/74957976.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Many foreign nationals had tourist, not missionary visas||AHMEDABAD: Many of the estimated 2,000 foreign nationals who participated in religious congregations at the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month had entered India on tourist visas, and not missionary visas, which is the proper method of entry, the central government told the Gujarat high court. The HC called for an urgent hearing on Wednesday on the issue of the ‘Tablighi Jamaat crisis’ in context of the suo motu PIL to resolve issues related to the spread of the novel coronavirus and the lockdown. In response to the HC’s query with regard to visas and travel permits for the foreign nationals, the government of India filed a note and stated, “Many of these foreign nationals have entered the country on tourist visas as against missionary visas, which are location and event specific and entail thorough scrutiny.” Assistant solicitor general Devang Vyas submitted that these foreign nationals have entered India and have been a part of Tablighi Jamaat as preachers. “The ministry of home affairs has identified such foreigners and the necessary steps are being taken with due diligence,” he said. The central government’s notice explained that a missionary visa is granted to a foreigner and their dependents whose purpose of visiting the country is missionary work for approved organizations or religious work. They are not allowed to carry out any other activity in the country. The high court asked the Centre to supply on Friday details of nationality, purpose of visit and nature of visas of all foreign nationals who attended the congregations at Nizamuddin and then entered Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-foreign-nationals-had-tourist-not-missionary-visas/articleshow/74957754.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Event on Lord Chitragupta cancelled in Kota||In the wake of spread of Covid-19 and lockdown, the Rashtriya Kayastha Mahaparishad has decided not to hold the community celebration to mark the birth anniversary of Lord Chitragupta, scheduled on April 3 in Kota. The Mahaparishad has appealed to the community members to celebrate the event by lighting seven lamps in the foreyard of the houses. Expressing concern over the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the state, vice-president of the Mahaparishad Rani Shrivastav said the Mahaparishad has decided not to hold the function. Instead, the Mahaparishad has appealed to observe the day by lighting lamps in the houses, avoiding mass congregations while maintaining social distancing, Shrivastav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/event-on-lord-chitragupta-cancelled-in-kota/articleshow/74957980.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 12 more Nizamuddin Markaz visitors marked||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said that the number of those who had gone to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi from Gujarat has risen to 84 from 72 on Wednesday. He said eight more such persons from Surat and four from Ahmedabad have been identified and quarantined at home. “This figure could rise as investigations are still under. Crime branch and ATS officials are analysing data sent by the central government,” added Jha. Jha also said goods carriers were found to be ferrying people from place to place during the lockdown. “We caught one ambulance owned by a trust from Junagadh which was ferrying people. We registered an offence against ten persons,” Jha said. Regarding the lockdown, Jha said they continue to get reports about gathering inside housing and cops have been directed to step up surveillance by drones to identify and book such persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-more-markaz-visitors-marked/articleshow/74957741.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman commits suicide in Narol||AHMEDABAD: A 20-year-old woman, Babli Kumari Rajput, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan with her dupatta on March 29. Her 18-year-old brother Manmohan Kumar Rajput, who is from Bihar, has lodged a complaint of abetment to suicide against Babli Kumari’s husband, Roshan Singh Rajput, at Narol police station on Wednesday. According to the complaint, Babli was married to Roshan in June 2018 in Bihar. After that Roshan came down to Ahmedabad. Babli had recently started working in a private company and her husband was also working as wiremen in another private company. Recently, Manmohan had come to stay with his another sister staying in Ahmedabad after giving his class 12 exams. Babli used to complain to her family in Bihar over phone that her husband is having an affair with another woman and is giving half of his salary to that woman. “According to the FIR, Roshan’s extra marital affair often resulted in quarrels between the two. Roshan even used to beat her up. On March 29, Babli committed suicide. We have registered a case of abetment to suicide against Roshan and are probing the case,” said a senior police official of Narol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-commits-suicide-in-narol/articleshow/74957234.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Garbage of home quarantines, centres to be disposed of separately||Nagpur: As a part of Covid-19 containment drive, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will collect garbage from houses of those in home quarantines, quarantine centres and residences of positive persons separately and dispose of it scientifically. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe held a review meeting with the officials of health and medical departments in newly developed COVID-19 War Room at NMC head office on Thursday. According to deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradeep Dasarwar, this was as per civic chief’s directions to health department. It is necessary as this garbage contains masks and other medical waste also. There are around 1,200 people in home quarantines and 419 at MLA Hostel, Vanamati and Ravi Bhavan. Dasarwar said he and two garbage operators AG Enviro and BVG India had chalked out a plan to process such garbage separately. Unlike other garbage that goes to Bhandewadi dumping yard, garbage collected from these houses and centres will be sent for incineration facility of NMC’s operator that disposes of medical waste, adjacent to the dumping yard. Operator of medical waste has been asked to collect garbage from homes of positive persons and dispose it of. “This system has started from today but will be totally operational from Friday,” he said. Meanwhile, NMC continued spraying of disinfectant in slums on Thursday. It is using 11 fire tenders for main roads and major internal roads. Dr Dasarwar said, “Spraying of sodium hypochlorite has been completed in over 55% areas. Remaining areas will be covered in next four days. There is no plan to repeat it again across the city. It will be done in areas where there are new positive cases, if any,” he said. Dr Dasarwar added that fogging was also being carried out to reduce mosquito menace across the city. Mundhe asked officials to immediately cover all medical and paramedical staff of the NMC under life insurance policy launched by the central government for staff working to control Covid-19. “I hope all will be fine. But as a precaution and government’s initiative, life insurance is must for all. The policy is of Rs50 lakh each,” he said. NMC has also continued door-to-door containment drive to find suspected corona cases, patients of severe acute respiratory illness and high-risk individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-of-home-quarantines-centres-to-be-disposed-of-separately/articleshow/74957210.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 3, 2020||Nashik||MUHS clarifies MD exam dates||Nashik: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Thursday released a statement saying the students should rely only on the official timetable posted on the university's official website and should not believe fake circulars being posted on social media platforms. The university had released a revised timetable of the post graduate medical theory examinations on Monday after receiving request from Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) to extend the examinations. Deelip Mhaisekar, vice-chancellor of MUHS, said, “A fake circular is being circulated on various social media platforms saying that the post graduate examinations will take place from July 15 to July 22. The students should not believe this. We have clearly said that examinations will be conducted from June 15 to June 22 this year.” He added, “There is no change in the revised timetable that was released on Monday (March 30). It is official, valid and genuine.” The vice-chancellor said they have also lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police station against the fake circular. “It was necessary to lodge the complaint with the police so that necessary action can be taken against the suspect,” Mhaisekar said. The MARD had requested the university to extend medical post-graduate examinations (MD/MS/Diploma/MSc courses) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-clarifies-md-exam-dates/articleshow/74957197.cms||pragya jain
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||MIDC starts online approval portal for industries||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has developed an online portal for all the units manufacturing essential commodities and part of the continuous process industry to approve operations during the lockdown. All district collectors will give approval through the portal, MIDC authorities said. “The portal facilitates the processing of applications for operating plant, factory or manufacturing unit. The online facility requires details related to employee, vendors and their PAN card. After the approval, applicants will receive an email and they can download the permit after logging in,” MIDC officials said. The portal http://permission.midcindia.org is being promoted through Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), which is one of the key authorities in seeking different compliances on the part of industries while carrying out operations. Dyandeo Rajale, president of Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (MASSIA), said more than 50 units manufacturing essential commodities and part of the continuous process industry have been operational in industrial areas of Aurangabad. “Aurangabad has some key pharmacy manufacturing units and ancillary units, which are still operational,” he said. Rajala also said that the online portal will ensure seamless operation. MIDC authorities said forging or making counterfeit documents will be considered punishable offence and strict actions will be taken against such establishments. If an applicant faces problems while filling the application form, division-wise representatives have been designated, who can be contacted between 10am and 6pm. For Aurangabad division, which is comprising Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani, Pallavi Ghandat has been appointed as divisional representative. She can be reached either on 9686311021 or pallavi.ghandat@pwc.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/midc-starts-online-approval-portal-for-industries/articleshow/74957193.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Beware, Covid-19 can also strike your computer||AHMEDABAD: Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, lots of people are keeping an eye on all developments – the number of cases, deaths, states affected etc. Most turn to online sources while a few click links provided in forwarded social media messages. “Fraudsters are making the most of the fear factor. There’s been a spike in Covid-19 related scams in many countries experiencing the epidemic,” said Naveen Kumar Chaudhry, professor (cyber security) at Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU), pointing out that lots of people are now working from home, their environment isn’t as secure as an office setup, sans firewalls and other security features. “Double-check the authenticity of emails, SMSes or social media messages. Any hacker with simple phishing or social engineering may infect the user’s system and steal information,” he said. Sunny Vaghela, CTO of a cybersecurity firm and an ethical hacker, said that in the past few days, several ‘Covid-19 dashboards’ have been launched as have scores of websites claiming to provide latest information. “Depend only on government data and avoid clicking on these links. Another scam that has come to light is related to the PM Cares Fund for Covid-19. There are confirmed reports of fake UPI ids with similar sounding names that prod people to donate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/beware-covid-19-can-also-strike-your-computer/articleshow/74957233.cms||Parth Shastri
April 3, 2020||Meerut||2 UP cops suspended for letting locals move freely after taking money||Meerut: Five policemen, including an outpost in-charge, faced departmental action on Thursday after a probe established that they were allowing people roam freely on road after taking money from them in UP’s Baghpat district.Two constables were suspended while three other policemen, including an outpost in-charge, were shifted and attached to Police Lines after a departmental inquiry found that they were “extorting money from commuters to let them pass through check-point during the ongoing lockdown”. According to sources, Baghpat SP Pratap Gopendra Yadav had set up the probe after getting complaints that vehicles were being allowed to pass through Dundaheda check point where the policemen were posted. At least 11 check-posts have come up in the district to monitor movement of traffic from district borders.Only vehicles ferrying essential commodities and ambulances are being allowed to pass through the check-posts. “The two constables were extracting money from people to allow their two-wheeler and four-wheeler a free run. The role of three other policemen is under scanner and they have been temporarily shunted out to Police Lines,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-up-cops-suspended-for-letting-locals-move-freely-after-taking-money/articleshow/74957194.cms||Piyush Rai
April 3, 2020||Udaipur||Curfew in many areas of Udaipur after 16-year-old tests coronavirus positive||UDAIPUR: Curfew was clamped in most of[parts of the city’s Ambamata area after a 16-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The boy studies in Indore and had returned with his roommate on March 19. The areas under curfew are Raza Colony, Mallah Talai, Mastan Baba, Rani Road, OTC Colony, Ambamata Scheme, Alka Puri, Sajjan Nagar, Haridas ji ki Magri, Eklavya Colony, Rampura Choraha, Ambavgarh, Chandpole Brahmpole and Jada Ganeshji. While the teen lives in Raza Colony in Mallah Talai area, his friend stays in Sajjan Nagar under Ambamata police station area. The health department had kept the whole family in quarantine since their arrival. However, after the report came, the boy was taken and admitted to the isolation ward of the RNT Medical College here while nine of his family members too have been isolated. Police have also kept the boy’s friend in isolation. SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi, additional SP Gopal Swaroop Mewara, DSPs Chetna Bhati and Mahendra Pareek and other officers rushed to the area which was completely sealed. Vehicular movement was totally restricted and people were asked to stay indoors. Shops in the area were asked to shut down and suddenly the entire colony wore a deserted look as medical teams marched in and condcuted a door-to-door survey to screen the residents in the area. The officials said line listing was being done go find out whether the boy or his family had met or came in contact with anyone else during the quarantine period. Later in the evening, collector Anandhi issued curfew prohibiting public movement completely in the area as a precautionary measure. Prior to this incident, not a single positive case had been reported from Udaipur district despite it being a tourist hotspot. Hhowever, with the first case, tension was evident among people as well as authorities who appealed to people to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/curfew-in-many-areas-of-udaipur-after-16-year-old-tests-positive/articleshow/74957982.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Spl train to take care of rly employees in remote areas||JAISALMER: The operations of trains have stopped across the country due to coronavirus pandemic, but the railways is running a special train to take care of its employees. Along with conducting their health check-up, the train will also distribute medicines, masks and sanitisers. On Wednesday and Thursday, the train visited 16 stations of Luni-Barmer area. Starting from Jaisalmer, the train also visited Jodhpur-Samdhari-Bheelari. NWR general manager Anand Prakash said to take care of the employees and their families deployed at railway stations, special trains are running in 15 sections for their medical check-up and distribution of medicines. The officers on the train will also inspect the railway stations and will take feedback on the problems faced by the employees. Jodhpur division senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said the staff in the train stopped at each station between Dhundhara, Samdari, Balotra, Baytu, Barmer and distributed sanitisers, masks, soaps and homeopathic medicines to the railway personnel. Flour, pulses, rice, cooking oil, vegetables and spices were also distributed to the employees and their families at stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spl-train-to-take-care-of-rly-employees-in-remote-areas/articleshow/74957981.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||120 morning walkers arrested in Latur for violating lockdown norms||Aurangabad: As many as 120 people, who were out on morning walks, were arrested by police from different parts of Latur for violating the lockdown order. A police team, led by deputy superintendent of police (DySP) Sachin Sangle, hit the streets on Thursday morning to ensure that people are not violating the lockdown that has been imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. “The morning walkers were brought to the Shivajinagar police station and were made to sit there for five hours. They were later released on bail,” a police officer said. “They have been arrested under sections 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code along with several provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (for better prevention of the spread of dangerous epidemic disease),” Sangle said. “We were shocked to see people coming out for walks in such a large number even though the lockdown is in force. We hope that this action will now keep them and others indoors,” he added. Sangle said that Latur police have so far seized over 200 vehicles from those who were found roaming around without any genuine reason. Meanwhile, sources said that following reports of the arrest of morning walkers, district collector G Srikant rushed to the police station and appreciated the action. “As most of the morning walkers are suffering from some or the other health conditions, they were provided with drinking water bottles and biscuits to ensure they don’t face any health complication.” Srikant told TOI that the120 people were made to take a pledge that they would behave properly and follow the rule. “Police, district administration and the civic body are working hard to ensure that nothing untoward occurs in Latur. But we were appalled to find that such a large number of irresponsible people ventured out in the name of morning walk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/120-morning-walkers-arrested-in-latur-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/74957188.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Rise in trespassing incidents in reserve forest during lockdown||Trichy: The forest department in Trichy region has recorded a rise in incidents of trespassing in reserve forest areas in the last few days. In most cases it was to collect firewood, but there have been attempts to poach as well.“As the lockdown has been testing the patience of people sitting idle at home, those living in villages close to forest areas have been venturing into the forest to kill time,” said forest officials. Such attempts have been found mostly in Thuvarankurichi and Manapparai forest ranges within Trichy. Except for Patchamalai, there aren’t much dense or evergreen forest in Trichy division. The increase in the mercury level over the last few weeks has made the availability of dry wood in abundance. “We have come across incidents of people living close to forest venturing into it for firewood. Such attempts have been taken seriously and even penalty has been imposed in a few incidents apart from letting them off with warnings,” said Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha. The forest department has also been working like the other departments as part of essential services. She said forest staffers are conducting awareness drives in villages about forest fires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rise-in-trespassing-incidents-in-reserve-forest-during-lockdown/articleshow/74957192.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Tip-offs on travellers, food requirements among helpline calls||Aurangabad: The helpline set up by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in view of Covid-19 outbreak has been receiving tip-offs on travellers entering the city, calls for food needs besides distress calls. The local civic body has declared 8956306007 as the helpline number for round-the-clock control room opened for battling with the possible spread of coronavirus. It has received 262 calls by Thursday after becoming operational on March 18. “Besides distress calls seeking help in case of symptoms such as fever, cold and cough, we have been receiving calls from citizens who inform about the arrival of people in their nearby areas from outside cities. The callers request screening and isolation of such people, especially those who have arrived from Mumbai and Pune,” authorities concerned said, preferring anonymity. Civic authorities said that door-to-door visits in different areas are being conducted to detect new arrivals in the city and the details are shared with callers concerned to allay their fears of possible Covid-19 contamination. Even if check posts are created to keep restrictions on the movement of visitors, Aurangabad has reported arrival of over 1.45 lakh people in the last two weeks. It includes arrival of 98, 575 individuals from the entry point which is a gateway for travellers from Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. As per official data, the AMC, through 307 squads, has surveyed 29,830 homes by Thursday to ascertain arrival of people from other cities. Civic authorities said that the helpline also received calls for food requirement. “Many people are struggling to make ends meet during the current lockdown. They call on the helpline numbers in the hope of a meal. The contact numbers of such callers are provided to the team of government officials who are shouldered with the responsibility of providing the desired arrangement during the current crisis,” civic officials said. On health-related queries, the helpline authorities are asking callers to visit the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) or the district civil hospital in case the symptoms of cough, cold and fever are severe and persistent. “Both these state-run facilities have desired testing facility for Covid-19 and necessary treatment. Callers having such symptoms are asked to report to these facilities at the earliest,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tip-offs-on-travellers-food-requirements-among-helpline-calls/articleshow/74957205.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Police issue e-pass for vehicles||Aurangabad: All those who come under the essential services in Maharashtra can apply for e-pass to ensure smooth movement of their vehicles during the lockdown. The service is available on covid19.mhpolice.in. Developed by Maharashtra Police, the online pass system will be given to identified services and professionals including banks employees, government employees, LPG distribution service, dairies, hospitals staff, pharmacies, petrol pumps, media persons, ration, grocery, food shops, telecommunication and essential transport. While getting e-pass for vehicles, applicant need to identity police jurisdiction and submit personal details such as vehicle registration number, mobile number, address, and the starting and the end point of the travel. “Once the application is processed successfully, applicant needs to download the pass. Either a soft copy or a hard copy of the pass will be accepted. In case, a pass holders misuses the pass, legitimate action will be taken,” as per an official release. In case of any technical issues, applicants can contact the nearest police station.  “We are into the crucial stage of the lockdown where the threat of community spread of COVID-19 is looming large. Hence, it is advised to follow the lockdown till April 14,” authorities said. The e-pass system has been welcomed by the target population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-issue-e-pass-for-vehicles/articleshow/74957199.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara reports city’s first death due to Covid-19||VADODARA: A 52-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who had travel history of Sri Lanka, passed away in Vadodara on wee hours of Thursday morning. According to hospital authorities, the patient died at around 3.45 am on Thursday morning. The Nizampura resident was the third patient who was admitted at the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital and had tested positive of the virus on March 19. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal said the patient had developed symptoms on March 16 and was admitted at SSG Hospital on March 19. This is the first death of a COVID-19 positive patient in the city since the outbreak of the deadly virus. Four family members of the deceased including his wife, daughter, son and daughter-in-law got a last glimpse of the body inside the isolation ward wearing protective gears. His family members had also tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment at the SSG Hospital. The deceased had travelled to Sri Lanka with a group of family members and friends. In fact, of the nine who have tested positive in Vadodara so far, six belong to the same group or had come in close contact with those who had travelled. “Since, four of them are negative, we cannot allow them to go near the positive case. But since they requested us to be allowed to see the body once before cremation, we allowed them to take a last look but only after wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and with the same precautions that doctors take while interacting with positive patients,” said SSG Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Daveshwar. Hospital sources said that the patient was already on ventilator for the past one week. Health of four other family members is, however, said to be stable with two of them already testing negative twice last week. The body was cremated by a relative of the deceased along with hospital’s staff at the Khaswadi crematorium in Karelibaug maintaining all necessary precautions, while a police van escorted the medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-reports-citys-first-death-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/74954558.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Despite lockdown, Margao streets see increased footfalls||Margao: As the second week of the lockdown progresses, the streets of Margao have begun witnessing increased movement of people and vehicles. With the town’s three markets — the new municipal market, the Gandhi market and the SGPDA market — remaining shut, fruits and vegetable vendors descended onto footpaths and open spaces across Margao. People were seen rushing to make purchases, largely breaching social distancing restrictions. Most outlets of the state horticulture corporation were also open and were frequented by customers seeking to buy fruits and vegetables throughout the day. Many grocery shops were open, too, though some retailers expressed concern over their dwindling stocks and non-arrival of goods from suppliers. Though bars are closed, sources said liquor is being sold through the back door and also being delivered to customers at specified locations. “Booze is freely available as seen from liquor bottles that are strewn in the open during the night. They somehow manage to evade the eye of the police,” a resident of Curchorem said, making a case for heightened police patrolling and stringent monitoring by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-lockdown-margao-streets-see-increased-footfalls/articleshow/74957743.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 outbreak: Housing societies shut colony gates for outsiders in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Amid the lockdown, many colonies have shut their entry/exit gates for outsiders. These gates were earlier closed at night time but to prevent violation of lockdown, the colony gates are now being closed in the day too. In these colonies, there are always alternate routes available for the public to go, hence, the society people have decided to lock these gates. Aarti Juneja, resident of Raja Park, said that for security this step was taken. “It is better to close the colony gates. Any person who wants to enter in the colony can come through alternate routes. The idea is to close down gates to prevent the entry of the outsiders during the time of epidemic,” said Aarti. Pradeep Gugalia, President Shyam Nagar Vikas Samiti said that if a person has some urgent work then a guard is placed in all the gates. “There are alternate routes available in the colony. Usually a guard sits there to open it in case of urgency or else nearby houses have keys to the lock. Anyone can call. These steps are taken to keep the movement of outsiders including vendors in control,” said Pradeep. This does however, create problems for the people. Ram Manoj, a resident of Bani Park says that this unnecessary hurdle is problematic for the commuters. “There is no use of shutting the gates for public amid lockdown. People are usually refraining from coming out of there house. I have to take so many turns before getting to my house when I go out to purchase groceries. It is unreasonable restriction on the freedom of movement of the public,” said Manoj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/housing-societies-shut-colony-gates-for-outsiders-in-city/articleshow/74957983.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Second Covid-19 victim of Pune also had no history of recent international travel||PUNE: The 50-year-old woman from Raviwar Peth — the second victim of Covid-19 — had no history of recent international travel or any proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts. She succumbed to novel coronavirus (Covid-19) associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital on Thursday. The hospital’s dean, Ajay Chandanwale, said, “She had tested positive for the contagion when her throat swab was analysed at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved laboratory at our hospital. She had no history of foreign travel or known proximity to infected patients or their close contacts. The investigation is on.” The woman is the second confirmed death caused by Covid-19 induced complications in the city. On Monday (March 30), a 52-year-old man passed away at a private hospital. In both cases, there had been no history of recent international travel or any proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts. Chandwale said, “The woman had no underlying medical conditions. She had been complaining of cough, fever and vomiting since March 23 and was seeking medical treatment from a neighbourhood doctor. Her condition kept worsening.” On Wednesday, the woman was rushed to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Kamala Nehru Hospital in Mangalwar Peth after she complained of breathlessness. “Her chest X-ray showed patches of pneumonia on both sides of her lungs. She was referred to Sassoon hospital for tertiary care treatment the same day. She was put on non-invasive ventilator at our hospital to improve her respiratory distress,” Chandanwale said. The woman was put on anti-viral medications and was being administered treatment as per the treatment protocol of ICMR. He condition deteriorated further and she succumbed around 8pm on Thursday. The woman was staying at her brother’s house in Raviwar Peth for the past three years. She is survived by her married daughter. “Her family members are being traced and quarantined,” said public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-covid-19-victim-of-pune-also-had-no-history-of-recent-international-travel/articleshow/74957756.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Universities in Delhi connect with students to help cope with uncertainty amid lockdown||NEW DELHI: The stress about curtailed academics, anxiety created by the novel coronavirus and the sheer pressure of having to stay indoor and socially cut off during the three-week national lockdown could affect the mental well-being of thousands of students. Accordingly, city universities have started mental health counselling services either on telephone or through video conferencing. Jamia Millia Islamia initiated its tele-counselling services for students, teachers and non-teaching staff on March 31 to help them deal with the uncertainties created by the anti-Covid-19 lockdown. Professor Naved Iqbal of the psychology department, who helms the university’s counselling and guidance centre, told TOI that “the lockdown has left several students concerned and in a state in which they need help to deal with mental stress”. Jamia has a team of volunteers, including research scholars and a couple of professionals, to counsel such people. Calling the lockdown an unprecedented situation, Delhi University’s S P Jena, head of the psychology department, said, “We have plans to start a helpline soon to connect with students, hear their concerns and provide them support and counselling.” Jena said that the initiative, started by DU’s World University Services health centre, would facilitate interaction with students who were surprised by the “unprecedented announcement” of the lockdown. Ambedkar University Delhi, with its Ehsaas psychotherapy and counselling clinic, aims to offer psychological support that can help student “cope with the sudden disruption of way of life”. The clinic said in a statement, “We recognise that students are experiencing considerable stress at present. A large part of the students’ anxieties comes from the serious nature of Covid-19 and the fact that there is no definite cure for it even in the most advanced countries. This results in feelings of insecurity and uncertainty their own personal safety and those of their loved ones. The bombardment of tips, dos and don'ts, and moment-to-moment news from all across the world can be overwhelming.” Anu Singh Lather, vice-chancellor of AUD, said help at Ehsaas clinic would be available daily between 11am and 1pm. Private universities like Ashoka University have also started online psychological counselling. Arvinder Singh, counsellor at Ashoka’s Centre for Well-being, disclosed she has been receiving a lot of queries from students. “Most are to do with the lockdown. What is important to understand is what the lockdown does to the mental health of an individual. The immediate feeling is that of helplessness, fear and panic,” said Singh. She added, “With such anxieties at the fore, those who are already anxious and depressed find their mental health issues amplified. They are beset with questions about when they can return to the university, or if is resuming at all. What about exams? What about grading? Some of the students who are graduating don't know what the future is going to be like. There is no clarity even about when they will graduate. Another problems students face is in not being able to go home. For foreign students, loneliness is a big issue.” Individual colleges, such as Indraprastha College for Women, are also making provisions for mental health counselling. Others are providing assistance to students to reduce their stress. Ramanujan and Rajdhani colleges have been easing the minds of students who live as paying guests by providing them with basic services. S P Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, said, “Many of our students, who live in paying-guest accommodation, could not go back home. We have been in regular touch with them and provide them with essentials. We have assured them of help if contact us for any difficulty they may be facing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/univs-connect-with-students-to-help-cope-with-uncertainty/articleshow/74957780.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 3, 2020||Pune||Nine more test positive in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: Nine persons, including four Tablighi Jamaat participants and three persons whose samples were picked up randomly, tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Pune metropolitan region (PMR) on Thursday, taking the Pune’s case tally to 60. Of the four who attended the Delhi meet, two each are residents of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “One of them is a 53-year-old resident of Nana Peth and another is a 29-year -old man from Rasta Peth. Their close contacts are being traced and quarantined,” a civic health official said. A total of 54 out of the 87 residents of Pune city (PMC limits) had attended the Delhi meet of Tablighi Jamaat and have been traced as well as quarantined at Naidu hospital so far. "We tested throat swab samples of all the 54 quarantined individuals. Only two of them have tested positive for Covid-19. The remaining are being traced,” the official said. Among the remaining five who tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, samples of three were picked up randomly for testing at Sassoon hospital. They do not have any history of recent foreign travel or any proximity to known infected persons or their close contacts. One of them is a bangle-seller from Parvati slum, while another is a woman who passed away on Thursday due to the contagion associated complications. The third person is a senior citizen from the surrounding area of Parvati. They were quarantined at Sassoon hospital, along with 17 of their close contacts,” hospitals dean Ajay Chandanwale’said. Among the remaining two positive individuals, one is a three-year-old granddaughter of a Kondhwa senior citizen who tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Another is a 65-year-old woman, resident of Parvatigaon. She was admitted to a private hospital for abdominal pain and vomiting on Tuesday. She later developed breathlessness, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thurdday. “The woman has no recent history of international travel or traceable contact with known infected persons,” a civic health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-more-test-positive-in-pmr/articleshow/74957739.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 3, 2020||Pune||Spike protein of Indian strain of novel coronavirus undergoes unique mutation||PUNE: Scientists tracking changes in the genetic makeup of the novel coronavirus at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) have noticed point mutations at the sites of its 'spike' protein - a key protein that the virus uses to invade human cells. The role of these mutations, researchers say, can be fully understood after tracking the virus's structural changes over a period of time. The genetic make-up (sequences) of Indian SARS-CoV-2 though not 100% identical has showed 99.98% similarities with the Wuhan strain. "So far, it is observed that all the genomes gathered from different countries share 99%-99.90% similarity with Wuhan (SARS-CoV2) genome. However, each genome has unique point mutations. The mutations seen in the Indian strain of the virus have minor changes at the sites of spike proteins which is not seen in the genomes of the virus studied in other countries," NIV's lead researchers Pragya Yadav and Sarah Cherian told TOI. NIV director Priya Abraham said such genetic variations have been noticed in strains from other countries as well and in the strain circulating within the country. “However, specifically monitoring mutations in the spike protein, a key protein that the virus uses to enter human cells, is important," she added. In a recent research publication in the Indian Journal of Medical Research on March 27, the NIV researchers have analyzed the genomes of the first two Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses from two confirmed positive cases with a travel history from Wuhan in January 2020. NIV researchers studying the virus have performed an integrated sequence-based analysis of SARS-CoV2 (2019 virus) genomes from different geographical locations in order to identify its unique features. "Some features like these point mutations are unique to this virus strain which are absent in earlier reported SARS-CoV (2003 virus) and other related coronavirus family genomes," the researchers said. On the India strain's virulence, NIV researchers said its ability to cause transmission, virulence and immunogenic features are almost the same as seen in the Wuhan strain. "The age, route of transmission and dose of the virus and host immune system play important role in causing sever or mild infection and which is true for COVID-19 as well," the researchers added. Systematic gene- level mutational analysis of the genomes has enabled the researchers to identify several unique features of the SARS-CoV2 genome which includes a unique mutation in the spike surface glycoprotein in the Indian SARS-CoV2. "This mutation is absent in Wuhan strain," NIV researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spike-protein-of-indian-strain-of-ncov-undergoes-unique-mutation/articleshow/74957760.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 3, 2020||Goa||Goa government goes the extra mile for 458 migrants at Navelim||MARGAO: From health check-ups and adequate nutrition, to extra shower facilities and recreation options, the state government is doing all it can to ensure that the 458 urban homeless accommodated at the Manohar Parrikar Indoor Stadium in Navelim receive all the care they need during the lockdown. The inmates primarily comprise migrant labourers who were unable to return to their native places, and roadside vendors, many of whom had come to sell their ware during the recent Shigmo parades and were marooned owing to the lockdown. “We have ensured that all the people in the shelter home are treated in a dignified manner. We have also seen to it that they are provided with means that will keep them engaged. The literate ones have been given books to read. Cricket kits, football sets, playing rings and board games like Ludo have also been provided to the children. The infants and smaller children got toys,” incident commander for Margao, Ajit Panchwadkar, said. On Wednesday, a team of doctors comprising Pranav Bhagwat, Prathamesh Karpe, Vishakha Moghe and Sneha Bhagwat voluntarily carried out medical checks of the inmates. The team was guided by health services deputy director Dr Ira Almeida and Dr Urvi Kamat. While most were found to be in good health, the few needing hospitalisation for cases like high fever were admitted in Hospicio, Margao. Panchwadkar said the exercise has received overwhelming response from local voluntary organisations, too. While cooked food is being supplied to them by some self-help groups, toiletries, clothes, blankets and other essentials are being donated by well-wishers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-goes-the-extra-mile-for-458-migrants-at-navelim/articleshow/74957766.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 3, 2020||Allahabad||More than 50 booked in city for violating lockdown rules in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: More than 50 persons were booked in Prayagraj in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating rules mandated for the 21-day lockdown enforced to break the cycle of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Police said they had arrested 12 men after lodging nine FIRs under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with violations of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. Police searched over 150 temples, mosques, madarssas and hotels in the city whil looking for persons with a travel history and those who might have been staying in such establishments without informing the police stations. The exercise was aimed to identify those staying in spots like religious places, hotels, inns, illegally or legally. The city streets continued to wear a deserted look as residents remained indoors because of the lockdown. Shops selling medicines and and essential commodities like groceries and foodgrains remained open. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Around a dozen FIRs were registered in different parts of the city like Shahganj, Soroan, Nawabganj, Phulpur, Baharia and Dhoomanganj in the past 24 hours.” The SSP said that mobile police teams have also been pressed into service to check the movements of people who come out in narrow streets of old city roaming aimlessly and were later challaned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-than-50-booked-in-city-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/74955926.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man handing out masks knifed, accused flees||AHMEDABAD: A 29-year-old resident of Dariapur, Krunal Dantani, lodged a police complaint on Wednesday alleging that he was knifed in the forehead by one Atul Dantani, a resident of the same area, because he was giving out free face masks to people . Police officials said they registered an case under Sections 323, 324 and 294(b) of the IPC and are hunting for the accused. The accused seemed drunk when he attacked the complainant. Inspector J B Chavda of Dariapur police station said the complainant works at a garment shop. “As the shop is closed for the shop owner had asked him to distribute protective face masks,” added Chavda. According to the FIR, while Krunal was distributing masks in Dariapur, Atul arrived and asked him why he was distributing masks for free. Atul started abusing him and then took out a knife and slashed Krunal on the left side of his forehea. Chavda said that Atul seemed to be drunk and fled as soon as people gathered. “We will arrest him soon as he a resident of the same area,” added Chavda. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-handing-out-masks-knifed-accused-flees/articleshow/74957229.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Alphonso mango loses its crown due to pandemic, demand dips to zero||PUNE: For the first time in years, even as the mango season has hit its peak, the king of fruits isn’t finding buyers, said cultivators and sellers involved in the trade since decades. A few months ago, mango cultivators were anticipating a severe demand-supply gap due to 50% less production this year. Now, when India and the rest of the world is battling Covid-19, export orders, demand from Gulf, European nations, US as well as the local market has reduced to zero. Mandar Desai, director of Desai Bandhu Ambewale, said, “Minimal mango exports did manage to get through before March 30 but there has been complete shut down in cargo movement thereafter. UK, Europe and UAE are completely disturbed due to the Covid-19 situation and have thus not placed any orders. Gulf countries and Europe are major Alphonso mango buyers. We have been in this business for 89 years, but we have never seen such low demand for the fruit,” he said. In Ratnagiri, farmers have been given a directive to let only two labourers pluck mangoes from orchards, as against 40-50 men needed for the job, including for sorting and packing, Desai said. An official from the Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB) said, “No mangoes have been exported from our facility so far. No inspectors have come from countries like Japan, South Korea and US to check the consignments due to lockdowns and flight suspensions,” he said. Nathsaheb Parashram Khaire, mango and fruit commission agent at Gultekdi Market Yard, said, “Restrictions imposed on undertaking business in Market Yard is also one of the reasons why mango sales are suffering. The police only allow vegetable shops (with essential service passes) to remain open in the market, while fruit stalls have to mandatorily stay closed. We were left with almost 2,000 boxes of unsold mangoes on Wednesday as we could only sell around 300 to 350 boxes. Usually, we sell the entire stock in a single day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alphonso-mango-loses-its-crown-due-to-pandemic-demand-dips-to-zero/articleshow/74939607.cms||Neha Madaan
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Dhule facility to test Nashik samples||Nashik: Throat swabs of patients admitted at the Nashik civil hospital and Zakir Hussain hospital would soon be sent to the Shri Bhausaheb Hire government medical college and hospital instead of the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Compared to Pune, which is 220 km from Nashik, Dhule is only 160 km from Nashik. Further, the load of samples for checking is also lesser at Dhule.Anant Pawar, resident medical officer of Nashik civil hospital, said, “There is a rising load of patients with COVID19 like symptoms getting admitted at the civil hospital. Given the load of testing the throat swabs at NIV Pune, we have decided to send them to the Dhule Medical College.”  Dhule hospital superintendent Rajkumar Suryawanshi confirmed that they would start getting samples of patients from Nashik civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-facility-to-test-nashik-samples/articleshow/74957221.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Firms ramp up production to make protective gear for doctors||TRICHY: Medical textile products manufacturing companies in Karur district are scaling up up their production capacity to manufacture over 30,000 units of personal protective equipment (PPE) dress for doctors treating Covid-19 positive patients. Carrying out an inspection at one of the facility, Karur collector T Anbalagan promised to facilitate hassle-free transportation of raw material and finished products. Roughly 200 tailors have been employed to produce 1,000 PPE dresses per day. This is expected to be scaled up to 2,000 dresses a day. Coveralls, which are made of water-repellent non-woven fabrics, will be effective in preventing doctors from getting infected while treating Covid-19 patients. “Production of coveralls is new to us, but considering the emergency we chose to take up the production of PPE dress,” said P Nallamuthu, managing director of Abhinav Fabrics – a Karur-based medical textile products manufacturing company. Nallamuthu said that they are manufacturing scrub suit, operation theatre dresses, patient aprons and bed linen for private hospitals. Nallamuthu in coordination with Avani Feltz, a medical textile products manufacturing company, are manufacturing PPE dresses to meet the demand. “We chose a fabric which is also accepted by Indian Medical Association (IMA) doctors,” he said. Getting tailors for these jobs is the biggest challenge currently, however, Nallamuthu has hired about 150 tailors and Avani Feltz has roped in about 100 tailors. Namakkal, Coimbatore and Trichy districts have placed orders for over 30,000 PPE dresses. Apart from this, Karur district has placed orders for 6,000 dresses. Health department officials say PPE dress will soon be used by sanitary workers and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/firms-ramp-up-production-to-make-protective-gear-for-docs/articleshow/74957215.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 3, 2020||Allahabad||Special delivery for cops on WhatsApp in Prayagraj: Lists of groceries||PRAYAGRAJ: Unable to stand in long queues outside local kirana stores or place orders for essential commodities on helplines and online food delivery services during the lockdown, elderly citizens in Prayagraj are now shooting texts to senior police officials on WhatsApp to request them to fetch groceries for them. From Prayagraj SSP Satyrath Anirudh Pankah to deputy SPs, senior cops claimed that ever since the lockdown was announced they have been regularly receiving grocery lists on WhatsApp from harried elderly citizens and students, in need of staples like foodgrains. A typical grocery list these cops received comprises around five kilograms of rice, two kilograms of pulses, five kilograms of wheat flour, a packet of mustard oil and a five-kilogram packet of sugar among other items. These lists are accompanied by humble requests by citizens asking police to drop off the items at the latter’s address. Many students living in hostels who are stranded in the city because of the lockdown and women unable to step our of their house have taken to social media to draw the police’s attention to their problems. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “We are receiving 10 to 20 requests from senior citizens, women, students and others almost every day, requesting us to fetch them groceries as they are unable to do so on their own due to the lockdown.” “When we receive such lists, we either ask thana cops or volunteers of local NGOs pitching in with relief efforts to to help out these citizens,” the SSP added. Seventy-year-old Rajapur resident RK Pandey said, “ I have no option, but to send the police a list of grocery items I need as both my wife and I can’t walk for long distances. Moreover, there are no grocery stores near my house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/special-delivery-for-cops-on-whatsapp-lists-of-groceries/articleshow/74955949.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Meerut||To help needy, kids in Muzaffarnagar handover their piggy banks with savings to cops||Muzaffarnagar: Two siblings in Muzaffarnagar’s Kutesra village on Thursday morning reached a nearby police check-post and handed over their "lifetime savings" kept in two piggy banks for the needy people, drawing smiles and applauses from people and policemen around."The piggy banks have not been opened yet as we will first take the permission from higher authorities for it," said sub-inspector Shiv Kumar. "I have informed deputy superintendent of police and sought his advice if this money can be accepted or not, but personally I admire the children for their effort," Kumar said.The policemen, in turn, gave red roses to the children-- Adeeba, 10 and her 7-year-old brother Adib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/to-help-needy-kids-in-muzaffarnagar-handover-their-piggy-banks-with-savings-to-cops/articleshow/74957217.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 3, 2020||Allahabad||21 Tablighi Jamaat delegates quarantined in Maharajganj||GORAKHPUR: Around 21 people of Maharajganj district, who had returned by train after attending Tablighi Jamat at Delhi’s Markaz Nizamuddin on March 18-19, have been quarantined at Maharajganj’s Women Hospital on Wednesday evening. However, none of Markaz attendees were found in Gorakhpur, authorities confirmed. The list of 21 people who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi was provided by the government. “Twenty one people, including 15 elderly people of Kuluhi area of Maharajgnj district attended Nizamuddin Markaz Tableeghi Jamaat programme and after returning on March 21 they isolated themselves in their home. On Wednesday evening, they were quarantined at the district hospital and their samples were sent for test,” said DM Maharajganj, Ujjwal Kumar. On Wednesday, DM Ujjawal Kumar and SP Rohit Singh Sujjan rushed to Kulhui police station area and enquired about the Jamaat attendees from the local police, “There are no attendees in Gorakhpur. However, people of several districts like Pratapgarh and Muzaffarnagar, who also attended Tablighi Jamaat, were in Gorakhpur since February and have been quarantined at their places,” SSP Gorakhpur Sunil Gupta told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/21-tablighi-jamaat-delegates-quarantined-in-maharajganj/articleshow/74955847.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Classes nixed, schools post results online||PRAYAGRAJ: With classes suspended due to the 21-day lockdown enforced because of the Covid-19 outbreak, several city schools are posting annual exam results of classes I-1X and XI online. Taking a lead, Maharishi Patanjali Vidya Mandir announced their results on March 24. “We knew the situation was grave, hence had posted the results online. We started conducting the online classes next day onwards,” said the school’s principal Sushmita Kanungo. St Joseph’s College cancelled parent teacher meetings scheduled from March 21-28 and posted the results of annual exams online. “The results are ready and we would be declaring them online on Friday. We will not defy the law of the land, but will also not do anytthing which would delay the session,” said Amrita Agarwal, principal of the noted school in Jayantipur area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/classes-nixed-schools-post-results-online/articleshow/74955902.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Jamaat delegates isolated in guest house||PRAYAGRAJ: Nine Jamaat members, who attended the Tablighi event organised in Delhi amid the Covid-19 outbreak and were found hiding in a local mosque, were shifted to a guest house in Kareli on Thursday to be quarantined, along 28 other local residents who were staying with them. Earlier, the group of 37 was quarantined in two locations in Attarsuiya and Georgetown area of the city. The quarantined Jamaat attendees comprised seven Indonesians, a Kerala native and a West Bengal resident. A senior health official said, “We have sent swab samples of the nine Jamaat members and two local residents who were staying with them in the mosque to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University for testing.” Later on Thursday evening, seven of samples tested negative for novel coronavirus. Health department officials are still waiting for reports of the remaining four samples. The group of nine had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West locality on March 12-13. They had arrived in Prayagraj on March 22 and been hiding at a local mosque. On Wednesday, an FIR was lodged against the nine and eight others for keeping the information about their stay from the police. The FIR was lodged with Shahganj police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/jamaat-delegates-isolated-in-guest-house/articleshow/74955987.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik man held for making objectionable coronavirus-related TikTok videos||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police have arrested a 40-year-old man from Malegaon for making objectionable coronavirus-related TikTok videos. After the videos went viral, the police swung into action and arrested the suspect under sections 153 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code. A senior police officer said in one of the videos, the man was seen wiping his nose with currency notes and he made certain comments that could hurt religious sentiments. “The cybercrime police swung into action and traced the location from where the post was made,” he said. “The suspect from Malegaon was arrested on Thursday. He will be produced before the Malegaon court on Friday for getting his police remand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-making-tiktok-videos/articleshow/74957240.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Meerut||SHO suspended for letting migrants enter district without medical check-up||Muzaffarnagar: Station house officer of Titavi police station Gurbachhan Singh was suspended on Thursday for dereliction of duty after it came to light that he allegedly allowed 15-16 people coming from Bihar to sneak into the district without the mandatory medical check-up and quarantine.Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police, Muzaffarnagar, said the migrant labourers were hiding in a truck plying in the name of transporting essential commodities.Soon after entering the district on Wednesday, the truck's tyre burst and it was stranded on the Muzaffarnagar-Shamli road.A villager saw the truck with "essential service" and informed the Titavi police.The local police team checked the truck, it found some 15-16 people hidding inside.Police allowed all the passengers to go in violation of the existing guidelines of medical check-up and quarantine of people coming from outside the district.Someone tipped off the SSP office.Thereafter. in the morning, police scrambled to trace all the occupants of the truck, found them and sent them for a medical check-up and quarantined them.After getting the information, SSP Yadav suspended the Titavi SHO.Yadav said further investigation is on and action will also be taken against the truck driver. All the passengers have been quarantined after thermal screening," he added.SHO suspended for letting off people caught inside a truck claimed to be ferrying essential good, police later scrambles to trace them, quarantinedMohd Dilshad | TNNMuzaffarnagar: A station house officer in the district was suspended on charges of dereliction of duty after it came to fore that he let off 15-16 people trying to sneak in inside district in a truck plying in the name of transporting essential services. According to police, the truck had gained access in the name of supply of essential commodities but was later stranded after one of its tyre got stuck on the road. When the local police team checked the truck, it found over a dozen people inside it. All the passengers were allowed to go after scrutiny by the local police as against the existing guidelines of medical checkups and quarantine of people coming from outside. However, in the morning, the local police scrambled to trace all the occupants of the truck and were sent for a thorough medical checkup and quarantine. According to sources, the incident happened in the Titavi area on Wednesday late night, where a truck that was coming from Bihar carrying more than a dozen people got malfunctioned on Shamli Muzaffarnagar road. It being said truck had a sticker of "essentials service" a villager alerted Titavi police station into the matter. After getting the information police team from Titavi police station approached to spot and let all passengers go without the following procedure of entering migrants coming from other states or districts. After getting information about the negligence of the Titavi police, the senior superintendent of police Muzaffarnagar, Abhishek Yadav suspended station house officer of the Titavi police station, Gurbachan Singh. According to SSP," SHO has been suspended and further investigation is on, actions against truck ant its driver is being taken also. All passengers have been quarantined after thermal screening". Sources said the passengers who used to work in Muzaffarfarpur in Bihar, returned their native villages in Muzaffarnagar, and when police got information about them, police did nothing and let them go, meanwhile someone informed SSP. DilshadMuzaffarnagar09719170564||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sho-suspended-for-letting-migrants-enter-district-without-medical-check-up/articleshow/74957228.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Will Covid-19 cast a shadow on Haridwar Mahakumbh?||Haridwar: The Covid-19 pandemic has dealt a severe blow to the preparations being made for the Mahakumbh Mela in Haridwar scheduled to begin in January next year. Due to the lockdown, the preparations for the mega festival including construction of permanent and temporary structures on mela land have come to a standstill with labourers involved in various projects leaving. “Most of the labourers employed in several projects, including underground cabling and gas pipeline, were from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. They are likely to take months to return to work. The progress of work which had already been slow, will get further delayed,” said Rajesh Shivpuri, a resident. Mela officer Deepak Rawat, however, struck a positive note, saying, “We may have to work harder and at a faster pace, but won’t let the Corona crisis affect Mela preparations beyond a limit.” He added, “We had kept a margin of over a month while fixing October as the deadline for most projects. There will be ways to tackle problems the lockdown might engender. We still have time.” He added that they were utilising the time of the lockdown to plan and work out detailed project reports (DPR), so that when the lockdown is lifted, day and night shifts can be started employing higher number of labourers to complete the work on time. Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Narendra Giri, who had time and again expressed concern over “slow pace of Mela work”, told TOI over phone from Prayagraj that “we have to first tackle the Covid-19 threat and can wait for Kumbh preparations”. Nevertheless, several concerns still persist regarding the Kumbh mela preparations in view of the Covid-19 threat. With the mela barely nine months away, if the threat of the disease continues to persist, will such a mega gathering -- in which crores of people congregate -- be able to take place, given the social distancing norms that have been put in place to combat the threat? Former general secretary of Ganga Sabha, Ram Kumar Mishra, expressing similar apprehensions, added that the ongoing lockdown has also resulted in non-availability of construction material, a problem contractors had faced earlier as well, and which may lead to inevitable delays in meeting deadlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-covid-19-cast-a-shadow-on-haridwar-mahakumbh/articleshow/74956295.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops on mission to trace Gultekdi slum pockets’ visitors||PUNE: The cybercrime unit of the Pune police is in the process of identifying people who visited the Meenatai Thackeray Vasahat and adjoining areas in the last 10 days, with a daughter-father duo from the slum pocket testing positive for Covid-19 on March 29. The visitors to the area would be identified on the basis of their cellphone data records and analysis. The police will then send messages to the identified people requesting them to visit the Naidu or Sassoon hospital for a check-up and treatment if they are showing any symptoms of Covid-19, assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar said. The woman (30) and her father (60), who tested positive for Covid-19, have been admitted in the Naidu hospital for isolation and treatment. The two had visited Dubai and returned to Pune on March 19. Pawar said, “The woman’s father is a vegetable vendor and had started his usual business on his return from Dubai. We want to identify as many people as possible who came in contact with the daughter-father duo. The best way to track them is to identify cellphones that were in operation in the slum pocket.” A team headed by senior inspector Jayram Paygude of the cybercrime police station are using the ultra modern equipment and techniques to track down the cellphones. “It is a mammoth task as there might be thousands of cellphones which would have been in operation in and around the slum pocket in the last 10 days. We will do our best,” Paygude said. The Swargate police have installed a public address system at the junctions to urge the residents of Meenatai Thackeray Vasahat, Dias Plot, Mutha canal slums and Khadda slums to visit the hospitals in case of symptoms, senior inspector Bramhanand Naikwadi of the Swargate police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-on-mission-to-trace-gultekdi-slum-pockets-visitors/articleshow/74957774.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||DM issues orders to ensure smooth distribution of ration||Dehradun: In view of the decision to ensure door step delivery of dry ration to families with children between six months and six years of age, pregnant woman and new mothers through the anganwadi centres, the Dehradun district magistrate has ordered to ensure easy movement of vehicles carrying women from self-help groups involved in carrying out home delivery of ration. In addition, women from self-help groups and anganwadi workers have been asked to educate the beneficiaries about the importance of social distancing, and maintaining hygiene in order to effectively counter the Covid-19 threat. Since the announcement of lockdown, the anganwadi centres were also closed down and the beneficiaries could not receive the food. To resolve the issue, secretary women empowerment and child development had ordered to deliver ration at the door step. Dehradun district administration has also decided to open all the banks in the district from April 3 between 8 am and 5 pm. However, customer transactions will only take place till 1pm after which the banks will only complete their internal work. The ATMs, too, will be functional between 8 am and 1pm. For people having Jan Dhan accounts, the DM said that the last digit of their account will decide the date for bank transaction. For example, for account numbers ending with digits 0 or 1, account holders will be able to withdraw or deposit money into their bank accounts on April 3. Similarly the account holders having 2 or 3 as the last digit of their account will be allowed to transact on April 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-issues-orders-to-ensure-smooth-distribution-of-ration/articleshow/74956307.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Advocates seek compassionate gratification from govt||Madurai: Members of the Madras High Court Madurai Bench Advocates Association (MAHAA) has urged the state government to provide compassionate gratification for advocates to protect their livelihood during the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In a representation sent to the government, the members said that all the advocates who are practising in the court do not have a permanent income. He said that following the government’s announcement of nationwide lockdown, the members of the legal fraternity who strictly abide by the rules of the government are unable to go to the courts and are not able to open their offices. Due to the lockdown, advocates are suffering financially and the members of the associations are approaching representatives of their associations seeking to address this issue. Since the advocates have no other source of income, the government could convene a meeting with the members of the bar associations and could grant Rs 20,000 compassionate gratification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/advocates-seek-compassionate-gratification-from-govt/articleshow/74957250.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Work on all-weather road stopped||Nainital: The Champawat district administration on Thursday stopped the work on the strategically sensitive all-weather road project between Tanakpur and Pithoragarh. The administration had continued with the project even as the entire country went into lockdown citing strategic importance of the project. The 127-km-long proposed all weather road will connect Tanakpur in Champawat district to Pithoragarh and has been touted as a strategic stretch because of running close to the Sino-India as well as India-Nepal border. The decision to stop the work on the project came as the number of positive cases continued to rise across the country on Thursday. The district officials had visited the area and asked the firms tasked with the project to stop the work till further orders. “The firms have been asked to stop all the work on the project because of the fear of Coronavirus. We have however said that in case of emergencies, they can work on certain stretches only,” said ADM TS Martolia. The district administration has also directed the firms and their contractors to make arrangements for the labourers working on the project so that they do not have to migrate and that they can maintain social distancing. “Hundreds of workers are working on the project and therefore it is necessary that they follow the norm of social distancing. To stop their migration, the firms and contractor will make sure that they receive food supplies and other necessary items regularly,” Martolia said. The temporary stay on the project however means that the strategically important road will miss its deadline once again. The road initially was expected to be completed by Novermber. Later it was said that the project will be completed by June. But that is very unlikely now as the work has been stopped it is unclear when it will begin in full steam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-on-all-weather-road-stopped/articleshow/74956328.cms||Prashant Jha
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Organisations provide ration to 2,000 families||Nashik: A large numbers of organisations and the individuals have come forward to help stranded migrant workers, the destitute and families unable to access food. According to the district administration, individuals and the organisations had arranged for grains and even cooked food for people. “We had made a register to note down the information of the organisations and individuals who were ready to give food, water and essentials. Those ready to give cooked food were assigned certain pockets,” the officer said adding that the government was also planning to deliver grains to the people, but it would take some time. Organisations like Sakal Jain Sanghatana, Sahkarya Mitra Mandal, Navin Bhai and Robin Hood Army, Shree Gurudwara Gurunanak Darbar, Shingada Talav, Shree Gurudwara Deolali, Amigo Logistics India, Shwas Foundation, Mahindra And Mahindra and others have provided food to 11,448 people so far. Some organisations are providing dry rations. Manav Utthan Manch mobilized help through the donations. “We distributed packages of 2kg rice, 1kg dal, 2kg atta, 1l oil and salt, each costing around Rs 250, to about a thousand families,” Jagbir Singh said. The RSS has also provided grains and other essential to about 1,000 needy families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/organisations-provide-ration-to-2000-families/articleshow/74957268.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||60-year-old suspected coronavirus patient dies||KANPUR: A 60-year-old woman who was suspected to be infected with coronavirus, died at the Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) Hospital on Thursday morning. The exact cause of her death is, however, yet to be ascertained and her medical report is awaited, said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “The deceased, a resident of Sadanand Nagar, Chakeri, was initially undergoing normal treatment at the ICU of the medicine department at LLR hospital, as she was a diabetic and suffering from chronic kidney ailment. After she exhibited symptoms of the Covid-19 virus such as fever and difficulty in breathing, she was shifted to the ICU of the Covid-19 ward in the maternity wing of the hospital. Samples of her nasal and throat swabs were sent for testing to Lucknow’s King George Medical University (KGMU),” the CMO said. “She died in the ICU on Thursday morning,” he added. Her travel history revealed that she had visited her son, an ENT surgeon in Delhi, earlier this month. Experts at the LLR, however, said that going by the treatment, she had developed infection in lungs due to chronic kidney ailment. As per the coronavirus protocol, her body was sealed in a bag in the supervision of two officials. It was later handed over to her family members. “We have asked them not to open the sealed bag. We have sanitised the body as well as both the wards where she underwent treatment. Ambulance that took the body to her home, is also being sanitised. Now, we are awaiting the medical report to ascertain the cause of death,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/60-year-old-suspected-coronavirus-patient-dies/articleshow/74956067.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Citizens find two-hourly passes too short, of no use without fuel||PANAJI: Senior citizens, persons with disability and pregnant women have questioned the government’s logic of granting them a two-hour temporary pass facility without factoring in that they are not allowed to fill fuel in their vehicles and that the elderly are not technology savvy enough to make online applications. “A two hourly pass to go where? Outside my house. The two hour pass means nothing to us staying in the village,” says Chorao resident Monika Kshatriya, who cares for her disabled husband. “Where’s the fuel to use this pass? The government always brings in measures keeping Panaji citizens and those living in towns in mind. They don’t consider those living in villages. Where’s the public transport? Is the pass only for the rich who own vehicles,” she asks.  A pregnant woman from Mapusa who is in her fifth month and whose travel permit application got rejected last week, successfully applied for a temporary two-hour pass online without hassle on Thursday morning for a doctor’s appointment on Friday morning. She, however, fears she won’t be back home within the two hours that she applied for. “The ultrasound takes time as the doctor sometimes has to repeat it if he can’t get the results he’s looking for. For medical appointments, two hours is too short, especially considering the time spent waiting for the doctor. There should at least be a leeway of four to five hours,” she told TOI.  The quick online system put in place for senior citizens, unfortunately, is restricted to the net savvy. “What kind of bubble are we living in? No one really, especially the aged, are going to do this online,” says senior citizen, J Shetty . “The confusion is for those who are not online. Will they not be allowed at all? The central directives allow travel for essentials and pharmacy, so why the requirement for passes?” another senior citizen from Taleigao says. Two hours aren’t enough for Panaji citizen Vishant Navgekar to travel to GMC to get medication for his 80-year-old father, a stroke patient, deliver them to his residence in Mayem and return home. The temporary pass facility was introduced “to cater to the needs of the senior citizens, differently-abled, pregnant women and other medical emergency situations of citizens”, the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-find-two-hourly-passes-too-short-of-no-use-without-fuel/articleshow/74957775.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram-based RGCB to make rapid test kit||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Rajiv Gandhi Centre of Biotechnology (RGCB) will manufacture testing kits to help implement the state’s decision to commence rapid testing. The state government’s decision hit a roadblock due to the lockdown affecting the transportation of testing kits. The government decided to roll out rapid testing to screen those under home quarantine and to identify the possible community spread of SARS-CoV-2. The shortage of testing kits, however, hampered the implementation of the decision, besides the lockdown adversely affecting the transportation of the kits to the state. Under this scenario, city-based RGCB decided to produce the kits if it got the approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state now has 3,000 kits purchased directly from Pune-based Mylab Discovery and Solution—the only manufacturer of the kit—using Shashi Tharoor’s MPLAD fund. “It has been decided to use these kits to conduct rapid tests at Pothencode, where a positive case was reported without any direct contact or travel history. The tests are likely to begin from Friday,’’ sources said. The health department, meanwhile, was expecting a consignment of 25,000 kits in a day or two. “The Centre has given special sanction to operate a cargo flight and it is expected to reach the state capital on Friday or Saturday,’’ a health official said. The state has also placed an order with a Singapore-based firm for another two lakh kits, which might reach here in six to eight days. The health department would be going for rapid testing in Kasaragod and Kannur, the two districts with several Covid-19 cases among Dubai returnees. Those in quarantine and their contacts would be tested. RGCB, meanwhile, completed the evaluation for manufacturing the kits here. “We have completed the evaluation process and will be submitting the proposal before the Centre for the final approval by Monday. For the manufacturing of these kits, we need to get the nod from ICMR. If we get the nod we can begin the manufacturing in a week,” said Professor M Radhakrishna Pillai, director of RGCB. The 3,000 kits purchased by Tharoor were priced Rs 1,900 each. The aim now would be to manufacture cheaper kits. Tharoor had a discussion with the management of Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology in this regard. “We are in the process of making advanced molecular genetic testing of viral RNA like Abbot system. We are also in the process of developing antibody-based system too,” said Dr Asha Kishore, director of Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology. But manufacturing in bulk would require imported materials, and procuring them would be challenging, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tpuram-based-rgcb-to-make-rapid-test-kit/articleshow/74955090.cms||Rajiv G
April 3, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Family with ‘home quarantine’ stamp travel unchecked for 400km, detained||PUNE: Police on Monday detained 16 members, including nine minors, of a Mumbai-based family at the Vadgaon-Talegaon checkpoint for travelling in a multi-utility vehicle despite being stamped for home quarantine. They had gone to Omerga on March 22 to attend the last rites of a relative. They travelled 400km without being checked from Omerga to Vadgaon. A team of Vadgaon Maval police, led by Suresh Nimbalkar, intercepted their MUV at the Vadgaon-Talegaon Phata check point on Wednesday morning. The police found the “home quarantine” stamp on all 16 people and referred them to a temporary quarantine facility in Vadgaon Maval. “The family had gone to Omerga on March 22 to attend the last rites of the relative. They were stuck in Omerga following the announcement of a nationwide lockdown. Being from Mumbai, they were told to undergo a medical check-up at a government hospital in Omerga on March 31 and were stamped for home quarantine,” investigating officer Vishwas Ambekar told TOI. The officer said despite the home quarantine order, the family of three men, four women and nine children decided to leave for Mumbai the same night. “They travelled at night and entered Pune city via Hyderabad-Solapur highway. We stopped their vehicle at the checkpoint around 9am on Wednesday. We immediately alerted the health officials after finding the ‘home quarantined’ stamp on all of them,” Ambekar said. The officer said the family was immediately referred to a temporary quarantine facility in Vadgaon Maval. “The health officials at the quarantine facility said none of the family members showed any symptom of Covid-19 infection. The family will still have to remain in quarantine at the facility for 14 days,” Ambekar said. “We are also probing how a vehicle with 16 people travelled unchecked for nearly 400km, from Omerga to Vadgaon Maval, after crossing the borders of Osmanabad, Solapur and Pune districts,” a Pune rural police officer said. The police have registered an offence against the MUV driver under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/family-with-home-quarantine-stamp-travel-unchecked-for-400km-detained/articleshow/74957770.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||No new case in Nagpur for the fourth day||NAGPUR: Apart from one confirmed positive case in Buldhana, no other district in Vidarbha reported any Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Vidarbha now has 25 cases of Covid-19 with one death in Buldhana. On Thursday, state health department announced 30 hospitals in Maharashtra as special Covid-19 hospitals. These hospitals are apart from the government medical colleges, where Covid-19 patients are already being treated. The list includes six hospitals in Vidarbha. They are Amravati’s specialty hospital (100 beds), district hospital in Washim (50 beds), Women’s Hospital in Buldhana (100 beds), General Hospital in Wardha (50 beds), MCH wing of General Hospital in Bhandara (80 beds), and district hospital in Gadchiroli (100 beds). Now, Covid-19 patients can be quarantined or isolated at any of these hospitals apart from the GMCHs in the region. Seven patients out of the 25 cases in Vidarbha have recovered and been discharged so far. The region now has 17 patients undergoing treatment. Of these, 12 are in Nagpur, four in Buldhana, and one in Gondia. All of them are asymptomatic and doing well in isolation facilities. All hospitals in Vidarbha received high number of suspects on Thursday as many members who participated in a religious congregation in Delhi were identified and admitted to the respective hospitals. Yavatmal GMCH now has 36 suspects. Out of these, 28 are related to the Delhi congregation. Their samples were collected on April 2 and sent to Nagpur. In Amravati, a special 5-day drive has been launched across the district from Thursday to check people door-to-door for cough, cold and fever. A couple from Amravati tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut (UP) on March 22. Their family members in Amravati were tested. One son of the couple tested negative while the report of the second son is awaited. As a forward step in the corona control exercise, the district and health administration has opened a Covid-19 hospital in the building of Superspecialty Hospital here and appointed a staff of 100 to man it. This 100-bed hospital will become functional from Saturday, Dr. Shyamsunder Nikam told TOI today. He said the staff appointed there will not be allowed to go home for next 10 days, and will stay full time in the hospital only. Even after 10 days, they will be quarantined for 14 days at the Prabodhini here. Of the 100 beds, 60 will be for Covid-19 positive patients and 40 for suspected patients, Nikam said. The staff has been given training and alternate staff of 100 is being readied in case of need, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-case-in-nagpur-for-the-fourth-day/articleshow/74957252.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t fan Islamophobia to cover failures: Muslim bodies||Nagpur: Several prominent Muslims and their organizations have alleged that the government was attempting to cover up its failure in dealing with lockdown issues and promoting communalism by linking the Covid-19 spread in the country with Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddhin Markaz from March 7 to 9. Slamming the governments, local administrations and media, the organizations requested them withdraw the "Islamophobic contents". They blamed anti-social elements who are spreading hatred against Muslims even during such a crisis. In an audio clip that has gone viral, a cleric has laid bare government’s failure in containing the virus spread and said it was silent on religious gatherings in its March 13 order. They also said there were no travel restrictions till March 24 so how would the Tablighi members know they were not supposed to travel. Later, they got stranded like all other people across the country. Muslim Students Federation (MSF) president TP Ashrafali and its general secretary SH Muhammed Arshad said in a joint statement that other religious events held till March 25 have not been highlighted like Tablighi one. “The Ramlalla event was held on March 25 led by UP CM Adityanath in Ayodhya in the midst of alarming rise in the number of people affected by Covid-19. Many such political and religious events took place across the country but no accusations have been made against them. Islamophobia is an attempt to cover up the failure of government and to promote the communalism amid chaos of this pandemic,” they said. MSF demanded the government and media must avoid “such misinformation”. Jamiat Ulema Hind Nagpur district president (Arshad Madani) Masood Ahmed asked whether the virus attacked after seeing one’s religion. “Every three months there is a jodh which are visits of members from different parts of cities, states, to deliberate over their work in their zones. At the same time, foreigners also reach there. All this information was furnished to local police and authorities. They asked permission to go home but local authorities didn’t allow them. Whose fault is this,” he asked. Ahmed said despite this blame game, Muslims were standing with the government in the fight against Covid-19. Salman Ahmed, who is coordinating among different Muslim groups, said, “Enemy of communal harmony and fraternity are stoking religious sentiments to cover up own blunders. Most Indian media houses are lighting the fire of enmity and hatred. Instead, let’s fight corona and more importantly starvation crisis in India unitedly without giving it a communal angle, specifically relating it to Tablighi Jamaat, Muslims or other religious groups,” he said adding the credibility of fourth pillar of Constitution was at stake. Referring to the exodus of migrants, these bodies said, “During migration no one was offended by the religion or caste of those who fled. Actually, many criticized the government’s inability to foresee and handle the migration,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-fan-islamophobia-to-cover-failures-muslim-bodies/articleshow/74957261.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Headmistress goes beyond the call of duty to care for the homeless||PUNE: A teacher's job is not just limited to teaching. They are often called upon to do a variety of work like participating in census, going to villages during elections or updating voters' lists and now supervising shelter homes housing migrant workers and homeless people. Sangeeta Shirgaonkar, headmistress of Indira Gandhi Model School in Aundh, has taught for 31 years and participated in all types of government work entrusted to teachers, but feels her current assignment scores over other types of non-academic work she had done earlier. “We had earlier transformed our school into relief camps or shelter homes during floods or waterlogging, but there was no fear then. We knew the drill. We knew the requirements. Now, we are fighting an invisible, unknown enemy. I may be talking to a person and he may or may not have the infection. However, there is some doubt and fear. But I am still happy to do this work for the greater good of the society,” she said. Shirgaonkar said she has never shied away from non-teaching work entrusted to her. Her eyes display a stern yet a reassuring look of a matriarch as she walks around the school with purposeful short strides “Some of the younger teachers think that a teacher should only teach. And then they also want more money for it. They don’t understand that becoming a teacher is a huge responsibility. It is because we are sincere in our jobs that the government entrusts with such responsibilities. And to all those who say we should be paid more, I am the sole earning member in a family of four and I think we earn enough,” said Shirgaonkar, the coordinator for the Aundh shelter home in her school. The school currently houses over 90 migrants and homeless people. The number was much more earlier. “ There were some families with young children. They were crying and asking to be let off as they lived in Bhosari area. Also, it would have been difficult for 9-month-old children to stay here. Then a corporator in Bhosari area was contacted and he took them away. A contractor was also contacted and he too took away his workers. Others do want to go out but we tell them that it is not possible. But I do allow them to walk on the corridors so that they do not feel claustrophobic,” said Shirgaonkar. While she has asked teachers in her school to spend at least three hours on rotation, she makes sure to be at the makeshift shelter for around 6 hours every day. “An authoritative figure needs to be around, otherwise people start creating problems. There are plenty of toilets here, but cleanliness is an issue. We have to keep asking the housekeeping staff to clean them at regular intervals. We have sanitary napkins here for women, but lack of bathrooms is a problem that needs to be worked out soon,” added Shirgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/headmistress-goes-beyond-the-call-of-duty-to-care-for-the-homeless/articleshow/74957777.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||Of 3,639 outsiders, 3,299 under quarantine||Kanpur: As many as 974 persons entered the city on Thursday and all of them were immediately quarantined. The city has received 3,639 outsiders so far, including 940 foreigners. The health authorities has kept around 3,299 persons under quarantine. According to the health bulletin issued by the health authorities, 72 persons have been cured. Out of the 33 suspected cases in the city so far, 12 are undergoing treatment. The only confirmed corona patient of the city is a 70-year-old NRI who is being treated and has shown signs of improvement. His second sample was sent to KGMU on Wednesday. The authorities have categorically denied that any death had taken place due to Covid-19. Earlier on Thursday, a rumour made the rounds that a woman had died in the hospital due to coronavirus. But authorities stated in the bulletin that the city had not recorded any death due the deadly virus so far. The woman who died on Thursday was a suspected case, and her report from KGMU is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/of-3639-outsiders-3299-under-quarantine/articleshow/74956122.cms||---
April 3, 2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: MHA asks states to make people aware of penal provisions||NEW DELHI: The home secretary on Thursday requested states to widely circulate information on penal provisions in the Disaster Management Act as well as the Indian Penal Code for violation of lockdown guidelines and asked law enforcement agencies to take suitable action under these provisions. The latest communication from home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries came a day after he asked states/UTs to implement the lockdown measures issued by the MHA in exercise of powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, “in letter and spirit, without allowing any exception”. On Wednesday, Bhalla had, in another letter to states, asked them to create fact-checking mechanisms at their level, on the lines of a dedicated portal set up by the Centre, where people could verify facts and unverified news promptly. He also called upon states/UTs to ensure provision of shelters/relief camps for migrant workers with basic amenities like food, medicines etc, as desired by the Supreme Court. The home secretary, in his letter to chief secretaries on Thursday, reminded them of the SC’s observation that it “trusts and expects that all state governments, public authorities and citizens of this country will faithfully comply with directives, advisories and orders issued by the Union of India... in the interest of public safety”. He particularly cited Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act as well as Section 188 of IPC that provide for punitive action — imprisonment or/and fine — against any person violating the containment measures for the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is requested that for the attention of public authorities and citizens, the penal provisions under the DM Act and IPC should be widely circulated and for violation of lockdown measures, action under relevant provisions of DM Act and IPC shall be taken by the law enforcement authorities,” the home secretary said. Section 51 of the DM Act provides for maximum one-year prison term (two years if it endangers life) or fine for anyone who obstructs a government servant; Section 54 provides for up to one year in jail for false warning; Section 52 and 53 entail up to two years in jail for false claims and misappropriation of funds. Punitive action is also laid down under DM Act for offences by government departments and companies and for officers failing in their duty. Section 188 of IPC provides for up to six-month prison term of fine, or both, which is further extendable to two years if it endangers human life, for anyone disobeying an order duly promulgated by a public servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-mha-asks-states-to-make-people-aware-of-penal-provisions/articleshow/74958138.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||SDM suspends licence of fair price shop||Kanpur: Billhaur sub divisional magistrate on Thursday suspended the fair price shop under PDS in Kakwan block of one Sheela Chandel for charging exorbitant money from consumers and several other irregularities.. The SDM visited the shop and observed that license holder Sheela Chandel had neither displayed updated prices of commodities nor disclosed the list of Antyodaya scheme benefactors. “The stock register had several irregularities. Chandel was measuring grains using a can instead of weights and was giving ration in lesser quantities than allocated and charging outrageous amounts. Kerosene oil was not being distributed,” he said. “Chandel grossly violated the norms of UP Essential Commodity Act, 2016, and therefore, her license has been suspended,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sdm-suspends-licence-of-fair-price-shop/articleshow/74956186.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Virology lab can test 20 samples daily, says Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the new virology lab at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital has a capacity of testing 20 samples daily for coronavirus. He also said that all 48 samples which had been sent to Pune for testing have come back negative. The seven samples tested at GMC’s virology lab, too, have emerged negative. “Results are awaited of 17 more samples being tested at GMC,” Sawant said. Meanwhile, the WhatsApp number, for sending in information about suspected Covid-19 cases has already received 8,355 messages, Sawant said. “All messages have been forwarded to the directorate of health services for necessary action.” He also said that nearly 11,850 calls have been made to the 104 helpline number. As per the current coronavirus situation in the state, 27 people are in the isolation ward at GMC while 49 have been quarantined in the isolation ward of the TB hospital in Margao. Two patients are quarantined at the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa; six at the sub-district hospital in Ponda; 17 at the Old Goa Residency, five in the ESI hospital, Margao, two in the isolation ward of the sub-district hospital at Chicalim and 17 in the Mayem Residency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virology-lab-can-test-20-samples-daily-says-sawant/articleshow/74957778.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Covid cases cross 100 in south TN||Madurai: Fourteen people from the southern districts who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference in Delhi tested positive on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in these districts to 109. The latest cases include nine in Virudhunagar, two each from Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin and one from Tirunelveli. Officials said that all of them were under isolation over the last two days in the respective districts after efforts were taken to identify those who attended the conference in Delhi last month. Close contact tracing has been completed for some of them whereas it is expected to be completed for the rest on Friday. In the wake of these 14 positive cases, close to one lakh houses in the four districts have come under the scanner of the district administrations and health officials under the containment plan. These houses are in addition to the 10,000 that under house quarantine. The number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district has climbed to 10 with the new cases. “These nine people are among the 13 from the district who attended the religious conference. All the positive cases are from Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai, Srivilliputhur, Thiruchuli and Rajapalayam,” collector R Kannan said. According to him, the families of these men are among the 1,877 houses that are under quarantine. “We have identified 42,000 houses within the 5km containment zone and 2km buffer zone from the houses of the 13 people who attended the conference and are monitoring them for influenza symptoms,” he added. Of the 13, four had already tested negative. Results are awaited for five more close contacts, who had voluntarily approached the officials. Those who tested positive are likely to be shifted to the tertiary care facility in Madurai. Ramanathapuram district recorded its first two positive cases on Thursday. The two men from Paramakudi are among the 41 in the district who attended the conference. “Twenty-five of them have returned to Ramanathapuram, while 14 of them are in Delhi and two in Chennai,” collector K Veera Raghava Rao said. Results for samples collected from 15 more people from the district including eight who attended the Delhi conference have been sent for testing. On Friday, samples will be collected from six more people who returned from the conference. “These suspects and confirmed persons are monitored in separate rooms in the government hospital. We have identified 93 people in the first line of contacts from the positive cases and have advised them on the dos and dont’s. Their houses have been quarantined and are guarded,” he said. As many as 35,000 houses within the containment zone are being covered under door-to-door surveillance by 417 field workers from March 31 and will be done every day for 14 days in succession. House of 4,777 people who returned from other countries were quarantined, the collector said and added that 30-day quarantine has been completed for 2,639 houses. Two new cases on Thursday took the total positive cases in Tuticorin district to five. Collector Sandeep Nanduri said that around 15,000 houses are covered under the containment plan and that 30 high-risk close contacts have been identified and will be subjected to test. Positive cases in Tirunelveli climbed to 30 with the one new case on Thursday. “More people who attended the conference are coming forward. So far 36 who attended the conference including those who tested positive have been identified,” collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said. Since most of them are from Melapalayam area in the city, “the locality continues to be cordoned off and every resident is under strict home quarantine and monitored,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-cases-cross-100-in-south-tn/articleshow/74957269.cms||M K Ananth
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Extra milk to flow to labour camps||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Animal husbandry and dairy development minister K Raju on Thursday announced a set of measures the government has taken to address the sharp decline in the demand for milk procured from dairy farmers in Malabar region. Orders have been issued for free distribution of ultra-high temperature (UHT) processing milk to anganwadis across the state. UHT milk has a longer shelf life of six months. A portion of the excess milk collected from Malabar region would be distributed in labour camps of guest workers. District administrations, Milma and other offices concerned have been given directions to follow these directives, especially in Malabar region, the minister said. After chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan held talks with his Tamil Nadu counterpart, the cooperative federation in Tamil Nadu has agreed to convert to milk power 50,000 litres of the excess milk procured from Malabar region, until sales pick up, the minister said. He said funds from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) will help them cover the cost of distributing the milk among guest workers and anganwadis for free. Milma has been facing a heavy slump in demand for milk in Malabar region following the lockdown and corona scare. Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram regions too have been hit by a decline in demand, but the fall was not as sharp as in the Malabar region. After Milma imposed restrictions in procurement of milk, several farmers in Malabar area had on Wednesday protested by dumping the milk into drains. Referring to the incident, K Raju said the farmers should have better distributed the milk among inmates of hospitals or labour camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/extra-milk-to-flow-to-labour-camps/articleshow/74955123.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||PMC serves notices to errant surveyors missing from work||PUNE: The civic administration has warned of action against persons not reporting for the ongoing coronavirus survey in the city. The survey aims to identify those suffering from cough, cold and sneezing besides people with any history of international travel. The survey is also underway in areas where patients have been detected to be positive for coronavirus. In the last two days, the administration served notices to over 30 persons, who have constantly failed to report to work. More notices are likely to be issued over the next two days. The administration said that it is in the process of compiling data seeking information from staff heading the survey process. The authorities will scrutinize data before issuing the notices. The administration has said that staff failing to produce valid reasons would face suspension from duty. Over 1,100 people have reported on duty so far to conduct the survey. A senior official said that the numbers of surveyors changes as per requirement. An official said, “Ever since the city reported cases of coronavirus, the administration has initiated various types of surveys, including health-related surveys. For instance, we recently got a demand from the health department to deploy more strength for survey work. About 132 persons, mostly teachers from PMC schools, are now being asked to join the survey. Regular and contractual staffers from other departments have already been deployed. We want surveyors to understand that this is vital work and they should report on duty without fail.” An official from PMC’s general administration department said, “There is no intention to initiate action. The administration is looking forward to complete the surveys in time. The steps are being initiated to contain the spread of virus. The administration provides necessary protective gear to surveyors,” official added. Meanwhile, the civic administration has asked for more police protection for the survey being conducted in Yerawada. Additional protection was sought after surveyors faced some resistance from local citizens, who declined to furnish details. The survey has been initiated after a resident from the area tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-serves-notices-to-errant-surveyors-missing-from-work/articleshow/74957779.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||30 contacts of Godhra positive man traced||Vadodara: Health department and Godhra municipality have started a massive exercise to tracing the contacts and sanitize areas where the only COVID-19 patient had visited. The 78-year-old man from Godhra had tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. It came light that he had visited multiple clinics and hospitals in Godhra before being brought to the Savita Hospital in the city where he is admitted. Health officials have traced 30 contacts of the patient. These include 10 in Vadodara and 20 in Godhra. Except seven family members, all the contacts are staffers of hospitals and clinics in Godhra and Vadodara. The area that includes 60 houses around the residence of the patient has been put under containment. Disinfectant was sprayed on these houses as well as the clinics and hospitals he had visited. A health team in Godhra is keeping a tab on those staying around the residence of the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/30-contacts-of-godhra-positive-man-traced/articleshow/74954577.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nashik||No visitors allowed in Kalaram temple on Ram Navami||Nashik: The Ram Navami celebrations in the city were a low-key affair as for the first time in history there were only five people inside the centuries-old Kalaram temple to carry out the rituals. Only five people were allowed in the sanctum (garbha griha), which is the innermost chamber of a temple, to perform rituals. Mangesh Pujari, a trustee of Shri Kalaram Mandir Sansthan, said that they have followed all the instructions given by the administration. “We had received strict orders from the district magistrate to observe the lockdown measures. The rituals were performed by only five people before noon which is the time of Ram’s birth,” said the authorities. The rituals went on for one-and-a-half-hour after which the curtain was raised to announce Ram’s birth. The five people showered flowers on the idols of Ram, Laxman and Sita to mark the celebration. Every year lakhs of people gather at the temple to celebrate the day while this year all the four main gates of the temple were closed for the visitors. During the evening ritual at 7pm, the trust had arranged for five dishes this year, contrary to other years, when 56 types of delicacies are offered to the idol. “We have the custom to offer 56 bhog to the idol and then distribute it among the visitors. This year we prepared only five dishes and distributed it among the police personnel who were on duty to enforce the lockdown,” said Pujari. “The April 4 programme of parikrama is cancelled as we should not gather and crowd the area while the police and the administration are trying to stop the spread of the virus,” he said. Many people in the city performed the rituals at their homes to mark the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-visitors-allowed-in-kalaram-temple-on-ram-navami/articleshow/74957280.cms||pragya jain
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco power costlier, but minister Nitin Raut wants more units||NAGPUR: Even though the power generated by Mahagenco’s new units is far costlier than that generated by private ones and its own units, the company is going with setting up two 660 MW units in Koradi plant. State energy minister Nitin Raut believes that it will provide jobs to 5,000 people and hence, the additional pollution load on the city should be ignored. Sunil Dahiya of Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CRECA) said that as per the list of power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed with MSEDCL, the rates of Mahagenco’s new units were on the higher side. “The generation cost of all new Mahagenco units — fixed plus variable — is more than Rs4.5 per unit. On the other hand, the rates of all power units from which MSEDCL buys power is less than Rs4.5 per unit. Why is Mahagenco setting up new units when it is inefficient?” Dahiya asked. Yashwant Mohite, spokesperson of Mahagenco, trashed Dahiya’s contentions. “Only the variable cost is considered under merit order despatch (MOD). The variable cost of our new units is equal to or less than private power units. Hence, the contention that we are inefficient is totally baseless,” he said. Under MOD, the unit producing cheapest power (variable cost) gets the order to sell its power first. Under this system, the units with high variable cost are unable to sell power during times of low demand. Dahiya, however, pointed out that consumers pay for the fixed as well as the variable cost. “Variable cost may be considered for MOD but people have to pay the price for high fixed cost,” he said. Environmentalists have been opposing new units in Koradi because Nagpur district already has too many power plants. However, Chandrashekhar Bawankule and Nitin Raut, successive energy ministers and both hailing from the district, have been hell bent on setting up the units. They contend that the project will provide jobs to hundreds of locals. Koradi power plant has been pulled by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) for not installing flue gas desulphurizers (FGDs), which reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. Even though SO2 levels are far higher than permissible, Mahagenco has not installed FGDs even though it was directed to do so in 2010. This was one of the reasons why it failed to obtain terms of reference (TOR) for environmental clearance for the two new units. The meeting for discussing the fresh application for TOR was held just before the lockdown. Minutes of the meeting are awaited to know the fate of Mahagenco’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-power-costlier-but-min-raut-wants-more-units/articleshow/74957277.cms||Ashish Roy
April 3, 2020||Goa||Enough cash to last 6 months, banks tell govt||Panaji: With the Central and state governments all set to release salaries and pensions over the next few days, finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar met with representatives of banks, Reserve Bank of India and other banking institutions to review the availability of cash in the state and measures to prevent crowding in banks. Bankers informed the government that sufficient cash is available in the state to meet requirements for the next six months. During the meeting, the government ordered all cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies to open their branches for transactions, with the registrar of cooperative societies issuing the instructions. Earlier, public sector and private sector banks had been directed to keep their branches open in the state. “The meeting of bankers was convened to assess the liquidity position, functioning of ATMs and possibility of crowding in banks after salaries and pension are released,” said an official present at the meeting. At the meeting, bankers discussed various steps to prevent crowding at bank branches and have assured the government that adequate measures will be taken to maintain social distancing. Bankers informed the government that more than 85% of the ATMs in the state are functional and adequate cash liquidity is being maintained. Three banks namely HDFC, Canara Bank and Bank of India need to get their ATM cash replenished from outside Goa, they get it from Sawantwadi in Maharashtra, the bankers told the finance department. North Goa collector has been requested to contact the Sindhudurg collector for permission to bring in cash for the three banks. State Bank of India has deployed one ATM mobile van for the entire state to allow citizens to withdraw cash. “Considering the present situation, now it is also conceptualised to operationalise one more moving ATM so that mobile ATMs will be taking care of the need of the public of the state in both the districts on daily basis in this lockdown period,” said an SBI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/enough-cash-to-last-6-months-banks-tell-govt/articleshow/74957783.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||Vegetable supply to Mumbai from Nashik 60% down||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: If you are seeing fewer vegetables and fruits in the city’s markets, it is because traders and farmers from Nashik and western Maharashtra are struggling to get labourers to work on the fields and transport farm produce to the state capital. Nashik has a lion’s share of the vegetable market in Mumbai and sends across more than 500 tonne of greens daily. Nashik also supplies vegetables to cities in Gujarat daily. Officials said the vegetables are sent to Mumbai from Nashik on 150 vehicles. Ever since the lockdown, the supply has reduced substantially. Only about 40-60 vehicles leave for Mumbai with 150-200 tonne of vegetables. This amounts to a 60% drop in supply. Arun Kale, secretary of Nashik APMC, confirmed vegetable supply to Mumbai has been affected. “Covid-19 has badly hit vegetable supply to Mumbai. Vehicles are not allowed in most parts of the city.” Traders said drivers and labourers are worried about travelling to Mumbai, which has reported several Covid-19 cases. There are also concerns about transport vehicles reaching Mumbai, considering all the permissions required and returning to Nashik. Also, with restricted hours of vegetable sale, they are unsure about the produce getting sold. Farmers are counting their losses. Usually, three and half months from February are the peak period for vegetable crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vegetable-supply-to-city-from-nashik-60-down/articleshow/74956406.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Customers urge banks to keep sanitizers at all ATM kiosks||Madurai: Customers frequenting ATMs in the city have appealed to the banks to provide hand sanitizers as multiple users access the machines and touch the keypads. With private and government agencies having started disbursing salaries, a large number of people are expected to visit the ATM centres to withdraw cash. While hand sanitizers are provided in the bank branches, the same is not being followed in ATM centres, say concerned users. With many Covid-19 positive cases from Madurai, ATM centres pose as potential risk zones for its spread as customers touch the keypads without washing or sanitizing their hands. Banks should come forward to ensure cleanliness is being maintained at all kiosks, said V P Manikandan, a social activist. T Vetrivel, a frequent ATM user said, “Kiosks are not crowded since curfew restrictions are in place, but it is set to increase in the coming days. This is the time when people get their salaries and pensions. Number of people using ATM machines goes up.” Users said that most ATM kiosks do not have security personnel. If banks do not come forward to increase safety measures, local body and police personnel should ensure it for the sake of public, they said. However, bankers said they have disinfected all the kiosks in the city with the help of the corporation, but expressed inability to provide hand sanitizers in all centres. An official from SBI said they have provided hand sanitizers in ATMs, manned by security personnel. But it is not possible to monitor social distancing and hand sanitizing in kiosks, where there are no guards. “We kept hand sanitizers in kiosks, but they get stolen in no time. We would require huge manpower and sanitizers to keep replacing stolen ones,” he said. He said that crowds are expected from this weekend since pension money would be disbursed by Friday. While ATM machines run out of cash every day, at present it needs refilling once in three days. However, they check cash availability on a regular basis, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/customers-urge-banks-to-keep-sanitizers-at-all-atm-kiosks/articleshow/74957285.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||10-year-old dies in freak accident||Nagpur: A 10-year-old boy strangulated himself in a freak accident while playing at his flat on Tuesday at Jaripatka. Jaripatka police have registered a case of accidental death following a report from Mayo Hospital. According to police, Kartik Asnani, used to live with his parents at their flat in Jaripatka. Since the ongoing lockdown, Kartik was not going to school or tuitions. So, he used to play at home mostly. On Tuesday evening, Kartik was playing while his parents were working when suddenly his neck got tangled in a long scarf attached to the cupboard. He fell unconscious to the ground. He was seen by his parents who rushed him to a private children’s hospital from where he was referred to Mayo hospital. There he was declared brought dead. Kartik’s post-mortem was conducted on Wednesday at Mayo and body was handed over to his parents. Meanwhile, Jaripatka police received a report from the hospital and registered a case of accidental death. It is learnt that cops will visit the house of Kartik to conduct spot panchanama and investigate the matter further. Cops stated the post-mortem report will shed more light on the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-year-old-dies-in-freak-accident/articleshow/74957290.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Kozhikode||No shortage of essentials in state: Minister||Kozhikode: State transport minister A K Saseendran has said that there is no shortage of essential commodities in the state. Speaking at the Covid-19 review meeting at the district collectorate in Wayanad on Thursday, the minister said that as many as 2,100 trucks brought in essential commodities to the state on Wednesday. “Transportation of goods has picked up following the interventions made by the state government. There is no basis for speculation that there was a shortage of food items,” he added. Meanwhile, the Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (MRCMPU) has announced that it will procure the entire milk produced at dairy cooperatives from Friday onwards.  The decision was taken after Tamil Nadu milk federation agreed to accept 50,000 litres of surplus milk daily for conversion to milk powder in the milk powder factory at Erode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-shortage-of-essentials-in-state-minister/articleshow/74955156.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Elephant spotted strolling around Har Ki Pauri, drove back to Rajaji||Dehradun: An elephant was spotted strolling along the railway track near Bhagat Singh Chowk and then entering the Har Ki Pauri area of Haridwar on Thursday. According to officials, the elephant had ventured into the Bhagat Singh Chowk area via Teera Tanda village which is close to Rajaji National Park. The pachyderm was spotted at around 1:30 pm around the railway track by forest officials who drove the jumbo into the forest within 15 minutes. However, the elephant again ventured into the township using another route and entered into Har Ki Pauri area. It had walked almost 1.5 kilometres from Tibri range office to Mansa Devi Temple without being noticed or stopped by the forest staff. “The elephant was finally chased into the forest in two hours. There is a significant surge in the movement of all the wildlife including elephant and leopards in Haripur Kalan, Chilla-Motichur and even around Har Ki Pauri area of Haridwar because of minimal human and commercial activities and scanty lights,” PK Patro, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, told TOI. Fortunately, neither any person nor the pachyderm sustained any injury during the episode as passenger train services have been suspended and hardly a few people are out on the streets due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The video of the elephant walking along the railway track though went viral. Such strolls by elephants have become a concern for Haridwar forest division as they may lead to human-wildlife conflict incidents. Akash Verma, DFO, Haridwar, said,“Elephants are invading newer spots like Bhagat Singh Chowk, Teera Tanda, among others. This is a concern for us as Haridwar township is being constantly invaded by wildlife.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elephant-spotted-strolling-around-har-ki-pauri-drove-back-to-rajaji/articleshow/74956413.cms||Shivani Azad
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||Nodal officer, elderly man test negative for Covid-19||Kanpur: Doctors of Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday evening when a nodal officer and an elderly man, suspected with coronavirus infection, tested negative. Nodal officer Dr Aditya Kumar had complained about cough, cold and fever a couple of days ago. He was immediately examined at the flu OPD where doctors observed coronavirus symptoms. The swab sample was then sent to KGMU. Meanwhile, he was quarantined at GSVM guest house. Mahendra Gupta, an elderly man from Harbans Mohal locality, also showed Covid-19 symptoms after which his swab sample were sent to KGMU. District epidemic scientist Dr Deo Singh said, “On Wednesday evening, the health department received medical reports of Kumar and Gupta, which were found to be Covid-19 negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nodal-officer-elderly-man-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/74956223.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC needs Rs 1,150 crore more to take care of Nagpur’s total sewage||NAGPUR: Despite chalking out an ambitious Nag-Pili river pollution abatement project, at a cost of Rs2,412 crore, water bodies in the city and groundwater will continue to get polluted to some extent as it does not cover entire city areas. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will need Rs1,150 crore more to ensure treatment and reuse of sewage generated from South and South-West constituencies. As per the budget submissions, made by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe last month, and information gathered from NMC officials, the civic body has divided the city into three zones for sewage collection and disposal — North, Central and South zones — with a total network of around 3,500km. Of this, 1,475km-long network is in proper condition, while 2,025km-long network needs to be replaced. The project has been approved by the central and state governments. The Centre had approached Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for a loan for the project. The project, however, covers North and Central sewage zones only and not South. As per plan, sewage network of 1,362.50km will be laid in North and Central sewage zones. Sewage treatment plants (STPs) will also be set up. Once completed, entire sewage generated in North and Central zones will be collected, treated and reused. It will help make Nag, Pili rivers and also linked water bodies and groundwater pollution-free. The South sewage zone, which requires a 662.50km-long network and STPs, covers all areas of South-West and South Nagpur constituency. If the zone is not covered under the project, the areas under South zone, Pora river, linked water bodies and groundwater will continue to get polluted. Pora river also ends up in Nag river on city’s outskirts and the latter then merges into Kanhan. If Pora water is left untreated, it will also pollute Kanhan and Wainganga rivers and Gosikhurd dam will continue to pollute to some extent. In the prevailing cash-strapped conditions, the NMC cannot take up the project on its own as it will require Rs1,150 crore more. Former mayor and BJP city president Pravin Datke told TOI, “Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should sanction South sewage zone. Devendra Fadnavis had approved the project during his tenure as chief minister. Union minister Nitin Gadkari had got it sanctioned at the Centre-level. Now, it is the responsibility of ministers in MVA government to get approval for the project for city’s development.” Datke added Fadnavis and Gadkari wanted to get South sewage zone project under Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, but a detailed project report (DPR) could not be prepared. “Mundhe has acknowledged the need for the project and he, being a representative of government, should get it sanctioned at the earliest,” he said. Many areas of South-West and South constituencies experience sewage clogging. Also, new areas are coming up in these constituencies. These problems will also be resolved if the government approves South sewage zone project, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-needs-rs1150cr-more-totake-care-of-citys-total-sewage/articleshow/74971080.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Dawoodi community delivers food to elderly||Nashik: The Anjuman-E-Hakimi Dawoodi Bohra Trust in Nashik has started delivering vegetarian food to people – including the aged, students and working people. “We had a dialogue with district collector Suraj Mandhare and then chalked out a plan to deliver pure vegetarian food only to the needy people, who are unable to get food for themselves because the markets and services are closed,” Mustafa Bohra, representative of the community, said. The trust has a community kitchen through which they supply meals to all their community members once a day. It has decided to bear the cost of one meal a day for citizens, who put up request on their contact number given by the district administration. The service is especially for students, retired persons – who do not have anybody to help them, working people dependent on messes or online food services. The organization received order for 60 meals that were delivered on the Thursday . The Anjuman-E-Hakimi Dawoodi Bohra Trust in Nashik can be contacted on 9423962270 with name, address and contact number. The free meals will be delivered to the house but delivery charge of Rs 30 will be collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dawoodi-community-delivers-food-to-elderly/articleshow/74957286.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Minors can donate organ or tissue in rare situations: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: A minor can donate an organ or tissue in a rare situation unless there is a risk to her life in the procedure, Delhi high court has said. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva on Wednesday set up an expert medical board to assess any risk to the life of a girl, who wishes to donate part of her liver to her ailing father, if she undergoes the procedure. The court noted that “there is no complete prohibition in a minor donating an organ or tissue prior to attaining majority. Donation is permissible but in exceptional circumstances and in accordance with the rules.” The observations came after it was informed that a committee set up by Delhi government had refused permission to the girl to donate her liver merely on the ground that she is a minor. “There is no medical opinion in the present case to suggest that there is a potential risk to the petitioner. The minor is aged over 17 years and 10 months. ...The decision of the committee of rejecting the representation of the petitioner solely on the ground that the petitioner is a minor is not sustainable,” Justice Sachdeva, who heard the matter via video-conferencing, noted. The girl wants to donate part of her liver to her father as he is suffering from a severe case of liver cirrhosis and urgently requires a transplant to survive. The court directed the hospital, where the father is admitted, to set up the panel to examine if there is any potential risk to the girl’s life. It said the panel’s decision will be communicated to the government which shall “forthwith” take a decision on the girl’s representation for approval to donate part of her liver to her father, and listed the matter for hearing on April 3. In her plea through her mother, the girl informed the court that she will turn 18 in last week of May, but her father needs urgent organ transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minors-can-donate-organ-or-tissue-in-rare-situations-hc/articleshow/74957786.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to conduct survey in city’s 167 slums||Nashik: A day after a 56-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai’s Dharavi – largest slum in Asia – the civic body has decided to conduct a survey of all slum areas in the city. The 56-year-old, who reportedly died of Covid-19 complications, had no travel history and owned a garment shop in the area. Taking serious cognizance of this, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has directed the health department to carry out household survey in slums to ensure they are free from Covid-19. There are a total of 167 slums across six divisions of the municipal corporation. “We have decided to conduct door-to-door survey in all slum areas across the city with the help of our medical staff, nurses and asha workers,” an official from health department of NMC said. “Those suspected will be quarantined immediately. This is part of measures to curb spread of Covid-19. We will immediately start the survey,” he added. The NMC has already taken initiative to create awareness among the residents about Covid-19. There are as many as 31 wards in the six divisions of the municipal corporation. A civic official said, “We have deployed one team for every ward to create awareness among residents in view of the outbreak of Covid-19.” Apart from this, the civic body is also maintaining cleanliness in the city and has lifted over 500 tonne of garbage through vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-conduct-survey-in-citys-167-slums/articleshow/74957307.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||U'khand IFS officers, forest staff to contribute one day’s salary to fight coronavirus||Dehradun: The Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers of Uttarakhand and the staff of the state forest department have decided to contribute one day’s salary to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight coronavirus. The members of Indian Forest Services Association, Regional Forest Services Association, Associate Forest officials’ Association and Administrative Workers’ Union will be contributing their one day’s pay. “The entire world is waging a war against novel coronavirus and we also decided to do our bit. Forest department will contribute more if the situation calls for it,” said Jairaj, head of forest force, Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-ifs-officers-forest-staff-to-contribute-one-days-salary-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/74956416.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Two attacked with weapons in separate incidents||Nagpur: Two persons sustained injuries after they were attacked by two groups in separate incidents between March 30 and April 2. The injured persons are currently out of danger. In the first incident, Shailesh Ughade, 27, was attacked by five people at New Shukrawari on Wednesday. Cops said the accused were angry with Ughade after he slapped one of them over some issue. The accused stabbed Ughade, who was with a friend, with knife before fleeing the spot. Ughade sustained injuries on chest, hand and leg. The accused have been identified as Bunty Kalambe, Arpit Zade, Ankit Bokde, Adriya Kothiwal and Harshal Mandale. They have been booked for attempt to murder by Ganeshpeth police. In another incident, Eknath Sayam, 31, was attacked by four people with a long iron rod at his home over an old enmity. The assailants fled the spot after the incident. New Kamptee police have registered a case of assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-attacked-with-weapons-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/74957304.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||CM directs officials to reach out to senior citizens living in old age homes||Dehradun: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat held a meeting with officials on Thursday and directed them to reach out to the senior citizens living in old age homes and ensure that they are safe and are not deprived of supplies. He also asked them to carry out massive awareness drive on wearing masks and washing hands. The CM’s meeting came hours after he participated in the video conference with PM Narendra Modi. Rawat asked the officers to ensure that all the guidelines issued by the Centre are implemented in “true letter and spirit” in Uttarakhand. “After the video conferencing session, I spoke with the chief secretary and other members of the task force and I have directed them to reach out to the old age homes. We need to ensure that elderly who were staying without their families get due attention. The authorities will ensure that proper food, medical and other required facilities are provided to them,” said the CM. When asked if any acrtion would be taken on those from Dehradun who attended Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation, he said, “All those who are in Uttarakhand have been put under quarantine. Some members of Nepal, too, had come to our state. 26 people who had gone to attend the Markaz at Delhi are yet to return, some members of Tablighi Jammat, who have gone to different parts of the country, have also not returned. The findings have shown that states had to suffer because despite the coronavirus scare, Jamaat members assembled in big numbers in Markaz. We have warned strict action if the guidelines are not followed by any person.” When asked if the relaxation time of six hours during lockdown would be reduced, the CM said, “We are getting requests from people to reduce the time, but as of now we will continue with relaxation from 7 am to 1 pm. We will look into the matter and then take a call.”He further said authorities have been directed to meet the organisations making face masks to increase the production so that they can be distributed to people living in remote areas. “We will also train people – who are in the age bracket of 20 to 35 years and were earlier NCC cadets – to prepare them for any exigencies. We will also train volunteers from NGOs,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-directs-officials-to-reach-out-to-senior-citizens-living-in-old-age-homes/articleshow/74956419.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Nomadic Van Gujjar tribe caught in lockdown with nowhere to go||Dehradun/Saharanpur: Around 500 members of the nomadic Van Gujjar community living in almost 100 deras (houses) on the border areas of UP and Uttarakhand -- in the stretch between Dehradun’s Daat Kali temple and Mohund area of Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh — say that they are in desperate need of food and medical aid for themselves and their animals. Locked down in their homes since the past 12 days, members of the community — that mainly subsists on rearing animals for milk — say they have received no help from the government. Driven by despair, a couple of families claimed to be eating leaves of a creeper locally known as Maljhan. The others are surviving by consuming milk of their animals which they used to sell earlier in the markets of Dehradun and Saharanpur. “After our stock of wheat flour ran out and there was no vegetable or dal left, we cooked Maljhan leaves. But how long we can survive like this?” Mohammed Alam, a Van Gujjjar, told a TOI team that visited the area on Thursday. The community has been getting sporadic help from some individuals who came to know of their plight after a few videos regarding the community’s condition started circulating on social media some days ago. Zain Qazi, an IT firm owner from Dehradun, who after hearing the problems of the Van Gujjars, reached their settlement (referred to as ‘dera’), said he was shocked to see the state they were living in — inside the jungles, on the dried river bed. “It is difficult to imagine that there are so many people living in these deep jungles. I am not surprised that help has not reached them as they are living in such places where no one would come,” Qazi said, adding that he and his family members have decided to make a visit to the community’s deras on alternate days to distribute cooked food and raw material. The community members say that none of them have been able to go to the cities to sell milk since March 22 as no transportation is available. Some of them who used to work as labourers in Dehradun and Saharanpur have had no work in hand since two weeks, and are now running short of both money and food. What has added to their woes is the soaring temperatures that is making their animals sick. “We should have moved to hills by this time of the year as our animals are more used to the cold weather. With less availability of water and green leaves, our buffaloes are falling sick. Also, there are no phone networks available for almost 7-8 km in this stretch and if we want to make a call for help, we have to walk 5 km towards Saharanpur to find a mobile network,” said Irshad, head of a dera situated near the Mohund police post. Another community member Aish Ali added in a bitter vein, “Coronavirus may or may not kill us, but hunger definitely will”. Meanwhile, Naresh Saini, MLA of Behat in Saharanpur district, when queried about the matter, said, “The Van Gujjars are staying around 70 to 80 km from the district headquarters and they don’t have any ration cards. We have been raising this issue with the administration that these people need assistance. We will now help them with our own funds if officials don’t act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nomadic-van-gujjar-tribe-caught-in-lockdown-with-nowhere-to-go/articleshow/74956429.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Jail birds help fight virus||Thiruvananthapuram: As the state geared up to fight the spread of Covid-19, the prisons and correctional services department had supported the government by producing two essential safety products—masks and hand sanitizer. As many as 2,85,467 masks and 4,468.4 litres of hand sanitizer were manufactured by the prisons and correctional services department till March 31. Of the masks manufactured by 55 prison units in the state, 22,742 were distributed among members of uniformed forces and members of government department engaged in fighting Covid-19 outbreak, while the remaining 2,62,725 were sold among the public. The prisons department also distributed 2,837.8 litre sanitizer free of cost. The prisons were one of the first departments that took the initiative of manufacturing these when the Covid-19 outbreak resulted in immense shortage of these products across the state. The prisoners of textile units in Thiruvananthapuram, Viyyur and Kannur central prisons had stopped all the other activities and began producing the face masks from March 13. Later, other prison units too launched mask production. The suggestion originally was put forward by social justice department, and after consulting the health department for suggestions and specifications of the masks, the prisons had launched the initiative. The sample for mask production was made available from SAT hospital, and then the department procured the raw material for production. Based on specifications from health department, the inmates of the prisons manufactured the re-usable masks using cotton cloth. In a similar manner, the inmates also ventured into manufacturing hand sanitizers which was in short supply in all the stores across the state. The initiatives were lauded from many quarters including the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jail-birds-help-fight-virus/articleshow/74955212.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||DMC starts sanitisation work||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) conducted the second phase of sanitisation drive in the city, particularly in residential areas, on Thursday. Municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar monitored the drive along with Doon mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama. They went to several localities. The drive was carried out in areas such as Malsi, Rajpur, Doon Vihar, Jakhan, Vijay Colony and Karanpur. It was conducted in two shifts. During the drive, the municipal commissioner urged the people to stay indoors following the norms of social distancing and ensure that the sanitisation process is carried out properly. The third phase of the drive will take place on Friday in seven wards - Kawli, Dronpur, Gandhigram, Sewlakala, Chandrabani and Arcadia 1 and 2. Jitendra Manglani, a resident of Karanpur area, said, “While everyone is scared and is mostly trying to stay indoors, the sanitisation drive came as a huge relief as we feel a little safe that our surrounding has been sanitised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-starts-sanitisation-work/articleshow/74956425.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kanpur||Police help pregnant woman reach hospital in Kanpur||KANPUR: A police vehicle helped a pregnant woman having labour pains reach hospital amid lockdown in Jalaun district on Wednesday. The incident took place near Ninawali village when a patrol team led by inspector Rampura police station saw a 22-year old woman in pain. On enquiry, the woman’s family members said that the vehicle hired by them developed snag and they were waiting for another vehicle. Inspector Rampura RK Singh offered them help and took the woman to Rampura CHC in his official vehicle. “We hired a vehicle but it developed a snag. Just then, a police vehicle spotted us and inspector Rampura RK Singh offered his official jeep to help us,” said Varun, husband of the woman Ragini. “We reached the CHC. In about 45 minutes my wife delivered a healthy baby,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-help-pregnant-woman-reach-hospital/articleshow/74956256.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops catch daily wagers being moved in trucks||NEW DELHI: Daily-wage labourers, who were being transported in container trucks and an ambulance, were caught in several batches at various checkposts across the city. The labourers were crammed in trucks, which had “essential goods” pasted on them, to be taken across the border. In the first operation, a team from Baba Haridass Nagar police station intercepted two closed-body trucks near Jharoda border. The drivers pretended to be in a hurry to go past the barricade. When stopped and questioned, they claimed that they were transporting vegetables to a market. However, upon checking, 72 labourers were found in both the vehicles. During interrogation, both drivers disclosed that the migrants were being taken from Mundka to Pratap Nagar and Etawah in Uttar Pradesh. The labourers were sent back to their homes in Mundka and the drivers were arrested. A similar operation was conducted near Najafgarh where three trucks heading to Bihar along with 103 labourers from different parts of west Delhi were caught. The labourers told police they had nowhere to go. They were then sent to municipal schools in Mitraon and Khaira. Police said they would be provided food for the next 13 days of the lockdown. The truck drivers were booked for violating government orders and the vehicles were seized. The third incident was reported at the New Ashok Nagar border in east Delhi. Police got a WhatsApp video message that an ambulance with a Jharkhand registration number carrying eight passengers was parked near a hotel. It was found that the eight labourers were waiting to cross into UP. They were from Jharkhand and trying to get back home. One of them had tied a bandage on his leg, but wasn’t found with any injuries. The men were sent to a shelter home and asked to wait till the end of the lockdown period after which they could arrange for their travel back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-catch-daily-wagers-being-moved-in-trucks/articleshow/74957802.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Abandoned protective gear sparks scare||VADODARA: A major controversy erupted after the personal protective equipment (PPE) used by a person accompanying the body of a Covid-19 patient who had died early on Thursday was found near a fence in the garden of the Khaswadi crematorium. The issue came to light after an activist spotted the material and later ensured that it was burnt in the gas furnace used to cremate bodies at the crematorium. It is still not known who had left the material behind. Sources said that the body was wrapped as per guidelines at the SSG Hospital. Staffers as well as relatives of the deceased accompanying the body were provided PPE and the body was brought to the crematorium. Activist Atul Gamechi said that he had also reached the crematorium on hearing about the death. “I was later told that someone had thrown the potentially infectious items in the garden. I tried reaching out to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) as well as the SSG Hospital,” he said. Gamechi pointed out that when he could not get through to any official, he brought a long bamboo stick. “A man took the PPE on one end of the stick and burnt it in the gas furnace,” he said. He added that the staff at the crematorium could not ascertain who had left the material behind. Commenting on the alleged lapse SSG Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Daveshwar said that the hospital too is inquiring into it. “It has come to our notice that the protection wear was thrown away in open by someone who was accompanying the dead body,” he said. Daveshwar however said that it is not a biohazard. “The body of the deceased is already wrapped into a plastic cover. There is a disposal bag in which the body is wrapped so that nothing comes out of the body. Those accompanying the dead body wear the protection wear. We have been informed that someone from the group threw it in open after cremating the body. We will inquire into it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/protective-gear-left-behind-in-crematorium-sparks-row/articleshow/74954601.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Railways to convert 3 Doon trains into isolation wards||Dehradun: In an effort to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Railways would be converting train coaches running from Dehradun railway station into isolation wards.The railway authorities last week had announced to convert train coaches into quarantine wards. Each coach is supposed to accommodate eight patients. It has been proposed to make 20,000 such isolation coaches. Talking to TOI, Sitaram Sonkar, station superintendent at Dehradun railway station, said four coaches each from Indore Express, Ujjain Express and DLS passenger (Dehradun-Saharanpur) trains would be converted into isolation wards. All these coaches are of sleeper and general berths. “These coaches will be moved to Alambagh railway depot in Lucknow by the weekend where the necessary changes and upgradation works would be done . The concerned authorities will then send the coaches to the locations where there is a need for the same,” he added.According to the railway officials, to make the patient cabin, the middle berth of the coach would be removed from one side and all three berths in front of the patient berth would also be removed. The railways will also remove the ladders for climbing to the upper berths. The coaches will also include separate spaces for healthcare personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/railways-to-convert-3-doon-trains-into-isolation-wards/articleshow/74956439.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Patna||Cops thrash Nalanda SI, PMC worker for defying lockdown||PATNA: Cops are at it again. A day after they thrashed one of their own for venturing out to buy medicines in Patna, a trainee sub-inspector (SI) attached with Ashthawan police station in Nalanda was thrashed by colleagues of the same police station for allegedly violating the lockdown order. Sources said a patrol party, which was enforcing lockdown, spotted the SI in civil dress and beat him up for “loitering”. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar described the incident as case of mistaken identity. “The SI is new and under training. He was roaming around in civil dress. Policemen didn’t know him properly due to which the incident took place,” he said. In another incident of police high-handedness, a PMC sanitation worker was thrashed by cops near Hardinge Road under Kotwali police station area in Patna on Thursday. Mithilesh Kumar, driver of a garbage collection van, was beaten up despite being in his uniform. He was collecting garbage from a vat when a commotion broke out nearby during which police chased and thrashed him, eyewitnesses said. This is the third incident of a PMC sanitation worker being thrashed by cops in Patna. On March 24, another sanitation worker was beaten up at Gaurichak while another was thrashed at Fatuha on March 27 while they were going to start their shift. All of them were in uniform. On Tuesday evening, some policemen thrashed an off-duty traffic constable, who had gone out to buy medicines at Postal Park under Jakkanpur police station. He received seven stitches on his head. Police sources said Kotwali police station SHO Ramashankar Singh pacified the worker who beaten up on Thursday morning and assisted him financially to get his injuries treated at a private clinic. When asked, PMC commissioner Himanshu Rai said Thursday’s incident was a case of action taken mistakenly. “Our sanitation worker was at the spot for collecting garbage. Flower vendors had also gathered there in large numbers due to Ram Navami. Police used mild force to disperse them during which our worker also hit,” he said, adding, this incident was different from the previous ones as they were individually targeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-thrash-nalanda-si-pmc-worker-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/74955219.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 3, 2020||Patna||Six more Covid positive cases in Bihar||PATNA/GAYA: Six new Covid-19 positive cases, including two women in Gaya, were reported in Bihar on Thursday, taking the total number of such cases to 30 in the state. Four of them have travel history from foreign countries and had returned on March 20, while the two women caught the virus from their family member. Health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said two men from Gopalganj and one each from Saran and Nalanda tested positive for the virus on Thursday. “While Gopalganj and Nalanda natives returned from the Middle-East, the Saran native returned from the United Kingdom. They all returned to their native places on March 20 and are young,” said Sanjay. Elaborating on the two positive cases reported in Gaya on Thursday, Sanjay said: “The two Gaya women are relatives of the staffer of a private hospital in Munger, where a man who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on March 21, had visited for treatment before his death. The 24-year-old private hospital staffer contacted the virus from the Munger deceased and his report came on March 31.” He added, “The hospital staff’s wife (21) and his mother (41) have tested positive for Covid-19," said Sanjay. Gaya civil Surgeon Dr BK Singh confirmed the latest cases. The area where the women live is already sealed following the receipt of their family member’s positive test report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-more-covid-ve-cases-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-6/articleshow/74955256.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 3, 2020||Nashik||City records best air quality amid crisis||Nashik: The absence of vehicles on roads for the last nine days has ensured the city reports its best air quality in the past few years. The impact of the nationwide lockdown on the air quality was felt immediately. On March 26, a day after the nationwide lockdown was announced, Nashik city recorded its lowest air quality index in past couple of years. Sources in the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board said that the air quality index was 115 on March 2, which reduced to 23 on March 26. Sources said that the air quality index was at 46 on March 30, but reduced to 33 on April 1. On Thursday, the air quality index was again recorded at 47. This is because marginal vehicular movement was noticed in the city. As per parameters, air quality index between 1 and 50 is considered good and has minimal impact on people. In comparison, an index between 101 and 200 is moderate and causes breathing discomfort to the people with lung, heart disease, children and older adults. Index between 301 and 400 causes respiratory illness to people in case of prolonged exposure. “Vehicular movement has almost completely stopped due to lockdown. Many people are working from home. I think that work from home should continue in the private establishment wherever it is possible. This will help control fuel burning due to vehicles and minimize air pollution,” said environmentalist Rajesh Pandit. He added that minimum human interference into nature has led to drop in air pollution. It is nature correcting itself, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-records-best-air-quality-amid-crisis/articleshow/74957322.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 1,000 cops posted at 86 checkpoints||NASHIK: The city police have put up a force of over 1,000 personnel at 86 checkpoints in the city to restrict movement amid lockdown. These police personnel are working in three shifts to ensure that only those who have valid reason and permission from the city police are allowed from the nakabandi points. The police said that they were taking strict measures to ensure that there was no gathering of people in any part of the city. Apart from the police who have been deployed at nakabandi points, the police were patrolling the interiors to stop people from gathering at shops, vegetable markets. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil said that the police personnel on the streets are equipped with sanitizers, masks, food supplements. They have also been informed about the steps they should take to prevent infection of Covid-19. The police said that taking into account the rush of people, vegetable sellers, farmers at the six agriculture produce market committees, the police have decentralised the operation of market committees. Over the past one week, the police have started issuing passes to people who are in need of urgent travel from one place of the city to another mainly on medical grounds. Senior police said that in less than a week’s time, they have issued over 3,000 passes. The police said they are continuously appealing to people to remain indoors during the lockdown period. While a majority of people are adhering to the lockdown, some people were still found neglecting the directives. The police said that they were taking action against the concerned people and booking them under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. At the same time, those venturing out for medical purpose or for essential services were also asked to cover their mouth with masks or handkerchief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1000-cops-posted-at-86-checkpoints/articleshow/74957340.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Exempt health workers from salary challenge’||Thiruvananthapuram: The state branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the state government to exempt the doctors and all health workers who are involved in Covid-19 care, from the salary challenge declared by the state government. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, while responding to this demand, said that the government had only put forward a request to join the salary challenge. There has been a good response for this so far, he added. The health workers and the doctors are risking their lives while treating the positive patients and also the people under quarantine. When the people involved in healthcare have dedicated their life for the treatment and prevention, it is not justifiable to urge them to contribute their salaries for the salary challenge, said IMA state president Dr Abraham Varghese. IMA leaders also urged the state government to include doctors and other employees from private hospitals under the insurance cover if the Covid-19 treatment is extended to the private hospitals. All insurance declared for government doctors and health workers should be given to the private sector too since they are doing the same service to the state, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/exempt-health-workers-from-salary-challenge/articleshow/74955249.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Community kitchens cost corp Rs 1.6 crore in 8 days||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation’s allocation for running community kitchens in the city crossed Rs 1.6 crore as it distributed 2.61 lakh of food packets within eight days. The soaring expenses in maintaining a free food distribution system has cast doubts on the financial viability of the scheme especially considering that the number of priority groups for which community kitchen was envisaged hardly matches with the actual orders being received on a daily basis. Some of the orders were even placed for dogs owned by families. A man who had rented out four buildings in the city placed order via community kitchen to serve food to his mother from another state. A wheelchair-bound woman with her children settled in the neighbouring wards pleaded for food over phone one night. The volunteers went with biscuits and tea rusk at night as they had run out of food and they were told that her children were settled with their families near by. However, she wouldn’t share the numbers of her children fearing it would bring shame to them. The system was meant to serve persons under home isolation, guest labourers who were stranded in city, those who are old and alone and can't cook food. Except for the first day when community kitchen was launched, the orders kept on rising every day. On Thursday alone, corporation distributed 76,352 food packets three times a day. On Wednesday, over 55,000 food packets were distributed. According to figures of labour department and corporation, the total number of guest workers who need to be served food comes around 4,500-5,000 including those housed in three camps in the city. The number of homeless beneficiaries included under LIFE Mission was 18,000 and even then all of them wouldn’t apply online for food, the officials said. The number of persons under isolation is below 2,000 and the number of people staying alone and those who cannot cook food is minimal. “Ideally we should be serving around 10,000-15,000 food packets even assuming maximum number of people under priority groups. However we are supplying free food packets four to five times the actual need. This will soon deprive the needy people of what they deserve,” said an official associated with city corporation. The officials have directed the volunteers and those at the call center to ask for specific details while taking orders. In many cases they have found out that maids stopped coming to old people staying alone and although their children are near by they wouldn't take them to stay in their houses. Community kitchen has also proved an easy way for others to save up their provisions. “Many believe that if they are getting decent food on a daily basis, why bother wasting their stock. What it does to the needy people is so that soon we will reach a point when free food for all becomes non-feasible and actual people who need it end up staying hungry,” an official said. The ward councillors are now holding daily screening meetings. In one ward, 800 orders were received on Thursday and after screening, 150 orders were stricken out. They are also sending text messages to people staying outside the state and make bookings online to say such requests cannot be encouraged. Sarada Muraleedharan, principal secretary,LSGD, said that a new set of instructions for running community kitchens will soon be issued. The matter had come up in the chief minister’s review meeting held on Monday. It was cited that giving free food would lead to serious crisis and that it has put officials under pressure. Besides, an intervention was sought from the top to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/community-kitchens-cost-corp-rs-1-6-crore-in-8-days/articleshow/74955246.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Amid corona scare, machan census schedule announced||Nagpur: Anticipating that all will be well after April 30, the state’s wildlife wing has released a programme to conduct annual water hole estimation rechristened as ‘Nisarga Anubhav’. This year, the 24-hour-long exercise will be undertaken on May 7, the Buddha Pournima day. It will be carried out in sanctuaries and territorial forests besides areas under Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). Last year, barring Melghat, other tiger reserves had taken up the exercise in the buffer zone. However, even as the schedule has been announced by the PCCF (wildlife), forest officials are themselves not sure whether the exercise will be taken up with public participation in the advent of coronavirus. “We are not even thinking about it now. Last year, we conducted the exercise in core with existing protection staff. We did it with limited volunteers’ participation in buffer zone,” said Ravikiran Govekar, CCF & field director of Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). Amid coronavirus scare, a section of wildlife lovers has issued a note of caution to conduct such an exercise. The wildlife parks in the state have been closed till April 30. “It is likely that Maharashtra may increase the lockdown period till April 30 considering the spurt in coronavirus cases in the state. In such a situation, the schedule should not have been announced at all,” they said. “Many volunteers participate in the waterhole census from Mumbai and Pune, where Covid-19 cases are on the higher side. Besides, NGOs from Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh where cases are increasing also take part. How will the department identify cats among the pigeons?” said wildlife experts. “The schedule doesn’t bar people from other states and cities from participating in the exercise. A study by doctors treating Covid-19 patients in China revealed that traces of the virus could persist in the body for up to 2-6 weeks after symptoms had vanished,” they said. The schedule announced on March 18 has asked forest officials to set up machans and give training to staff between April 15 and 25. The respective park managers have been also asked to accept applications during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-corona-scare-machan-census-schedule-announced/articleshow/74957337.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Many forced to miss relatives’ last rites due to lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: VS Kumar got a call on Wednesday from Mumbai stating that his uncle had passed away in a private hospital, where he was being treated for non-coronavirus related health issues. The call triggered trepidation as Kumar could not think of a way to get the body home. “I felt helpless. All transport services have been suspended. All we could do was mourn,” said Kumar. While people have been talking about the economic toll of this pandemic, few are discussing its emotional toll, especially people who are losing their loved ones in this time. “First the lockdown, followed by suspension of transport has been difficult for people whose kin died in some other city or distant place,” said George Cheedy, president of Waltair Cemetery. He said the Waltair Cemetery, alone, received only six bodies for burial since March 21, whereas it usually gets at least two to four bodies per day. “Only two to four people came with the body against hundreds of people earlier. We also take only five to 10 minutes for burial works against more than one hour earlier,” Cheedy told TOI. K Mutyalu, a watchman at a Hindu cremation ground at Gnanapuram, said people are afraid of visiting the graveyard due to the Covid-19 scare. “People came with face masks and maintained social distance. But some were even scared to touch the dead body at the time of last rites,” Mutyalu said, adding that there has been no rituals since the lockdown began. A Muslim community leader said they are mulling coming up with rules, such as limiting the gathering at graveyards to 10 to 20, for the current lockdown period. The WHO recently clarified that bodies of Covid-19 patients can either be cremated or buried. It described as myth, the argument that bodies of Covid-19 patients should be cremated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/many-forced-to-miss-relatives-last-rites-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/74956449.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||UJVNL registers record power generation despite lockdown challenges||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (UJVNL) exceeded its power generation targets for the financial year 2019-20 along with attaining the second highest ever generation of a year since its formation, a communique from the corporation said on Thursday. The communique, quoting secretary (energy) and chairperson of UJVN Limited, Radhika Jha said that the large and medium power plants of the corporation generated 5075 million units of energy against its annual target of 4800 million units upto March 31 which was 105.7 percent of the annual target. “Despite the worldwide spread of Covid-19, the record generation is evidence of dedication and hard work of UJVNL employees. It is also praiseworthy that UJVNL attained this generation after the minimum ecological flow was made mandatory for hydropower plants,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ujvnl-registers-record-power-generation-despite-lockdown-challenges/articleshow/74956454.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC praises Borivli man for isolating before symptoms||MUMBAI: Parts of Borivli’s IC Colony were marked as a containment zone on Thursday after a 42-year-old resident who had returned from the UAE last month tested positive for Covid-19. Civic authorities were all praise for the man for strictly following the home quarantine procedure, right from the time he landed in Mumbai, even though he did not show any symptoms for days. According to civic staff, the patient asked his wife and four-year-old son to shift to his mother’s residence in the same locality even before he reached home on March 19. “From the moment he returned, he chose to live alone and his family would visit the building only to keep food outside his flat door. Due to the precautionary measures he took during his self-quarantine, we have no high or low risk contacts to trace. Preliminary findings show he did not meet anyone during the period,” said a civic official. He had no symptoms after his arrival, But earlier this week, he developed a cold and cough and got tested, and received the results on Thursday. Once it was confirmed he was Covid-19 positive, he was shifted to a suburban hospital. It is the first case in the locality and authorities said the virus’s spread was prevented as the patient had isolated himself. Abhishek Ghosalkar, former Shiv Sena corporator from the area, said prima facie there is no need to panic as the patient was well quarantined. But, as a precautionary measure, the administration decided to take police’s help to restrict entry and exit near the man’s building. “This is also because the area has many others who had travelled abroad and are under home quarantine. People in the locality, too, have been very responsible and as it is a residential area, social distancing is also maintained properly. Though there is a lockdown in place, the BMC has taken police assistance to ensure it is strictly implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-praises-borivli-man-for-isolating-before-symptoms/articleshow/74956466.cms||Richa Pinto
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar permits production of essential commodities||RUDRAPUR: To maintain uninterrupted supply of food stuff, both for humans and cattle, amid lockdown in the country due to novel coronavirus outbreak, the Udham Singh Nagar district administration has permitted few FMCG industrial units to start the production of goods. District mgistrate (DM) Neeraj Kharwal said that the decision has been taken in wake of the central government's direction issued on March 26, which states not to obstruct or call for the closure of food processing units, and maintain uninterrupted supply during the nationwide lockdown brought on by the Covid-19 virus outbreak. “ The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has given clear instructions to all the state authorities to ensure interstate movement of goods for the food processing industry", DM said. Earlier on Thursday morning, a group of workers opposed the administration's decision of starting these units during the lockdown period. They claimed that the factories and the administration are putting their lives on stake. However, the representatives from the factories were of a different view. Mrityunjay Singh, HR Manager at Parle, said, "We are committed to work under the strictest of safety and hygiene guidelines. We are following social distancing, sanitization process, providing personal safety kits to the employees and have also reduced the shifts from three to one along with decreasing the manpower number from eighty to fifty each shift". Regional Manager of State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (SIDCUL), Pantnagar industrial area, Paritosh Verma, said, "We have permitted Parle, Dabur, Britannia, Nestle, Haldiram and few other cattle food manufacturing companies to commence the production. Workers, operators and transport vehicles of the concerned units are given due permissions to ensure operational viability and maintain uninterrupted supply of food products. We have also issued stringent guidelines to ensure safety of the workers". "Not only companies at SIDCUL but flour mills and rice mills have also been permitted to embark the manufacturing processes", said DM Kharwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-permits-production-of-essential-commodities/articleshow/74956462.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Kidney patients hit hard by lockdown||Kochi: Scores of underprivileged patients across the state who had undergone kidney transplant and are dependent on immunosuppressive drugs have been hit hard by the lockdown and subsequent shortage. Because of their medical condition and current concerns over the pandemic, it is riskier for them to venture out.. Community pharmacies they depend on, under the Kerala Medical Service Corporation Ltd, are experiencing a shortage of some commonly used medicine brands and it has become impossible for them to procure it. Shajahan Kaithakkal, a resident of Othukkungal in Malappuram said Karunya pharmacies in Manjeri and Tirur do not have the medicines. "We need to go to either Kozhikode of Ernakulam to get them which looks impossible now," he said. Shajahan who underwent transplant surgery four years ago needs medicines worth Rs 14,000 every month. "If these were available from Karunya the cost would not be more than Rs 8,000," he said. "When the lockdown started, I bought medicines for 10 days. Many of us buy them from Ernakulam because they are not locally available in the price that we can afford," says Sumesh T R who needs medicines to the tune of Rs 10,000 every month. Ever since the lockdown began, Sumesh who stays at Pindimana near Kothamangalam, couldn't go to work. "These medicines are costly and I can't buy them in bulk. Since Rengraf was not available doctor advised me to buy a substitute," he said. Harish S, who underwent kidney transplant five years ago says he prefers Rengraf which is in shortage now. "I went to Arogya pharmacy last week they said they don't have stock. Someone got me medicines for five-six days. I am not sure whether I would get medicines now," he said. They are also worried about hopping from store to store in search of medicines. "We are like magnets when it comes to getting an illness. Many medicines like Immutil and Rengraf are not available ever since the start of lockdown," says Mujib Ali, state president, Kerala Kidney Transplant Family Trust with around 100 members across the state. Mujib Ali himself is on immunosuppressants ever since he underwent a kidney transplant. Ali said though he had called the police helpline number - 112 - to deliver life-saving drugs, there was no response. "I have now written to the health minister to take steps to deliver the medicines to Officials with KMSCL said though substitute brands like Pangraf are available they had been facing difficulties in procurement because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kidney-patients-hit-hard-by-lockdown/articleshow/74955260.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Control cell to ensure availability of medicines in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: State government has constituted a control cell to ensure that life-saving drugs are available across the state in the wake of pandemic. Nodal officers and drug inspectors are monitoring the situation at district and divisional headquarters, said a government official, requesting anonymity. The government is also collecting complete data of demand and supply of medicines from chief medical and health officers (CMHOs), wholesalers and retailers of medicines to understand the pattern of requirement of essential drugs, added the source. Talking to TOI, controller of food and drug administration and commissioner food security, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai said that he recently held a meeting with the transport department to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities and medicines. At this meeting, ‘ interstate issues’ pertaining to transportation of essential commodities and medicines during the lockdown were discussed, said Kidwai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/control-cell-to-ensure-availability-of-medicines/articleshow/74957349.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State govt forces relaxation of restrictions at Pothencode||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government, which has been averse to speculations on community spread of Covid-19, forced a relaxation on restrictions imposed in Pothencode panchayat and in the border wards of other local bodies. The restrictions were imposed following the death of Abdul Azeez, a resident of Pothencode, who was a Covid-19 patient. The district administration had to issue two orders on the same day; first ordering closure of all commercial establishments, government offices, banks , financial establishments, educational institutions and other shops including ration shops for three days and then cancelling the order after government had reportedly intervened to nip reports on community spread in the area. It was perceived that a large-scale regional lockdown would be interpreted as an instance of community spread and minister for devaswom, Kadakampally Surendran, pointed out that present situation doesn’t hint at community spread in the area. The first order directed closure of all shops and establishments for three days, subject to review after 48 hours. This was made applicable to entire area of Pothencode panchayat and 23 neighbouring wards of six local bodies. Mike announcements were also issued based on the first order to ensure closure of all shops. District supply officer was directed to ensure that ration shops remained closed and rice kits in these areas are delivered at homes based on the requirement. As the first order became widely circulated on social media, the second order was issued at night saying that the first order regarding additional lockdown measures were cancelled. The minister later told the media that the lack of collective decision was evident in issuance of the first order and that he had communicated this to the collector. Meanwhile, 133 samples of persons identified as primary contacts of Abdul Azeez were collected on Thursday. The team is also sourcing the CCTV videos from the mosque where Abdul Azeez had taken part in Friday prayer. Even though the source of infection is yet to be identified, the minister said that there are no indications of community spread in the area. With the district administration cancelling the order, the local bodies introduced varied regulations in terms of timings for shops selling essential commodities and ration shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-govt-forces-relaxation-of-restrictions-at-pothencode/articleshow/74955266.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Business||Air India to take foreigners back in 18 special flights||NEW DELHI: Air India will operate 18 charter flights to fly back German, French, Irish and Canadian nationals during the lockdown. While the Germans and French will be flown to Frankfurt and Paris (AI’s regular stations), the other two nationalities will be taken to London Heathrow from where Canada and Ireland will make further travel arrangements. "We have been approached by some countries through their embassies in Delhi to operate special charters to fly their citizens back home. AI has signed contracts with four countries to operate 18 evacuation flights from India to fly their citizens out — Germany (10 flights), Canada (6), France (1) and Ireland (1). These flights out of India will be carrying their citizens On the way back to India, the aircraft will not have any cargo or any passenger (ferry flight)," Air India chairman Rajiv Bansal said. These special flights started on Wednesday with German nationals flying back to Frankfurt. Bansal added that AI has got China’s nod to operate cargo flights to ferry medical equipment from there to India. "We have got approval to operate Delhi-Shanghai-Delhi on Saturday and Sunday (April 4 and 5). We are awaiting their clearance to operate cargo-only flights to Shanghai next Monday to Thursday (April 6, 7, 8 and 9). Delhi-Hong Kong-Delhi cargo flights have also been approved by China. These flights will bring medical equipment," said Bansal. From March 26 to Wednesday (April 1), India had seen 85 flights — 62 by Air India Group, 15 by the IAF and 8 by private airlines — within the country to ferry 76 tonnes of medical equipment and other items essential to fight the corona pandemic. "On Thursday morning, an aircraft operated from Hindon IAF base (near Delhi) to Leh carrying vegetables," aviation ministry joint secretary Usha Padhee said. The DGCA on Wednesday allowed passenger configuration aircraft to operate all-cargo flights. Now the number of these flights will accordingly increase. "Airlines will be allowed to operate cargo flights where they will carry our essential medical equipment free and their cargo on commercial terms," said aviation minister H S Puri. International airlines like Emirates and Qatar Airways have also announced cargo flights to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/air-india-to-take-foreigners-back-in-18-special-flights/articleshow/74958155.cms||Saurabh Sinha
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Goods’ movement should not be stalled: CM to PM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the movement of goods among the states are not stalled during the lockdown and sought Centre’s help in importing rapid-test kits from Hong Kong on daily basis to fight Covid-19 in the state. During PM’s video conference with the CMs of various states on Thursday, Vijayan demanded a raise in state’s borrowing limit from 3% to 5% to handle the current fiscal crisis and sought the Centre’s permission to use funds from the SDRF (State Disaster Response Fund) to set up ‘special Covid-19 hospitals’ in the state. “Kerala will receive Rs 157 crore as the state’s share from the SDRF,” Vijayan said. The CM also raised the issue of ensuring the safety of non-Resident Keralites (NRKs) trapped across the globe and requested the PM to direct Indian embassies to set up quarantine centres for those showing symptoms of virus infection in the respective countries. “We have also requested the PM to direct the embassies to make arrangements for repatriation of bodies of NRKs who die abroad other than due to Covid-19 infection,” Vijayan told reporters during his routine media briefing in the evening. The CM has also written to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to look into the issues concerning NRKs, including on the need to repatriate the bodies of those dying abroad due to reasons other than Covid-19 infection. On the inter-state goods’ movement, the CM said he stressed on the need to face the Covid-19 challenge as one nation and that there shouldn’t be ‘any biased stands’. “We have also asked for special travel arrangements for guest workers who are trapped in the state to go to their native places once the lockdown is lifted,” the CM said. Elaborating on the PM’s suggestions and directions to states put forth during the conference, Vijayan said the state will form a task force of experts to prepare state’s suggestions on lifting the lockdown in a gradual manner as directed by the Centre. “The Centre’s plan is to formulate a national-level criterion for lifting the existing lockdown,” he said. As directed, the state will expand its volunteer force to fight the pandemic by incorporating NCC and NSS volunteers, including former cadets and volunteers who have left the organisations during the last five years, the CM said. Among other directions to be followed are formation of district-level crisis management groups involving NGOs and ‘truck online pooling’ to transport agricultural produce to markets. The CM also said the Union health secretary, in his introductory remarks, had pointed out that Covid-19 death rate was low in Kerala despite being on top in the number of positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/goods-movement-should-not-be-stalled-cm-to-pm/articleshow/74955277.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Day’s tally: 16 new cases & two deaths in Madhya Pradesh||INDORE/BHOPAL: Sixteen new people tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday — eight in Indore, five in Bhopal, two in Morena and one in Chhindwara — taking the state tally to 114. Indore recorded two more deaths on Thursday, taking its toll to five and the state’s to eight. A 65-year-old woman of Khajrana locality died at 9.30am at MRTB hospital and a 54-year-old man from Moti Tabela area died a little later. Neither of them had any contact or travel history, said health officials. This is the first time that Morena came on the corona map. They are a couple who had travelled to Dubai and returned on March 17, say officials. The administration has identified 22 people who came in direct contact with them. All of them have been quarantined in hospital and their locality declared a containment zone. Indore CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “Indore recorded eight new positive cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 83. The reports were sent from Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal. The reports of people quarantined in Ashrawad Khurd were found to be positive.” Three of them are from Azad Nagar and one from Khajrana. One of those who died on Thursday — a 65-year-old is also from Khajrana. She was admitted to hospital on March 29 with cough, fever, shortness of breath and weakness. She was treated with antibiotics and Tamiflu, but her condition kept worsening and she was put on ventilator. She also had diabetes and hypothyroidism, which made things worse. The man didn’t have cough and cold but was suffering from acute breathlessness for the last two days. He was admitted to MY Hospital on March 29 and died at 10am on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/days-tally-16-new-cases-two-deaths-in-state/articleshow/74957369.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Differently-abled man donates 1-month pension to relief funds||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 50-year-old poor differently-abled man donated his one month handicap pension to relief funds of both AP and Telangana CMs and the Prime Minister on Thursday. Konche Venkata Ramanamurthy of Narsipatnam, who has polio, gave three cheques worth Rs 1,000 each to the relief funds. He handed over the cheques to the Narsipatnam revenue divisional officer (RDO). “I donated the money after seeing the miserable condition of people stranded without food. I have a few essential commodities that can sustain me till the next pension date,” Ramanamurthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/differently-abled-man-donates-1-mth-pension-to-relief-funds/articleshow/74956495.cms||Siva G
April 3, 2020||Chennai||Time Tamil Nadu tested more people||CHENNAI: Low rates of testing suspect cases for the novel coronavirus may result in increase in numbers in Tamil Nadu, already among the top three states in the number of positive cases, public health experts have warned. The state has so far drawn samples from around 3,000 people, most of them symptomatic after international travel, part of the Tablighi Jamaat group or because they were close contacts of confirmed cases. The state also screens health workers and hospitalized patients with severe acute respiratory illness, fever and cough or shortness of breath. “This has been the protocol given to us by the Union health ministry, prescribed by ICMR after a detailed study,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Experts disagree. “The minute we ramped up testing more than 500 samples a day, we have been seeing cases,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “All incoming passengers should have been tested on the seventh day after they landed. We did not do that.” In comparison, Kerala and Maharashtra have tested more than 7,000 samples so far. And experts like Dr T Sundararaman, former director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre, find even that low. The US has tested more than 8.5 lakh and the UK has tested more than 25,000. “Large scale testing does not mean indiscriminate testing. Covid-19 test should be done based on differential clinical diagnosis. If the treating clinic deems it fit, the test should be done,” he said. Infectious diseases experts and public health experts say Tamil Nadu has fewer people, outside the cluster group testing positive. “Every day the disease profile is changing. The guidelines should change too,” said infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. “It has been nearly 10 days since we shut down our international airports. It is time we include domestic passengers on the list,” he said. “It may be too late to wait for them to come to the hospital with symptoms.” Experts also point out that almost a week after ICMR issued revised guidelines, the state is yet to start testing asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases between the 5th day and the 14th day. This, health secretary Beela Rajesh said, is because there are just 11 government labs and six private labs. “As of now, more than … samples are under process. We are planning one in every medical college. We now have more than 12,000 testing kits. We have ordered more,” she said. Every lab can test up to 100 samples a day. Since Tuesday, testing of asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases in the cluster began, said director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy. Now, the state is appealing to the Centre to revise the guidelines. “But scientists say if tests are done on people who don’t show symptoms it may show false negatives. They feel rapid tests suggested by Kerala may not be fool-proof. South Korea did universal testing. I am sure government of India is considering this as well,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/time-tn-tested-more-people/articleshow/74957374.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Temporary vegetable markets function from schools, colleges||Madurai: The temporary markets set up by Madurai Corporation at school and college grounds in the city started functioning on Thursday. Such markets were earlier functioning on road sides at 14 different locations. Decentralization of larger markets would help in better crowd management apart from ensuring physical distancing owing to availability of space. Some markets received good response, whereas the turnout was less than expected at some. At the Meenakshi Women’s College Ground, a large number vendors turned up responding to the corporation’s appeal, but there was less customers. K Perumal said that compared to roadsides, grounds are better as plenty of space is available to maintain physical distance. Fewer turnout was due to stringent police measures at nearby Goripalayam junction, he said. At the Wakf Board College ground, a large number vendors and customers gathered since 7am. They waited patiently maintaining social distance till their turn came. Corporation officials said that as many as 1,154 shops were created at 51 places in the city. Corporation commissioner S Visakan and a team of officials inspected the markets .  People can visit the market of purchase vegetables through corporation vehicles, which are sent to various places in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temporary-vegetable-markets-function-from-schools-colleges/articleshow/74957381.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Ration shops see early crowds to pick up dole||Madurai: People turned out at ration shops in Madurai early for their share of the dole being provided by the government with many shops seeing the supplies emptied by afternoon as only 50 were given tokens in the morning. The government is providing a dole of Rs 1,000 in cash, rice, dhal, oil and sugar to relieve the stress of families whose members have not been able to go for work due to the lockdown. This curfew has affected the daily wagers more as they usually buy their groceries and rice once in two days, and cannot afford to buy and stock it in advance. On Thursday, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju launched the distribution of the dole at a ration shop in Ponmeni. He said there were a total of 32,965 ration shops in the state including 23,486 full-time through which the dole was being distributed. There are 2,01,46,933 ration card holders in Tamil Nadu. Madurai has a total of 1,356 ration shops, 1,093 of them fulltime, and 8,30,00,622 card holders. The shops would ensure that 100 people got their relief measures a day. People coming to the shops should ensure they wear protective masks and the salesman and police would ensure they bought the groceries only after sanitizing their hands. People need not worry if they had not bought their ration for March as they could avail it in April quota. People who received SMS without receiving cash relief or the essentials could lodge complaints with the concerned authorities. It would be ensured that all the card holders got their share, he said. Social distancing was maintained well in many of the shops where the essentials were distributed on Monday. Kameswari who received her dole in a shop in Anna Nagar said that she was relieved as the price of condiments had gone up in the last one week. WhatsApp messages were circulated claiming that inferior quality rice had been distributed. The district collector acted immediately and ensured that about eight bags of rice in that particular shop were replaced with better quality rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ration-shops-see-early-crowds-to-pick-up-dole/articleshow/74957390.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||9 held under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act||Thiruvananthapuram: The police have started invoking sections of the new Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act that was promulgated as an ordinance by the state government a week ago. On Thursday, the city police arrested as many as nine persons invoking sections that grant the police powers to restrict private transport. As many as six cases were registered at Peroorkada police station and three at Vattiyoorkavu police station. The police said that the sections under the new ordinance were slapped against those who were travelling in vehicles exceeding the passenger limit. Under lockdown scenario not more than two persons are allowed to travel in a car or an autorickshaw. The police on Thursday registered a total of 76 cases in the city till 5pm. As many as 64 vehicles were seized. This include 55 two-wheelers, seven autorickshaws and two cars. Most number of cases were registered at Nemom and Vattiyoorkavu police stations. Under Thiruvananthapuram rural police district, 61 cases were registered and 65 arrests were recorded on Wednesday. Also, 44 vehicles have been seized. City police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said that more number of people are coming out of homes ever since the distribution of free ration and pensions commenced. People should abstain from visiting ration shops randomly. On Friday, only those who have card numbers ending with the digits 4 and 5 are allowed to visit the ration shops. Others must stay at home. Also, only one person from a house will be allowed to visit the ration shop. Similarly, only those who have bank account numbers ending with the digits 2 and 3 will be allowed to visit banks on Friday to receive pensions. Pensioners with PTSB account numbers ending with the digit 2 are allowed time between 9am and 1pm and those whose account numbers end with the digit 3 are allotted time between 1pm and 5pm. Legal action will be taken against those who come out of homes violating these directions, the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/9-held-under-kerala-epidemic-diseases-act/articleshow/74955295.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||189-year-old Amrutanjan bridge to be dismantled||PUNE: The drive between Pune and Mumbai looks set to become a little safer later this month. On Thursday, the Maharashtra Road Development Corporation said it would dismantle a section of the historic Amrutanjan bridge between April 4 and 14. The Pune-Mumbai expressway curves in a dangerous manner under the 189-year-old structure and has been the spot for many fatal accidents and heavy congestion. The pillars of the bridge have divided the road into multiple channels, eating into the carriageway. Highway Safety Patrol personnel said the wide pillars often hinder the movement of traffic. The dismantling will be done nearly three years after MRSDC proposed to bring down the bridge to ease the many problems faced by expressway commuters in the Bor ghat section. “There is hardly any movement of vehicles on the expressway due to the lockdown, and so, little inconvenience would be posed to people while we work. The same contractor working on the construction of tunnels and viaducts on the expressway will bring down the bridge through controlled blasting,” Dilip Ukride, chief engineer, MSRDC-Pune, told TOI. Last June, MSRDC floated a second tender for the dismantling after the first failed to elicit any response. When MSRDC first revealed plans to bring down the historic structure in 2017, it ran into opposition, with more than 20 objections filed against the move. Ukride said the second tender was floated only after the objections were resolved. HSP officials said permission has been sought from the district collector and revenue commissioner of Raigad district to bring down the bridge. “The bridge, which is not being used by traffic, will be brought down by controlled blasting between April 4 and 14. Traffic on the Mumbai to Pune lane will be diverted at Anda Point (44km milestone) and join the expressway at the Lonavla exit (55km milestone), and vice versa for traffic on the Pune-Mumbai lane,” HSP officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/189-year-old-amrutanjan-bridge-to-be-dismantled/articleshow/74957395.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 3, 2020||Chennai||Need more Covid-19 test kits, PPEs: Tamil Nadu govt to Centre||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the supply of test kits, and special assistance of Rs 3,000 crore for strengthening the health infrastructure and for essential equipment, including personal protective equipment, N95 masks and ventilators to handle Covid-19 outbreak. He also sought release of the Central grants for Tamil Nadu, due for the current fiscal, in advance. Palaniswami was among the 10 CMs with whom the PM had a three-hour-long video conference. Palaniswami reiterated his plea for a grant of Rs 9,000 crore, pointing out that the state had 234 cases as on Wednesday evening. The state has put in place containment plan for all districts, where positive cases were reported. Such areas had been sealed to prevent further spread of the disease, he said. The Centre should immediately release 50% of the finance commission grants to the urban and rural local bodies, revenue deficit grant, the pending dues of GST compensation between December and January 2019-20 and the grants under the national health mission, the CM said. While the Reserve Bank of India has raised the Ways and Means Advances (WMA) limit by 30% for all the state governments to tide over the crisis, he demanded that the limit be doubled, and the advances availed in the current fiscal made interest-free. The health department has identified 22,000 beds and 5,934 ICU beds in public and private hospitals so far to meet the crisis. Palaniswami said testing labs had been increased, enough doctors and nurses had been deployed and self-help groups were engaged to manufacture masks and sanitisers. The state has announced a relief package of Rs 3,280 crore for various sectors. Outlining the focus areas like testing of samples and isolation and quarantining of people with symptoms, the PM stressed the need to reach out to community leaders and organizations for a community-based approach against Covid-19. “The chief minister later had a separate session with the state ministers and officials and emphasised the need to trace all Tablighi Jamaat people who attended the Delhi conference and those who had got in touch with them since then,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/increase-supply-of-test-kits-ppes-masks-cm-tells-modi/articleshow/74957389.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Over 100 more from Uttarakhand who attended jamaats in past 28 days quarantined||DEHRADUN: After quarantining 173 people who attended Tablighi Jamaats in the past 28 days from Uttarakhand, state police have now identified another 119 jamaat followers and quarantined them as well, taking the total number to 292. Of these, 245 are in institutional quarantine while the rest have been kept in home quarantine, according to Ashok Kumar, DG law and order, Uttarakhand. “Police are doing a meticulous exercise of tracing the Tablighi Jamaat followers from Uttarakhand who attended the event in the past 28 days. As of now, we have quarantined 292 jammat followers. The exercise is still underway,” said Ashok Kumar. Incidentally, as many as 713 people from Uttarakhand attended regular jamaats in different parts of the country since January 1 this year and police are in process of verifying the identities of all of them. Significantly, police are especially focusing on people who attended jamaat in past 28-days and trying to ascertain their identities. On Wednesday, five people who attended jamaat in Bijnor recently and tried to hide their participation were booked by police. Meanwhile, police are also checking the Call Detail Record (CDR) of each of the 713 who attended jamaat since January 1. According to senior police officials, about 26 people from across Uttarakhand participated in the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi from March 1 to 15 and all of them have not returned and currently are in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-100-more-from-ukhand-who-attended-jamaats-in-past-28-days-quarantined/articleshow/74956516.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mutton shop owners held despite government nod to sell meat||VADODARA: After instances of cops beating up a doctor and stopping trucks transporting essential items in other parts of the state, another instance police’s alleged ignorance about public notification was reported in the city on Wednesday. Staffers of Gotri police station forced closure of a chicken and mutton shop near Akota police line and arrested its owners. P N Jadeja, sub-inspector of Gotri police station, noticed a chicken shop open in Subedar compound. Jadeja and his staff questioned the shop owners Akhtar Hussain Qureshi and his brother Abdul Rahim as to why they had kept their shop open. Police said the duo could not give any satisfactory answer so they were arrested and an offence for violation of public notification was registered against them at Gotri police station. The public notification issued by police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut on March 26 allows shops selling meat and fish to remain open during lockdown like provision, vegetable and medical stores. This notification will be in effect up to April 14. The guidelines issued by Union home ministry in its guidelines issued ahead of lockdown also allowed shops selling meat and fish to remain open. Jadeja himself became the complainant against the duo. The FIR states that despite the lockdown being in effect, the two accused kept their chicken and meat shop open violating the police notification. Interestingly, the FIR cites the Gahlaut’s notification that was in effect only till March 31. “The civic body has to decide whether meat shops can remain open or not and which meat shops can remain open,” said deputy commissioner of police Sandeep Chaudhary. When TOI asked about the notification and guidelines allowing meat and fish shops to remain open, Chaudhary said, “It is possible that the shop owners could be doing some other business under the garb of selling meat.” “There was a huge crowd outside a PDS shop near our shop so police arrived there. On seeing our shop, they questioned and arrested us,” said Abdul Rahim. He added that they were kept at the police station after the offence was registered and were given bail only around 9pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mutton-shop-owners-held-despite-govt-nod-to-sell-meat/articleshow/74954631.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||CM seeks Rs 1L-cr aid from PM for states||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide an immediate assistance of Rs 1 lakh crore to states to deal with the situation arising due to Covid-19 global pandemic. Besides this, he said the Centre, in this hour of crisis, should implement interstate supply chain for uninterrupted supply of essential items, medicines and medical equipment.Gehlot on Thursday took part in a video conference with Prime Minister Modi, along with chief ministers of other states. Apprising the Prime Minister about the decisions taken to provide relief to the needy, including helpless and destitute, poor and construction labourers, he said it is very important that the Central Government extends sufficient help to the states to face this disaster. The chief minister said most of the states were already reeling under severe economic distress due to slump. Now, the entire economy of the state is getting affected due to the lockdown. The industries and businesses are closed. All activities to earn revenue have closed down because of which the revenue collection has been very less compared to the target. Besides, the state government has to provide additional help and economic package to the needy sections to deal with the pandemic. All these have adversely affected the economic situation of the state. Looking to this, the Centre should immediately provide relief package and should also permit to increase the credit limit of the state up to 2%.The chief minister pointed out that at present, all states are placing separate purchase orders of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and ventilators, due to which the rates are high and different too. The Central government through Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should coordinate with the states for the purchase so that medical equipment and ventilators are available to all states on time and at reasonable rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-seeks-rs-1l-cr-aid-from-pm-for-states/articleshow/74957813.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Kasaragod needs more medical professionals||KOCHI: Kasaragod district collector has invited experienced doctors and other medical staff to serve in the district on Thursday. The northern-most district, bordering Karnataka, is the epicentre of the pandemic in the state with the most number of patients. Of the 286 Covid-19 cases reported in the state, 128 are in Kasaragod. Though several medical students have volunteered to serve in the district, doctors felt the district needed experienced hands to help them treat patients. Kasaragod currently has 275 doctors in the public sector, and 400 others working in private hospitals. In a Facebook post, district collector D Sajith Babu said with the number of Covid-19 patients crossing 100, the district was in dire need of final year MBBS and nursing students, as well as those students who had completed internships to assist the existing healthcare professionals. Those volunteering would be provided boarding, lodging and transport, the collector said, even as he sought the help of doctors practising in other districts, and of practitioners working elsewhere, but have been in Kasaragod because of the lockdown. “Several of medical students have agreed to work in Kasaragod. But we need qualified doctors with one or two years of experience,” said Babu. Health officials said the district required at least 50 to 100 experienced doctors and around 500 nurses. Meanwhile, the Kerala University of Health Sciences has submitted a list of 827 medical, dental and nursing students from Kasaragod and Kannur districts to the district collector. “Students, who had completed MBBS exams, can start their internship by getting provisional certificate from the Travancore Cochin Medical Council. Ideally, a student should intern in the college they study. But since it is difficult for students to travel due to the lockdown, they have been advised to report to the district medical officer,” KUHS vice-chancellor Dr Mohanan Kunnummal said. The vice-chancellor also said their service during the pandemic would be considered as part of their community medicine work, and the university would issue them a certificate, which would of immense value in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kasaragod-needs-more-medical-professionals/articleshow/74955297.cms||Preetu Nair
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-Roorkee develops low cost ventilator for Covid-19 patients||Roorkee: IIT Roorkee has claimed to have developed a low-cost portable ventilator that can be used for Covid-19 patients. The closed-loop ventilator, named “Prana-Vayu”, has been developed in collaboration with AIIMS Rishikesh and is equipped with state-of-the-art features, the institute claimed. Officials said that the ventilator will be useful in cases where patients suffer from congestion in respiratory tract. Major features of this ventilator include — remote monitoring by health professionals, touch screen control of all operating parameters, and moisture and temperature control for inhaled air. The prototype of the ventilator (approximately 1.5 feet X 1.5 feet) has been tested successfully as per the institute.. "Prana-Vayu has been designed especially for Covid-19 pandemic. It is low-cost, safe, reliable, and can be manufactured quickly. It can be used for all patients, be it infants or overweight adults,” said Akshay Dwivedi, Tinkering Laboratory coordinator of IIT-R, who was part of the research team which also included IIT-R professor Arup Kumar Das. He added that the ventilator does not require compressed air for functioning and can be especially useful in cases when hospital wards or open areas are converted into ICUs. The cost of manufacturing such a ventilator is estimated to be around Rs 25,000. “It is heartening that several firms have approached us for mass production of such ventilators,” said Ajit K Chaturvedi, IIT-R director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-develops-low-cost-ventilator-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74956537.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||SSH gets nod for liver, heart transplant equipment||Nagpur: Liver and heart transplant operations are set to become a reality at Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) attached to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after the medical education drug department approved equipment worth Rs 1 crore for it on March 31. At present heart transplant facility is available in government medical colleges at Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad. In Nagpur, it’s available at private New Era Hospital where first transplant was done in June last year. GMCH will be the first government medical college to get this facility here. Liver transplant is available in several private hospitals in city. Several liver transplants have been successfully done in Nagpur till date. GMCH will now have heart, liver as well as kidney transplant facilities. “Heart transplant at GMCH will be a major milestone. The process was under way since several months. Getting administrative approval for instruments makes way for establishment of both heart and liver transplant facilities. These facilities at GMCH will benefit entire Vidarbha, Marathwada and most part of central India,” said dean Dr Sajal Mitra. The SSH at present has kidney transplant facility. More than 60 successful transplant surgeries have been performed here. It’s the only government hospital in state to have performed so many kidney transplants in a short period of four years. Experts and activists promoting in organ donation have called a step towards GMC becoming a Transplant Centre. Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) Nagpur secretary Dr Sanjay Kolte said that Transplant Centre was an institute where doctors were trained to perform all transplant surgeries. At present, only one such government-run centre of India exists at Ahmedabad. “Kidney transplant facility is well established in GMCH. Bringing liver and heart transplant here can help develop first Transplant Centre of Maharashtra here. Organ donation will get a major boost when liver and heart transplants begin here,” said Dr Kolte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ssh-gets-nod-for-liver-heart-transplant-equipment/articleshow/74957409.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 28 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat event quarantined||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has identified 41 residents from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Out of them, 26 have been quarantined at a building opposite Yenepoya Hospital on the hospital premises, and four, including two not connected with the event, at ESI hospital, on Thursday. The rest are in quarantine facilities outside the district, and even outside the state. Mangaluru City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty said most of these people who attended the event at Nizamuddin Markaz are asymptomatic of Covid-19, but they have been quarantined as per standard operating procedure. Noting that most of these patients have passed the normal incubation period for the coronavirus, he said they are still being quarantined as an additional precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/28-attendees-of-tablighi-jamaat-event-quarantined/articleshow/74956551.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Banks to revert to normal business hours from today||Jaipur: Banks, both private and government, will revert to normal working hours from Friday even as the services will be restricted to basic functions of deposits, withdrawals, cheque clearances, remittances and government transactions.Employees of all the banks will be on roaster duty, meaning 50% of the workforce will work alternatively in order to adhere to the social distancing precautions at the workplace as well.Besides, bank branches reorganized the customer walk-in systems to ensure a six-metre distance, while training the security staff to offer sanitisers to the customers and guide them for following the precautionary measures.“The security staff will not allow any customer without a mask. Once inside the branch, they are required to follow the new movement systems made in keeping with the social distancing measures,” said a senior official of the bank.The branches are expected to see more customers on Friday which is a routine affair during the beginning of every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banks-to-revert-to-normal-business-hours-from-today/articleshow/74957815.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||Air India crew complain about passengers on relief flight||Mumbai: Passengers leaving their seats to sit along the aisle, passengers without mask, some roaming aimlessly throughout the cabin, passengers constantly buzzing crew for liquor, hot beverages. These are some of the experiences faced by Air India flight attendants who operated relief flights from Mumbai and Delhi to Frankfurt in the past two days. Following complaints from its crew, Air India on Thursday responded thatv since these flights are “ferrying only screened healthy passengers, there is hardly any chance of infection” . This drew flak. Air India crew has appealed that the foreign embassies that arrange for these relief flights should brief their citizens about precautions to be followed to limit possible contagion. “Passengers should be educated about ways they could contract the infection onboard and ways they could spread it to others. When evacuation flights were operated to Wuhan, pre-packed food and a bottle of water was kept on each seat before passengers boarded.They were told there would be no service on board the flight. The protocol should be followed,’’ said a senior crew member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-india-crew-complain-about-passengers-on-relief-flight/articleshow/74957814.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Impounded vehicles being released in 8-10 hours: Joint CP||Pune: Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve on Thursday said vehicles impounded of people found violating the lockdown norms would be released after 8-10 hours of the seizure.The police has impounded over 2,000 vehicles of people found travelling without valid reasons. “We have impounded the vehicles of wanderers for violating the government’s directives because prime facie they could not offer logical reasons for coming out on the roads,” Shisve told TOI.Additional commissioner of police (traffic) Sanjay Shinde said, “The vehicles have been impounded as people are not taking the lockdown seriously despite appeals to stay at home in view of the Covid-19 spread.”Retired public prosecutor and lawyer Balasaheb Khopade said, “The police action of impounding vehicles till April 14 is legally correct. A nine member committee headed by the chief minister formed under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, has given special powers to various authorities including police to take necessary measures to prevent people from coming out on the roads to prevent the spread of coronavirus.”Khopade said the police had powers to release the vehicles under section 102 of the Criminal Procedure Code. “‘The police action cannot be challenged in the courts or the courts cannot interfere in the police action,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/impounded-vehicles-being-released-in-8-10-hours-joint-cp/articleshow/74957399.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 3, 2020||Chennai||Handwash facilities must where people gather, says Tamil Nadu govt||CHENNAI: Administrators of educational institutions, corporate houses, places of worship, entertainment parks, housing complexes, retail chains, malls and hospitals in Tamil Nadu will have to face six months in jail with or without fine if they do not ensure supply of adequate water, soap and washbasins on their premises. A public notice from director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy said administrators of these areas should also encourage people to use handwash facilities while entering and exiting the compound to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Handwash facilities should be placed at the entrance and there should be adequate supply of water, soap and washbasins inside the campus as well. The facility should be proportionate to the number of people,” Kolandasamy told TOI. Violations will lead to punishments under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, and the IPC. Novel coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or by touching surfaces contaminated with it. There is no specific vaccine and treatment for it. Advisories from international agencies such as WHO say frequent cleaning of the hands is the best way to prevent infection. “By doing so, you eliminate the virus that may be on your hands,” Dr Kolandasamy said. The notice also makes it mandatory for hospitals to inform the government in writing about admission of a Covid-19 patient within 24 hours. Hospital administrators must disinfect the premises as per standard protocol. Private hospitals have been permitted to admit and treat patients. “They are also allowed to send samples to private labs, but they should notify positive cases to the government. If they don’t, we will seal the hospital and initiate legal charges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/handwash-facilities-must-where-people-gather-says-govt/articleshow/74957402.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Hotels wear hearts on their facades||Pune: Amid the lockdown, the city hotels are doing their bit to instill hope and spread the message of love, displaying the symbolic heart across the facades of their properties. The initiative has been taken up by the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India’s (HRAWI). At least two hotels in Pune recently did something similar. One displayed a lit-up heart on its facade, while another displayed the word “LOVE”. HRAWI president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said, “At this juncture, we all need hope. The heart is a symbolic representation of the hospitality and tourism industry. We want to tell people that we are here for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-wear-hearts-on-their-facades/articleshow/74957405.cms||Neha Madaan
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 56% of cases in Maharashtra, more medical staff hit||MUMBAI: The state reported two new Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai and one in Pune on Thursday, taking Maharashtra’s toll to 22. Also, with 88 new patients, Maharashtra breached the 400 mark to record 423 cases, galloping ahead of most other states. The one good news was that 42 patients have recovered and gone home since March 9. Mumbai has emerged as the state’s epicentre, reporting 235 or 56% of the state’s total cases. Maharashtra’s daily report said 54 of the 88 cases were from Mumbai, 11 from Pune, nine each from Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Ahmednagar, two from Aurangabad, and one each from Satara, Osmanabad and Buldhana. State authorities, though, clarified the 54 cases in Mumbai included 40 previously detected in private laboratories that were sent for reconfirmation. The state announced four deaths on Thursday, all in the city. TOI had reported two of these on Wednesday. Among the latest victims was a 61-year-old blood cancer patient who was admitted to Nair Hospital on March 31. Officials said he died on Wednesday afternoon. The second victim from the city was also in his 60s. Officials said he was a 63-year-old man who passed away at Kasturba Hospital. The Pune victim was a 50-year-old from Raviwar Peth who succumbed to associated acute respiratory distress syndrome at state-run Sassoon General hospital. The woman was admitted for breathlessness on Wednesday and tested positive on Thursday, making her the second casualty from Pune. A 68-year-old man who tested positive on March 31 passed away at a private hospital in Nalasopara on Thursday. But authorities have not confirmed whether he died of Covid-19. After his death, Om Nagar area in Vasai where he lived was sealed. He was admitted to the hospital for cardiac ailment on March 29. In Mumbai, meanwhile, Dharavi was a bed of surveillance activity as two new cases were detected on Thursday, including a surgeon from Wockhardt Hospital and a BMC sweeper. The 35-year-old doctor was being taken to S L Raheja Hospital at the time of going to press. Dharavi has reported three cases. Incidentally, At least two nurses tested positive at Wockhard Hospital and there were three deaths. At Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli, at least 40 staffers were quarantined after a dialysis patient succumbed. Hospital authorities did not say if medical services would be suspended. At Sion Hospital, too, where the 58-year-old Dharavi resident died on Wednesday, several staffers were quarantined. Dean Dr Pramod Ingale said their swabs were collected. A constable (57), his wife and two children were admitted to different hospitals over suspicion of Covid-19. Health minister Rajesh Tope said 30 government hospitals outside Mumbai would treat coronavirus patients. The total bed strength will be 2,305.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-records-56-of-cases-in-state-more-med-staff-hit/articleshow/74957407.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mysuru||Tippler attempts suicide in Mysuru||MYSURU: A 45-year-old alcoholic is battling for life in a private hospital after attempting suicide over the non-availability of liquor due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Anand, a tourist guide and resident of Hoysala Nagar in south Mysuru, slit his throat with a knife on Wednesday. Family members said Anand had withdrawal symptoms. Vidyaranyapuram police and hospital representatives said Anand is critical and under observation at the ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tippler-attempts-suicide-in-mysuru/articleshow/74946301.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Deadline of realty projects extended||Pune: Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory (MahaRERA) has extended the deadline for all projects with completion date, revised completion date and extended completion date expiring on or after March 15 by three months. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu said that the time limits for statutory compliances in accordance with Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, and rules made there under, due in March / April / May, have been extended till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deadline-of-realty-projects-extended/articleshow/74957412.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Church extends helping hand to fisherfolk||Thiruvananthapuram: In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and discussions over ensuring a ‘basic income’ for all, a church at a rural fishing hamlet in the district has walked the talk. It has decided to distribute Rs 2,000 to all families under it who are in deep financial misery due to the lockdown. Our Lady of Assumption Church, Marianad, under the Thiruvananthapuram Latin Archdiocese will provide Rs 2,000 for 1,677 families under it. Church vicar Fr Jerard Dasan said that the families, majority of them fishermen, had decided to stay indoors as a precautionary measure to prevent spread of the pandemic.  “Even before the state and Centre announced a lockdown, our fishermen had taken the precautionary measures as the area usually witnesses huge participation of outsiders for auction of fish. But as they are sitting jobless for a week and there is uncertainty over the upcoming days, we thought of ways to support them. Archbishop Soosa Pakiam had asked us to provide support to the poor, sick and widows. All we have is the contribution from the fishermen community, who always earmarked a portion of their revenue to the church. So now it is our turn to support them,” said Jerald Dasan. The church asked its members to take a list of the number of families who need support. “We told them that if anyone does not need financial support, it could be utilized for others who are in dire need of money. Interestingly, 98 families gave statement that they don’t need money. Rs 2,000 each will be distributed to 1,677 families from Friday,” the vicar said. Fr Jerard Dasan said that a decision on continuing the support will be taken after Easter. “It happens on mutual confidence between the church and its members. We know that we will be there for each other if there is a need,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/church-extends-helping-hand-to-fisherfolk/articleshow/74955311.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Posing as health workers, police nab duo for murder||PUNE: A crime branch police team posing as health workers nabbed two of the six men wanted for robbery and murder of a truck driver, who was killed near Daund on Pune-Solapur highway, about 110km from the city, in the early hours of Monday. The team used an ambulance for tracing the suspects in their localities. “During investigation, we received a tip-off that the gang members were from the localities near Daund and they would be coming visiting Gopalwadi-Patas Road on Wednesday. Accordingly, the police reached the spot. The suspects, however, started running away. The police team chased them for almost 2km before nabbing two of the suspects,” inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the crime branch of the Pune rural police, told TOI. He said the arrested, Ganesh Chan (22) and Samir Bhosale (19) from Daund, had admitted to their involvement in the robbery-cum-murder case. “The gang was also involved in a dacoity, two robberies and equal number of thefts, including robbery of MSEDCL’s operator from Varvand near Daund on March 23,” the officer said. Kashinath Kadam (55) was on his way to Pimpri from Osmanabad on Monday to deliver pulses when he stopped at Malad for answering nature’s call. The arrested duo, along with their four accomplices, then stabbed Kadam to death and robbed him. The police team initially carried out searches in Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur districts. “Due to the coronavirus spread, health officials are currently visiting localities in different villages. We took advantage of this and posed as health officials. We travelled in the ambulance so that the suspects would not get alerted,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/posing-as-health-workers-police-nab-duo-for-murder/articleshow/74957418.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Join fight against virus: Guv to religious leaders||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra has appealed to the mahants, maulanas, fathers and gurus of various religious communities to cooperate in medical investigations to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Governor Mishra has urged the returnees from Tablighi Jamaat not to be afraid but support the health workers, administration and police. He said about 171 people in the country have been cured of the disease so far. Mishra held a telephonic conversation with chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday on the prevailing situation in the state. He appealed to the people come forward to feed animals and birds and ensure that no person sleeps hungry. Mishra also had a conversation with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Later, the governor received a list of 400 labourers from UP working in factories in different districts of Rajasthan. He gave necessary instructions to the collectors of the districts for arranging medical assistance and food for these people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/join-fight-against-virus-guv-to-religious-leaders/articleshow/74957817.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Godavari districts up preparedness, PG students’ help sought||KAKINADA/ELURU: East Godavari district is bolstering its coronavirus prepared after nine positive cases were reported in the district. Among them, eight people participated in the religious gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz or came in contact with those who attended it. The eighth person is a London-returnee. East Godavari district medical and health department has received a list of 27 persons who returned from the religious meet in Delhi. Meanwhile, tests have been conducted for 294 persons and results are awaited in 44 cases, which are expected on Friday. And 3,442 foreign returnees who are in home quarantine are going to complete their 14 days in a few days. Speaking to TOI, district medical and health officer Dr Satya Suseela said another 97 doctors are required in urban areas to fulfil the norms laid down by the government such as one doctor is needed for every two wards in municipal corporations, one doctor for three wards in municipalities and one doctor for each nagar panchayat. She further said the services of postgraduate students are being sought. Fifteen students have been taken from GSL Medical College in Rajahmundry and Rangaraya Medical College in Kakinada, respectively. She said 1,322 non-ICU isolation beds and 127 ICU beds are available in the district and added that there is a quarantine facility for 6,509 persons. As far as West Godavari district is concerned, 15 corona positive cases have been identified till now. Speaking to TOI, district coordinator of health services Dr Sankar Rao said all 4,652 foreign returnees in the district have been identified, except 30 whose addresses have changed. He said that tests have been conducted for 197 persons and results are awaited for 138 persons. He said 802 isolation beds (non-ICU) and 106 ICU beds are available in the district and quarantine facility is available for 1,828 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/godavari-dists-up-preparedness-pg-students-help-sought/articleshow/74956567.cms||Samson Raj
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Now, get fruits too delivered at streets||Madurai: Madurai Corporation, which had earlier facilitated the sale of assorted vegetables’ bag, by sending them to street corners through vehicles will now start selling fruits through the same vehicles. One can pay Rs 100 to get five varieties of fruits like orange, mosambi, ‘paneer’ grapes, guava and sapota. Just like vegetables fruits will also be prepacked and ready for sales. Each variety will have half kg quantity, officials said. With curfew in place, people started demanding fruits since it is an important part of the diet of all age groups. Children and elderly require fruits the most. It was materialized after a meeting with wholesale fruits sellers in the presence of corporation officials led by Madurai corporation commissioner on Wednesday and Thursday. Officials said that they have been brainstorming for ways to simplify the lives of denizens during the difficult times. A higher official said that they got a response from the public that Rs 250 is too much cost to be spent on vegetables, hence price of the assorted veggie bag was brought down to Rs 200. The new price will be applicable from Friday. It will also address the problem of finding Rs 50 change for every bag sale. To suit the need of poor people Rs 100 assorted vegetable bag will be introduced from Friday. It will have 12 items against 20 items sold for Rs 200. Madurai corporation took a cue from Theni district administration, which introduced assorted vegetable bag. The corporation has deployed 100 vehicles and drivers for this purpose. Fruits and vegetables packed by wholesale vendors will be sold with the help of volunteers from a couple of originations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/now-get-fruits-too-delivered-at-streets/articleshow/74957420.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Organizations loosen purse strings||Jaipur: From temples to textile mills, banks to industry bodies, institutions and organizations from across the spectrum have joined the government in the fight against coronavirus epidemic by contributing donations to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund Covid-19, distributing food to the poor and the needy and setting up coronavirus testing facilities.Besides distributing food packets to the stranded migrant workers, the Kailadevi Temple in Bharatpur has donated Rs 11 lakh to the Rajasthan CMRF Covid-19 Mitigation Relief Fund. The textile industry in the state has contributed close to Rs 7 crore.LNJ Bhilwara group has contributed Rs 5.5 crore including Rs 1.5 crore to Rajasthan CMRF, Rs 2 crore to PM Fund and Rs 2 crore to other states.Similarly, AU Small Finance Bank has donated Rs 5 crore that includes a contribution of Rs 2 crore to PM Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund and supporting Rajasthan government for a testing facility at Bhilwara, one of the worst-hit districts. Besides, the bank is contributing over Rs 2 crore to fight the epidemic through its CSR initiatives.Esskay Fincorp has given Rs 21 lakh to the CM relief fund while supporting the needy people by distributing food packets, sanitisers and masks.SBI, whose staff contributed Rs 100 crore to the PM Fund nationally, is also distributing 500 food packets in areas like Harijan Basti and Kharatis. “State Bank of India is providing food to the needy throughout Rajasthan and will continue to discharge its social responsibility till the global epidemic ends,” said Ravindra Pandey, chief general manager, Jaipur.Akshaya Patra Foundation, supported by Hans Foundation, has started relief work intervention in Jaipur and Ajmer by providing free meals twice a day to about 5,000 people in coordination with the local district administration. Princess Diya Kumar Foundation has been providing essential items like soaps, bedsheets, biscuits, gloves and masks for inmates of eight isolation centres.Industry body Jaipur Jewellery Show (JJS) contributed Rs 11 lakh to the CM Fund, while the youth wing of Credai-Rajasthan has decided to provide provision for 1,000 families for a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/organizations-loosen-purse-strings/articleshow/74957816.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar elderly had no travel history to other countries||Jaipur: A day after being tested positive for Covid-19, an 85-year-old person, who was rushed from Alwar to Jaipur with difficulty in breathing, died while undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital in the city on Thursday. This is the third Covid-19 death reported from the state. The first two deaths occurred in Bhilwara.“The patient was suffering from hypertension, brain hemorrhage, ischemic heart disease and acute respiratory disease syndrome,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health.The deceased belonged to Nangla Madhopur village of Kherli town in Alwar district. After health department officials in Alwar received information of the death in Kherli town, they rushed to the area and screened his relatives. However, health authorities are shocked as the person who died had paralysis two months ago and had no travel history to foreign countries. “We are investigating the matter. As of now, we have not found any Covid-19 person, with whom he came into contact in his village,” said Dr O P Meena, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Alwar.However, the patient had travelled to Jaipur’s SMS Hospital and returned to his village. “He had gone to SMS Hospital for treatment of stroke, hypertension and paralysis on March 8 and within few days after getting the treatment, he returned to his village,” said Dr Meena. Since the patient is unconscious, his relatives realised that the patient had difficulty in breathing. He was rushed to SMS Hospital on March 31. “While he was undergoing treatment, we decided to conduct the test. His samples were taken and he tested positive for Covid-19,” said an SMS Hospital doctors, adding that he died of cardio-pulmonary arrest. The health department is taking to find out from where the deceased, who was unconscious for the past two months due to stroke and hypertension, had contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-elderly-had-no-travel-history-to-other-countries/articleshow/74957821.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Now, vets join hands with volunteers to feed stray dogs||Madurai: While many organizations and individuals have come forward to help homeless people during the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a handful of veterinarians led by the joint director (JD) of animal husbandry department, Madurai Dr D Suresh Christopher, have taken on the task to feed the stray animals. There are thousands of these dogs found roaming on the streets and their food was never a problem before the lockdown with people providing them leftovers. However, since the lockdown has been announced, these stray animals are also starving. Many organizations including CARE Trust, Oorvanam, Nandri Maravel and individuals, who worked for animal welfare, had approached the district administration seeking help to feed these homeless animals. The district collector Dr T G Vinay had passed on their message to Dr Christopher, who along with his team of doctors including clinician veterinary polyclinic Dr K Vairavasamy, kick started the process to source rice for the animals. “We have been able to get many bags of 25 kg rice and we are giving it to the volunteers and also providing cooked rice to those, who come forward to distribute it to the animals,” said Dr Christopher. A voluntary organization, Oorvanam, has been distributing rice parcels to many homeless people in the city. P R Viswanath, one of the founders of the organization, said that they set aside a small portion of what they cook, for the purpose of feeding the street dogs, and have been feeding about 35 to 50 dogs, which are usually seen roaming in packs in Thirunagar region. Curd rice or sambar rice is what is being provided. They said that people, who cannot provide food, could contribute to the cause by leaving a trough of water outside on the streets as the climatic temperatures are rising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/now-vets-join-hands-with-volunteers-to-feed-stray-dogs/articleshow/74957425.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Panic in southern sectors, search for leopard continues||CHANDIGARH: With residents of southern sectors in panic, the UT forest and wildlife department continued its search operation for the third consecutive day for a leopard allegedly spotted in Sector 45 on Tuesday morning. The wild cat was not traced till the filing of the report. Different teams, led by UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai, also interacted with residents of sectors 43 and 56. Dalai said, “A woman in Sector 56 claimed that she saw a leopard around 2pm Thursday. Sanitary workers in Sector 43 said they found the head of a stray dog on Wednesday morning, which they disposed of.” The department has requested residents to share footage of CCTV cameras installed in their areas. After laying a cage trap in Sector 43, the officials will now place another one in Sector 56. The search operation would continue during the next couple of days too, he added. On March 31, police control room had received a call at 4.45am from Sector 45 about the presence of a leopard. The forest and wildlife department had even found pugmarks of an animal on the dividing road of sectors 34 and 44, close to the Sector 45 location from where the first alert was received. They were not sure whether those pugmarks were of a leopard or any other animal. The police on Thursday, too, made public announcements in southern sectors requesting residents to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-3-panic-in-southern-sectors-search-for-leopard-continues/articleshow/74956583.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Suzuki Motors, Rajkot firm close to making ventilators||GANDHINAGAR: Auto giant Suzuki Motors and a Rajkot-based engineering company are close to developing cost effective ventilators even as the state looks to ramp up the number of ventilators available to counter the novel coronavirus pandemic. Even as the state government has made a requisition of 270 ventilators from the central government and has placed an order of 185 ventilators in the open market, it also asked auto manufacturers and engineering companies to develop ventilators which will be readily available in case the need arises. Manoj Das, principal secretary to chief minister Vijay Rupani and industry & mines department, said, “Suzuki Motors and its local vendor, a Rajkot-based industry have developed optional ventilators. The Suzuki Motors vendor was already making ventilator parts and we asked for cost effective fully-equipped ventilators. They have informed us that they have developed ventilators which will be priced at one-tenth of those available in the open market. We are hopeful that this attempt will be successful, and we will be able to meet our demands and supply ventilators to other states as well.” He added that although the state presently has sufficient ventilators, and these newly developed ventilators will be useful if the need arises. “The state government has extended full support to the project and we are hopeful of successful results in next few days itself. The state has been promoting the medical device industry and we hope this venture becomes successful,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suzuki-motors-rajkot-firm-close-to-making-ventilators/articleshow/74957429.cms||Kapil Dave
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Online classes keep students up-to-date in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: While shops were closed down and transport suspended, technology has allowed schools and colleges run online. A majority of the corporate colleges have been providing online classes to prepare their students for the next academic year. “We have been preparing worksheets and uploading them on our school websites for the students. Teachers of different subjects are now posting videos on the subject and giving online exercises to students,” said a teacher of an international school, A Teja. Other schools have opted to use various apps to continue their classes. “There are apps such as Zoom, which allow online conferences. Most schools and colleges for SSC and Intermediate are conducting video classes,” said another teacher Shanmukha Rao. Students usually download the exercises and after doing them email them to their respective teachers. The latter then corrects them and sends them back to their students. “We started video classes for JEE exams. Classes are going on from 8.30 am to 10.30 am, 4.30 pm to 5.30 pm and an hour in the night,” said another teacher. She added that they have been conducting mock tests online as well. A student of one of the corporate colleges, Ram Kumar told TOI.“The lockdown has not hampered our routine. We are continuing to study with the help of online classes and now we have plenty of time to study,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/online-classes-keep-students-up-to-date/articleshow/74956579.cms||Siva G
April 3, 2020||Pune||Cops use decoys to check fuel sale||Pune: The city police have started sending decoy customers to petrol pumps to check possible instances of illegal sale of fuel, in violation of the lockdown directives. The police have so far filed cases of disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code against 19 petrol pumps for supplying fuel to motorists not exempted under the directives. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Swapna Gore told TOI, “We have started sending decoy customers to find out why people are travelling on roads and from where they are getting fuel. In one such action, we caught a pump attendant red-handed for supplying fuel to a delivery boy of an online aggregator after he showed his identity card at a fuel station in Shivajinagar. The delivery boy was not travelling on an official vehicle, he was not on duty and he had purchased fuel for his friend.” The spokesperson of the Petroleum Dealers Association Ali Daruwala said, “Most fuel pumps have closed due to staff crunch. Conflicting orders issued by the state/central government and city police have created confusion. We have requested police to verify credentials of people on emergency duty or depute volunteers before supplying them fuel but our demand was not considered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-use-decoys-to-check-fuel-sale/articleshow/74957423.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: 20-year old student found hanging||A 20-year-old woman student of a college in Vimannagar was found hanging inside her hostel room on Wednesday night. The Airport police said it was a case of suicide as the room was locked from inside. Police suspect that the student, who was pursuing her last-year studies of mass communication, was under stress.“The student was supposed to present herself for the evening roll calls. When she did not, the hostel authorities decided to check on her. They went to her room in the hostel and found that the room was locked from inside. The authorities then entered her room from the bathroom window and found her hanging from the ceiling fan around 8.20pm,” senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of the Airport police told TOI. No suicide note was found. Her friends informed the police that the students were supposed to submit an online study programme in next few days. “The deadline was approaching and she was tensed as her submission was not ready. Primary facie we presumed that the student was under stress,” he said. The police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-yr-old-student-found-hanging/articleshow/74957433.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Decision to move all corona patients to PGI wrong: Docs||tnnChandigarh: The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) of PGIMER has termed the decision of the UT administration to shift all Covid-19 positive patients to PGI as “unscientific”. They said the measure to convert Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE) as Covid-19 hospital would further spread the virus and the step should be avoided.The ARD proposed that patients be referred from other hospitals only if they require ventilator support not available at the tertiary care facilities. This would allow optimum utilisation of the dedicated NHE, it added. On April 1, the UT administration had issued an order, directing the transfer of all Covid-19 patients to NHE. An ARD member said, “Safe transfer of these patients endangers lives of those involved in the transport.” ARD president Dr Uttam Thakur, while calling the decision unscientific, said, “The number of Covid-19 patients in the UT stands at 18. They are being effectively isolated at all three tertiary care government facilities in Chandigarh. The isolation facilities at none of these centres stand overwhelmed. Their transfer at this stage poses a risk of infection to all those involved in transport, their families and neighbours. To carry out this exercise regularly with daily fresh cases increases this risk manifold. Ambulance drivers, accompanying doctors, nursing staff and the accompanying policemen all stand at risk.”The ARD member said the sensitivity of testing was not 100%, so this could leave behind Covid-19 patients with false negative report at other hospitals. “The patient attendants and healthcare providers will have a false sense of security that they are dealing with non-Covid-19 patients. Unprotected, they will be at high risk of infection, which ultimately may result in community spread,” Dr Thakur said, adding that once the limited number of beds in the Nehru Extension were occupied by stable, non-oxygen requiring patients, there would be a paucity of resources and manpower for sick positive cases being referred from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and other northern states with acute respiratory distress syndrome. ‘Other hosps can be used’Dr Uttam Thakur said, “Two able tertiary care government hospitals are being absolved of their responsibility toward managing patients in this time of crisis, when the contribution of every healthcare worker is of immense importance. Feasibility of vacant, almost-ready other hospitals of UT, like the one in Sector 48, Chandigarh, to convert into a Covid-19 hospital should be considered. Entire medical fraternity with nursing staff can be included for rotational postings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/decision-to-move-all-corona-patients-to-pgi-wrong-docs/articleshow/74956586.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: 3 new positive cases in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Three new corona positive patients were reported in Uttarakhand on Thursday. The health department refused to confirm if they had any connection with Tablighi Jamaat. All three are admitted at different facilities in Udham Singh Nagar district. The department on Thursday sent 98 samples for Covid-19 testing, and said it is the highest in the state so far. The state has conducted 678 tests till now of which results of 117 are awaited. The state’s tally of Covid-19 positive patients has now touched 10 with two patients who had initially tested positive discharged from hospital. DG health Dr Amita Upreti said, "We have put 245 people associated with Tablighi Jamaat in institutional quarantine.” DEHRADUNMeanwhile, a 25-year-old youth, recently returned from Abu Dhabi, was admitted to Srinagar Medical College, almost 12 days after he returned from UAE. The youth's parents and a sibling were also quarantined viewing his travel history .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-3-new-positive-cases-in-ukhand/articleshow/74956590.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No positive cases yet from Vizianagaram, Srikakulam||VIZIANAGARAM: While Covid-19 positive cases are being reported from across the state, not a single case has been reported from Vizianagaram district till now. While this may appear to be cause for cheer, a look at the sample base gives a different picture. The number of samples tested so far is a mere 12, which is not a comforting news, particularly considering the fact that the district shares its borders with Chhattisgarh and Odisha. The sole sample collection centre is also situated in the district headquarters. Joint collector (2) N Kurmanath, who is also the Covid nodal officer of the district, too admitted that number of samples tested so far is too low. “What’s even more worrying is that very few people are coming forward to get themselves tested, perhaps due to the fear factor. All samples tested so far are from Vizianagaram revenue division and all have come out negative. The Parvathipuram revenue division has hardly been covered,” he told TOI. Medical and health department sources pointed out that they are mostly getting their data from Asha workers. Many locals, who frequently travel to Odisha, Chhattisgarh and other parts of the country have not been properly monitored, they said, while adding that the samples of the three people from the district who attended the Jamaat in Delhi have been sent for testing. Not just Vizianagaram, no positive case has been reported from the Srikakulam either. As many as 45 samples have been tested in Srikakulam district so far, out of which 23 came out negative and the results of 22 are pending. Of the 45 samples from Srikakulam, 12 belong to contacts of foreign returnees, seven samples are those of Delhi returnees while the remaining 26 samples belong to their contacts. In Vizianagaram, officials have collected samples of one foreign returnee, four Delhi returnees and seven samples of their contacts. Srikakulam district medical and health officer M Chenchayya said majority of samples have come out negative, while the samples of 13 persons, who are in isolation at the government hospital in Srikakulam, have been sent for testing. Neighbouring Vizag has reported 11 positive cases so far. Two patients — a 23-year-old foreign returnee from Nellore and a 65-year-old from Vizag — have recovered and discharged from the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-positive-cases-yet-from-vizianagaram-srikakulam/articleshow/74956597.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 3, 2020||Delhi||NDMC’s dispensaries stock up on medicines||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has arranged for adequate stock of medicines at its 13 dispensaries due to the rise in the number of new customers. These allopathic dispensaries will be open from 8.30am to 4pm for the general public, who can avail any medical facility and buy medicines if they have a valid prescription. “We are looking at a lot of new customers these days probably due to the shortage of medicines at private chemist shops in the city during the lockdown. A huge number of central government employees covered under CGHS scheme visit the dispensaries. But even the general public can come to us if they are facing trouble acquiring medicines,” said an NDMC official. These dispensaries are located in areas like Panchkuian Road, Janpath, Golf Link, Palika Kendra, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Marg, Sarojini Nagar, east Kidwaiu Nagar etc. NDMC on Wednesday directed its health department to continue to attend patients visiting dispensaries with regular health issues such as cold, cough and flu. “The idea is to ensure people will not face difficult in getting healthcare facilities. Those who could not visit private hospitals due to the lockdown can come to our dispensaries for consultation,” said official. At its Charak Palika Hospital in Moti Bagh, NDMC has also opened its facility for three ventilators, four monitor beds and six high-dependency units. At the hospital, a six-bedded isolation ward is also ready for any confirmed patients of Covid-19 in an emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmcs-dispensaries-stock-up-on-medicines/articleshow/74957825.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||3 govt schools turn camps for guest workers||Thiruvananthapuram: Coming to the aid of guest labourers, who were living in crammed spaces, the city corporation has converted three government schools in the city into accommodation facilities for them. They can stay in these facilities until the lockdown restrictions are lifted. Government Schools at Chalai and Manacaud and SMV Higher Secondary School are the ones where facilities have been arranged for guest labourers. It is the health wing of the city corporation that is behind this initiative. At present, there are 71 labourers at Chalai Government High School, 91 at Manacaud Government Higher Secondary School for Girls and 97 at SMV Higher Secondary School. Corporation authorities said that the food needed for the labourers will be provided from the community kitchen operated by the city corporation. Besides this, the labourers are also being supplied with essential commodities if they preferred to cook food themselves. These labourers will be examined by the health officials deputed by the district collector. There are systems in place to shift anyone who display symptoms of disease to hospitals without any delay. The labour department officials in the district too are monitoring the labour camps in the district to ensure that they are living under safe conditions. All contractors in the district have been directed to supply sufficient number of masks, soaps and sanitizers to the labourers working under them. Already, two medical camps and three awareness camps have been held for the guest labourers in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-govt-schools-turn-camps-for-guest-workers/articleshow/74955332.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration asks telecom operators to keep track of home quarantined||CHANDIGARH: To keep an eye on the home quarantined coronavirus suspects and patients, the Chandigarh administration has directed the telecom operators in the city to track their locations. UT adviser Manoj Parida said telecom operators have been directed to track the locations and in case of any violation, strict action would be taken under the law. Sources said the UT administration had received various suggestions like the Karnataka model, where a quarantined person has to send a selfie every hour to the government, but the administration finalised this method. Besides, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore also held a review meeting with senior UT officials and he was informed that necessary arrangements among three hospitals, PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, have been made. The neighboring states have also been requested not to send any patients without consultation and consent of the PGI. This has been decided to ensure that PGIMER, which has been declared as a dedicated Covid wing (Nehru Extension), can devote its energy and resources on fight against corona. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said there was no shortage of funds for medicines and equipment. MC commissioner KK Yadav said in addition to the existing eight companies that were doing home delivery of essential items, Swiggy has also been issued a permit for Chandigarh. He also explained the mandi decongestion plan. Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 43,569 food packets were distributed in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Nine langars have been started in different parts of the city through mobile vans, he said at the review meet. Several social organisations have come forward to assist the administration, he added. ‘Don’t stop supply vehicles’ UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the police department to ensure that vehicles carrying essential items were not stopped by them. The police authorities should ensure that operators of nine companies providing groceries, vegetables and milk were not harassed. Medical consultation through video calls The administrator suggested that medical consultation through video calls may also be introduced in the city. He said the name and schedule of doctors be published so that patients could avail the facility without crowding the hospital in case of non-serious cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-admn-asks-telcos-to-keep-track-of-home-quarantined/articleshow/74956592.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus cases in Chandigarh: 10-month-old girl, grandma test positive||CHANDIGARH: Two more positive Covid-19 cases were reported in Chandigarh on Thursday. They include a 10-month-old child, who is the youngest to test positive in Tricity, and her 59-year-old grandmother from Sector 33 here. Both were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. They are the primary contacts of a Canada-returned NRI couple, who tested positive on March 30. The child is the couple’s daughter. The total count of Covid-19 patients in the city now stands at 18, of which 10 cases were reported between March 30 and April 2. The NRI couple had landed in the city from Canada on March 13 and developed symptoms on March 26. They were admitted to GMCH-32 on March 28 and tested positive on March 30. They were then admitted to the isolation ward of GMCH-32. This week has seen highest number of Covid-19 cases. On March 30, five patients had tested positive, including two friends and mother of another Dubai-returned patient who had tested positive a week before. On March 31, two more persons, including a doctor of a Mohali-based private hospital and a nursing officer from PGI who came in contact with the Nayagaon patient who died on March 31, tested positive. On April 1, a Sector 35 resident, who had no travel history but had met his two relatives who had returned from Dubai and Singapore to Mansa, Punjab, tested positive. Thus, in four days, the city recorded 10 cases. The first case was reported on March 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ten-month-old-girl-grandma-test-positive-total-city-cases-18/articleshow/74956602.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Delhi gets masks from Ahmedabad firm||AHMEDABAD: The city of Ahmedabad may be facing a shortage of masks but a local firm on Monday sent about 15 cartons of masks to Delhi. This was the first consignment that was sent in the special train running between Bandra and Ludhiana. The city has so far sent its own parcel trains to Haryana and West Bengal. Meanwhile one more parcel train will leave from Kankaria for Chennai Central. This train will leave on April 5 at 8pm and will reach Chennai on April 7 at 12 noon. The train will halt at Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhusaval, Akola, Badnera, Wardha, Chandrapur, Balharshah, Warangal, Vijaywada Jn, Nellore and Gudur Jn. Another train left on Thursday from Karambeli in Gujarat to Changsari in Assam. Railways officials said that the parcel express trains sent from Ahmedabad have carried commodities such as milk products, edible oil, spices, groceries and biscuits, dry grass etc. The officials said that since the lockdown began and till now, between March 22 and April 2, a total of 587 rakes have been used to supply 1.22 million tonnes of essential commodities to other parts of the country. In the last three days, Indian Railways has delivered 7,195 wagons of food grains, 64,567 wagons of coal, 3,314 wagons of steel and 3,838 wagons of petroleum. In total 1.44 lakh wagons of freight were loaded in the last three days including the parcel train sent from Kankaria. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delhi-gets-masks-from-abad-firm/articleshow/74957435.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Railways feeds needy people||Pune: The rail division has joined hands with IRCTC to provide food to the needy. “We started this initiative on Thursday in coordination with IRCTC and some NGOs. About 1,500 food packets were prepared and given to the NGOs for distribution in different parts of the city,” Pune division public relations officer Manoj Jhawar said. Jhwar said the railways had been providing food to people in and around stations in its jurisdiction since March 22. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/railways-feeds-needy-people/articleshow/74957449.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh continues to breathe good quality air||CHANDIGARH: With the city in a lockdown mode, the air quality continues to remain good. Chandigarh, which had recorded cleanest air in the country on March 28, witnessed good air quality on the first two days of April. The air quality index (AQI) on April 1 and 2 ranged between 26 and 33, which falls under the good category. Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) member secretary TC Nautiyal said as there was no vehicular movement in the city, the air quality was likely to remain good till April 14. On Diwali in 2019, the city's AQI was 371 in Sector 22; 280 in the silence zone of Sector 12; 247 in the commercial area of Sector 17; and 352 in the institutional zone of Sector 39. The UT administration had floated a tender to conduct a source appointment study of the proportion of various pollutants in the air. A senior UT official said, “The Central government has sanctioned Rs 10 crore under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), of which Rs 80 lakh will be for the study.” The continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) on the Panjab University campus in Sector 25 records real-time monitoring data every hour. At present, the UT does not have data to quantify air pollutants. In 2018, the administration rejected the study proposal because of high cost. In 2017, the environment department had a meeting with the Union environment ministry, where it came out that IIT, Kanpur, had procured Swiss-made monitoring devices worth Rs 5 crore each for the study in four cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/silver-lining-city-continues-to-breathe-good-quality-air/articleshow/74956617.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Police building confidence among Ramganj residents; a team to visit constituted, religious leaders asked to play key role||Jaipur: In order to ensure residents of walled city especially Ramganj bazaar who are showing resistance in survey work should cooperate with the visiting medical teams, the Rajasthan police on Thursday constituted a special team of police officials would visit the area on Friday. This was done probably after the reports that in some of the interior localities of Ramganj residents are not cooperating.Senior police officers of Jaipur commissionerate also had a meeting with the religious leaders and heads of mosques in the walled city to build a confidence among people who are scared with the survey work undertaken by the health department. Ramganj area has witnessed 33 Covid positive cases so far in Jaipur which has alarmed the health department especially the health workers engaged in the grassroot work of survey and also the police. There were reports that people in the Ramganj area are not cooperating in the survey. On Wednesday there were reports and allegations that health workers are been cooperated by the residents of the Ramganj as they are not giving the details of their family members complaining cough, cold, fever and respiratory disorders. Even senior officials of the health department alleged that they were not getting the required cooperation with the police. However, senior police officials said that many of the residents are scared with the day-to-day development that is coming out after the case of Dubai returning turning Covid-19 positive came to fore. “Many of them were scared of getting quarantine and facilities in the hospital. Our job is to build confidence in them which we are doing. There were misconception among the residents which were also been cleared,” said Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police, while talking to TOI on Thursday. “All the reports stating health workers were thrashed and kept hostage are baseless and rubbish,” he added. However, Rajasthan police has also constituted a team of police officials including Aahad Khan, assistant commissioner of police(ACP) , traffic, Nazim Ali, additional DCP(Metro), Parvez Aalam, inspector at Jaipur range and many others who will urge and educate people how cooperation with health workers will help them. “Yes a team has also been constituted to facilitate the Jaipur police commissionerate and health workers in completing the task of survey and quarantine(wherever required),” said BL Soni, additional director general, police(Crime) “Many of them were misled by some people that health workers are doing NRC survey which has scared some of them. By and large people are cooperating in Ramganj and we are on a process of building confidence among them,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police commissionerate on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-building-confidence-among-ramganj-residents-a-team-to-visit-constituted-religious-leaders-asked-to-play-key-role/articleshow/74957828.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Balcony birding: View from a caged parrot’s long lens||Chandigarh: Humans suffering as the proverbial caged parrots during the curfew has lent a handy muse to wildlife cartoonists and Whatsapp humourists. Sketches, memes and cartoons doing the social media forwards depict a parrot perched outside a balcony where the householder is pacing feverishly. The parrot advises the balcony prisoner from deep experience: “Don't worry, you will soon get used to it!” Or, again an arc of birds and animals is seen occupying deserted lawns and gaping at humans bottled inside rooms and visible from windows. Were the humans to poke out long lenses from their cages and click the birds making merry in their gardens, it would be birding in the times of Covid-19. This has caught on with social media wildlife groups, who are encouraging members to stay home. Hashtags, #balconybirding #homestayphotography #stayhomestaysafe, have emerged along with some amazing pictures of birds, rare and common, from Tricity gardens. Bird and wildlife groups are also running campaigns to not allow posting of photographs taken from outside home boundaries during the lockdown so as to discourage illegal adventures and dilution of the norm of social distancing.A retired joint general manager from HMT, Jatinder Vijh, clicked 20 bird species on a Silk cotton tree from his apartment balcony at the Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra, including some uncommon inner city visitors such as the ashy drongo and the chestnut-tailed starling. Daman Kaur posted a picture of a rose-ringed parakeet in her balcony and stated: “'A green parakeet just concentrating on me. Guiding me to stay safe at home.” Zoology professor Surya Prakash had an expert’s take on it: “Complete silence..under curfew but as long as my neighbours...howling jackals...screeching Thick knees (a bird) and lapwings...warning calls of peacocks & mad courtship calls of Hawk cuckoo (Papeeha) @ night are there, we all feel very much safe.”Pictures scoring high on the popularity charts are those of parakeets, owls, woodpeckers and barbets peering out of tree holes with the caption: “stay safe, don’t venture out”. Birds such as swallows and wagtails sitting on electricity wires and well spaced out attract similar approval with the hashtag, #socialdistancing, and draw advisory comments. A popular bird group moderator, Gagan Bedi, had this to state: “Stay home and maintain social distancing and help in breaking the chain. Go for home isolation and social distancing until and unless the severity of this situation comes down. Keep yourself and your loved ones safe.”The silence and lack of human disturbance not only attracted a leopard to Sector 5, but birds, squirrels and mongooses are openly criss-crossing roads and gardens. These creatures are nosing around verandahs, garden furniture and letter boxes just as humans in non-coronavirus times would poke their burrows, cut down their tree homes and chase away honey bees from their hives.As summer approaches, the courtship, mating and nesting season is underway and this is the best time to observe birds as they are bolder and immersed in these activities, which reveal varied behavioural traits. Parakeets are a particular delight to watch as they nibble at mulberries while the cooperative behaviour of jungle babblers or the “seven sisters” is a lesson in social responsibility and cohesion. More than a camera, a binocular or a keen pair of eyes could spend these long hours of lockdown carefully observing the creatures of our gardens and slowly tallying their different calls with behaviours and requirements, such as alarm call on seeing a cat, a sweet aria to catch the female’s eye or a parent summoning young ones to a safe night perch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/balcony-birding-view-from-a-caged-parrots-long-lens/articleshow/74956606.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Traders decide not to sell mutton till lockdown ends||Madurai: Mutton traders in the city have decided to refrain from selling meat till April 14, as a measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among the community. The decision comes at a time when the government has been promoting that it is safe to consume meat during this crisis period. Meat shops witnessed large crowds in areas like Anna Nagar, Karimedu, Kulamangalam during the weekends throwing caution to the winds. This posed a big challenge for the district administration. On Thursday, members of the Madurai City Mutton Retail Merchants Association, submitted a petition to the district collector Dr T G Vinay announcing their move to refrain from selling meat from March 31 to April 14 or till further notice from the government. President of the association, S Muthukrishnan said that the slaughter house in Nelpettai had been closed for the past three days. Slaughtering in open places or near the shops was not allowed. Hence, they had difficulty in slaughtering. There was also the danger of bad meat coming into the market as a result, hence they had taken the decision in the welfare of the public. Also, most goats for slaughtering in the city came from the other districts including Virudhunagar and there was difficulty in transporting animals, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-decide-not-to-sell-mutton-till-lockdown-ends/articleshow/74957443.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||75,000 Gujarat fishermen stay safe off the coast||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s fishermen could be the most shielded against the Covid-19 pandemic. About 75,000 fishermen are staying put in the sea after the lockdown was announced following the coronavirus outbreak. Leaders of the fishing community decided that the safest option for fishermen is to stay in their trawlers within a few kilometres of the coast.  Accordingly, about 15,000 fishing trawlers connected to Okha, Jakhau, Porbandar, Mangrol, Veraval, Kotda, Wanakbara, Diu, Jaffrabad, Dholai and Umargam ports have been anchored between one and four kiometres of the coastline. The fishermen are being supplied essentials like water, groceries and other items by boat owners. The fishermen call up the owners on the coast, who send in required supplies. Fishing activity though, has been completely suspended due to the lockdown. “Keeping the fishermen on land would have multiplied issues. Leaders of the fishermen community got together and decided that the fishermen will be safer in the sea. In fact, those who are now in the sea are much safer than people on land,” said Veljibhai Masani, president, Akhil Bharatiya Fishermen Association.“Basic necessities like water, groceries and other requirements which will last for a fortnight are sent by the boat owners to the fishermen through boats,” Masani stated. He said none of the fishermen have shown any flu-like symptoms. Raju Sukhadia of Mangrol in Junagadh district owns ten fishing trawlers. “All my boats each with seven fishermen aboard are anchored about three kilometres off the Mangrol coast. I have provided the fishermen will all basic requirements and they are connected with me through phones if they require any supplies,” Sukhadia said. Fishermen observing “mid-sea quarantine” seem to be a happy lot, saying that while they are accustomed , they keep themselves occupied by watching videos and listening to music on their phones and radios .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/75k-fishermen-stay-safe-off-the-coast/articleshow/74957456.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Patient flees to have home food||VADODARA: A suspected coronavirus patient from Tandalja area fled from the isolation ward at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Wednesday evening and returned after a few hours. An offence was registered against him at Gorwa police station. According to police, Ali Hussain Siddiqui went missing from the isolation ward around 4.30pm. Siddiqui was admitted to the isolation ward on Wednesday morning and was asked to remain there in quarantine until his test reports arrived. But when he was not found, the hospital staff searched around and later informed police control room about it. As cops joined the search for the man, a few hours later he was seen returning to the hospital. Police ensured that he would go back to the isolation ward and does not wander again. When questioned, he said that he was not served lunch in the isolation ward due to which he was hungry. Siddiqui decided to walk out of the ward and went outside to find food. But since the eateries were closed due to lockdown, he went home to eat food. After finishing his meal, Siddiqui rode back to the hospital. “Although the reports had not arrived then, there was a risk that other persons may contract virus from the patient so we lodged an FIR as per the guidelines of the government,” said a hospital official. An offence under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against Siddiqui. By late night Siddiqui’s reports arrived and he was found to be negative of coronavirus. Doctors at the hospital said Siddiqui has tuberculosis and since the symptoms of the two diseases are similar there was a suspicion that he may be affected by coronavirus. “He will be shifted to TB ward by Thursday evening from the isolation ward and then police will take his statement and complete all legal procedures,” said the hospital official. On Thursday, security was beefed up outside the isolation ward and a couple of cops were also deployed to keep a watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-patient-flees-to-have-home-food/articleshow/74954655.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Female constable accuses Amreli cop of raping her||RAJKOT: A female constable with Rajula police station lodged a rape complaint against a constable posted at the Amreli disrict police headquarters on Tuesday night. In her complaint, the female cop alleged that the accused Pankaj Rathod had raped her twice in her quarters in police line at Rajula. According to police, the survivor alleged that Rathod had developed a romantic relationship after claiming that he was unmarried. However, when she came to know that Rathod was already married, she took up the issue with him. “When the survivor sought a break-up with Rathod, he allegedly beat her up on March 26 in Rajula, after which the survivor lodged the complaint,” said R M Zala, inspector with Rajula police station. Meanwhile, Rathod has reportedly gone on a leave. “We have started the procedure for Rathod’s arrest,” said Zala. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/female-constable-accuses-amreli-cop-of-raping-her/articleshow/74938573.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||MLAs donate money to PCMC||Pimpri Chinchwad: BJP legislators Laxman Jagtap and Mahesh Landhe have donated Rs47 lakh each to the state government-run Aundh chest hospital for purchasing medical equipment and another Rs 3 lakh each to Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation for purchasing sanitisers. Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Usha Dhore said that 85 corporators from the BJP and its associates will contribute a month’s honorarium to the PM National Relief Fund. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlas-donate-money-to-pcmc/articleshow/74957439.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Gas cylinder delivery hits many roadblocks in Pune||PUNE: Home deliveries of LPG cylinders have dropped considerably and consumers are being told to pick their refills at the agency outlets, a clear breach of the lockdown rules. Twitter showed up numerous complaints. A tweet on Thursday read, “Are you not doing home delivery in Pune, Kothrud 411038. I have been asked by your delivery boys to collect the cylinder from 4 km away from my home, in the middle of this lockdown.” Another tweet read, “Consumers are being told to collect cylinder from a delivery point @ 2km away as they do not have any delivery boys. All other agencies except (name of the gas agency) are delivering at doorstep. Can you plz mandate them? They can use a 3 wheeler to deliver at home.” LPG agencies said they were dealing with several problems while delivering cylinders to customers. “When the delivery boys visit a locality, a society or a slum, there have been instances of people ganging up on them and not allowing them to enter these places. Police are also blocking smooth deliveries by stalling delivery boys on the road even though they have QR codes and passes tagging our services as essential. We have written permission from the police authorities to deliver cylinders to customers but delivery boys are stopped and questioned on the road,” a source from the All India LPG distributors Federation, Maharashtra said. Usha Poonawalla, president, All India LPG Distributors Federation, Maharashtra said customers must cooperate with their delivery system as the delivery boys are not allowed to enter their homes for fear of contracting the virus. “Our boys are facing a difficulty,”she added. An oil marketing company official said many delivery boys had gone back to their hometowns, creating a staff crunch at gas agencies. “Deliveries are hampered for 4 to 5 days which created a backlog in orders. Customers must understand that there is a limit to the number of deliveries that gas agencies can undertake during a day.” Pune district has been getting LPG delivery of 65,000 to 70,000 cylinders per day as against 30,000 to 35,000 bookings. “There is panic booking. In many cases, customers do not have an empty cylinder to give in place of the refill. We can fulfil requirements when they actually need refills,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gas-cylinder-delivery-hits-many-roadblocks/articleshow/74957458.cms||Neha Madaan
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Devotees join Ram Navami aarti online at Ramkrishna Math||LUCKNOW: Ramkrishna Math on Thursday did a Facebook live telecast of the aarti and the elaborate celebration of Ram Navami for devotees staying in homes owing to the lockdown. More than 300 people took part in the online aarti. Math priests performed the rituals from 4am while the math doors remained closed. The Facebook live was done the official page of Ramkrishna Math. The rituals began with mangal aarti in the wee hours, followed by vedic chanting, devotional songs and pushpanjali (flower offerings). “Every year, hundreds of devotees visit the math on Ram Navami. This year, it was different since devotees could not come owing to the lockdown. We also want safety of all citizens at this time of health crisis so we thought Facebook live will bring all the people together to celebrate the day, while staying safe at home,” said Ramkrishna Math president Swami Muktinathananda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/devotees-join-ram-navami-aarti-online-at-ramkrishna-math/articleshow/74957836.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stuck in hostels, AU foreign students take to local cuisine||VISAKHAPATNAM: What about having Ethiopia’s national dish Doro Wat (spiced chicken stew) with Andhra’s own kodi (chicken) Biriyani? Or, for that matter, Bangladeshi favourite Illish machch (Hilsa) with Cambodian cuisine Kuy Teav (noodles soup)? After the nationwide lockdown was declared, foreign students of 36 countries at Andhra University are spending their time studying and honing their culinary skills. “With the university closed, it’s a good opportunity for us to concentrate on studies. And we are spending our free hours cooking. Andhra biriyani has turned out to be one of my favourites. You can’t have a better experience than trying out biriyani with Doro Wat,” said Habtamu Lanjore, a law PHD scholar from Ethiopia. His countryman, Tekalign Elias, is a bit worried though. There are 29 positive cases in Ethiopia. “Most of them are foreign returnees. It’s good we stayed back in India,” said Elias. Gunja Jaiswal from Rautahat, Nepal, is relieved. “There are hardly one or two cases in my country. Hope the count won’t increase,” said the BPharma student. Closer home, Manjurul Islam from Bangladesh was busy cutting drumsticks on Wednesday morning to be used for the fish curry. His close friend from Cambodia – Min Chanthul — was also in the kitchen cooking a Cambodian dish. “I cannot wait for the lockdown to end and situation across the globe to return to normal. I desperately want to go back to my hometown Dhaka and spend a few days with my family,” said Manjurul, who is also a BPharma student. At the four hostels for foreign students of Andhra University, most of the 224 students are in quarantine. Management and staff of the university have taken adequate measures and are ensuring that these students feel ‘at home’ at this crucial period. But the picture is not so rosy for everybody. A case in point are four AU Afghan students stuck in Visakhapatnam. The four students have already completed their studies and were scheduled to go home on March 24. But PM Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown a day before. “Back home my parents were eagerly waiting for me. They want me to go back to Kabul. Unfortunately, I am stranded here and, it seems, for an indefinite period,” Mohammed Yusuf, a civil engineering graduate told TOI. While Yusuf is from Kabul, his three friends – Mohammed Anis, Ali Reza and Mir Ahmed – are from Panjshir and Nimruz provinces. Anis and Ali Reza had just completed their BTech. Since they had graduated they were staying at a rented accommodation. But when they realised that they won’t be able to leave the country soon they decided to get in touch with chief warden, S Paul Douglas, of the hostel for foreign students. “Hearing their plea we asked them to leave the rented accommodation. We have arranged for their stay at the guest room of the international hostel. Even if we issue them the certificate, they can’t go to their countries under the present situation. Our hostel is the safest place for them,” said Prof E N Dhanamjaya Rao, dean of international affairs at AU. Meanwhile Douglas told TOI, “We are providing them all basic amenities so that they don’t face any problems. We are trying to keep the hostel campuses as clean as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stuck-in-hostels-au-foreign-students-take-to-local-cuisine/articleshow/74956629.cms||Arpit Basu
April 3, 2020||Pune||4 drug stores burgled in Chinchwad||Pune: Burglars broke into four medical stores in Chinchwad in the early hours of Wednesday and decamped with Rs5,000 from one of the shops. Police suspect the involvement of the same gang in the four burglaries. “They targeted the medical stores as only these shops, besides groceries, are open during the lockdown,” the officer said. The suspects stole Rs5,000 from a shop in Chinchwadgaon. Burglars made similar attempts from three other shops but found no valuables, police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-drug-stores-burgled-in-chinchwad/articleshow/74957453.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two held for chain snatching||PUNE: The Khadki police on Tuesday arrested two men from Dehu Road for their alleged involvement in three cases of chain snatching in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.  The two would cover their face with masks and handkerchiefs before committing the crime. The police recovered gold chains and a motorcycle worth Rs2.23 lakh from the two men, identified as Bharat alias Sonu Chaware (28) and Yesbir Chouhan (28) both residents of Dehu Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-chain-snatching/articleshow/74957460.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown cuts waste generation||Madurai: The garbage generation in the city has dropped by at least 200 tonnes a day on an average as commercial establishments including hotels and marriage halls are shut because of the lockdown. Madurai corporation officials said waste generation has come down from 630 to 650 tonnes a day to 425 to 430 tonnes, a 33% fall. Most of the waste collected at present is from households. The quantity of waste collected in dumper bins kept in various parts of the city has also decreased. Only those which have been kept in markets are getting filled up. Other dumper bins are not emptied as frequently as they used to be. A Madurai corporation official said most of the waste obtained at present is collected directly from houses through sanitary workers. Bio-decomposable waste is being processed at micro composting centres, wherever available. They are operated with full capacity as usual. Only non-decomposable waste and waste collected from areas where micro composting centres are not available are being carried to Vellaikkal solid waste management centre. A sanitary officer said that the roads and streets in the city look much cleaner now compared earlier days. At present, the only waste accumulated on the streets is leaves and twigs. Especially not much plastic waste on streets, he said. Stormwater drains also look better now as people are not allowed to loiter unnecessarily on roads. “Earlier people used to carry waste and dump it in stormwater drains. It will clog at various points. Since there is a restriction, people are promptly handing over waste to sanitary workers during door-to- door collection,” he said. At least 100 light commercial vehicles, which were used for garbage collection, have been deployed to sell vegetables at various points of the city. A larger share of the workforce involved in garbage collection has now been redeployed for disinfection of public places to prevent the spread of Covid-19, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-cuts-waste-generation/articleshow/74957462.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Class XI, XII evaluation camps on April 7 deferred, teachers worried||Madurai: The evaluation camp for classes XI and XII, originally scheduled for April 7, has been postponed indefinitely in view of the lockdown, the directorate of government examinations announced on Thursday. This has presented worries for higher secondary school teachers about how the process will be carried out. “For a paper valuation camp, since hundreds of teachers would need to gather at a place it is an obvious decision to postpone now. One Class XI exam is also pending. However, we fear we may face huge pressure once we start evaluation,” said a class XII physics teacher. They are also yet to have any clarity of how the evaluation will be carried out in the present situation. Meanwhile, talks about carrying out evaluation of papers from home are abuzz. “If this situation continues, there is no other option. Evaluation could be done at home and teachers can then update mark lists accordingly,” said the principal of a private school. However, a majority of teachers felt it would not be possible to carry out evaluation in such a manner as it leaves room for malpractices. “For students, class XII marks especially determine their future, so the evaluation process must be clean and transparent. Maybe language papers could be corrected that way but definitely not the main subjects which are important for the students’ higher education,” said another class XII teacher. Schools are also anxious about there being delays in the admission process and start of the next academic year. Meanwhile, the administration wings of most schools in Madurai, which were functioning with half the staff, have also begun to shut down amid the restrictions for lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-xi-xii-evaluation-camps-on-april-7-deferred-teachers-worried/articleshow/74957459.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Madurai||Hosps keep extra isolation beds ready||Madurai: Government and private hospitals in the district have stepped up preparations by keeping additional isolation beds ready for Covid-19 patients, as the state is witnessing more number of cases daily. At least 500 beds across various hospitals in Madurai have been kept ready so far and would be used as and when they are required. One of the state’s largest tertiary health care centres, the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), has dedicated its entire newly-built super specialty block (SSB) for treating Covid-19 cases. The few general patients who were undergoing treatment there have been shifted to another block. Only 8 beds were functioning in the main campus of the GRH earlier. However, according to hospital sources, as the number crossed eight this week, all 14 Covid-19 positive patients from Madurai have been shifted to the SSB which is housing GRH’s ‘Corona Specialty Hospital’. The SSB has 350-400 beds ready, including those in intensive care units (ICUs) with ventilators, added sources. Private hospitals too have started keeping ready additional beds in case of requirement. “We have not yet received any formal communication or direction from the government. We are keeping the wards ready. There are 100 beds ready as of now, which include 30 ICU and 70 step down beds. Accordingly, ventilators and equipment are also arranged,” said the dean of a private multi-speciality hospital in Anuppanadi. Officials of another private multi-speciality hospital said they are trying to keep at least 100 beds ready in case of emergency and have extended their pre-existing Covid-19 isolation ward. “We have increased the number of beds of our existing isolation ward from 10 to 30, all ICU beds with ventilator support. Considering that general patients should not be exposed to Covid-19 patients, we are trying to keep 100 beds ready in our hospital campus located away from the city,” said the hospital’s medical administrator. Meanwhile, work for a permanent isolation ward for infectious diseases with 17 beds is still under way at the old school of nursing at GRH main campus. Similarly, a 20-bedded isolation ward is also being set up at the government hospital for thoracic medicine in Thoppur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hosps-keep-extra-isolation-beds-ready/articleshow/74957454.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: LPG agency proprietor booked for profiteering||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Wednesday raided a private gas agency at Wadgaonsheri and seized 16 LPG gas cylinders following a tip-off that its proprietor was indulging in black-marketing. Food supply and control officer Prashant Khatal (33) has registered an FIR against the proprietor for disobedience among other charges of the Indian Penal Code and Essential Commodities Act with the Chandannagar police. Inspector Anjum Bagwan of the crime branch (unit IV) received information that the gas agency proprietor was black-marketing cylinders in violation of the government directives. He sent a decoy customer with an empty cylinder, who purchased a gas-filled bottle for Rs1,000 instead of Rs796 from the agency. The police then seized 16 LPG cylinders — 14 full and two empty — and 34 consumer cards. Bagwan said, “The suspect had the permission for selling cylinders of a private company, but he was selling cylinders of government companies.” The Chandannagar police have served notice on the gas agency proprietor under Section 141 (1) (a) of the CrPC, asking him to join the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lpg-agency-proprietor-booked-for-profiteering/articleshow/74957464.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rly coaches to be made isolation wards||Rajkot: The Rajkot division of Western Railway has decided to convert old coaches into isolation wards to deal with coronavirus suspect cases. The division has started converting 20-year-old non AC coaches into isolation ward. In a statement, officials said the middle berth will be removed and all the compartment will be converted like private room of a hospital. Modifications are being made as per recommendations of the doctors. The medical equipment will be installed inside the coach and one toilet will be converted into a bathroom. A mosquito net will also be installed on the windows and plastic curtain will be installed to prevent the infection inside. Six to seven patients will be treated in each coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rly-coaches-to-be-made-isolation-wards/articleshow/74955391.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||From photography to writing, contests spur creativity in isolation||Panaji: From essay and cartoon drawing competitions to contests on photography through the window, some socio-cultural organisations want citizens to discover that there are plenty of creative activities to do indoors as well. Organisers have even promised prizes that will be handed out once the lockdown ends. Ponda-based cultural organisation Antruz Gudyo has announced a photography competition on the theme ‘Quarantine time through your window’. “Due to the lockdown, everyone is forced to be indoors, but none of us is used to being indoors for such prolonged periods. We want to fire their imagination and want them to know that they can be creative while being restricted indoors as well,” event coordinator Saidatt Kamat said. Entries can be submitted by persons of any age group and photographs can be clicked with even a mobile camera, he said. The only criteria to enter the competition is that the participant has to be a resident of Goa. “We released posters of our competition on the afternoon of March 31 and within hours we received 10 to 12 entries and numerous enquiry calls. We have received some interesting entries ranging from photograph of birds to children playing in the neighbour’s balcony. We have made it clear to entrants that the photograph does not have to be related to the lockdown itself, like police action clicked from the balcony. That is not what we want,” Kamat said, assuring that only 20% weightage during judging will go to ‘likes’ received on social media platforms and the remaining 80% marks will go towards creativity. In a similar effort, Rotary Club of Vasco Port Town has announced a series of competitions for different age groups. The tagline on the poster reads, ‘A community expression contest, participate from home and showcase your talent’. “At first we had decided to take entries only from residents of Goa. But after the release of the poster we received some enquiries from outside the state, even from abroad. We then decided to waive off any criteria,” club president Cheryl Lewis said. While students from Class VI to X can participate in a drawing competition themed ‘reflection of how you feel during the lockdown’, they can also submit entries for an essay competition on life during the pandemic. A photography competition will be held for students from Class XI up to the college level, where they have to click a photograph from their window and explain it. There is something in store for students from lower KG to Class V as well— a cartoon drawing competition on the theme ‘defeating coronavirus’. Lewis said that the idea was also to get parents to engage with their children during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-photography-to-writing-contests-spur-creativity-in-isolation/articleshow/74958017.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Cops to allay screening fears in Walled City||Jaipur: In order to ensure that residents of the Walled City, especially Ramganj Bazaar, cooperate with the medical teams who are conducting surveys, the Rajasthan police on Thursday constituted a special team of officials which would visit the areas on Friday. The move comes after reports of non-cooperation by residents in the interior localities of Ramganj surfaced.Senior police officers of Jaipur commissionerate also held a meeting with the religious leaders and heads of mosques in the Walled City to build confidence among people who are scared due to the survey work being carried out by the health department. So far, Ramganj area has witnessed 33 Covid-19 positive cases which has alarmed the health department and the police. On Wednesday, there were reports about Ramganj residents not cooperating with the health workers. They were not giving details of their family members who are suffering from cough, cold, fever and respiratory disorders.“People are scared over being quarantined. Our job is to build confidence in them which we are doing. There were misconceptions among the residents which were also cleared,” said Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police, while talking to TOI on Thursday. Moreover, senior officials of the health department had alleged that they were not getting requisite cooperation from the police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-to-allay-screening-fears-in-walled-city/articleshow/74957840.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 3, 2020||Pune||Societies, individuals spar over social distancing||Pune: Social media platforms as well as private chats are abuzz with debates on whether to allow toddlers and children to take a walk on the premises of the housing society in view of the coronavirus scare. Mothers claim that making young children sit at home the entire day makes them restless so they take them out on the society premises for half an hour. However, some other society members are vehemently opposing the move. Many have even called for naming and shaming such people. “My son is four and my mother has a knee problem. The doctor has advised her to walk at least for some time. So either I take my son out for a walk or he goes with my mother for about 30 minutes early or late in the evening. We make him wear a mask, hand gloves, socks and the moment he is inside, we put the clothes for cleaning and give him a shower.” She said, “Yet, I have got messages telling me to remain inside. Online, people call for shaming people seen outside even without knowing their reasons. People are becoming aggressive about this,” said Namita Joshi, an IT professional living in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction. Nandan N, a software engineer living in Panchavati, said he and his wife step out for a walk within the society at night. “We do not use the lift, we wear masks and we don’t interact with anyone. I think the objective here is to ensure we keep our distance from each other. But crowding in front of grocery shops and other such places for essentials and then asking people walking alone to be inside is not right. However, my society has not said anything against it yet,” said Nandan. Chandragupt Goyal, a resident of Baner-Pashan Link Road, said, “I used to walk every day. I am a senior citizen and doctors have advised me to walk daily. But since the lockdown, I haven’t gone out. The important thing is that even if we take utmost precautions, the person who sees us outside may not be that cautious. Rules cannot be implemented selectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/societies-individuals-spar-over-social-distancing/articleshow/74957467.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus scare: Uttar Pradesh blood bank faces stock crisis||LUCKNOW: Stock in the state blood bank in the department of transfusion medicine of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is fast depleting with the voluntary blood donation dropping to zero in the past 10 days. Only about 10 units of blood group AB, 50 units of group O and around 100 units each of group A and group B were left in the stock on Thursday afternoon. There is also an acute crisis of blood components like plasma and platelets with only 50 and 30 units left respectively. The bank used to distribute over 250 units of blood and its components daily to patients of KGMU and other hospitals of the city. In nearly 75% of the cases blood units were given only after receiving equal units in donation. However, in 25% cases, including in thalassemia, HIV and leukemia and in emergency, blood units were given without seeking the donation in exchange. For these 25% cases, the bank has to maintain a buffer stock of 250 units donated voluntarily by people. This donation has now dropped to zero since March 21 when the UP government imposed a partial lockdown in the city. KGMU blood bank is among the most advanced in the state with facility of nucleic acid testing that detects viruses like HIV and hepatitis B at an early stage, making the blood units safe. As a result, it is the most preferred destination for thalassemia, HIV and leukemia cases. On an average besides emergency cases, over 60 cases of thalassemia, HIV and leukemia are reported daily and the bank uses its buffer stock to help them. This category of patients will now be the worst hit if the crisis continues for three-four days, said head of the transfusion medicine Prof Tulika Chandra. “Around 100 thalassemia cases are registered with the KGMU. They need transfusion every third week. We need to act fast to increase the buffer stock for them. As of now, we have asked them to come with donors. We are giving blood units without exchange only to those who need them urgently and do not have anybody who can donate for them,” she added. Five-year-old Divya, who is undergoing treatment for thalassemia for a year, needs transfusion regularly. “Earlier, we used to get blood without exchange, but on Wednesday the bank told us to try and bring a donor. I contacted an NGO that helped me in locating a a genuine donor,” said Shivakant Tiwari, the girl’s father. Balraj Dhillon, who runs a group of voluntary blood donors, said that they receive about 15-20 requests of donors daily. “Earlier, we used to cater to all, but now some donors are facing problems due to lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-blood-bank-faces-stock-crisis/articleshow/74957848.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Alarm over kids & also elderly in amenity areas||PUNE: A section of residents has expressed concern over the trend of children and senior citizens meeting in the open areas of housing societies in the time of Covid-19. Many societies have also told people to not come together in groups to the common areas in the evening. But the result is not always as expected. Data analyst and Baner resident Ashish Sikarwar said, “The worrying factor is both the children and the elderly are vulnerable. The number of children out in the amenity areas of the housing societies is less during daytime. But once it’s 5-5:30pm, many children come down to the play areas. So do the senior citizens. One can see the elderly in groups.” Jahnvi S, a resident of Baner Pashan Link Road, said, “I recently raised the issue with a society member. Pat came the reply: ‘We know that no one in the group has Covid-19 or its symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alarm-over-kids-also-elderly-in-amenity-areas/articleshow/74957469.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Namakkal student’s 1,300-km trek home ends midway||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old student from Namakkal pursuing food processing course in Wardha, Maharashtra, travelled nine days, taking different modes of transport to cover nearly 1,300 km to reach his home town, but his trek ended midway, tragically at a function hall in Secunderabad late on Wednesday night. Quoting forensic experts , police said on Thursday he died of heart attack. B Logesh, a native of Namakkal, was pursuing food processing course at a Wardha college. After the lockdown was announced on March 24, Logesh and 29 other students set off on foot to reach their respective native places. He was nearly 1,300-km away from home but was determined to achieve it. After their nine-day journey and covering over 450km, they reached Secunderabad on Wednesday. “On Wednesday night, they were spotted near Bowenpally market yard by revenue and police staff. Apart from walking for long hours, they took different modes of transport in the last nine days. When they enquired about the group, the students told the officials that they were on their way to their respective homes,’’ Marredpally inspector Mattaiah said. After they were informed that they would not be permitted to leave the city due to the prevailing lockdown, the students were shifted to a function hall at Marredpally, where they were provided food and accommodation. “Àfter having food, some of the students were chatting, sitting on the floor at the function hall. Logesh suddenly collapsed. He was shifted to a local government hospital, where he was declared brought dead,’’ police said. Forensic doctors, according to the post-mortem examination (PME), concluded that the student died of heart attack. Police said that since he was travelling for the last nine days, perhaps, due to dehydration, he might have suffered a heart attack. The authorities at Secunderabad came to know that relatives of Logesh were living in there and informed them. “His relatives rushed to the hospital and identified him. The body was also handed over them after postmortem. It was the relatives who informed Logesh’s parents here,’’ said Namakkal collector K Megraj. His father Balasubramaniam and relatives had immediately set off to Secunderabad. “I have spoken to government officials in Secunderabad and requested them to take steps to bring the body to Pallipalayam, his native” Megraj said.  To shift the body to Namakkal in Tamil Nadu, the Telangana police had to coordinate with their counterparts in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. At one point of time, Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) officials too stepped in to ensure the hassle-free inter-state transport of the body. Police have registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/namakkal-students-1300-km-trek-home-ends-midway/articleshow/74957471.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Doctors over 60 years old should avoid OPDs: IMA||Panaji: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa, has issued guidelines for its members in view of the coronavirus pandemic. It has recommended that doctors over the age of 60 years should, if possible, avoid their outpatient department (OPD) services. “Other member doctors can open their OPDs provided they have adequate staff and if they can implement social distancing norms at their respective clinics,” IMA president Dr S Samuel Arawattigi said. Arawattigi said the guidelines were drawn up after they had discussions with IMAs in other states and with their central body. “We have asked our members to follow social distancing norms throughout their consultation hours. They should wear N95 masks and use other personal protection equipment while seeing patients, and the same should be provided to their staff as well,” he said. The members, he said, should ensure there is proper ventilation in their facilities. Any Covid-19 suspect should immediately be referred to Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim. “The hospitals have been advised to avoid routine surgeries ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctors-over-60-years-old-should-avoid-opds-ima/articleshow/74958018.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Social distancing takes backseat in serpentine queue at godown||PUNE: The anxiousness over keeping the hearth burning at home amid lockdown has silently elbowed out the mandatory social distancing norm at the godown of a gas agency in the Saulnke Vihar area. Every morning, at least 100 consumers queue up at the godown to pick up LPG (liquid petroleum gas) cylinders. Most of them stand shoulder-to-shoulder, risking their health in the times of coronavirus infection. Reason: the LPG dealer — Kiran Gas Agency — failed to deliver cylinders at their doorsteps because of manpower shortage. A middle-aged man sporting a mask said, “I received a message about a week ago that the cylinder would be delivered at my home in Kondhwa. But the delivery boy never turned up and a message popped up on my cellphone two days later stating that my premises was locked. After waiting for a couple of days more, I have come to the gas godown to pick a cylinder, risking my life.” An official at the Kiran Gas Agency, located along the Kondhwa Road, said they were facing a shortage of manpower and so unable to deliver LPG cylinders to the doorsteps of a majority of consumers. “Before all these happened (Covid-19 spread and lockdown), a total of 30 representatives used to deliver LPG cylinders to the doorsteps of people. Most of the delivery executives either left for their hometowns or locked themselves up in their homes in the city out of fear of contracting the disease. At present, we are working with three-four delivery executives only,” the official told TOI. Terming each day a challenge, he said, “Now, we have to choose localities every day where we can deliver cylinders. On Thursday, cylinders were delivered in the Fatimanagar area.” An official overseeing the delivery of cylinders to people queueing up at the godown said consumers were collecting slips from the agency’s office on Kondhwa Road after booking refills and coming down with empty cylinders. “There is not much space here, but we are trying hard and telling people to maintain distance from each other. Also, a maximum of two persons are allowed at a time inside the compound (having asbestos boundary),” he said. On the road outside, it’s an uphill task for the residents of two adjacent societies to manoeuvre through haphazardly parked vehicles of the LPG consumers. Ramesh Shahani, the co-opted member of Rajgriha ‘B’ Housing Society, said, “It’s scary to pass by the disorganised rush of LPG consumers. Even a small car cannot easily dodge the people, their vehicles and the trucks of the agency parked on the road.” He said, “Once an ambulance had to wait for half-an-hour for reaching our adjacent society to take an ailing person to hospital.” Parveen Kazi, the chairperson of Rajgriha ‘B’ Co-operative Housing Society, said, “This gas godown in the residential area is a nuisance. Its workers carelessly throw cylinders from trucks, which can cause accident any day. We have informed the Kondhwa police about the danger of having an LPG godown near residential societies about a month ago, but no serious action has been taken yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-distancing-takes-backseat-in-serpentine-queue-at-godown/articleshow/74957473.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pre-isolation centre at Bopodi hospital||PUNE: The civic body has commissioned a pre-isolation centre at its hospital in Bopodi to closely monitor the patients with severe acute respiratory infection. PMC officials said the first two floors of Draupadibai Muralidhar Khedekar Hospital have been assigned for setting up of the pre-isolation ward. The administration will refer the patients to Naidu hospital in cases of further complications. “Provisions have been made for setting up a 25-bed facility at Khedekar hospital in the first phase. The health department has made provisions for adequate manpower deployment at the centre,” a PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pre-isolation-centre-at-bopodi-hosp/articleshow/74957484.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Shop gutted in Calangute||Calangute/Saligao: A fire broke out in a shop on the ground floor of a building near St Joseph’s School in Calangute at around 3.30pm on Thursday. The shop, selling spare parts, motor oil and other automobile components, belongs to Sheikh Azhar Ali who resides in a partitioned portion of the same shop. Fire and emergency personnel broke open the shutter to douse the fire. Officials could not ascertain the exact cause of the fire, but speculate that there could have been a short-circuit. A loss of around Rs 7 lakh was estimated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shop-gutted-in-calangute/articleshow/74958020.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: No leniency towards duty, says Pregnant ASI||Rajkot: “I didn’t want to be on leave when my colleagues are battling it out on the field,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Nasreen Belim (26) of Rajkot mahila police station. All of six months pregnant, this Corona hero didn’t think twice before cancelling her leave and resuming duty. Nobody summoned her. She felt the call within her, said Belim, while talking to TOI. “I had gone on leave after I became pregnant. However, after the first case of a COVID-19 positive patient in Rajkot, I felt I was called upon to resume duty. Despite opposition from my family members who feared that I would expose myself to the danger of getting infection, I joined duty,” she said, rearing to do her bit to make the country safer for its people. However, Belim’s colleagues are considerate enough and are taking good care of her. She has also been assigned desk work, which involves registering complaints. “We also ensure that she takes proper precautions while going out on the field,” said one of her colleagues. Belim, a masters in commerce, was recruited as an ASI after she cleared the test in Ahmedabad in 2016. After serving three years in Ahmedabad, she was transferred to Rajkot seven months ago. Belim’s husband Juneid from Jetpur is a civil engineer engaged in construction business. Belim is from Bagasara in Amreli district and the duo got married around two and a half years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-leniency-towards-duty-pregnant-asi/articleshow/74955428.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘Alerted LDA, ASI about encroachment’||Lucknow: The management of the centrally-protected Imambara Sibtainabad has time and again alerted state authorities about encroachments at the mausoleum's outer gate that collapsed on Thursday. From 2010 to date the committee has been writing to various state authorities as well as ASI, but to no avail. In 2010, the 'mutawwali' of waqf Imambara Sibatainabad committee had made several representations to the then chief minister, LDA, the district administration, ASI and other officials, requesting them to remove squatters and encroachments from the gate which was in a dilapidated condition owing to illegal construction. Several letters highlighting the same problem were sent by mutawwali Mohammad Haider in 2012, 2013 and in 2018. In his letter to superintending archaeologist of the Lucknow circle, Haider raised the issue of ‘disfigurement of the historic gate of Imambara Sibtainabad due to encroachment’ by two restaurants run by a business chain. The letter stated that encroachment threatened existence of the centrally-protected ‘live’ monument. “One of the restaurants had even pushed through its chimney along the outer gate damaging traces of old stucco work and vegetable paint. Another restaurant has built a lift close to the outer gate which had also affected the structure,” Haider said adding that “all his pleas to every authority fell on deaf ears and illegal construction continued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/alerted-lda-asi-about-encroachment/articleshow/74957867.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Homoeopathic, ayurvedic medicines cured Prince Charles of Covid-19: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik said on Thursday that he has been informed that Prince Charles tested negative for coronavirus after he took ayurvedic and homoeopathic medicines. “We have an ayurvedic resort in Bengaluru,” Naik told reporters in Panaji. “A person from the resort informed me that his formula is successful. After using ayurvedic and homeopath medicines, Prince Charles tested negative for coronavirus.” Naik also said that according to reports, it appears that there are few coronavirus cases in the state. He also said that PM Narendra Modi has been requested to allow ayurvedic, naturopathic, unani, siddha and homoeopathic treatment for Covid-19 patients. Naik said that Modi has formed a task force to scientifically validate the medicine of ayurvedic, naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy before it can be used on Covid-19 patients. “Those having formulae should send them to ayush.gov.in/covid-19 and it will be scientifically validated,” he said. Meanwhile, Naik, who is also minister of state for defence, said that defence PSUs and armed forces hospitals have been prepared for a Covid-19 outbreak. He also said that 9,036 beds have been kept ready in Army, Navy and Air Force hospitals, including 900 ICU beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/homoeopathic-ayurvedic-meds-cured-prince-charles-of-covid-shripad-naik/articleshow/74957861.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||67-yr-old from Ambala dies of Covid-19 at PGI||Ambala: A 67-year-old man from Ambala Cantonment died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was undergoing treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh, Ambala district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh confirmed.He is the first Covid-19 casualty in Haryana and had no foreign travel history. On March 31, he struggled to breathe. He was a heart and diabetes patient, and his family members, including his son and wife, had rushed him to the Ambala Cantonment civil hospital, from where he was referred to PGIMER. Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The patient also had a history of kidney ailments. We received information from PGI around 1.30am on Thursday that he had died and tested positive for Covid-19.” Sources said, “The patient lived with his family of wife, son, daughter-in-law, and a granddaughter and had retired from Syndicate Bank. Mother of his daughter-in-law was also present at his residence. Besides, there were four persons living as his tenants.” Family, tenants quarantined On Thursday morning, the Haryana health department and Ambala district administration teams reached the residence of the deceased in Timber Market and sealed the colony. They also conducted a sanitisation drive by spraying disinfectants. Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “We have taken samples of seven persons living at his residence, including his family members and four tenants. All of them are asymptomatic and they have been home quarantined. Health teams will regularly keep a check on them. All of them have been provided N-95 masks, caps, and sanitisers. As the victim had no foreign travel or contact history with any Covid-19 patient, the doctors at PGIMER treated him as a general patient. On Wednesday afternoon, the PGI doctors noticed coronavirus symptoms and sent his sample for clinical examination at 1.15pm. They received the positive report at 11.45pm, but he in the meantime had expired. Initially, the doctors thought it a natural death, but after receiving the report, they immediately isolated his body. However, sources in PGIMER said the patient was kept at the same isolation ward of the hospital in which 65-year-old resident of Nayagaon, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and died on March 31, was admitted. Nayagaon man was the first Covid-19 death in Tricity. Daughter-in-law dealt with NRIsDr Kuldeep Singh said, “During investigation of the contact history, we came to know that his daughter-in-law works at the NRI branch of State Bank of India (SBI) and was dealing with the NRI accounts up to March 21. Despite lockdown advisories, the deceased had been visiting a gurdwara up to March 26, which was negligence on his part as he had weak immunity.” About the cremation, the civil surgeon said, “Following the protocol, we will ask the authorities in Chandigarh to cremate his body over there only.” Till the filing of the report, his body was at PGIMER mortuary and his son and wife were present there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/67-yr-old-from-ambala-dies-of-covid-19-at-pgi/articleshow/74956697.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Jagatpura, Dhakoli epicentre of suspected cases, sealed||Mohali: Jagatpura in Mohali and Dhakoli in Zirakpur have become the epicentres of coronavirus suspected cases. The death of a 55-year-old Jagatpura man and quarantining of four persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi, have led to sealing of the two areas.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “It was important to seal the two colonies as those were densely populated, with people living in close proximity. Three health teams are focusing on these two areas. On Wednesday, we had taken samples of four persons, who had returned recently after attending the Islamic congregation.”Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal visited Jagatpura village to check police deployment and barricading.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “The situation is under control. On Thursday, a house-to-house survey was conducted in Jagatpura and Nayagaon, from where two Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday. The health department teams visited 1,230 houses in both the areas and examined nearly 6,600 people.” Dr Kuljeet Kaur, senior medical officer of Gharuan who led the survey teams, said, “Teams of health workers found five persons with mild symptoms of common cold and cough. Their samples will be taken soon. The village people have been asked to maintain social distancing, wash hands frequently, eat healthy and stay at home.”No positive case was reported from the district on Thursday. Landran locks itself inTo check coronavirus, the residents of Mohali’s Landran village have sealed its entry and exit points. Gurpreet Singh Gill, a social worker of the village, said, “We have blocked the village’s entry and exit with tree logs and cars. Resident have been advised to remain indoors till April 15. Village volunteers have constituted teams to supply household items at doorsteps wherever required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jagatpura-dhakoli-epicentre-of-suspected-cases-sealed/articleshow/74956713.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers ready to volunteer||The district school education department has been collecting names of teachers who are willing to volunteer in Covid-19 prevention measures. “We have asked for the list of volunteers within Thursday. After we compile the list and get to know the total number of people and the male/female breakup, we would inform the collector,” chief education officer (CEO) P Usha said. CPI offers office: The Communist Party of Indias Coimbatore District Council is ready to offer its office at Jeeva Illam for Covid-19 related measures. CPI district secretary V S Sundaram on Wednesday wrote to the collector saying the office on the Syrian Church Road had a 1,000 sqft hall which could be used to house and treat patients. Kumaraguru provides supplies: Kumaraguru Action for Relief and Empowerment, an arm of Kumaraguru Institutions, has been supporting frontline workers in Covid-19 measures through local bodies by providing food, personal protective equipments and sanitizers. It has served 3,735 meals, 2,500 masks, 1,200 liquid sanitizer packs, 500 kilograms of rice in areas including Saravanampatti, Chinnavedampatti, Vellaikinar, Koundampalayam and Pollachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-ready-to-volunteer/articleshow/74957477.cms||---
April 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: Lockdown creates acute shortage at blood banks||Blood banks in most states are facing acute shortages as blood donation has dried up during the lockdown. Despite reduced demand for blood due to elective surgeries being kept on hold and road accidents coming down, they are struggling to cope. Though the general demand for blood and blood products might have reduced, blood banks still have to cater to those critically ill, blood disorder patients, cancer patients needing platelet infusion, women needing blood transfusion following child birth and trauma patients. After many state governments clamped down on blood donation camps to avoid large gatherings of people, some have allowed smaller camps to be set up to deal with the acute shortage. “Under the prevailing lockdown, no blood donation camps are being organized and people are scared to step out of their houses,” said a state blood transfusion council official in Pune. But the council has reached out to various organisations to organise blood donations in small batches, of say five at a time with social distancing being maintained, he said. The situation is especially dire in central India and the Vidarbha region, home to several communities in which blood disorders like thalassemia and sickle cell disease are common. There are thousands who require regular blood transfusion, said Dr Vinky Rughwani, director of Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Centre in Nagpur adding that though they had managed so far, the situation might turn serious in a week. In Mumbai, the shortage has eased after health minister Rajesh Tope and the state Food & Drugs Administration gave permission for special `mini' camps that observe social distancing norms and provide sanitisers and masks. ``We now have stocks for at least 20 days in Mumbai,'' said Vinay Shetty of NGO Think Foundation that works for children with thalassemia. Think Foundation and U2 Can Run worked out a module whereby potential donors could register online and get an e-letter providing them with a specific time they could visit the nearest blood bank and donate blood to avoid crowding at any of the banks. That’s led to collection of at least 300 units every day, said Shetty. In Kerala, after thousands of blood donation camps were cancelled, the Kerala State AIDS control Society has issued a fresh circular allowing blood donation at blood banks. All Kerala Blood Donors Society president Lida Jacob said voluntary blood donors can travel for donation after producing their IDs, patient’s information and blood requirement details. But finding platelet donors for cancer patients is still proving tough. In most cities, including Delhi and Hyderabad, blood banks are rationing the supply even to thalassemia patients and insisting that patients bring volunteers with the required blood group as they are unable to allow replacement donation. Often, donors struggle to reach the blood banks with no public transport and police restricting travel. Over half the thalassemia patients are being turned away in Hyderabad. Blood banks in Madhya Pradesh are struggling as with those in Bhopal and Indore down to a few units for each blood group. MP Red Cross Society chairman said they were providing pick-and-drop facilities for donors who call on a toll-free number, but had got just 15 donors in the last 10 days. In Bengal, the chief minister has urged all police personnel to volunteer and blood donation camps are being organised at police stations. “We gave out numbers for people to call and book slots so that there no over-crowding,” said Dhanish Sheth of Project Life Force, an NGO that organizes blood donation camps. PGI Chandigarh’s blood bank department planned ahead by mapping how to manage blood donations with a staggered number of volunteers. “We send our hospital buses for 10-15 people to the houses of known donors and we had taken prior approval from local authorities for this,” said Dr Rati Ram, head of transfusion medicine in PGIMER.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-creates-acute-shortage-at-blood-banks/articleshow/74958205.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 hits GIDC’s SEZ land auction, coal block plans||Panaji: The nationwide lockdown to curtail the spread of Covid-19 has brought the process to appoint a consultant for the Dongri-Tal II coal block and auction of around 5 lakh sqm of industrial land to a grinding halt, officials said. With the state’s energies focused on combating the spread of the virus, authorities hope that the Centre gives Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) additional time to complete the coal block utilisation process. “Everything has come to a standstill because the focus is on fighting coronavirus,” GIDC chairman Glen Ticlo said. “Now we have to rework everything and ask the Centre for more time.” GIDC needs to appoint a consulting agency that will provide transaction advisory services for selection of a mine developer cum operator (MDO) and an agency for marketing the coal. Another consultant is being sought by GIDC to assist in the auction of 5 lakh sqm of industrial land recovered from the Special Economic Zone promoters.“Two committees were formed to take these processes forward but after that nothing could take place,” a senior government official said. The department of industries has constituted a selection committee and a monitoring committee for each of the projects. Industry secretary Nila Mohanan heads the selection committee, while industry minister Vishwajit Rane heads the monitoring committee. However, Mohanan also serves as the health secretary and Rane is the state’s health minister. The industries department had issued an order to GIDC in the last week of December asking GIDC to go ahead with the auction of a fraction of the 38 lakh sqm of SEZ land and submit an action taken report. The state government has been offered the Dongeri Tal-II Coal Block in Madhya Pradesh for utilisation. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had told GIDC that Goa cannot afford to lose out on the coal block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-hits-gidcs-sez-land-auction-coal-block-plans/articleshow/74958023.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bengaluru||50 attack Asha worker on Covid-19 duty in Bengaluru; five arrested||BENGALURU: A 45-year-old Asha worker has alleged she was heckled and manhandled by a group of over 50 people while she was conducting a Covid-19 related health survey at Sadiq Nagar, near RK Hegde Nagar, northeast Bengaluru, on Wednesday evening. Ashas (Accredited Social Health Activists) are frontline public health workers toiling on the field. A group 14 officials from the health department and ASHA workers, including Krishnaveni, had been assigned to conduct a survey on a daily basis in the area as a domestic help residing in nearby Saraipalya had tested positive for Covid-19 12 days ago. “Wednesday was the 11th day of the survey. But a group comprising 50 to 60 locals declined to provide the details the Asha workers sought. A few miscreants also stole the mobile and handbag of one of the workers, identified as Krishnaveni. They also snatched the survey papers from her,” a police officer said. DCP SD Sharanappa (east) on Thursday said they’ve arrested five suspects: Mohammed Mustafa, 25, Suhail Basha, 30, Ansar Jabbar, 35, SH Jabbar, 38, and Sageer Sharif, 40. Acting on a complaint filed by Muniraju, senior health inspector, BBMP, later on Thursday, Hennur police registered a case under IPC sections 353 (obstructing public servant from discharging their duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object). Earlier in the day, Krishnaveni told deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who visited her residence in Hegde Nagar on Thursday, that an announcement was made from a prayer hall not to provide any details to her as it was suspected that the government was secretly collecting data for National Register of Citizens (NRC). “The crowd surrounded me and other Asha workers soon after the announcement. They snatched my bag and mobile. They pushed me around and dragged me,” she told the DCM. Ashwath Narayan assured Krishnaveni that strict action would be initiated against those who manhandled her. Jurisdictional Hennur police said a Hoysala patrol van dispersed the crowd. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, however, downplayed the alleged assault on the Asha worker, saying: “It was a minor incident.” But health minister B Sriramulu, however, tweeted: “Caste, religion or personal interests are not important. Public health is paramount. Attacking nurses/ASHA workers is a cowardly act. We will take strict action against those miscreants.” Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the incident occurred when the Asha worker had gone to check those who had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat workers. Box: ‘We are pained; why did they doubt us?’ “We have issued Thaayi cards to pregnant women and have ensured that their children have a healthy growth. What made them think we were doing something bad that would impact their lives? What if medical staff and Asha workers stop their work?” wondered Krishnaveni. A diabetic, she was on additional deputation at Hegde Nagar on the day of the alleged attack. “In the absence of bus services, my daughter dropped me to the locality. Trouble began when we asked for the contact number of a man from the local masjid as part of our survey. But Wednesday’s incident has hurt many of us because even our work was looked at with a communal lens,” she told TOI. Another Asha worker, Vijay, 30, a resident of Thanisandra, said she too was attacked by the mob. “We were only asking them about their family head’s name, age, members in the family and if anyone is suffering from cough, fever or respiratory issues. We don’t understand why they misbehaved with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/asha-worker-on-covid-19-duty-heckled-attacked-5-arrested/articleshow/74956822.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||PIL in Telangana HC: Release prisoners convicted of non-serious crimes to stop overcrowding||HYDERABAD: Two professors filed public interest litigation (PIL) with the Telangana high court on Thursday. The first one filed by Forum Against Repression convenor, Professor G Haragopal, sought the release of under-trials and convicted prisoners in non-serious cases to prevent overcrowding in jails which could lead to an outbreak of coronavirus in prisons. The other plea called for directions to the state to ensure supply of essential commodities to people during lockdown and improve quarantine facilities. In his plea, Professor Haragopal referred to the March 23 order of the Supreme Court that directed the constitution of a high-power committee in each state to determine the class of prisoners who can be released on parole or given interim bail for such period as may be appropriate. The apex court had also suggested that prisoners convicted of, or charged with offences involving jail term of seven years or less could be considered for parole or interim bail. The petitioner said that no steps had been taken by the state even after a week. He further sought directions to follow guidelines by Interim Guidance of Inter-Agency Standing Committee, World Health Organisation titled “Covid-19: Focus on Persons Deprived of their Liberty”. Haragopal pointed out that there are three central Jails, seven district Jails, thirty three sub-jails, a women’s jail, a borstal school, one open jail and four special jails among other detention facilities and prisons across the state. The professor raised concerns about overcrowding in jails beyond permitted levels. “Due to overcrowding, it is but natural that the convicts or under trials will be easy targets and vulnerable sections for the virus,” the petitioner said and sought to implement the guidelines issued by the apex court in 2016 while dealing with a plea pertaining to Inhuman Conditions in 1,382 prisons. The professor in his plea said that it is already a well known fact, even during normal circumstances there were several complaints against improper facilities and lack of amenities in the prisons. Through the second plea, Professor PL Visweswara Rao sought directions to the state to improve the supply of essential commodities to the people during the current lockdown period and also steps to improve the conditions of migrants who were stranded. The professor also sought foolproof protective gear for the doctors and other medical personnel attending to coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-in-hc-release-prisoners-convicted-of-non-serious-crimes-to-stop-overcrowding/articleshow/74957557.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Talati helps fill poor woman’s empty kitchen||VADODARA: Living in a tin shed house with her unemployed son and daughter-in-law, 65-year-old Kusum Vasava flocked to the ration shop in her Kandari village of Karjan taluka on Wednesday morning. She was hoping to get some grains to feed herself and her family members. But Vasava, who earns a living by toiling in farms, had to return empty handed as she is an APL (above poverty level) card holder and the free grain distribution was only for BPL (below poverty level) people. With no grain and vegetables in her house, Vasava was returning to her home sobbing. A villager who noticed her made a video of her and circulated it on WhatsApp. In the video, Vasava is heard saying that she was denied ration as she is an APL card holder. But when she told the shop owner about her condition, she was told to contact mamlatdar’s office. On Thursday, a talati of Undera village near Vadodara city came to Vasava’s help. “I had received the video on a WhatsApp group along with a message that the woman is from Kandari village. Since Kandari is a neighbouring village of my native place and not far from here, I went there in search of her,” said the talati Imtiyaz Khan Chauhan. Chauhan traced her house and gave her grains and other essential items. Vasava had lost her job due to the lockdown and had no no money left. All eatables in her house were also over, so she had planned to get something from fair price shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/talati-helps-fill-poor-womans-empty-kitchen/articleshow/74954673.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Exam notice in circulation fake: JNTUH||HYDERABAD: A fake circular stating that the semester exams for all constituent and affiliated colleges of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) will not be held, is being circulated on social media. The circular, which seems identical to the original circulars issued by the university, states that all the students have been passed. The JNTUH has rebutted the circular and stated that revised dates for semester exams will be declared after the lockdown period ends i.e. after April 14. “Students and parents of constituent and affiliated colleges of the university are cautioned not to trust the fake news which are available in private portals and social media and are informed to verify the authenticity of any such news...,” the university said in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exam-notice-in-circulation-fake-jntuh/articleshow/74957562.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Muslim body condemns blame game||CHARMINAR: United Muslim Forum of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Thursday condemned the blame game over the Nizamuddin Markaz. The Muslim body sought the Supreme Court’s intervention and requested it to take suo motu action over the prevailing situation. “It is a violation under section 153A in Indian Penal Code. The Supreme Court must take suo motu action in this matter immediately,” said a forum member. Members of the forum objected to recent remarks made over the incident by some sections and said that it was not fair to blame the Markaz for the recent increase in coronavirus cases across the country when people were advised to follow the lockdown. The body has also asked devotees to ensure that prayers on Friday and Shab-e-Barat were observed at home for their own safety given the circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslim-body-condemns-blame-game/articleshow/74957544.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Muslim Covid-19 victims martyrs’||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said Muslims who died due to Covid-19 as “shaheed” (martyrs). Several persons from the community, including nine from Telangana, who had attended a religious event at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March, had become victims of the virus. “Those who die as a result of Covid-19 are martyrs. Burial of martyrs does not require kafan (shroud) or ghusl (cleansing). One must immediately offer janazah and carry out the burial with a few people,” he said speaking to a news channel. He said that a religious event was being exploited to blame the Muslim community for the recent spike in Covid-19 cases across the country. “After a BJP government was formed in MP, thousands gathered to celebrate the victory, but neither objections were raised nor social distancing was remembered,” Asad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslim-covid-19-victims-martyrs/articleshow/74957499.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: No private vehicles allowed on Dakshina Kannada roads till April 14||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has banned the movement of all private vehicles, excluding permitted categories, across the district, till midnight on April 14, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh issued the order on Thursday, and said that people can however buy essential commodities between 7 am and 12 pm, from shops nearest to their residences, but private vehicles cannot be used. The fresh order on Thursday is an addition to the order passed on March 31, extending the prohibitory orders imposed under Section 144. In rural areas however, Rupesh said two-wheelers, three-wheeler goods vehicles and four-wheeler light commercial vehicles can be operational during the relaxation hours, to buy essential commodities. City police commissioner P S Harsha said in a video message, that the move was to discourage movement of people when the lockdown is relaxed. Vehicles with emergency passes issued by the district administration, of the medical fraternity and journalists are only allowed to ply during the period. Sources from the police department added that some motorists were seen taking joy rides around the city limits, when the lockdown was relaxed. Mangaluru city police have seized 154 vehicles for violating the lockdown so far. Superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad said two-wheelers were allowed to ply in rural areas, as people have to travel from villages to shops to buy essentials. Sindhu B Rupesh has cautioned that vehicles plying in violation of the magisterial order would be seized by the police and transport departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-private-vehicles-allowed-on-dakshina-kannada-roads-till-apr-14/articleshow/74955643.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Edtech space sees massive growth amid lockdown||BENGALURU: There’s one industry that is gaining from the lockdown which has thrown academic schedules out of gear and extended summer holidays for children: the edtech companies. With children and adults across the country turning to online classes, the edtech space is witnessing an unprecedented growth. Several companies are giving free trials and sessions for students to experience their platform, which has also resulted in tremendous increase in internet traffic. TimesViewThe isolation imposed by Covid-19 pandemic is upending all industries and it would be logical to expect that the education sector would be affected too. However, it may still take a while before online courses can supplant traditional teaching methods. As things stand now, most education apps are more to supplement regular school work, and it will be some time before they can provide a credible alternative to the school system. And while they may work wonders in an emergency situation like this, they cannot substitute for the presence of a physical teacher yet.BYJU’S has made its learning app free for all students till April-end. “Since complete lockdown, we have witnessed 150% increase in traffic to our learning platform. The number of queries from students and parents for our home-learning programmes have more than doubled in the past week. Students are getting themselves ready for the coming year by using the video lessons to revise crucial concepts and learn new ones. This shows that online learning mediums are proving to be a great support system for the student community and for the education infrastructure everywhere,” said Divya Gokulnath, co-founder and director, BYJU’S. Gaurav Munjal, founder, Unacademy tweeted: “Our educators have stepped up and started taking more free live classes. In the last three weeks Learners who are watching Free Live Classes have increased by 3x. 30 million minutes of watchtime is happening on Unacademy every single day.” The Catalyst Group, an online learning platform, has seen a 45% jump in enrolments in the past one week. Of the total 67,649 registrations last week from India, around 6,000 are from Bengaluru and another 1,000 from the rest of Karnataka. The highest number of registrations was from Uttar Pradesh. In Bengaluru, the subjects most in demand are GATE-2021 and UPSC IES/IRMS. SSC-JE and JEE Mains were the other topics in demand on this platform. flipClass.com, a Bangalore-based edtech company, said they have had 90 tutors registering to take classes in the past six days. “They are people from IITs, IIMs, NITs and also highly qualified people who want to contribute to society at this time through teaching. We decided to relax some of our norms for their registration so that we could get them on board faster. Of the tutors, 30% are from Bengaluru and another 30% from NCR,” said Col. Ashis Roy, head of academics and co-founder of flipClass. Educational Initiatives that offers 60 days free access to Mindspark Maths (an AI powered specialised mathematics programme) has seen its enrolments double. STEMROBO Technologies, which is associated with over 700 schools, has received over a lakh queries for their online STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) and coding programmes. — Deepti Ganapathy, faculty in the area of communications, NMIMS Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/edtech-space-sees-massive-growth-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74956839.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Only 850 on intelligence department's list were at Nizamuddin meet||HYDERABAD: Following their analysis of Tablighi Jamaat returnees from the Nizamuddin Markaz to Telangana, police have found that only 850 members out of a list of 1,030 given by the Intelligence department had actually attended the congregation and returned to the state. While police have tracked down most on the list, some who were not on it but had still attended the congregation were also identified. The list given by the Intelligence department mentioned that nearly 99% of the returnees had taken trains while the others took flights. Due to this, their telephone numbers along with their names and home towns were also mentioned. The state police had also begun gathering details of the people who had gone to Nizamuddin from local Tablighi Jamaat offices. After verifying names by contacting returnees over the phone, visiting houses and checking with local Tablighi members, police concluded that around 850 on the list had gone to Nizamuddin and came back. “Some of the names were repeated multiple times. Some people in the list have not gone to Nizamuddin. There are also 15 to 20 people who could not be contacted as their phones were switched off or such a person was not present at given address. We are still trying to cross-check by collecting cell phone details of the particular persons,” said a senior police official. Police also found that about 20 people in the list had gone to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka after coming to Telangana. “Some people from LB Nagar division who attended Nizamuddin Markaz have gone to AP and they have been quarantined there,” said a Rachakonda police official. While Hyderabad police traced 298 out of 301 people, Cyberabad police, who have 80 names on the list, identified about 120 persons who attended the event. Similarly, Rachakonda police also identified about 80 persons and quarantined them. So far, over 900 people who attended the event from the state have been identified and quarantined. “We have identified almost all the people who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz and placed them under quarantine. We have also isolated primary contacts of all Covid-19 positive patients and the process will continue in coordination with health and municipal department officials,” additional DG (law and order) Jitender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-850-on-intel-depts-list-were-at-nizamuddin-meet/articleshow/74957495.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi: Why hasn’t Asad converted Owaisi hospital into isolation ward?||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday criticised AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi saying he has not converted the Owaisi Hospital into an isolation ward. In press statement, he said it is unfortunate that Owaisi has not given out call to increase efforts to halt coronvirus spread. “He should not make false statements against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even the world is praising India’s efforts,” he said. “Owaisi did not even come out during lockdown. He is thinking of his own life and not even helping his own votebank. He should remember that many who have gone to Tablighi event have tested positive,” the state chief on BJP said.  Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson NV Subhash asked whether AICC interim president Sonia Gandhi wanted Italy-like situation, where over 12,000 people died of coronavirus. Slamming Gandhi’s comment that the ongoing lockdown was unplanned, he said, “In a population of over 130 crore, a decision had to be made. Is she going to take responsibility for the mortalities due to Covid-19 if the lockdown is not implemented?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-why-hasnt-asad-converted-owaisi-hospital-into-isolation-ward/articleshow/74957537.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: 30-bed ward at Khadki ammo factory||PUNE: The Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) has set up a 30-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 patients in Khadki. It is a part of the Ordnance Factory Board’s endeavour to put in place 285 beds as part of the national effort to prevent the spread of the dreaded disease. "The isolation ward in Ordnance Factory Hospital is equipped with all requisite equipment to enable isolation of Covid-19 patients," an official release stated. The employees of AFK have contributed a cumulative amount of Rs1.15 crore to the PM Care Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-bed-ward-at-khadki-ammo-factory/articleshow/74957487.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Driver who attended Delhi meet traced||SECUNDERABAD: Local police have tracked down an auto driver, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, to the Karkhana area under Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). He had been staying at his sister’s house at Karkhana. After being alerted by the central government, the city police traced the auto driver and learnt that he had met 10 others after returning from the meet last month. Highly-placed sources in North Zone police told TOI that the police had visited the residence of the person in Karkhana and had immediately shifted all 11 persons to Gandhi Hospital. After tests it was confirmed that none of them were carrying the virus. “We immediately shifted them to Gandhi. The driver and all his contacts were tested. As all 11 were found to be negative to the virus we have sent them home,” the source said. However, after receiving fresh instructions from the Centre and the Hyderabad police commissioner all 11 persons were shifted to the Chest Hospital at Erragadda. “After we sent them back, we received fresh orders that they should be kept in the isolation ward for 14 days. We located them again and shifted them to Chest Hospital,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-who-attended-del-meet-traced/articleshow/74957549.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: We are quizzed when we call on residents to collect details, say ASHA workers||MYSURU: The horrific incident reported from Bengaluru wherein an ASHA worker who was collecting information to compile a report on Covid-19 infection in a locality was attacked has turned the spotlight on the harsh conditions under which they are performing their duty. Among those constituting the frontline of the country’s battle force against the novel coronavirus, ASHA workers are putting themselves in harm’s way to keep others secure. In addition to the threat of physical assault, ASHA workers are often subjected to many questions themselves while trying to elicit information from residents about their travel history, and possibility of their having come in contact with Covid-19 infected patients. However, Mysuru district health officer (DHO) Dr R Venkatesh on Thursday dismissed the possibility of ASHA workers in Mysuru being in any danger. “I have heard no complaints from ASHA workers in Mysuru so far,” said Dr Venkatesh. Sandhya PS, a member of the ASHA Workers’ Federation, which is affiliated to SUCI(C), admitted that many residents asked ASHA workers why they were collecting details about their travel history. “ASHA workers regularly call me informing me that they are being quizzed by residents for doing their job. Many residents are disclosing details only after subjecting ASHA workers to some kind of an interrogation,” said Sandhya. She said that each ASHA worker had to visit, on average, around 25 households daily, and collate information on the residents’ travel history, the condition of their health and the people they had recently come in contact with. “The biggest challenge is not to get harried when we are being questioned ourselves. In many cases, ASHA workers may have to visit one household multiple times, and the family members grow irritated and take it out on us,” Sandhya said. ‘Provide safety gear’ The ASHA Workers’ Federation has renewed its demand for basic protective gear for all those engaged in the battle against novel coronavirus. President of the federation’s state unit K Somashekar Bhandari and the body’s state secretary D Nagalakshmi lamented that many ASHA workers, calling on citizens, had nothing more than a handkerchief to cover their faces. “We have been demanding face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves, but nothing has been done to fulfil our demands,” said the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/we-are-quizzed-when-we-call-on-residents-to-collect-details-say-asha-workers/articleshow/74955098.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vegetables remain pricey in retail market despite adequate supply||PUNE: Cashing in on the fear of people about staying outside for a long time and high demand, retailers are selling vegetables at exorbitant rates though wholesale prices have dropped. On Tuesday, onion was sold at Rs8-17 per kg, depending on the size and quality, in the wholesale market. The wholesale price of potato was Rs20-22 per kg. In the retail markets, onions and potatoes were sold at twice or thrice the wholesale rates. A bunch of coriander, sold for Rs2-6 in the wholesale market, was sold for Rs25-30 by retailers on Thursday. “The retail market prices always remain high because vendors charge exorbitant rates. Since the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) does not have the power to take action against them, we can’t control the prices. Ideally, people should question them if they are selling vegetables at higher prices,” said Dattatray Kalamkar, the head of vegetables, onion and potato division of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard on Thursday. “On several occasions we have observed that farmers sell a bunch of coriander at Rs2, while its retail price shoots up between Rs10 and Rs15. Still, customers do not question the retailers,” Kalamkar said, adding that the authorities should take action against the vendors charging people double or triple the wholesale price. IT professional Deepti Deshpande from Dighi said, “We don’t get to know the real scenario of the wholesale market rates. These vendors told us that there is less supply of vegetables in the market and hence, the rates of vegetables are high. Since we don’t know where to complain against them, we buy vegetables at higher prices.” Homemaker Shobha Shendge pointed out that there were very few vendors operating in the Akudri area. “Many don’t negotiate prices because of this. Second, people are afraid of being at crowded places these days. So, they just pay for groceries and leave the market. The vendors are taking advantage of the situation,” she said. A section of APMC officials stressed that the government should form a special team to control retail prices. Some retailers claimed that they were paying high transportation cost because of the lockdown and could not sell vegetables at a price nearer to the wholesale rates. “Only vehicles with police passes are permitted in the market. The transportation charges have increased because of it. Second, we have to look after our daily expenses. On many occasions, we face losses in the trade of perishable produce like coriander and fenugreek if they do not get sold. Considering all these, we have to charge extra,” said Shantanu Shinde, a vendor from Vishrantwadi. Another vendor said the wholesale market prices fluctuated daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vegetables-remain-pricey-in-retail-market-despite-adequate-supply/articleshow/74957492.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Trial run held at new virology lab at Wenlock Hospital||MANGALURU: A trial run was held in the new virology lab at Wenlock Hospital on Wednesday. The lab can help expedite testing for Covid-19 in the district. At present, swabs from patients suspected to have contracted the disease are sent to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) in Hassan for testing, which is 171 km away. Authorities here must wait for at least 48 hours to receive reports. Mangaluru City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty, who is also the nodal authority to deal with hospitals in Dakshina Kannada,told reporters that certain changes suggested by the Indian Council for Medical Research (IMCR), for running the lab, have been incorporated, and every effort is being made to obtain certification for it at the earliest. Results of the tests carried out here are being compared with samples sent to HIMS, Dr Shetty said. The virology lab here has obtained necessary PCR kits needed to carry out the tests, he said, adding the lab has the capacity to conduct an average of 80-100 test per day. Once the testing process at the lab stabilises, and results are in conformity with ICMR laid down guidelines, steps will be taken to obtain certification for it, and reports for swab samples will be obtained locally, he said. In addition, fever clinics have been started at the four taluk hospitals, eight medical college hospitals and at Wenlock Hospital, he said. “Authorities have kept 100 beds at Wenlock Hospital with 15 ICUs and 2 paediatric ICUs ready to deal with stage one of the pandemic. Physicians and staff from Wenlock and KMC Hospitals will manage this facility, and other medical college hospitals have been placed on standby if the situation aggravates,” Dr Shetty said. Owners of private hospitals have agreed to provide dialysis service to patients who hitherto depended on Wenlock Hospital for their needs, at rates charged at the government facility. The new block at Wenlock Hospital will be used to quarantine Covid-19 patients on different floors, and adjoining AYUSH block as resting and quarantine facility for doctors. This block will also serve as a store for personal protection equipment for medical professionals, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/trial-run-held-at-new-virology-lab-at-wenlock-hospital/articleshow/74954824.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Visa suspension hits post-Lent marriages, keeps families apart||PANAJI: India’s suspension of tourist visas and denial of entry to overseas citizen of India (OCI) card holders has forced couples to delay that new chapter in their lives and has resulted in much uncertainty in many families being reunited again. With not a single vendor ready to refund any money for their destination wedding initially scheduled for April 16 in South Goa, Lucinda and Kane Falcao have been left with no option but to push their nuptials and wedding reception to October. The couple, both OCI card holders living in the UK, planned their dream wedding a year in advance and paid the final instalment to the hotel towards a reception for 350 guests in January this year, before the pandemic hit. Instead of pure bliss, the couple is now under severe stress over their future. “We cannot have the wedding in the UK, because we put our life savings over the past two years into the Goa wedding and nobody is willing to give us our money back. There’s no way we’d be able to pay for a wedding here with our money blocked in Goa,” Lucinda, who has roots in Benaulim, told TOI from the UK. All the vendors roped in for their big day – including the hotel where over 30 rooms were booked for guests– are only offering to postpone bookings. The couple got civilly married in August and is now hoping the pandemic blows over by October, considering that over 120 guests were to fly down from UK and other parts of the world for the special occasion. Another OCI card holder in the UK and her brother in Australia will be not be able to travel to Goa for their mother’s first death anniversary Mass in Margao. “I’m devastated because I have been waiting to come back for my mother’s Mass and meet near and dear ones. We are going to let relatives continue with the Mass as it’s for my mother’s soul to rest in peace,” Vinnie Fernandes told TOI, adding that she’s not getting a refund on her ticket either. Another woman from Dubai due to attend a function in Goa in April, was refunded only Rs 1,000 on her Rs 11,000 flight ticket. She told TOI she is not only upset about the fact that she will be missing the occasion but also about being kept on hold for hours together while trying to unsuccessfully receive a refund from the airline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/visa-suspension-hits-post-lent-marriages-keeps-families-apart/articleshow/74957866.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Railways to fill pits, open all roads||Nagpur: The Central Railway (CR) has decided to fill pits and open all four roads connecting Parvati and Bhagwan Nagar with Ajni Railway Colony. Now, people from these areas will be able to use roads of the colony to head towards Ajni railway overbridge (ROB). On Thursday, TOI reported that people from these two areas and advocate Abhiyan Barahate lodged a complaint with Ajni police station against railways’ move to close the public roads. RPF divisional commissioner Ashutosh Pande told TOI, “I have talked to the engineering department of railways which has agreed to fill the pits and restore traffic on the roads.” CR spokesperson also confirmed the decision. Pande clarified that RPF was not stopping motorcyclists and pedestrians coming into the colony. “We have converted RPF barracks into quarantine centres where there should be no movement of people. Also, lockdown is under way. Therefore, we restricted only those people who are roaming without any purpose. We will check I-cards and allow entry to people going for only essential works,” he said. The railways had even started construction of the compound wall to close the decades-old roads on permanent basis. Ajni police had directed railways not to carry out any works which resulted into law and order situation during lockdown. Railways also said the works have been stopped and further decision on construction of compound wall will be taken after the end of lockdown. People of Parvati Nagar, Bhagwan Nagar, Jogi Nagar, Sanket Nagar, Kashi Nagar, Hawrapeth, Dwarkapuri, Rameshwari, Chandramani Nagar and Nalanda Nagar use these roads to head towards Ajni ROB. Railways dug the pits on four roads restricting entry of vehicles. Sharad Bante, husband of corporator Vishaka, and Barahate stated that railways also deployed RPF personnel who are prohibiting entry of motorcyclists and pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/railways-to-fill-pits-open-all-roads/articleshow/74957501.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 3, 2020||Goa||Did not hoard essentials, says Ticlo||Panaji: Aldona BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo has denied that he cornered the supplies of essential commodities for distribution in his constituency during the lockdown enforced due to the Covid-19 threat. He told TOI that he had arranged for the commodities from wholesalers in Bicholim, adding that he was among the first to start delivering essential commodities to senior citizens and the needy in the constituency. Ticlo, who is recuperating from a surgery he underwent recently, said his family members and his band of workers are on the job of ensuring that supplies are replenished so that nobody is denied essentials. Ticlo also denied the accusation from a shopkeeper that his combo pack of groceries was overpriced. He said the packets priced at Rs 500 were sold at cost price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/did-not-hoard-essentials-says-ticlo/articleshow/74958021.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||3 more Tablighi attendees test +ve, tally reaches 14||Jaipur: Three more people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, have been found to have contracted Covid-19 in the state on Thursday. They belong to three different districts of the state. Bharatpur and Dholpur reported their first Covid-19 cases after one person each from these districts, who attended the Jamaat, were found infected with the virus. The third person diagnosed with Covid-19 is from Jhunjhunu. He is a resident of Mandawa area. “So far, 14 persons who attended the Tablighi Jammat meet have been found infected with the virus. Eleven of them (seven from Churu and four from Tonk) were found infected on Wednesday, while three new cases were found on Thursday,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health).In Jhunjhunu, people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat have voluntarily reported to health authorities. “It's a good sign that they are voluntarily coming for screening and testing. There are at least 12 such persons who returned from the Nizamuddin congregation in Delhi recently and they have reported to health authorities for testing. We have kept them in quarantine and their samples will be taken,” said Dr S K Kaler, principal medical officer, Jhunjhunu district.From the under curfew Ramganj area, which has become a hotbed for Covid-19, the health department officials had found 14 persons of Tablighi Jamaat who were stuck in a mosque during the lockdown in the Walled City area. “They belong to Amrawati of Maharashtra and were staying in a mosque in Jaipur’s Ramganj, which now has more covid-19 positive persons than Bhilwara,” said a health department official.They have been quarantined at RUHS Hospital and their samples have been sent to labs for Covid-19 testing. The test reports are awaited. At Jaipur’s RUHS hospital, there are seven Tablighi Jamaat people from Tonk. Four of them have tested positive on Wednesday.In Bhilwara too, more than 30 persons belonging to Tablighi Jamaat but not connected to the Nizamuddin congregation have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-more-tablighi-attendees-test-ve-tally-reaches-14/articleshow/74957864.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre and Telangana at loggerheads over congregation in capital||HYDERABAD: The Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamuddin has both, the Telangana government and the Centre, blaming each other for not reacting swiftly on the congregation and its aftermath. Health minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday told media that the Telangana government was first to alert the Centre and its implications soon after 10 Indonesians had tested positive for coronavirus in Karimnagar in the third week of March itself. The minister said the state government also alerted the Union ministry of health and family welfare that the Indonesians had first travelled to Delhi and attended the religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin before coming down to Karimnagar. He said the Centre should have acted swiftly after receiving the information. However, sources in the Union ministry of home affairs have dismissed the claim that Telangana alerted the Centre on the meeting. “It was the MHA which sought a report from the state government after the Indonesians had tested positive for Covid-19 in Karimnagar,” a senior official connected to the MHA said. Sources said the Centre was not interested to make it a political issue but was compelled to react following the Rajender ‘s statement. Immediately after the Karimnagar cases were detected, the state did not start identifying those who had attended the Nizamuddin meeting, the sources said. “The government, which is claiming to have alerted Centre, started identifying people in every district only after the death of three persons who took part in the religious programme,” they recalled. The sources recalled that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao himself announced in a press meet last week that Indonesians came to Karimnagar on a valid visa and they were not intruders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-and-t-at-loggerheads-over-congregation-in-capital/articleshow/74957507.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Tablighi Meet: Officials of 5 districts in Vidarbha on a hunt||Authorities in the districts of Yavatmal, Wardha, Chandrapur, Amravati and Nagpur are on a chase to hunt down a few who are likely to have attended or come in contact with those at the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi in late February and early March. With many carriers of the dreaded coronavirus emerging from the event which was held at Nizamuddin, an attempt is being made to identify them and put them in isolation. In Yavatmal, the administration has admitted six persons, who were at Nizamuddin, in the isolation ward of the GMCH there. The Wardha administration has traced eight such persons and quarantined one from Arni along with his family members. Currently, the district is coronavirus free. The Chandrapur administration on Wednesday traced a 33-year-old man who had attended the Tablighi congregation. He was picked up from his father-in-law’s house in Rajura and admitted to the Chandrapur GMCH’s isolation ward. His test results have come negative. A native of Kagaznagar in Telangana, the person had arrived by train to Ballarpur on March 18. Authorities have also confirmed that 11 Turkmenistan residents, who were found residing in a mosque in Chandrapur district, had not attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet. They had arrived in the city on March 3. Ramnagar police had detained 14 persons, including the 11, from a mosque in Tukum locality on March 25. Three others are from Delhi, Odisha and Kerala. All these persons were taken to Chandrapur GMCH for Covid-19 testing and found negative. In Nagpur district, so far no person has been found to have attended the New Delhi meet. However, the administration has a list of 68 persons with history of travel to New Delhi. On Wednesday, the city police and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) traced city’s 54 persons. Top police sources said around 16 are likely to have attended the meet. All 54 have been quarantined at the MLA hostel for 14 days. Swab samples of all were taken to be tested. The reports of all are likely to come on Thursday. The move is as per state government’s letter directing the authorities here to put all persons under quarantine citing. The letter said they may have come in contact with the positive persons of New Delhi. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We received a list of 68 persons from the home ministry. We identified names with their places. There are two from Pune, one from Yavatmal and 13 from rural parts of Nagpur district.” Of the 52 from the city, four claimed they had never travelled to New Delhi or any other place in last one month. “48 people, some with family members, confirmed about visiting New Delhi,” said Mundhe, adding that none of the 54 had any kind of symptoms. Adding that “it is not necessary that all 54 attended the Delhi meet”, Mundhe said, “We are only following government directions.” The 13 from Nagpur rural too have been traced and are being brought to MLA Hostel. Mundhe also appealed to all those who returned from Delhi after March 15 to inform the NMC. “Cases of Covid-19 are increasing every day and we need to control it. For their own safety as well as those of family members and others, such people should call up NMC control room, App or officials and get tests done,” he said. Of the city's positive cases, a Khamla businessman, his manager and a resident of a housing society in Central Nagpur were Delhi returnees. A delay in getting tests done resulted in some family members too testing positive. The police sources, who told TOI that 30% of the 54 had attended the Delhi meet, said, “ We have segregated them as per police jurisdiction. The list contains names of people who were in a particular area. The Delhi meet was held in one of the localities of this area.” TOI has a copy of the list. Scrutinizing the list, it can be seen that 31 are Muslims and the others are from different religions. Those from city are from various localities. According to Abdul Bari Patel, secretary of the Tablighi Markaz secretary in Nagpur, only seven members from city attended the international conference in New Delhi before returning on March 10 and 11. They were part of the 17-member representatives from Nagpur-Chattisgarh Markaz, which had a quota of 25 people for the jodh (meet) where over 1,000 people had congregated. Patel told TOI that one of the 7 had fallen sick but there were no symptoms of Covid19. “The member was admitted to Dr Aziz Khan’s hospital in city for urinary tract infection followed by pneumonia. Later, he was tested for coronavirus too but the result was negative,” he said. Bari said all others are currently normal and have self-isolated themselves. Three members had taken a flight to Delhi while others took a train. On March 10, only one returned by flight while others reached Nagpur on March 11 by train. The seminary secretary said one international group of 8 from Myanmar arrived in Nagpur on March 6. This group reported to Delhi HQ before moving on to other parts of the country. Bari said all have been tested and are normal. Five domestic jamaats, comprising 41 men and 5 women, are also camping in the city since February 28. They arrived in different batches from Delhi, Manipur and Jabalpur. “No one has any symptoms. Yet all would be tested today. The jamaat at Mankapur was shifted to a rented flat while others are at Palloti Masjid, a madrasa in Mominpura, Darul Khal in Takia and local home in Azad Bunkar Colony,” he said. The last one arrived on March 14 in the city and all of them were stranded after the lockdown. Bari said that the Markaz has submitted complete details of all to the special branch of city police. The visitors have also been given a copy of government guidelines on social distancing and other precautions in case anyone falls ill. “We have asked them to follow the norms religiously,” said Bari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tablighi-meet-officials-of-5-districts-in-vidarbha-on-a-hunt/articleshow/74939311.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 3, 2020||Goa||‘Postpone weddings’: Church braces for a longer lockdown||PANAJI: Marriages and baptisms scheduled for after Easter Sunday may have to be postponed if the lockdown continues. Forseeing that the country might be compelled to extend the 21-day lockdown beyond Easter Tuesday, April 14, Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias has advised devotees to refrain from scheduling baptism, first holy communion and marriage celebrations immediately after that date. “Please do not schedule any baptisms, first communions and marriages immediately after April 14. It would not be prudent to so do,” Gracias stated in his latest address. Should the lockdown be extended, this directive will hold good for Goa too. “We have to respect and cooperate fully with civic authorities. If there is a total lockdown, there will be no marriages and baptisms. If there is a partial lockdown, we shall have to see if the celebrations can be done with the minimal number of persons needed,” a priest from the archbishop’s palace told TOI. Marriages are not solemnised during the 40-day lenten season, which ends on Easter Sunday. This year, it falls on April 12. As for funerals, Gracias said the municipal commissioner of Mumbai has ordered that bodies of all coronavirus victims must be cremated and mourners restricted to just five. In Goa, too, the guidelines of the archbishop state that a minimal number of persons - the priest and very close family members - be present for the funeral rites. The same must be conducted directly at the cemetery, without any funeral mass. Children below 12 years, people above 60 years and those with medical conditions have been strongly discouraged from attending funerals. The church in Goa has also advised against physical touch while sympathizing with the bereaved family. Priests have been instructed not to visit the house of the deceased to escort the body to the cemetery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/postpone-weddings-church-braces-for-a-longer-lockdown/articleshow/74957872.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Boom sprayers donated to RMC||Rajkot: The Rajkot-based Tirth Agro Technology Private Limited donated 18 high clearance boom sprayers to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Thursday to spray chemical in all the wards of the city. This company manufactures agro machinery. RMC standing committee chairman Uday Kangad said, “I had a talk with the company owner, and I asked him to help us in combating Covid-19. He agreed to donate us these machines. Each of the sprayers’ tank capacity is 400 to 600 litres. Each sprayer has 16 spraying nozzles that can spray chemical in 360 degree area with the speed of 5 KM per hour. The company will also bear the diesel and operating cost in this lockdown period. There are 18 wards in Rajkot and one machine will be used in each ward.” Company chairman Hasmukh Gohil told TOI: “The cost of this machine is between Rs 12.50 lakh to 14 lakh. This machine was invented with a Japanese technology to help farmers in spraying pesticides. The Chennai and Mumbai municipal corporations used this machine for this purpose successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boom-sprayers-donated-to-rmc/articleshow/74955472.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown trauma: 67-yr-old drives thrice in nine days to Bypass hospital for dialysis||Kolkata: Ever since the lockdown started, life has turned particularly difficult and even risky for 67-year-old Tapan Mukherjee, who suffers from a renal ailment. Mukherjee, who lives with his wife off Hazra Road, has been forced to drive to and from a hospital off EM Bypass for dialysis, thrice since March 25. On one occasion, he almost blacked out as he drove back home after the procedure. Mukherjee has been suffering from renal failure since 2016 and undergoing dialysis – a treatment that filters and purifies the blood with the help of a machine. Though he sometimes drove his car, he hired cabs on the days of his dialysis. His friends, all senior citizens, would often accompany him to the hospital for the dialysis that would usually go on for four hours. Since the lockdown he has not been able to get a ride. His son Indranil, a senior executive at infrastructure major L&T, is extremely anxious but he cannot help him for being stranded in Mumbai, where he works. “I tried to call a few taxi drivers I knew, but none of them agreed to go, fearing harassment by the police for flouting the lockdown. I had no other option than driving down for the dialysis,” said Mukherjee, who needs to undergo the treatment twice a week. While he doesn't mind the 10-km drive to the hospital via Southern Avenue, Gariahat Road South, Prince Anwar Shah Connector and EM Bypass to reach the hospital, he is very worried about driving back home. On at least one occasion, he has felt dizzy and stopped to recover before commencing the journey again. Nephrologist Dilip Kumar Pahari, who treats him, has advised him to take at least an hour's rest at the hospital after his dialysis. Though he does accordingly, driving feels taxing. After the journey, he has to struggle to climb up to the second floor apartment, stopping for several minutes on the first floor to regain his breath. Mukherjee wished that one of his friends could accompany him but they could not do so, lest they became vulnerable to the Coronavirus attack. Though his wife Bulbul wants to accompany him, she is ailing as well and can’t climb the stairs at home. “My father’s creatinine level has been stable for the last few years but skipping a dialysis or not maintaining proper diet can worsen his condition. I am really worried about his driving back homer after the dialysis. He shouldn't be doing it, but we are not getting any help from anyone,” Indranil rued. Mukherjee had applied for registration in Pronam, the Kolkata Police initiative to help senior citizens. But the lockdown happened before his application could be processed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-trauma-67-yr-old-drives-thrice-in-nine-days-to-bypass-hospital-for-dialysis/articleshow/74957498.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||After ‘hottest’ Feb in 10 years, respite in March||Panaji: With the mercury mostly hovering below 35 degrees Celsius and night temperatures also in the normal range, there was some relief in March after the previous month ended as the hottest February in a decade. “The maximum temperatures in March 2020 were comparatively on the lower side as compared to the last ten years,” Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji said. The highest maximum temperature recorded during the month on a single day was 34.6 degrees on March 20. During the last ten years, the mercury invariably crossed 35 degrees, except the highest of 33.6 degrees C in March 2019. In March 2013, IMD, Panaji had recorded 38.7 degrees C, 36.9 in March 2017, and 37.3 degrees C in March 2014. But during March this year, it was mostly pleasant though the humidity may have been high.Overall, IMD, Panaji recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33 degrees C during March 2020. The mean minimum temperature of 22.9 degrees C was much lower than 23.2 degrees C recorded in December 2019, making the peak winter month the warmest in five decades.The lowest night temperature of 20.2 degrees was recorded on March 14 while it soared to 26.1 degrees C on March 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-hottest-feb-in-10-years-respite-in-march/articleshow/74958026.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 3, 2020||Goa||Please return to work, Goa government urges pharma employees||PANAJI: The state government on Thursday appealed to all employees of the pharmaceutical sector to return to work. It said that if workers from the sector continue to stay home, drug makers and medical equipment manufacturers would struggle to operate at full capacity. This, in turn, could lead to a shortage of medicines and medical equipment, it said. The directorate of Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has thus appealed to those who work in units that make medicines, medical equipment and ancillary products to get back to work. “Staff working for these organisations must attend their workplaces and contribute to the task of making medicines, medical equipment and ancillary products available to patients, as no patient should suffer from the shortage or non-availability of such products,” the FDA said. A few days earlier, the government declared that the pharma sector is an essential service, and permitted all pharmaceutical companies, pharmacies and pathology labs to operate during the lockdown period. “There is a requirement to make sufficient quantities of medicines, medical equipments and ancillary products available to the public in light of the present Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent situation,” the FDA said. “It is very important that the manufacturing activity of the medicines, medical equipment and ancillary products, and the entire related supply chain covering transportation, stockists, distributors and retail chemists remain operational throughout Goa.” Around 8,000-10,000 people are employed in the pharmaceutical sector in Goa. The government has also urged manufacturing units to ensure that the entire supply chain and establishments take all requisite safeguards so that employees feel safe and confident to come to work. It also permitted pharmaceutical companies, labs and pharmacies to issue travel permits to employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/please-return-to-work-govt-urges-pharma-employees/articleshow/74958027.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Essential services get three-month extension from pollution board||PANAJI: In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has extended the validity period of the consent to operate/ authorisation till June 30, 2020, to ensure that critical and essential services continue to operate for the welfare of the public. Shamila Monteiro, member secretary, GSPCB, said it is extremely important that critical and essential activities such as hospitals, biomedical waste management facilities, municipal waste management facilities, hazardous waste management facilities, steel plants, milk processing units, food processing units and pharmaceutical units , among others operate uninterruptedly, so that essential services and goods are made available during the public health emergency faced by the country. She said the board has not been able to process some applications for renewal of consent to operate/authorisation expiring on March, 31 2020, due to the lockdown enforced in order to prevent the spread of the virus. “In view of such extraordinary circumstances, the board, by virtue of powers under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, hereby extends the validity of consent to operate up to June 30, 2020 for all units that have valid consent to operate up to March 31, 2020, and have applied to the board for renewal of consent to operate,” Monteiro said “This order is applicable to those units whose renewal applications are yet to be disposed of by this board,” she said. The board also directed the relevant units to ensure that hazardous waste is not stored for beyond a period of 90 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/essential-services-get-3-month-extension-from-pollution-board/articleshow/74958029.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||History to rubble: Gate crashes in Hazrat’s Ganj||LUCKNOW: The outer gate of Imambara Sibtainabad, a 173-year-old mausoleum on Mahatma Gandhi Marg in Hazratganj, collapsed on Thursday noon. Though no casualty was reported as nobody was there due to the lockdown, several shops and eateries were reduced to rubble. Around 2.35 pm, a portion of an attic suddenly caved in and rubble started falling causing panic among residents and shopkeepers. Some commuters called police. Assistant commissioner of police, Hazratganj, Abhay Mishra, who was the first to reach the spot, said that no casualty was reported. “The part which collapsed had some shops, but they were closed,” Mishra said and added that a team of state disaster relief force (SDRF) and fire department also reached the spot to assist the police. Meanwhile, for Amar Lakhwani, manager of a popular restaurant, it was a nightmare. “I was checking accounts along with three staff members for disbursing salaries. Suddenly, we heard a loud thud. We ran outside only to see the whole front part of the restaurant was damaged,” said Lakhwani. “I initially thought that an earthquake had struck and ran outside where I saw rubble was falling from the huge gate,” said Chanranjit Singh Nanda, a resident of Capper road on the rear side of the mausoleum. Nanda said he has been living here since 1958. He said that he was concerned at the dilapidated condition of the gate and had informed authorities . “Imagine what would have happened had there not been a lockdown,” he said. Lucknow chief fire officer Vijay Kumar Singh said as the monument was protected by ASI, only its officers would be able to tell exact cause of the collapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/history-to-rubble-gate-crashes-in-hazrats-ganj/articleshow/74957884.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||60 cases registered against violators in Bhopal||BHOPAL: City police on Thursday registered 60 cases against 90 people violating the lockdown order. A day earlier, on Wednesday, 41 cases were registered against those violating the order. The accused were booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. Police seized the vehicles of those found roaming on streets without any valid reason and registered cases against them under the Motor Vehicles Act. Since March 22, after the lockdown order was issued by district collector, 300 cases have been registered against violators. Most of the cases were registered against people loitering on streets for no reason. Bag Sewania police registered six cases, including one against an ambulance driver, who was going to drop nine workers of a private hospital to their home in Misrod. SHO of Bag Sewania, Shailendra Sharma, said that the police stopped the ambulance at the checkpoint around 9 am and found nine people on board who did not follow the norms of social distancing. The driver said he was going to drop the hospital staff to their home in Misrod. But the ambulance is meant only for transporting patients, so a case was registered against the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/60-cases-registered-against-violators/articleshow/74957506.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Ambulance driver who will not stop serving people||Jaipur: Bhobal SIngh Yadav is well aware of the health hazards that are part of his job. However, the 35-year-old driver of a 108-ambulance says he realises he has a big responsibility to serve society at large. Yadav, who has been driving ambulance since 2017 and hails from Bharatpur, is currently in Jaipur. He is among 6,000 state ambulance drivers who are working round-the-clock. Most of them are away from their families. Read the entire story on TOI+  If it’s a disaster, you can count on them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ambulance-driver-who-will-not-stop-serving-people/articleshow/74957515.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal cop suspended for issuing passes during lockdown||YAVATMAL: Yavatmal superintendent of police (SP) M Rajkumar has suspended a head constable attached to Awadootwadi police station for issuing passes to nine maulanas and a vehicle to go to Akot in Akola district on Wednesday during lockdown. Pradeep Siraskar, chief of th local crime branch, confirmed the development. A head constable or any other class III employee does have any power to issue any such passes. The suspended constable is Nasir Sheikh (buckle no.1713). Within no time, the pass issue episode became viral and the matter come to the notice of the Rajkumar. The SP then made an inquiry into the matter and found that the head constable was guilty of exceeding his authority. Sheikh neither obtained a prior consent nor informed his senior regarding the issuance of passes. Accordingly, Rajkumar ordered the suspension of the erring head constable with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-cop-suspended-for-issuing-passes-during-lockdown/articleshow/74957510.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hubballi||Five arrested for hosting dinner party in Karnataka during lockdown||DHARWAD: Dharwad Town police on Thursday arrested five men from Bara Imam Galli for allegedly hosting a dinner party for more than 30 people in defiance of the lockdown orders. The accused Irfan, Ashfaq, Wasim, Arbaz and Aslam have been charged under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC, said assistant commissioner of police Anusha. A video of the dinner in Bara Imam Galli where mutton biryani was served on Wednesday went viral on social media, prompting police to take action against the organisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-arrested-for-hosting-dinner-party-during-lockdown/articleshow/74946530.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Mobile app for door-step delivery of milk||Rajkot: Mahi, a milk producer company, with the support of district administration has launched a mobile phone application to provide milk at milk products at the doorsteps of the consumers during lockdown period. The company has announced that it will not take any shipping charges. The ‘Milk on Mobile’ application is primarily developed for android users where consumer has to fill up the basic detail after downloading this app and they can order milk and milk produce online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mobile-app-for-door-step-delivery-of-milk/articleshow/74955522.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘Set up spl fund to combat corona’||Lucknow: Addressing chief ministers duing a video-conference on Thursday, the start of the second week of a 21-day long countryside lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the new coronavirus related situation continued to be worrying. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, urban development minister Suresh Khanna and chief secretary RK Tiwari attended the meeting after which the CM gave directions to set up a special fund to combat coronavirus. “These funds will be used for expanding services available at medical colleges, setting up of coronavirus testing labs, isolation and quarantine wards and purchase of PPE kits, ventilators and masks,” said a government spokesperson. Addressing district magistrates, commissioners and senior police official during a video-conference on Thursday evening, thechief minister said that a plan is being readied in anticipation of the lockdown being lifted on April 15 to ensure a chaos free return to normalcy. Acting on the PM's advice to train Ayush doctors, paramedic staff, NCC cadets and NSO volunteers in case their services are required at a later stage, the CM gave directions for their training, including Asha and anganwadi workers, through SGPGI. “The Prime Minister said that corona hotspots should be identified and cordoned off. Even after the lockdown is lifted, people should continue to follow social distancing and should not gather in large crowds anywhere. He added that special attention must be paid to old age and shelter homes,” said a spokesperson. With around 40 people having escaped from a quarantine home in Hapur, the chief minister has issued directions to take action against them, saying that no “concession is to be given in the Tablighi Jamaat case”. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi has said that home delivery through e-commerce portals like Amazon and Flipkart will be starting soon in the state. Meanwhile, chief secretary RK Tiwari has said that for medical emergencies and essential service providers, a facility for online travel passes is being started. A person can apply for these passes online and once vetted, will get the pass on the registered phone number. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar said that 40,000 people are living in 1,050 shelter homes in the state. The government also issued helpline numbers along with control room numbers. A new WhatsApp number 9454441036 has been released along with a CSR helpline number 9454441045 for people and organisations who would like to provide help during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/set-up-spl-fund-to-combat-corona/articleshow/74957891.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Locals try to ‘quarantine’ 15 cylinder delivery boys||KOLKATA: Around 15 delivery boys of an Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) distributor at Sulekha More near Jadavpur were stopped by locals in Diamond Harbour on Wednesday when they were heading towards home in two vehicles to give money to their families. They were taken to the local police station and then to a health centre for quarantine. However, they were released only after a call from the IOC called the district administration regarding the matter. Oil marketing firms like IOCL, Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) and HP have complained their delivery boys in Kolkata are being harassed when they visit homes on the outskirts. The three firms have nearly 10,000 delivery boys while around 6,000 of them belong to Kolkata distributors and over 60% of them are from neighbouring districts. In rural towns, delivery boys are not facing such problem as they are mostly local. The IOCL chief general manager (LPG) Abhijit Dey said the main problem is with delivery boys in the Kolkata metro area. “Here most of the delivery boys of our distributors are from adjacent districts like two 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. We have asked the distributors to provide them with pick and drop facility. Many of them stay with the distributors as well,” he added. Dey also assured there is adequate availability of cylinders. “The delivery boys are doing a good job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-try-to-quarantine-15-cylinder-delivery-boys/articleshow/74957514.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Came for IVF treatment, UK national stranded in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: When Shukri Mohamoud landed in New Delhi on January 14, she was set for the long haul. Like many women from across the globe, the UK citizen too came to India for an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment and knew it would be a while before she could return to her home in London. But now, all Shukri wants is to be back with her husband and sister. “I feel so helpless and lost; I just don’t know what to do,” the distraught 40-year-old told TOI over telephone from her temporary home in Masab Tank. She came to Hyderabad on March 1. “After some unsuccessful visits to clinics in Delhi, I came here and started treatment at a clinic in Secunderabad. I was told it would take three months so I rented a place. About 10-12 days into the process, the doctors suddenly told me they’d have to discontinue it because of the lockdown,” Shukri said, confessing she was caught off guard. But before she could decide to return to the UK, all international flights were suspended. “Now, I am trapped within this house all alone. I am scared. I appeal to the authorities to please take me home to my family,” she said while, however, thanking the locals for helping her procure daily essentials. “It is a friendly neighbourhood; that’s the only saving grace,” Shukri said. When TOI reached out to Andrew Fleming, British Deputy High Commissioner to AP and Telangana, he said: “Ensuring the safety and well-being of British nationals is our first priority. My staff and I are working around the clock and in close partnership with the state governments of Telangana and AP to provide assistance. Over the past few weeks, the British Deputy High Commission in Hyderabad and our colleagues across India have supported thousands of British nationals in person, over the phone, on social media and over email. Due to the unprecedented travel restrictions in place around the world as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the UK government has also announced a new partnership with airlines to enable British travellers to fly home. As soon as more details are available, we will publish these on our travel advice and social media channels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/came-for-ivf-treatment-uk-natl-stranded/articleshow/74957517.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Private doctors want to avoid risk of virus exposure||Nagpur: A majority city doctors have opened their private clinics, albeit reluctantly, after the government’s diktats but are still worrying about getting infected by coronavirus. TOI has earlier reported how doctors were forced to check patients in raincoats in absence of personal protection equipment (PPEs) and N-95 masks. The doctors are facing problems not only from the administration but also from citizens who are flaying them for keeping their clinics shut. Quoting a case of Delhi-based general practitioner working with Mohalla clinic, who tested positive for Covid-19, the doctors said that about 50 from their fraternity had contracted this highly contagious disease across India, which also included those not directly working with the positive patients in hospitals. In the city as well, some doctors were quarantined for unknowingly coming in contact with positive patient. Some of these front-line warriors in fight against the coronavirus epidemic are also fear of public wrath while doing their duty for the nation. “In Indore, the public threw stones on the medical staff who went there to pick up a suspect of Covid-19. At other places, they are abused and threatened, despite the fact that doctors are risking their lives for public. You can’t rule out possibility of same things happening here, they said. Some of them like former IMA president Sanjay Deshpande said that private doctors weren’t opposing government’s directives to open clinics, but there were genuine concerns. “We had downed the shutters, primarily to save the people from getting infected, as we have very little waiting space for them. No one can deny the fact that our dispensaries could become hotspot for transmission even if a single person who carrying the virus paid a visit,” he said. He added that most of the medicos were ready to join the government’s fight against Covid-19 epidemic when required. “As a precautionary measure, I am checking only one patient in 30 minutes. Even patients are not coming ever since the lockdown was enforced,” Dr Deshpande said. VNIT alumni body to donate 100 PPEs to GMCH, IGGMCHMany organizations and individuals are coming forward to help the city’s medical fraternity which is grappling with shortage of PPEs and N-95 masks. The VNIT alumni association would be donating 100 good quality PPEs and N-95 masks for doctors and staff treating Covid-19 patients at GMCH and IGGMCH. “We would be handing over 50 PPEs each to both government hospitals from Rs25 lakh we have collected from our members,” chairman Shashikant Chaudhary and treasurer Umesh Kamat said. Two lawyers — Akshay Samarth and Pramod Upadhyay — donated N-95 masks to GMC’s medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande for distributing it to nurses and support staff. Both also made an appeal to people to help the doctors. “Anyone can contact us on mobile — 9422109620, if they wish to donate these equipment for the doctors. The protective gear is must for them as nine doctors were put under quarantine for coming in contact with a positive patient,” the lawyers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/private-doctors-want-to-avoid-risk-of-virus-exposure/articleshow/74957534.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 3, 2020||Agra||35 escape from quarantine facility in Hathras||Agra: In a shocking incident, at least 35 local residents, who had returned to Hathras in the last 15 days and were quarantined at Bisawar primary school, escaped from the government facility on Wednesday night. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar said that panchayat secretary KP Singh, who was on duty, has been suspended and an FIR has been registered against the missing persons under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC along with section 4 of the Epidemic Disease Act. He added that six persons, however, returned later, but 29 were still missing. “The administration will soon locate and put them again at the quarantine facility. Though no one had symptoms of Covid-19, they were quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure,” he said, adding that there are directions by the state government to put all persons, who returned to their home towns during the lockdown period, in a state-run facility for a defined period. One of the persons, who was quarantined at Bisawar primary school, claimed that around 55 persons were present inside the facility on Wednesday. However, after the dinner, only 12 persons remained. He claimed that the security guard was also not available at night. On March 29, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had issued directions to district officials to keep people who had arrived in the state during lockdown under quarantine. Their names, addresses and phone numbers have been made available to the district magistrates and they are being monitored. According to sources, around 3 lakh migrant workers started marching towards their domicile states after the announcement of 21 days lockdown on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/35-escape-from-quarantine-facility-in-hathras/articleshow/74956780.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Even as doctors use raincoats, India exports suits to Serbia||HYDERABAD: At a time when authorities are struggling to provide protective gear to thousands of doctors battling coronavirus in hospitals, news of India providing tonnes of protective medical equipment to Serbia has evoked anger in the city and on social media. “The 2nd cargo Boeing 747 with 90 tonnes of medical protective equipment landed in Belgrade today (Thursday). The transportation of valuable supplies purchased by the Serbian government has been fully funded by the European Union while UNDP Serbia organised the flight & ensured the fastest possible delivery,” read a UNDP tweet. As United National Development Programme (UNDP) in Serbia tweeted about receiving exports from India, doctors and equipment suppliers began asking how exports were allowed when Indian doctors and health workers were using raincoats. “I’m baffled & bewildered at this. Doctors & other healthcare workers have an acute shortage of supplies and are being forced to protest to the authorities, at the risk of being vilified by the public. Yet concurrently, huge supplies are being sold overseas. Inexplicable negligence,” urologist Dr Pradeep wrote on Twitter. Sources said that surgical gloves were exported from Kochi in Kerala to Serbia. Though the Director-General of Foreign Trade Notification has exempted surgical gloves from prohibited exports, it has prohibited the export of personal protective equipment, sanitisers, surgical masks and ventilators. The World Health Organisation on Thursday said there was a severe and mounting disruption of the global supply of personal protective equipment. Telangana State Medical Services & Infrastructure Development Corporation MD Chandrashekar Reddy admitted that doctors in the state are struggling with supplies and there are no imports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/even-as-docs-use-raincoats-india-exports-suits-to-serbia/articleshow/74957518.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||DyCM donates Rs 1.5cr for Lucknow, Agra, Rae Bareli||Lucknow: Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Thursday announced donation of Rs 1 crore for Lucknow and Rs 25 lakh each for Agra and Rae Bareli from his local area development fund to combat the spread of novel corona virus. He also announced donation of his one month salary and other incentives in CM relief fund for the same. Sharma is the minster in charge of Agra and Rae Bareli. He said that preventing people from getting infected with coronavirus was the priority of the state government. “The state government is fully equipped to fight the menace of coronavirus,” he said. Sharma said that though people have lent their help to the state government in its fight against coronavvirus, more support was needed. “This is the time to stand with the government and follow its instructions. Even a little callousness can potentially push the country in the danger of coronavirus spreading itself,” he said. The deputy CM said that the country would once again move in the direction of becoming New India once the corona crisis was over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dycm-donates-rs-1-5cr-for-lucknow-agra-rae-bareli/articleshow/74957895.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Agra||Locals flout social distancing norms, flock to veggie mandi in Mathura||Agra: Residents in Mathura violated lockdown orders on Thursday morning and flocked to the wholesale market for buying vegetables. Police seized 28 motorcycles for breaking social distancing norms in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. Mathura SP (city) AK Meena said only retailers are allowed to pick vegetables from the wholesale market, which is operational for two hours, from 5 am to 7 am. But local residents have started visiting there in large numbers, flouting social distancing rules. “We have booked 20 people for flouting prohibitory orders. Besides, we have seized 28 motorcycles,” he said, adding that a warning in this regard has also been issued. Meena said people must understand the gravity of the situation. If the Covid-19 chain has to be broken, people must stay indoors and maintain social distancing, avoiding crowded places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/locals-flout-social-distancing-norms-flock-to-veggie-mandi-in-mathura/articleshow/74956794.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||Contravening government order, Air India may roster pilots during their quarantine||MUMBAI: Air India may now roster pilots, who are under the fourteen-day home quarantine for having operated a flight to a Covid-affected country, for flights even during their quarantine period. The conditions for rostering pilots are they should have no symptoms of the infection and no one on the earlier foreign flight they operated should have tested positive for Covid. There is no regard for the possibility of such pilots being asymptomatic carriers. An internal email titled “Removal of Quarantine and Unblocking of the Crew” was sent recently by AI executive director (operations) to general manager, legal and crew management system, which referred to a DGCA March 23 circular which does not call for mandatory 14-day quarantine for all crew after travelling abroad. The mail states that “crew can be utilised for flying duties without 14 days of quarantine…” An exception would be made only if, as stated in the DGCA circular, there is “a positive case of Covid-19 on a flight, the entire crew has to be de-rostered for 14 days”. The said DGCA circular, while not calling for a mandatory 14-day quarantine for all crew, states that crew has to fill out a self-declaration form. It asks for quarantine only if crew develops symptoms. The AI internal communication had led to much anxiety among the pilots. “It would be stressful, especially for commanders over the age of 50, to fly with a pilot who has a quarantine stamp on his or her hand,” said a senior commander. Another pilot said that if he steps out to operate a flight while under quarantine, he risks getting arrested. “Moreover, the housing society won’t take kindly to it and my family would face the consequences,” he added. Air India spokesperson said, in a statement, “We may be requisitioning the services of some of our crew members who have not tested positive nor shown any symptoms, going by the DGCA March 23 circular. Air India is strictly adhering to guidelines issued by our regulatory body. All possible measures have been taken towards their health and safety as the safety of our air crew is paramount to us.” The statement also listed the measures taken by AI like fumigating aircraft and providing personal protective equipment to crew to check the spread of the virus. However, AI’s decision to roster crew under 14-day quarantine is in contravention to the government’s notification, which states that a person with a history of travel to affected areas in last 14 days and who is asymptomatic must remain in home quarantine for 14 days from the day of exposure. An AI senior commander said: "Fourteen day quarantine regulations are issued by local authorities under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897. The DGCA has no authority to give any dispensation under the Act. Violations of such a directive is punishable under Section 269 of IPC (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of a disease) to destain individuals and make arrests’’. He added that the relief flights being operated by AI are ``commercial charter flights, not emergency rescue flights or essential service. So who has given exemptions to break the lockdown which has been enforced under NDMA Act’’. The AI ED (ops) had, in a mail on March 23, stated that “all cockpit/cabin crew after operating any international flight shall be self-quarantined for 14 days”. The next day, AI executive director (medical) sent a letter on guidelines pertaining to home quarantine in order to prevent transmission of the virus. Basing its decision on guidelines issued by ICMR, health ministry, AIIMS, the AI medical director’s letter said that “all asymptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days should stay in home quarantine for 14 days.” An AI commander said that the airline recently terminated the contracts of its retired pilots who are over the age of 58. Till now, pilots could fly with AI till the age of 65. “But with impact of coronavirus on flight operations, AI doesn’t need as many pilots, so these pilots have been let go. So now it needs pilots now to operate cargo flights and relief flights, flying foreigners to their home countries, as these are now the new sources of revenue till the situation changes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/contravening-govt-order-ai-may-roster-pilots-during-their-quarantine/articleshow/74955655.cms||Manju V
April 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Sojitra man arrested for hate post on social media||VADODARA/ ANAND: Sojitra police on Thursday arrested an accused for spreading enmity on social media by sharing communal posts regarding the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. A resident of Sojitra town of Anand district Javed Vohra had filed a complaint against Hardik Dalwadi stating that the latter shared a post on Facebook terming the congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz from where more than 100 positive cases of Coronavirus have emerged, as an act of terrorism. Vohra alleged Dalwadi had violated sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 at the time of COVID-19 pandemic by instigating sentiments against the minority community through his provocative post. “We have arrested the accused for allegedly spreading rumours that may lead to panic in the public especially at the time of pandemic,” said Pratapsinh Jadav, police sub inspector of Sojitra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sojitra-man-arrested-for-hate-post-on-social-media/articleshow/74954695.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Agra||IAF aircraft makes emergency landing after ‘engine catches fire’||Agra: An Indian Air Force (IAF) transport aircraft ‘Avro HS 748’ made an emergency landing at Agra’s Kheria airbase after one of its engines caught fire.The incident took place on March 31 during a practice sortie. According to an official source, the aircraft’s engine caught fire seconds after taking off from the Kheria airbase following which two on-board pilots conducted an emergency landing, successfully.According to information, the aircraft was at 250 feet when the incident took place. It was probably hit by a bird. And the engine suffered significant wear and tear.The medium-sized twin turboprop Avro was commissioned into Indian Air Force in 1961 and since then it has been used for multiple operations and purpose such as for airborne early warning system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/iaf-aircraft-makes-emergency-landing-after-engine-catches-fire/articleshow/74956791.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||With 13 new Covid-19 cases, total now 133 in Rajasthan; 85-yr-old Alwar man dies||JAIPUR: Thirteen people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of infected to 133 in Rajasthan. Among the 13 new cases, three are linked to Tablighi Jamaat. Out of the 13 new cases, seven are from Ramganj area of Jaipur, two from Jodhpur and one each from Bharatpur, Dholpur, Jhunjhunu and Udaipur. The Udaipur case is a 16-year-old student who returned from Indore recently. The state also recorded its third Covid-19 death when an 85-year-old person died while undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh Hospital here. He was shifted from Alwar to Jaipur on Wednesday. ‘Rapid testing kits will be made available’Bharatpur and Dholpur reported their first Covid-19 cases, while Jhunjhunu reported its ninth case. All the three districts reported one each case of Tablighi Jamaat persons infected with the virus. With two new cases, the count in Jodhpur increased to 10. “A 26-year-old woman, who has a travel history of visiting Ahmedabad, has been found infected with the virus,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. Another case from Jodhpur is a 27-year-old woman who belongs to an area where a large number of people from other states had recently come and are staying there. The health department has intensified screening in the area to find if more such cases exist. The 16-year-old person from Udaipur district had reached his hometown from Indore. Earlier, a father-son duo who rode a motorbike from Indore to Dungarpur were found infected with the virus. Covid-19 epidemic has been ravaging Ramganj area of Jaipur’s Walled City where 33 people have been found infected with the virus since March 26. Ramganj has emerged as a hotbed for the pandemic where health teams have to face misbehavior from people and, despite all adversities, the teams are taking measures to get all the people in the area screened. “We have deployed 149 teams which have surveyed 7,637 houses and screened 42,805 people for influenzalike illness. However, in some areas, residents misbehaved with health teams though no violence was reported,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, who is spearheading the fight against Covid-19 in Ramganj area. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to conduct sero-surveillance to find out if the virus has entered the community level. “Rapid testing kits, which has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research, will be made available. This test detects antibodies and antigens with the use of stripes to check community spread of the virus,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. He said random sampling will be conducted. Doctors have been assigned to develop a model for random sampling and conduct sero-surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-13-new-cases-total-now-133in-raj-85-yr-old-alwar-man-dies/articleshow/74957899.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: ‘Don’t panic, faith the biggest healer”||RAJKOT: On reaching home after 16 days on Thursday, Nadim Sevingya first tightly hugged his two-year-old son Faiz and eight-year-old daughter Sana. His wife Shabnam repeatedly broke down even as neighbours gave Nadim a rousing welcome and returning home after defeating the coronavirus. “I am extremely thankful to the doctors and district administration who have given me a new life. Today is the biggest day of my life,” the 32-year-old tailor who was the first positive COVID-19 patient in Rajkot. In fact, he was declared positive the same day Surat’s 21-year-old Rita Bachkaniwala, who has also recovered fully and discharged two days ago. After his reports on March 31 and April 1 tested negative, doctors at the civil hospital confirmed that he was free of infection and fit to go home on Thursday. Nadim will, however, stay quarantined at his house in Jangleshwar for a week as per guidelines. “I was in touch with my parents and family through video conference. But I was only praying to Allah that I should be able to meet them in person,” said Nadim. “There is no need to panic ( if you test positive). Have faith in doctors and your body will overpower the virus,” added Nadim, who advised people to strictly follow government guidelines and lockdown to save themselves from contracting infection. His parents Kaasam and Sharifa were in tears after they were allowed to meet their son after a long gap of 16 days that passed with uncertainty. Nadim got infected during his visit to Mecca in February and admitted to the civil hospital on February 17. He tested positive on February 19 . His samples were sent for the testing five times during the treatment and the last two reports were negative. Talking to TOI, Nadim’s wife Shabnam first reaction was : “Meri Dua Kabul ho Gai (My prayers have been answered).” “I had nothing except prayers when I heard that my husband had tested positive. I was extremely worried thinking about raising my children if anything untoward happened,” she said in a choked voice. Nadim does tailoring work in Gokulnagar area close to this residence. His father Kaasambhai said, “Our family of 14 people were kept the government quarantine facility at Pathik Ashram. We were provided all the facility like television and toys for the children.” Municipal health officer Dr. Pankaj Rathod said, “RMC and civil hospital extended all possible help to the family. The treatment they got in quarantine facility was beyond their expectation and we are happy that Nadim has recovered well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dont-panic-faith-the-biggest-healer/articleshow/74955552.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 3, 2020||Agra||Mobile application launched to keep a tab on crowd in Agra||Agra: To monitor the implementation of lockdown and to alert the authorities about the presence of any crowd in the city, the district administration, with the help of police and Agra Smart City Project team, has developed an artificial intelligence-enabled mobile application.The application will continuously give alerts about the place where the crowding is taking place along with photographs and location.Anand Menon, vice president of Agra Smart City Project said, “The app will continuously give alerts about the place where the crowding is taking place along with photographs and the exact location. The application will also alert police stations about location and people at public places not following the social distancing protocol so that necessary action can be taken. The application will show exact time at which the violation of the lockdown took place. All the details will be available on mobile screen of the police and administrative official.”On Thursday evening, divisional commissioner Anil Kumar who is also the chairman of the Agra Smart City project launched the application at Smart City Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC) established at the Agra municipal corporation head office on MG road.The objective of this application is to track any assembly in the city.Connected to the 435 cameras installed at 125 locations in the city, the application is designed to provide video surveillance solution using artificial intelligence.Municipal commissioner Arun Prakash, who is also the CEO of Agra Smart City Project, said, “The innovative video surveillance technology will be used to effectively monitor the various locations in Agra city to ensure effective implementation of the lockdown. For this, a mobile application has been developed. Artificial intelligence enables it to detect groups, crowd and proximity of people”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mobile-application-launched-to-keep-a-tab-on-crowd-in-agra/articleshow/74956800.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||A day in the life of a Corona warrior||BHOPAL: The real onslaught of the virus has not even begun. But the drill to keep himself, his co-workers and family safe is still the same. Meet pulmonologist Dr Parag Sharma, who has separate entry and exit points to his own house. Has not come in close contact with his elderly parents and has not hugged his daughter for three weeks! This is a life that many of the Covid-19 warriors like Dr Sharma have adopted to stay safe. In the wake of the pandemic, an average day is filled with meetings, patients and training of staff, for a time when the number of Covid-19 patients will test Hamidia hospital’s mettle, said Dr Sharma. He also leads the Covid-19 test force for Bhopal that has been set up at Gandhi Medical College (GMC). Almost all the members in his household have sworn to the Hippocratic Oath. While Dr Sharma’s parents are renowned practitioners, his wife is a dermatologist. That said, the family is more than aware of the risks and challenges he faces. Like a solider on the frontline, his family is proud and yet the emotion of the war with Covid-19 that is to come takes a toll. “I use separate utensils and eat in my room. Upon entry to the house, I first take a shower and only then interact with my family,” explained the doctor, who reaches the hospital at 8.30 am and there is no fixed time for return. Once the number of cases increase, each medical staff will work for seven days non-stop on a rotation basis. After that, each medical professional would be quarantined for 14 days. The question remains how long will the medical services be able to cope with the increase in cases. So what is the mantra to follow in these difficult times? “First, do no harm.” Doctors, nurses, and clinicians swear by this code of conduct, he said. Yet, medical errors are made every single day -- avoidable mistakes that often cost lives. “We need to keep our staff protected and train even the class IV staff and guards not become carriers. The whole matrix of spread needs to be understood,” the doctor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-corona-warrior/articleshow/74956793.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Two sell costly masks & fake sanitisers, held in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Special Operations Team, Rachakonda, arrested two persons from Nagole and Chaitanyapuri limits for manufacturing fake hand sanitisers and selling masks at higher rate respectively. The accused, G Mohan Kumar (61), owner of the manufacturing unit in Nagole, was caught during a raid for manufacturing fake hand sanitisers, given the increase in demand in the city. The team seized nearly 7,000 bottles of duplicate hand sanitizer worth Rs 3 lakh. In another incident, SOT sleuths nabbed Y Manikayam (60), a resident of Chaitanyapuri, who was found selling masks on a higher rate. “The accused was found selling masks on a higher rate. Each mask costs around Rs 9 per piece, while he was found selling it for Rs 14 to Rs 15 for each mask,” said an officer from the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-sell-costly-masks-fake-sanitisers-held/articleshow/74957524.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Demand for hazmat suits shoots up in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) for healthcare workers is barely sufficient. Currently, the state has stocks of 7,000 to 8,000 disposable PPEs also know hazmat suits. Around 800 are used and disposed of every day. With the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 400 at Gandhi Hospital, the frontline staff are worried. Wednesday’s incident at Gandhi Hospital in which a patient’s family attacked a doctor on duty highlights the precarious situation at hospitals now. A senior city police official told TOI, “Our men wanted to go into the corona ward and take the attacker into custody. We didn’t have any hazmat suit or PPE. After pleading with hospital staff, we were finally given 10 after which we entered the ward and brought the situation under control.” The police department is given masks and sanitizers, not PPEs or hazmat suits. Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr P Sravan Kumar told TOI, “Every day we are given around 300 PPEs. With an increase in the number of patients, the requirement has gone up. All the frontline health staff have to be provided PPEs.” Currently, around eight local manufacturing units operate in Hyderabad, making PPEs at the rate of 1,000 to 1,500 per day. Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) managing director Chandrasekhar Reddy told TOI that there is a gap in supply and demand, but no shortage. “We are trying to improve the reserves. Apart from local medium and small scale industries, we are procuring items from Tamil Nadu and Hindustan Latex. The centre has also giving us PPEs. States such as Maharashtra and Karnataka are restricting sale to other states,” he said. “Due to the lockdown, suppliers have been hit. By Friday, we will get 5,000 more PPEs in addition to the 7,000 to 8,000 we have currently. The aim is to increase stocks of PPE to 50,000. Other department staff don’t need these suits. But due to fear, they are demanding them. There are different grades of PPEs. We are using non-woven suits which are anti-microbial. We also supply N95 masks, goggles as well as surgical gloves,” he added. The state has 95 lakh N95 masks and 20 lakh gloves in stock. The state also has stocked anti-malarial drug hydroxycholorquinone, antibiotic azythromicyn, anti-HIV drugs and paracetamol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-for-hazmat-suits-shoots-up/articleshow/74957522.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||More test kits set to arrive in Bhopal soon||BHOPAL: The much-needed COVID-19 test kits, that were stuck in transit in Mumbai, are expected to arrive in the state capital soon. The consignment came through after the direct intervention of a top MP health department official, according to sources. The test kits will provide much needed relief and increase the number of tests in MP. Indore, Ujjain, Jabalpur and other districts adjacent to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have demanded additional testing for people with COVID-19 like symptoms. On Thursday, an interim advisory for the use of rapid antibody test for COVID-19 in hotspot areas was issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The population in hotspot areas may be tested using rapid antibody test. Antibody positives are to be confirmed by RT-PCR using throat/nasal swabs. According to the advisory, those with antibody negatives are to be quarantined at home. CE-IVD approved kits can be used directly after due approval from DCGI and intimation to ICMR. A National task force is to finalise the recommendation, according to reports. Five testing labs are already functional — two in Bhopal (AIIMS and GMC), Indore medical college, DRDE (Gwalior) and Jabalpur. Currently, 5,000 testing kits are available in Madhya Pradesh. The state has total 836 ventilators and 2,073 ICU beds in various hospitals for fighting COVID-19. However, 24,027 normal beds are also available and they will be used for corona patients in case the situation arises. As many as 22,04,500 three-layer masks and 76,242 N-95 masks available. Similarly, 18,265 PPE kits are available. Besides, the health department is purchasing 1.99 lakh PPE kits, 2,61,238 N-95 masks and the same number of three-layer masks. Nearly 800 new passengers have been put in quarantine, taking the tally to about 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-test-kits-set-to-arrive-in-bhopal-soon/articleshow/74956817.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata lockdown: Lemon price sours as supply falters||KOLKATA: Lemon on Thursday retailed at two-three times the price of an orange, while the price of one kilogram of raw papaya sold at 25% higher than that of guava. The high price of lemon meant it went missing from the salad plates. The taste of lime in the lemonade or shikanji that adds a dash of tanginess to the sweet drink was compromised. The lockdown, imposed to minimise the spread of novel coronavirus, has pushed up prices of common vegetables beyond fruits. The smaller variety of lemon sold at Rs 8-Rs 10 per piece, while the bigger one cost Rs 15-Rs 16 on Thursday, when orange was available for Rs 5-Rs 6 per piece. Severe shortage is apparently the reason behind the unprecedented rise in lemon price. Even the wholesale price was exceptionally high, with 100 lemons being sold at Rs 500. While lemons and oranges are sold per piece in Bengal, it is sold against weight elsewhere. A bulk of lemon sold in Kolkata comes from Tamil Nadu. That is why it is also called Madrasi Lebu in local parlance. The lockdown has disrupted supplies, leading to a shortage. Natun Bazar on Chitpore Road (Rabindra Sarani) is the main wholesale market for lemon. On a normal day, Natun Bazar receives 12-15 trucks, each carrying 15-20 tonnes of lemons. After the lockdown, barely one or two trucks roll in a day. Koley market does not deal with lemon, yet at least three lemon-laden trucks used to come there. Now, not a single vehicle delivers lemon to the market. Bengal does produce lemon. In Nadia district, lemon is produced in bulk, but 90% of it is exported to southeast Asian countries. The Bengal variety is juicy, yet without the strong aroma of Tamil Nadu’s. Owing to loading and unloading problems, which is being caused by severe shortage of manpower, only a few trucks carrying lemon have reportedly been setting out from Tamil Nadu. But by the time the vehicles reached Odisha, the entire consignments were getting sold out, said West Bengal Vendors’ Association president Kamal Dey. He is a member of market price task force. Dey, however, raised hopes that lemon would be available in Kolkata by the weekend as some traders had requested for Bengal-specific consignments. “We are looking to bring some lemon from Mesra near Ranchi, now, the biggest wholesale fruit market in eastern India,” Dey said. Like lemon, papaya also comes in bulk from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. For the last few days, for the same reasons, papaya price has shot through the roof. While raw papaya sold at Rs 80 a kg on Thursday, guava went for Rs 60 a kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lemon-price-sours-as-supply-falters/articleshow/74957532.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Mill owners can buy produce directly from farmers||Jaipur: The agriculture department has started a campaign to issue permit to mill owners to procure wheat, rice, oil and pulses directly from the farmers. Till now, the mill owners were issued permit for processing agricultural produce through traders. “The decision was taken in light of the coronavirus pandemic,” said Nareshpal Gangwar, principal secretary, agriculture and cooperative. He said the move will open an alternate avenue for farmers to sell their produce and the mills owners would get fresh produce from the farmers. He added that the department had simplified the process of issuing licence for direct purchases. Now, the traders only need to mention the name of the centre and the information regarding average quantity of purchase in a day to the mandi secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mill-owners-can-buy-produce-directly-from-farmers/articleshow/74957533.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Tamil Nadu student’s 1,300-km walk home ends tragically midway||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old student from Tamil Nadu pursuing food processing course in Wardha, Maharashtra, travelled nine days, taking different modes of transport to cover nearly 1,300 km to reach his home town, but his trek ended midway, tragically at a function hall in Secunderabad late on Wednesday night. Forensic experts said he died due to heart attack. Bala Subramani Logesh, a native of Namakkal in Tamil Nadu, was pursuing food processing course at a Wardha college. After the lockdown was announced on March 24, Logesh and 29 other students set off on foot to reach their respective native places. He was nearly 1,300 kilometres away from home, but was determined to achieve it. After their nine-day journey and covering over 450 km, they reached Secunderabad on Wednesday. “On Wednesday night, they were spotted near Bowenpally marketyard by revenue and police staff. Apart from walking for long hours, they took different modes of transport in the last nine days. When they enquired about the group, the students told the officials that they were on their way to their respective homes,’’ Marredpally inspector Mattaiah said. After they were informed that they would not be permitted to leave the city due to the prevailing lockdown conditions, the students were shifted to a function hall at Marredpally, where they were provided food and accommodation. “Àfter having food, some of the students were chatting at the function hall. Logesh suddenly collapsed,’’ police said. Forensic doctors concluded that the student died of heart attack. Police said that since he was travelling for the last nine days, perhaps, due to dehydration, he might have suffered a heart attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tn-students-1300-km-walk-home-ends-tragically-midway/articleshow/74957535.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Counsellors in Bhopal pitch in to combat Corona fear||BHOPAL: A group of counsellors are playing a vital role in allaying fears of both people infected by coronavirus and those ‘feeling’ infected because of panic. They are also talking to people, who are in quarantine as well as people in their neighbourhood, so that they behave normally with one another during quarantine and later on. In-charge of district control room for coronavirus, Vandana Sharma said “Psychologists and psychiatrists have been deployed to talk to people and allay their fears regarding coronavirus, effect of isolation and lockdown that people have. They talked to 2000 people on Wednesday and tried to help them overcome their fears. For elderly persons, a different helpline has been issued. Senior citizens living alone can call on (0755-270420) for counselling, if they are gripped by any fear or have any other problem related to stress during this time.” Dr Kala Mohan, a counsellor, while talking to TOI, said “Initially, we carried out counselling at two-levels. First, we talked to people, who had gone abroad and after their return, they had been quarantined. We also talked to their neighbours, so that they remain normal with them and not stigmatise them. We counselled the actual patients also and residents of the localities, which were declared ‘containment area’ by the district administration. There were minor problems like elderly persons having problem in wearing masks all the time, but they felt good after talking to us. We still keep talking to them.” She said that they are receiving individual calls also. “In a country where touch of hand has been so important in consoling someone, asking people not to come close will definitely have psychological impact. Wives are not used to see husbands at home all the time, children are going nowhere and sitting home. All this is not normal and its impact will be seen more clearly in coming days”, she said, adding that at this point, however, containing coronavirus is more important than anything else. Former professor and head of department, psychiatric department, Gandhi Medical College, Dr R N Sahu, said, “Abnormalities creeping in the behaviour of people in such stressful situation is not strange. Sneezing, cold & cough is common in this season, but someone may start feeling that he, perhaps, has coronavirus infection and may get quite stressed. Proper understanding of the disease and counselling, if required, is essential to dispel fear that is clogging the minds of people. They must understand that it is a short-lived phenomenon and would go away soon. Till then, they should follow what the government is asking them to do and not panic in any situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/counsellors-pitch-in-to-combat-corona-fear/articleshow/74956829.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 3, 2020||Agra||Private hospitals to reopen OPDs||Agra: Patients needing to consult a doctor for minor ailments can heave a sigh of relief now. Doctors at the out-patient departments (OPD) in private hospitals and clinics will now be able to attend to the sick. At the same time, they will have to observe social distancing protocol. All patients will be sanitised before entering the OPD. Chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Bars has issued directives to the effect recently. Due to the lockdown to stem the coronavirus from spreading, private hospitals had closed their OPDs. Doctors were available only for emergency cases. OPDs at the SN Medical College and the district hospital were also shut. The situation was causing much inconvenience to patients, especially in the rural areas. Meanwhile, the district hospital has set up quarantine facilities in two private colleges. In Agra, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had released a WhatsApp helpline number, 7830067676, to provide consultancy on phone. Private doctors also shared their mobile numbers. Vats said, “All private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes have been asked to operate OPDs and all other medical facilities on a regular basis. In this, maintenance of high level of sanitation and hygiene and social distancing protocol is mandatory. All patients coming to OPDs are required to be sanitised. The doctors have been asked to operate OPDs to ensure that the patients do not suffer any health problems during the lockdowd. " Meanwhile, the district administration has developed a quarantine facility at two private hospitals. 107 rooms in Moolchand hospital and 60 rooms in Nayati hospital will be used to quarantine suspected cases of novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/private-hospitals-to-reopen-opds/articleshow/74956827.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Agra||Mathura pvt hosp dedicates 200 beds for Covid patients at Mathura facility||Agra: Nayati Healthcare and Research Private Limited has dedicated 200 beds at their Mathura facility, Nayati Medicity, for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The 200 beds include 102 ICU and HDU beds along with 98 isolation beds.According to a spokesperson of the hospital, while Nayati Hospital Agra has already been converted into a Level 1 Quarantine Centre on request of the state government, the Mathura hospital will handle all Level 2 & 3 Covid cases.Chairperson and promoter, Ms Niira Radia, said, “The responsibility of dealing with such a pandemic cannot be only with the public healthcare system. Private sector is playing an equal role. Considering the steep rise in number of coronavirus cases in the country, and with UP contributing substantially to those numbers, we are fully geared for treatment of Covid patients at Nayati Medicity Mathura and Agra.”She added, “Considering that we are the only advanced critical care centre in this part of the country, we have reoriented our hospital and our teams. We have segregated and equipped ourselves with 102 ICU beds and 98 isolation and high dependency beds. We are ready to serve over 1,500 -2,000 Covid patients in a 8-12 week period, which includes critical care. Three levels of triaging have been prepared and patients in triage are being screened in separate zones, which are currently being set up. In the first phase, the 70-bed isolation area will be used. It has 70 beds including ICU beds equipped with ventilator and ECMO.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-pvt-hosp-dedicates-200-beds-for-covid-patients-at-mathura-facility/articleshow/74956824.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||27-year-old Bhavnagar man tests positive||Rajkot: A 27-year-old man of Bhavnagar tested positive of Covid-19 on Thursday. He had come in close contact of a person who died on March 26. The man had come to Bhavnagar from New Delhi after taking part in the event of Tabilighi Jamat where he got infected with the virus. He was under quarantine for the past one week but developed Coronavirus-like symptoms on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/27-year-old-bhavnagar-man-tests-positive/articleshow/74955598.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ajmer||Pay March-April power & water bills by end of May: Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: In a major relief to common people, farmers and industry, who are reeling under the shock of coronavirus outbreak and lockdown, the state government on Thursday decided to defer payment of power and water bills for the months of March and April. The government said that electricity bills for March and April can be paid with the bill of May. But those consumers who pay their bills before May 31 will get a 5% reduction on their next bill. The government will provide an advance of Rs 650 core to Discoms in lieu of the relief. Similarly, water bills for the months of March and April has been deferred till June. The statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the fixed charge for the industry during the lockdown period for the two months will be deducted in proportion to the lockdown period in the bill for May. This will provide relief to about 1.68 lakh small, medium and big industries in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pay-march-april-power-water-bills-by-end-of-may-state-govt/articleshow/74962951.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid homes’ waste disposal rules bent in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has advised state governments to treat waste from houses with quarantined people as bio-medical waste, but several urban local bodies (ULBs) in Telangana, including GHMC, are not implementing the advisory issued by the central government. As per the advisory, all households where residents are under home quarantine should be provided yellow garbage bags. Unlike regular waste which is collected by ULBs, the bio-medical waste is disposed of by private agencies that collect and incinerate it. The agencies are collecting waste from state-run quarantine centres and houses of Covid-19 patients, but are turning a blind eye towards houses where residents are home quarantined. The ministry also stated that safety gear, including masks and gloves from non-quarantined households, should be treated as domestic hazardous waste. As per norms, the waste should be wrapped separately, collected and transported without mixing with normal household waste. Officials, however, say they are following government orders issued by the state and central governments. “As advised by the government, the waste from houses where people were tested positive for Covid-19 is being disposed of by agencies that collect waste from hospitals,” said Rahul Raj, GHMC additional commissioner for health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-homes-waste-disposal-rules-bent/articleshow/74957531.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Pay March-April power & water bills by end of May: Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: In a major relief to common people, farmers and industry, who are reeling under the shock of coronavirus outbreak and lockdown, the state government on Thursday decided to defer payment of power and water bills for the months of March and April. The government said that electricity bills for March and April can be paid with the bill of May. But those consumers who pay their bills before May 31 will get a 5% reduction on their next bill. The government will provide an advance of Rs 650 core to Discoms in lieu of the relief. Similarly, water bills for the months of March and April has been deferred till June. The statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the fixed charge for the industry during the lockdown period for the two months will be deducted in proportion to the lockdown period in the bill for May. This will provide relief to about 1.68 lakh small, medium and big industries in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pay-march-april-power-water-bills-by-end-of-may-state-govt/articleshow/74962948.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Pay March-April power & water bills by end of May: Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: In a major relief to common people, farmers and industry, who are reeling under the shock of coronavirus outbreak and lockdown, the state government on Thursday decided to defer payment of power and water bills for the months of March and April. The government said that electricity bills for March and April can be paid with the bill of May. But those consumers who pay their bills before May 31 will get a 5% reduction on their next bill. The government will provide an advance of Rs 650 core to Discoms in lieu of the relief. Similarly, water bills for the months of March and April has been deferred till June. The statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the fixed charge for the industry during the lockdown period for the two months will be deducted in proportion to the lockdown period in the bill for May. This will provide relief to about 1.68 lakh small, medium and big industries in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-march-april-power-water-bills-by-end-of-may-state-govt/articleshow/74957901.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Western Coalfields Ltd exceeds production target by over million tonnes||NAGPUR: Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL), the city-headquartered subsdiary of PSU Coal India Limted (CIL), has surpassed its production target for the year 2019-20, by more than 1 million tonnes (MT). As against the target of 56 MT for the financial year, the company has extracted 57.4 MT of coal. This is a growth of 8.4% which is the highest rate among all CIL subsidiaries, said a press release issued by the company. WCL has been given a target of 62 MT for 2020-21 and take it to 75 MT by 2023-24. With this, WCL has been able to supply higher quantity of coal to its consumers in central, western and southern states. Apart from Mahagenco, the state government owned power generation company in Maharashtra, WCL also caters to state power utilities in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka apart from the Central PSU National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the press release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wcl-exceeds-production-target-by-over-million-tonnes/articleshow/74957540.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Agra||Tablighi Jamaat youth tests +ve for Covid-19 in prelim test in Aligarh||Agra: A 25-year-old youth, who had recently attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, was found positive for Covid-19 during a prelim test in Aligarh on Thursday. He had returned to the city on March 31 after attending the religious gathering in the national capital.The youth’s family members, including his wife and children, have been quarantined at homeopathy medical college.Confirming this, Aligarh district magistrate (DM) CB Singh said that the youth’s sample for Covid-19 was found positive in the preliminary report and a confirmatory test is being conducted. This was the first such case reported for Covid-19 in the district.The DM added the youth was undergoing treatment for Tuberculosis for the past few months and had visited Delhi to attend the congregation. He further said, “After returning to Aligarh, he had met several people and visited the mosque, as well, in Chandpur Mirja village of Akrabad block, where he lives.” The village has been sealed by the administration and residents’ condition will be monitored.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr BP Singh Kalyani, told TOI that the youth was with the Jamaat group in Assam for almost four months and then reached Delhi to attend the event. He had later visited Khurja to meet his relatives before coming to Aligarh.The youth is currently undergoing treatment at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Joint hospital in Aligarh, the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tablighi-jamaat-youth-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-prelim-test-in-aligarh/articleshow/74956834.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Agra||Man, 22, killed by wife & her paramour||Agra: A woman murdered her husband by slitting his throat in bed with the help of her cousin. It has subsequently emerged she’s in a relationship with the cousin. The incident took place in the wee hours of Thursday, in Khanda village under Barhan police station of Agra district. The deceased, identified as Vikram Thakur (22), used to work in a Noida-based private company as designer. A week ago, he had returned home with his wife Raveena alias Rani, and their one-and-a-half year old son. According to police, Raveena and her cousin Pratap, who is the immediate neighbour of the couple, murdered Vikram. Barhan SHO Mahendra Singh Yadav said, “At around 2.30 am, the woman and her cousin killed her husband. Pratap is absconding since then, while Raveena has been arrested under IPC Section 302 (murder). The murder weapon is missing. Once Pratap is arrested, we hope to recover it as well.” Police sent the victim’s body for post-mortem. According to police, Vikram’s body was found lying on his bed in a pool of blood with slit throat. “It was a pre-planned murder. Call details of Raveena and Pratap have revealed they were in constant touch for hours,” said the SHO. He added, “Raveena is not speaking much, but as soon Pratap is arrested, we will ascertain the sequence of event. Meanwhile, their son has been handed over to Vikram’s mother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-22-killed-by-wife-her-paramour/articleshow/74956844.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi workers ready to supply ration: Akhilesh||Lucknow: Extending a helping hand to state government, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said his party workers are ready to deliver ration and medicines at people’s doorstep on bicycles. “If the government sincerely wants more hands for streamlining the distribution of essential commodities then we are ready to depute our party workers on bicycles to do the job,” the former UP chief minister said in a press statement. He further said that the government should make public the availability status of foodgrains. Besides, to check blackmarketing of foodgrains, the government should instruct flour mills to get rolling, he added. “Samajwadi Party workers can also ensure home delivery of food packets in villages so that the children, who were getting mid-day meals in schools, would continue to get the same in their homes as schools have been closed due to the lockdown,” Akhilesh said. The SP president said the state government should tell people about the exact number of kits available for testing coronavirus infection and the number of isolation wards and beds to accommodate Covid-19 patients. The government should give a detailed account of ventilators available in hospitals and ensure proper safety of doctors and paramedics by providing them safety suits and masks."This will help in dispelling fears of masses who are not certain about the government's preparedness to counter the coronavirus threat," Akhilesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/samajwadi-workers-ready-to-supply-ration-akhilesh/articleshow/74957906.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Workers in Sitapura industrial area complain about govt’s neglect||Jaipur: Arif Hussain, who worked at a garment company in Jaipur’s Sitapura industrial area, said he was jobless for the past 12 days and had no money to buy ration and arrange food for himself. He is one among the 25 who worked in a company in Sitapura and are facing similar challenges. They also complained that the government failed to provide succour to them in such a difficult situation. “There is no work for the past 12 days. We don’t even have the money to buy ration. We eat whatever is being distributed to us by the civil society groups. There are days when we hardly get to eat anything. Our company owner is also refusing to give our payment and the government is not doing anything for us. This is a pathetic situation,” said Arif, who is from Arariya district in Bihar. “We walked about 55km with the hope that we would get a vehicle to reach our home state. But, sadly, we had to return,” added Arif, who earned about Rs 300-400 each day when he had a job at hand. Meanwhile, district collector Joga Ram on Thursday visited Sitapura and Sanganer industrial areas and directed the area general managers and regional managers of RIICO to issue permits, passes and letters of permission for making the industrial units (dealing with essential items) operational and also to issue passes for vehicles and workers. These permits, passes and letters of permission will be provided by the regional managers and general managers as per the order. He also said it has to be ensured that the workers and daily wage labourers, poor and needy, living in industrial and adjoining areas are provided food both the times. An order was issued by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) that three teams should be set up to conduct a survey, in coordination with civil society groups, to identify those people who are without jobs, ration and the ones whose payments are due in Sitapura, Ramchandrapura and Mansarovar areas for distribution of dry ration. The collector has asked the SDMs to complete the survey in two days. “We are preparing lists of people who are to be given dry ration in the coming days. Once we finalise the list, we will start distributing dry ration. The beneficiaries of food security act are getting free ration from the PDS stores. Now, fresh directions have been issued to distribute 10kg wheat and one kg dal to each beneficiary per month. So far, 18,831 food packets have been distributed in rural areas,” said district logistics officer (II) Gopal Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-in-sitapura-industrial-area-complain-about-govts-neglect/articleshow/74957543.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospital security up post attack in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A day after coronavirus positive patients attacked a junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital, Chilkalguda police are believed to have registered a case against four persons. North zone sleuths who refused to share details on the attack case, however, made elaborate security arrangements at the hospital following a demand from the doctors. The two accused, who attacked the doctor, had already been shifted to Chest Hospital following the attack. Two hundred cops were on bandobust duty at Gandhi Hospital. Police teams were deployed on each of the four floors at the hospital where Covid-19 patients are being treated. An additional DCP rank officer was made in-charge of the overall security apparatus at the hospital. DGP M Mahendar Reddy, who was supposed to visit the hospital to review the security arrangements, cancelled his trip and instead senior Hyderabad police officials went to the hospital to take stock of the situation. After the attack, the patient was moved to King Kothi Hospital. His condition is stable and action will be taken against him after he recovers. Director Medical Education has conducted a meeting with resident doctors and doctors in the hospital. The doctors said they would resume work after security was beefed up with at least 10 police personnel on every floor. Police are deployed in separate lines created for medical staff and patients. Currently there are 70 Covid- 19 patients and 150 suspects – mostly those who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi – at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-security-up-post-attack/articleshow/74957541.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot orders random Covid-19 tests for virus detection||JAIPUR: With growing number of Covid-19 patients in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed authorities to conduct random tests for detection of cases. He also appealed to the members of the Tablihi Jamaat to voluntarily come forward for tests in the larger interest of humanity, society and the country. Gehlot held a high-level review meeting on the pandemic at his residence. His directions came following the reports stating that people of a community were not cooperating with health workers and police teams going for screening in their localities especially in Ramganj here where 33 cases of the virus have been detected so far. He urged that random tests will enable the state to get the exact status of infections. He also said those who have recent travel history and are witnessing symptoms should not hide it and come forward for tests. “Random tests in the districts will enable health officials get the exact status of the infection in the state. We should also focus on areas where tourists frequent,” Gehlot told authorities at the meeting. The chief minister also appealed to members of Tablighi Jamaat who recently returned from the Nizamuddin congregation in New Delhi to come forward for tests to enable the government and health officials check the infection. Gehlot also urged people to practise religious activities at their homes. “This is in the large interest of the country and the state. The Nizamuddin congregation should have been stopped despite all objections and resistance. I will also urge police to take action against those defying the lockdown,” he added. His appeal came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conferencing of chief ministers jand urged for faster screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-orders-random-tests-for-virus-detection/articleshow/74957908.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Pune||Big push to coronavirus testing kits’ production||Pune: Industrialist Adar Poonawalla has collaborated with Mylab Discovery Solutions to push up the production of testing kits required to rule out the Covid-19 infection. “It is my personal investment. It will help Mylab to scale up their production of Covid-19 testing kits from 1.5 lakh units per week to 20 lakh units per week and resolve the present crunch permanently,” Poonawalla, owner and chief executive officer (CEO) of the Serum Institute of India (SII), told TOI on Tuesday. Asked whether SII’s technical know-how will also be used in production of testing kits, Poonawalla said, “We won't be using any of SII’s technology. But our collaboration will help Mylab to supply their kits through the SII’s international network and base. Once India's shortage is taken care of, we will supply the kits to other countries as many are battling the shortage of these kits.” When probed on exact investment, Poonawalla said, “It is multi-million dollar investment which I am making in Mylab in a personal capacity. I cannot disclose the exact figures due to confidentiality. I naturally chose Mylab because it is the only ICMR accredited and commercially licensed testing kit manufacturing firm with the potential to scale up the production of kits into millions of units per week.” Earlier, Mylab’s virologist and research and development chief Minal Dakhave Bhosale came in for much praise for having worked hard for developing the indigenous test kit. Bhosale delivered on a working test kit, just hours before delivering her baby girl. She is currently recuperating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/big-push-to-coronavirus-testing-kits-production/articleshow/74970578.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Ram Navami fest a low-key affair this year in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Celebration of Ram Navami festival was a low-key affair in Bhopal on Thursday amid lockdown. People refrained from performing traditional rituals to follow social distancing norms. Some decided to skip the tradition altogether and help out poor people to keep up the spirit of charity, if so in a different way. Sujata Arora, a homemaker said, “The idea is to do a good deed for others. Though many also worship little girls as a form of Goddess Durga, during such times we have to bend the rules a little for the safety of everyone. So, in the spirit of doing a good deed, I donated groceries like rice, flour and cooking oil to my maids instead of inviting girls over for kanya bhoj.” Some residents of the city decided not to have the kanya-bhoj and host it at a later time. “I skipped the kanya bhoj altogether and only did the pooja and apologized to the Gods. I also made a promise that I will hold the kanya bhoj once the pandemic threat is over,” said Monika Sharma. Homemaker Sunita Hingwasiya decided to give dry snacks to her neighbours and gave prasad to her maids. “My maid has two daughters, so I sent some prasad for them and made some mathris for my neighbours so that in some way I fulfil the tradition of Ram Navami,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ram-navami-fest-a-low-key-affair-this-yr/articleshow/74956842.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||Tablighi markaz a factory of coronavirus, say VHP leaders||Lucknow: Terming Tablighi Markaz as factory of new coronavirus, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has apprehended that the congregation of thousands of people at Nizamuddin West in Delhi could potentially foil the very objective of the nationwide lockdown which was announced with an aim to arrest the spread of the Covid-19. VHP president VS Kokje, VHP international working president Alok Kumar and general secretary Milind Parande in a joint statement issued late on Thursday evening demanded that instead of getting the holed up people out of masjids, markaz and madrassas, the Centre and the state government should isolate and quarantine them there only to prevent the spread of new coronavirus. The VHP leaders said that when all other religious places have been closed, people from the Muslim community should also come forward to close masjids across the country till the crisis is over. The right wing leaders demanded that the government should cancel visas granted to the maulvis who had arrived in India from foreign countries and strict legal action be initiated against them. The VHP prescribed a mandatory ‘daah sanskaar’ for those who died due to Covid-19 without taking their religion into consideration. The parishad said that the possibility of the spread of new coronavirus increases manifold if the body of a person who has died due to Covid-19 is buried. “Today our fight is restricted to new coronavirus. Strict action should be taken against those who are not supporting the county in its war against the virus,” the VHP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tablighi-markaz-a-factory-of-coronavirus-say-vhp-leaders/articleshow/74957912.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC expediting road development, repair work||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown in place, works under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) and Comprehensive Road Maintenance Plan (CRMP) are being carried out during the day. Usually, these works are taken up only in the night to avoid any obstruction to traffic. KT Rama Rao, minister for municipal administration and urban development (MAUD), directed the GHMC officials to expedite the works during the lockdown. As on Thursday, GHMC was executing 11 SRDP projects costing Rs 834 crore. Out of these, works to the tune of Rs 356 crore had been completed. The government has instructed the agencies to complete the remaining works by June. “The works can be completed as per schedule without any delay,” read a statement issued by GHMC. Contractors were instructed by GHMC officials to use more machinery and less number of workers to avoid public engagement. “GHMC is using less labour force during these tough times. Along with L&T, a few other companies, who depend on China, have stopped taking up electrical works,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-expediting-road-development-repair-work/articleshow/74957539.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Several H-1B visa holders desperate to return to US||HYDERABAD: Several H-1B visa holders, who came to Telugu states on a personal visit or for business purposes and are grounded due to lockdown, are at their wits’ end. Torn apart by the coronavirus pandemic, they just want to go back to the US, thousands of kilometres away, and be with their worried families. Guru Charan is one such person. He came to Hyderabad for the last rites of his younger sister and is worried about his family in Phoenix, Arizona. With the coronavirus outbreak in US far worse than India, Charan’s worries have multiplied. “My wife and five-year-old child are in Phoenix. The situation in the US owing to the coronavirus is worse than India. I have to be there for my family in these tough times. But, I cannot go there,” said Charan whose flight on March 24 was cancelled. He could not bring his family along since his Hyderabad trip was planned at the last minute. Since H-1B visa holders are not US citizens, they do not qualify to be evacuated and cannot go back till the lockdown is lifted. With the US embassy in India announcing it will be arranging flights for US citizens, work visa holders say this is not fair as they are tax-paying residents. Charan came to Hyderabad in early February and is stuck. Those stuck in India like Charan are staring at the prospect of being separated from their families for long. With the US embassy announcing flights to evacuate its citizens from India from April 4 considering the Covid-19 crisis, several Indian-origin US citizens expressed concerns on social media. The flights for those in Hyderabad will be arranged from Mumbai and many have been asking how they would get to Mumbai during the lockdown. Making an appeal to the authorities, Mounika Narne said, “We are a group of valid visa holders stuck here (in India) for no fault of ours. Our families are torn apart. We want to go back and be with our families. We formed a group of 170 people and most accompanying minors are US citizens.” Speaking to TOI, Mounika said she is stuck in her home town of Tenali in Andhra Pradesh. A resident of in Virginia, said, “I am stuck in my home town. I came on a holiday break and I have a technology services company which I need to get back to.” Appealing to external affairs minister S Jaishankar, DGCA and US embassy in India, she tweeted, “While we appreciate all the efforts made by the Indian government to contain the virus…we cannot afford the lockdown to be extended beyond April 14. ” Highlighting other visa holders’ concerns, she said: “Our health insurances are in the US, and so are our life insurances. We haven’t planned for this pandemic mentally, physically and financially. This is not our fault.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-h-1b-visa-holders-desperate-to-return-to-us/articleshow/74957556.cms||Uttara Varma
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 fear: Woman’s last rites opposed||RAJKOT: Confusion, fear and stigma reined supreme at the crematorium on the banks of Bhogavo River in Surendranagar on Wednesday night, when a group of people opposed the cremation of a fearing she died of coronavirus. According to police, the woman Meena Devipujak (46), a patient of tuberculosis and diabetes, was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday after she complained of breathing problem and cough. She died during treatment on Wednesday night. News spread across the area that Devipujak died of Covid-19, though the reports were still awaited. Fearing that performing her last rites at the crematorium may spread contamination, people resisted the kin to go ahead. Surendranagar police said that cops went to the crematorium after receiving reports about the tension there. “We requested the deceased’s family members to take her body back to Gandhi Hospital,” said police. “Before the death of Devipujak, as instructed to perform Covid-19 test on every patient with complaints of respiratory problems and chronic cough, we also collected her samples and sent them for test. However, we are still waiting for her reports,” said a doctor from the hospital. Not satisfied with hospital’s explanation, people of Sonapuri locality allowed the kin to cremate the deceased at a crematorium near Dholi Dhaja Dam on the outskirts of Surendranagar, late on Thursday morning. Mahendrasinh Chawda, Dedadara sarpanch said, “A rumour spread that Devipujak had died of Coronavirus and that her kin were cremating the body clandestinely. This led to all the protest.” He further said that Devipujak used to live with her two sons in Mumbai. But after her health deteriorated, she came to her native in Dedadara of Wadhwan taluka and was living there for the past three months. Her sons too had shifted to Dedadara following lockdown. “We have not received any formal complaints in this regard. However, we have come to know that there was a protest by a group of people, who denied her kin to cremate suspecting her to be a Covid-19 positive case,” said S P Solanki of Wadhwan police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/locals-resist-womans-last-rites-fearing-covid-infection/articleshow/74955642.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Drones eyes in sky for Cyberabad cops tracking lockdown violators||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police are using drones to improve surveillance and crack down on lockdown violators. These drones are equipped with surveillance cameras, thermal imaging payloads and sky speaker for public announcements. Cyberabad police made an announcement in this regard on Twitter on Thursday. “Cyberabad police are taking all possible measures to enforce state-wide lockdown and stop the spread of coronavirus. We are using Cyient drone-based inspection capability to monitor the situation through drone cameras and thermal imaging technology,” the tweet said. At night, using thermal imaging technology the drones will give live feed to the police in command control room, about the movement of people. Even in areas where there are no streetlights, these cameras can given information on people’s movement. As of now, police are using two drone cameras. Due to dearth of manpower, the police department is finding it hard to track the movement of lockdown violators in locations where there is no police presence. These drones are being used in different places and if violation is detected, police are sent to there. Using cameras, police can make public announcements on the street since it has an audio output facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drones-eyes-in-sky-for-cops-tracking-lockdown-violators/articleshow/74957547.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 144 migrant workers in 15 rooms at Adarsh Nagar shelter home||JAIPUR: Adarsh Senior Secondary School in Adarsh Nagar, one of the shelter homes in Jaipur district, now houses 144 migrant workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, 21 have been sent to the houses of their relatives and friends in Jaipur with permission from police officials, the authorities said. Thirty eight camps and shelter homes have been set in Jaipur district to house migrant labourers for the remaining days of the nationwide lockdown. Nearly 2,000 people are living in all these camps across the district. The migrant labourers who are staying at the camps are being provided food twice a day, breakfast (biscuits and a cup of tea), sanitizers, hair oil, masks, tooth paste, soaps and blankets. However, authorities are also facing challenges in meeting the demands of the people staying there as they complain about food quality and other facilities. Soon after they were brought by police from various parts of the city, they underwent a medical test. “Now, there are 144 migrant labourers in this camp who have been kept in 15 rooms at the school. At least, 10 people are being kept in one room. There isn’t any more space here. We are refusing to accommodate more people if police insists on bringing them. Medical check-up has been done for all and not a single has been found positive for coronavirus,” said Ravi Pratap Singh, in-charge of the camp. “About 21 people were sent to the houses of their friends and relatives in Jaipur. They were released after seeking permission from police and health officials. They were allowed to go only after somebody had come to pick them up. The constables had dropped them at their respective locations,” he added. Over 680 labourers are living in the eight camps set up in the Jaipur sub-division. These facilities have been set up in government schools and private buildings across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/144-migrant-workers-in-15-rooms-at-adarsh-nagar-shelter-home/articleshow/74957552.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Police thrash man even as son cries for mercy in Wanaparthy||HYDERABAD: A police constable was suspended in Wanaparthy for thrashing a man in public, right in front of his minor son as he pleaded for his father to be spared in full view of half-a-dozen police personnel. Though the incident happened on Wednesday, it snowballed into a major controversy on Thursday with IT minister KT Rama Rao rebuking the “attitude of police” and saying “it is unacceptable in ANY circumstances” on a micro-blogging site after the video of the incident went viral on social media. On Wednesday evening, one Murali Krishna along with his 10-year-old son was travelling on a two-wheeler in Wanaparthy. They were stopped by traffic police personnel and asked why they were defying lockdown norms. “Murali told police that he was travelling from his residence to his mother-in-law’s house, which was about five kilometres away. When he was told that during the lockdown period they are not supposed to travel, Murali picked up an argument,’’ Wanaparthy inspector Surya Naik said. Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) constable Ashok Kumar, who was in mufti, checked for pending challans against the vehicle number and found there were 13 pending challans worth Rs 2,820. When police informed him that his bike would be seized due to pending challans and violating lockdown norms, Murali reportedly picked up an argument with them. “For nearly 20 minutes, Murali refused to give the vehicle and later slapped constable Ashok Kumar,” the inspector said. An infuriated Ashok caught Murali by the collar and started raining blows and hurling choicest expletives even as the latter’s son was pleading with him not to hit his father. Ashok pushed aside half-a-dozen police personnel, including traffic cops, and pinned him to the ground and continued his assault. A traffic constable too joined him and kicked Murali. A little later, Murali along with his son, who was crying for mercy, was forcibly put in a police vehicle and taken away. The incident was captured on phone by a bystander, a journalist of regional media. Murali was taken to police station and later let off.  However, police denied he was beaten in their custody. The video landed on social media and one Twitter user tagged IT minister KT Rama Rao. The minister reacted, “Dear HM Mahmood Ali Saab & @TelanganaDGP Garu, this attitude of police is unacceptable in ANY circumstances. Request you to take the strictest action on incidents such as this... All the exceptionally good work of thousands of policemen is undone by the erratic behaviour of few (sic).” Replying to the minister, Wanaparthy SP Apoorva Rao apologised to the public and said disciplinary action was initiated. “We apologise to public for such behaviour by an on-duty constable,” the SP tweeted. The constable was later suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-thrash-man-even-as-son-cries-for-mercy/articleshow/74957548.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Return of bakery workers boosts bread production||Kolkata: Supply of bread to markets in the city eased on Thursday, after bakery workers, who had gone away to their villages after the lockdown was announced last week, returned to the city. The staple had vanished from shops earlier this week in the absence of people making it and due to unavailability of flour. Till Tuesday morning, only 5% bakeries in the city stayed open, as a result of which many shops did not receive any supply of bread till Wednesday and those that did get, the amount was inadequate to fulfil the huge demand. But the scene improved considerably on Wednesday, when close to 25% bakeries started producing bread. According to the members of the bakers’ association, the government intervened earlier this week and measures were taken to revive production. Ariful Islam, chief executive officer of West Bengal Bakers’ Association, said the office of the chief secretary enquired why the supply of bread had stopped. “We received a call from the chief secretary’s office, asking about the scarcity of bread and how the government could help to normalise production. We told them that most bakery workers were stuck in their villages as trains and buses had stopped working,” Islam said. The government then issued special passes to allow workers to return to the city by private vehicles. Most of them living in neighbouring districts started reaching the city on Tuesday. At the same time, wholesale markets also started operations, following which raw materials, like flour, started becoming available. “As the process gets streamlined, more bakeries will start production of bread by the end of this week, and we will be able to meet the demand from across the city,” said Islam. Some bigger names in the bakery business in the city have, however, paused production because they are unable to follow social distancing guidelines in their workshops. New Ramkrishna Bakery in Behala, which produces almost 10,000 pounds of bread daily and caters to a large part of south Kolkata, has suspended production as the owners do not want to risk the lives of their employees, or for that matter, customers as well as the residents in the area. “We have almost 40 employees working here at any given point of time. It is impossible to implement social distancing in the workshop, where people are always in close proximity to each other. Moreover, our sales personnel visit markets and residents’ homes to deliver bread, which is risky for them as well as the customers,” said Hindol Saha, owner of the bakery, which was founded in 1970.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/return-of-bakery-workers-boosts-bread-production/articleshow/74957551.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Twitter campaign launched to counter Kerala’s legal moves on border||MANGALURU: With Kerala mounting a legal battle to get Karnataka to open its borders for patients from that state to this coastal city, amidst the WHO declared Covid-19 pandemic, netizens in the state and ‘Namma Kudla’ have upped the ante through a concerted Twitter campaign—#SaveKarnatakafromPinarayi. The Kerala high court, in a late-night decision on Wednesday, directed Karnataka to open its border for patients from Kasaragod, at Talapady. Incensed by the order, netizens through the campaign, sought to remind Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of his earlier retort to his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath, to take a lesson or two from Kerala’s health system. Widely shared in this repartee is a Tweet from CPM’s official Twitter handle @cpimspeak which implored Yogi Adityanath to do just that, when Uttar Pradesh faced a major crisis in its public hospitals, early into his tenure. Guruprasad Shastri (@GPShas3) questioned Vijayan’s claims to the world class healthcare in his state. “Then why are they forcing to open Karnataka borders? Please don’t allow this,” he tweeted, tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and chief minister B S Yediyurappa. The tweet also ended with #SaveKarnataka. The Kerala high court directive comes in the wake of death of patients from Kasaragod, due to lack of treatment. Twitteratti led by Chakravarthi Sulibele too were quick to pounce on the Communist-led LDF government in neighbouring Kerala. Tweeting media reports on the above Kerala high court order, orator Sulibele said, “Shabhash. Kerala CM happily announces 20K crore for Corona fight and silently goes to HC to request to open Karnataka borders as his people can get treatment in Mangaluru! Is this Kerala development model?” Mangaluru City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty tweeted, “50% of the #COVID19 cases in Wenlock are from Kasaragod. With the failure of @vijayanpinarayi’s administration and healthcare facilities, Kasaragod alone has 100+ cases which is the total count of Karnataka. We can’t let this pandemic spread to DK.” His city south counterpart D Vedavyas Kamath too took potshots at Pinarayi for trying to flood Mangaluru with Kasaragod patients. In a related development, Twitteratti also shared an order that Dr Ramachandra Bayari, district health and family welfare officer issued, directing private medical college hospitals in the state not to admit patients from Kasaragod. This letter dated April 1, which independent sources authenticated to be true, was widely shared on social media and Tweeted, liked and shared on other social media platforms, hailing the move by the district health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/twitter-campaign-launched-to-counter-keralas-legal-moves-on-border/articleshow/74956854.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Wholesale market in Bhopal shut till April 6||BHOPAL: Wholesale traders have shut thir shops from Thursday till April 6, as they were facing trouble reaching the their stores in Jumerati and Ghora Nakkas — amid strict enforcement of the lockdown by Bhopal Police. Jumerati and Ghora Nakkas are the two main wholesale markets of the state capital. President of Bhopal Kirana Mahasangh, Kundanlal Bhurani, said, “If it is lockdown, let the traders also observe it. The police and administration insist that we open shops but provide us no facilities. Workers of our shops were not being allowed to come and more importantly, our customers were scared away by the policemen. If you don’t allow customers to come to our shops, what’s the point in keeping the shops open all day... We shall also sit at home and will spend time with our family.” Bhurani said he was asked by the superintendent of police to come to Mangalwara police station for a meeting over the issue. “ I could reach there only through an unusually long route – Hamidia Road, Moti Masjid, Budhwara and Itwara.” “If we have been asked to open our shops, the police should issue us the passes so that we are not stopped at every square. We are businessmen, we can’t fight them,” he said. Bhurani said, traders were being asked to park their vehicle at Jumerati Post Office. “We come back in the evening with considerable cash, how would we carry it if we are not allowed to take our scooters,” he said. The closure of wholesale shops in the city has led to apprehension among residents about shortage of essential goods, but the district administration assures that there is no need to worry. “We have sought the help of all the major supermarket chains in our efforts to reach out to people if they need grocery or other essential items without having to go out. They can book their orders online and it will be delivered to them. Phone numbers of all such stores, who are in our list, have already been made public, “said spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore. Food safety officer, D K Verma, said that more than 10,000 orders were served at the doorstep of people who had made online bookings during the past three days. Apart from grocery, food items like pizza and other eatables are also being delivered online, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/wholesale-market-shut-till-apr-6/articleshow/74956859.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Five held in Gujarat for spreading rumours on social media||RAJKOT: Five persons were arrested for allegedly circulating rumours related to coronavirus on social media in Jamnagar and Junagadh on Thursday. In Jamnagar, Paras Vala (39) and Jayantigiri Goswami (51) were arrested for spreading rumours that the members of a particular community who had congregated in Delhi were fanning out across different parts of the country and spreading Covid-19 infection. “Both Vala and Goswami have been booked under sections 505(2) and 114 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 54 of National Disaster Management Act 2005,” said M V Modhvadia, sub-inspector with Jamnagar A division police station. Similarly in Junagadh, Rajesh Maghodia, was booked for circulating the same message on his WhatsApp group. One Gaurav Bhimani who had uploaded a post inciting communal hatred on Facebook was booked in Junagadh. Also, one Bahadurkhan Pathan was booked for circulating a message provoking religious acrimony on WhatsApp. The accused were booked at Junagadh A division, Junagadh B division and Junagadh taluka police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-held-for-spreading-rumours-on-social-media/articleshow/74955664.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Sigh of relief as migrant labourers test Covid-19 negative||BHOPAL: India was abuzz with reports of massive migration of labourers from the national capital region last week leading to Covid-19 spread apprehensions. Fortunately, none of the labourers, who migrated from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh, have tested positive. Many of them reached their hometowns and villages before the Centre issued orders to seal the state and district borders . Authorities swung into action to handle the mass influx of labourers lodging them in government hostels, schools, colleges and dharamshalas till they were screened for Covid-19. Migrant labourers from Delhi reached Morena in Madhya Pradesh after crossing the Chambal river bridge from Dholpur district of Rajasthan. They started reaching Morena from March 29 onwards. Around 60,000 labourers had reached Morena well before the borders were sealed. They belonged to different districts of MP and bordering UP, especially the Bundelkhand region.  Morena district collector Priyanka Das said, “A private college building outside the city was turned into an isolation centre for the labourers. All of them were screened and none of them have tested positive.”  Over 14,000 labourers reached Chhatarpur district in Bundelkhand region of the state. A spokesperson of the district administration said in all 27,000 people were screened for Covid-19 including three labourers coming from Gujarat and Rajasthan. Though all 14,000 labourers were found to be normal, they were isolated at different places of the district as a precautionary measure. “The 14-day quarantine period was must as a precautionary measure as they had arrived from outside the district. All of them are following the order,” the spokesperson said. Even those who had reached home were asked to quarantine themselves in the villages, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sigh-of-relief-as-migrant-labourers-test-covid-ve/articleshow/74957560.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||Farangi Mahal fatwa in Lucknow: Screening must for any corona suspect||LUCKNOW: Lucknow-based Darul Uloom Farangi Mahal on Thursday issued a ‘fatwa’ making it mandatory for all suspected persons to get themselves tested for Covid-19 and those who are affected by it should get themselves treated. The ‘fatwa’ says that it’s a crime against humanity and forbidden in Islam as per Quran and the Prophet’s Hadiths if someone puts his or other lives in danger. The 'fatwa' came in response to a query sent to the seminary in which a lawyer Raees sought directions in case a person was affected by coronavirus and was hiding his illness. In response to the query the 'fatwa' was issued by Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Maulana Nasrullah, Maulana Naeem-Ur-Rahman Siddiqui and Maulana Mohammad Mushtaq. Explaining the content of the 'fatwa', Maulana Khalid Rasheed said it was mandatory for anyone who is suspected to have been infected by the virus to get tested and he should not hide it. “It is ‘haraam’ (forbidden) and a sinful act if somebody keeps others in the darkness and deceives them about their illness. “It is criminal if somebody has the infection and is not telling authorities about it,” he said. The second part of the question dealt about the protocol for Covid-19 treatment to be followed by doctors and the government. “Islam gives importance to a person’s life and it tells people not to put anybody's life in danger. If a new coronavirus infected person does not get treated, he will put his life as well as his community’s life in danger. Quran says that saving one's life is equal to saving all the mankind. The Quran also asks a person not to kill himself,” said the cleric. Vice-president of the All-India Muslim Personal Law Board and top Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq also backed the fatwa. In a video statement he clarified that all sects within Islam have the same 'fatwa' during the Covid-19 pandemic which is to save themselves and the life of all human beings. "Instead of running and hiding, all Muslims should follow directives by the health ministry and doctors. The Quran and Hadith both talk about saving your life and that of others. It means we should take all steps to check spread of coronavirus whose cure has not been found yet," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farangi-mahal-fatwa-screening-must-for-any-corona-suspect/articleshow/74957919.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||‘Corona hits farmers hard, address their problems’||Pilibhit: The Union and the state governments should address the farmers’ woes which were intensified by the outbreak of novel coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown for 21 days, just before the harvesting of the wheat crop, said VM Singh, national convener of All India Farmers’ Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of more than 250 farmer unions. Posting a video message for the farmers on social media at 5pm on Thursday, Singh said, “The government is mum over owes of farmers, who are unable to harvest their standing wheat crop due to the lockdown. The government should announce a subsidy of Rs 5 on per litre milk to enable the farmers to meet the additional cost of feeding their livestock.” “They work as labourers to earn additional money to feed their family and cattle. But, the novel coronavirus and the lockdown deprived them of their additional source of earning, and thus, the government should waive the interest on their agricultural loan and suspend the recovery of their loans until the normalcy returns,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/corona-hits-farmers-hard-address-their-problems/articleshow/74956880.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Police in no mood to spare violators; 4,072 vehicles seized, 100 arrested||Jaipur: City police here are in no mood to spare the people violating lockdown and curfew conditions. Till Thursday, police seized 4,072 vehicles and have arrested at least 100 people in the city. At least 12 cases for spreading rumours on Covid-19 have also been registered against those posting wrong messages on social networking platforms. With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases from the Walled City, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, too, had asked police to take stern action against the violators. A large number of police personnel are also camping in the Walled City area covering its seven police station areas which are under curfew on Thursday. “We have constituted different teams across the city. Some are given the task of arranging and distributing food to the poor people and those living in camps, while many are on the road. Since the inception of lockdown, we have not shown any laxity. Those engaged in essential work are only spared, that too after seeing their valid permission and I-card,” said Ashok Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (crime). Police said many youngsters who are roaming around without any reason have been booked. “We are seeing many who keep some medicines including analgesic in their pockets and when caught they tell us that they are returning after buying medicines. Many were crossed checked with the medical stores which told us that they had not taken any medicine,” said Ram Awatar, a constable on duty at Lata Cinema circle in Jhotwara. Since March 24, after the lockdown, police have seized more than 4,000 vehicles so far and have arrested at least 100 people. “We have deployed more than 5,000 men in the city who are working in two shifts of 12 hours each,” said a senior police officer. A large number of women police officials in the Nirbhaya squad of Jaipur police took out a bike rally around the Walled City and Ramganj locality on Thursday carrying placards depicting importance of hand washing, social distancing and staying indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-in-no-mood-to-spare-violators-4072-vehicles-seized-100-arrested/articleshow/74957563.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Indore||Blood banks run dry in Indore as shutdown hinders donation||INDORE: With no blood donation camps in the city due to social isolation, blood banks of city are facing shortage and are unable to maintain stocks. Blood banks, both government and private, have reported shortage of AB negative and AB positive blood. Indore has been under complete lockdown to curb spread of Covid-19 after the region constituted around 75 positive cases out of 98 reported in state. There is only one government blood bank in district at MY Hospital, which is left with three to five units of blood of each group. It ran short of AB positive and AB negative. It has to supply blood to district hospital, PC Sethi, MY Hospital, polyclinics, community health centres in district. Dr Ashok Yadav, in charge of blood bank said, “The blood bank is struggling to maintain stocks because amidst lockdown and corona scare, volunteers are not turning up for donation.” “We have shortage of AB positive and negative blood groups while others are available in very small quantity. We have been trying on our own to pursue donors to come to hospital for donating blood. Around 25 donors were called on Wednesday and an ambulance was arranged for them,” added Yadav. The other one at Choithram hospital, one of the largest private blood banks in the city, has also reported shortage of AB positive blood. It has preserved two to three units each of negative blood groups. Dr Alka Jain, in charge of blood bank said, “We are managing the load. Normally, we have donation of 700 units per month and supply of 1000-1200 units of blood per month.” Now, 10-15 volunteer donations are coming, which is equivalent to requirement because all routine surgeries have been stopped because of Covid-19 lockdown, added Jain. Dr Arun Mahajan, in charge of blood bank at CHL Hospital said, “We have shortage of AB negative blood. However, demand is very less. We have two to three units of remaining negative groups in stock. We have 60 to 70 units of blood of all groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/blood-banks-run-dry-as-shutdown-hinders-donation/articleshow/74956879.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Suspecting illicit affair, man kills sister-in-law; ends life||RAJKOT: A man stabbed his sister-in-law to death before committing suicide by holding a live electric wire on the outskirts of Rajpara village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district on Wednesday. Police said the accused, identified as Mansukh Jadav (21), stabbed Bharti Jadav (31), as he suspected her of having an extra-marital relationship. After killing Bharti, Mansukh ended his life by holding a live wire of an electric pole. “There used to be frequent fights between Bharti and Mansukh over Bharti’s alleged illicit relationship with another man. Mansukh would beat up Bharti, asking her to give him the name of her paramour. On the fateful day after a fight with Bharti, Mansukh killed her and also committed suicide,” said D B Chauhan, sub-inspector with Nani Moradi police station of Chotila taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/suspecting-illicit-affair-man-kills-sister-in-law-ends-life/articleshow/74955711.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC struggles to control crowds at new market sites too||MUMBAI: The BMC has begun to shift some of its 69 wholesale, retail and main roadside vegetable markets to open grounds in an effort to provide more space for social distancing to vendors as well as buyers. The civic authority, though, is struggling to implement the initiative due to “non-cooperation” from vegetable vendors and buyers and the ensuing confusion. Thursday morning, for instance, saw a huge crowd at a ground on Gorai Road where the BMC has shifted the Borivli market. Similarly, around 300 tempos turned up at Dadar market that has been shifted to four large open spaces at different locations in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Dahisar, Mulund and Somaiya Ground in Sion. As police did not allow any tempo in the Dadar market area, which was closed two days ago, all rushed to the alternative sites and ended up crowding these. Sion, especially, saw a large number of people turn up. The BMC has likewise shifted Kurla market to a ground that too has been witnessing huge crowds despite warnings and markings for social distancing. On Friday, the civic body shifted half its Byculla market to a nearby ground. Civic officials said they are facing difficulties in disciplining crowds. The BMC decided to shut and shift markets after complaints of overcrowding. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikawad said, “We have appointed an officer for each market to keep a vigil. We have marked circles for maintaining social distancing. Despite that, if the crowd fails to do so, we have no option but to shut the market and shift it to a ground for a bigger space.” Local ward officials involved in the process have suggested alternative locations and crowd management. A local political representative said the BMC should select areas where there are three to four open grounds so that vendors get divided for better crowd management. AtGen Arunkumar Vaidya ground in Gorai where the BMC shifted the Borivli roadside market, there were no markings on the ground and only one gate was open, said a local resident. “The BMC just shifted the market to the ground without marking circles. It has posted policemen to manage the crowds. It is difficult for cops to handle the crowds and people walk close to one another. This negates the purpose of shifting a market to a ground. When there are two gates, why not designate one for entry and the other for exit?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-struggles-to-control-crowds-at-new-mkt-sites-too/articleshow/74955719.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: He runs goods train so people don’t go hungry||BENGALURU: While most of us have our waking hours split between working from home and Netflix these days, loco pilot Surendra Kumar Chauhan reports for eight-hour shifts like nothing has changed. An employee of the Bengaluru division of South Western Railway, Chauhan, 40, steers goods trains carrying essential items, including rice, wheat, petroleum products and medicines between Bengaluru and places like Jolarpettai, Mysuru and Dharmavaram. Though railways suspended passenger services till April 14 due to the nationwide lockdown, those like Chauhan are at the wheel of goods trains to ensure supplies of essential commodities are not hit. Chauhan, who joined Indian Railways in 2010, says his family is supportive of him braving the virus threat. “They are concerned but also understand that mine is an essential service. We have to show up for work for goods to be transported. Goods trains carry several essentials, including medicines and food items. People will suffer if these trains stop running and I don’t want that to happen,” he says. Chauhan says he is proud to be playing a small part in Indian Railways role in ensuring availability of essential services at this time of crisis. “It’s now that the country needs the service of loco pilots like me,” he adds. Pointing out that this is probably the first time that passenger train services have been suspended for such a long period, he asserts, “We will overcome this.” Chauhan says he gets a break of 16 hours between two shifts. Apart from loco pilots, their assistants and guards, station masters, pointsman, controllers and trackmen are at the forefront to ensure freight services remain uninterrupted. They also facilitate crossing of trains and efficient utilisation of wagons. Unlike passenger trains, freight trains don’t work to a fixed timetable. Chauhan, who is from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, has been staying with his family in KR Puram, Bengaluru, for 10 years. “Railways provided us with masks and sanitisers. Senior officials often check my temperature and ensure I don’t have any health issues,” he says. However, Chauhan refuses to remove the mask even for a photo. “We have been asked to wear the mask as a precaution while on duty. So please don’t compel me,” he says,while getting ready for another trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/he-works-eight-hour-shifts-running-train-so-people-dont-go-hungry/articleshow/74957312.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||US citizens sceptical about rescue plans, reaching airports a challenge||HYDERABAD: A day after the US Embassy in India and consulates announced that repatriation efforts were underway for its citizens stranded in India, people are sceptical about how they are expected to make it to cities from where flights would be operated, with each case posing a unique challenge. On Wednesday, the US Consulate General in Mumbai tweeted: “Alert for US Citizens in Western and Southern India: We anticipate we will have several flights departing Mumbai and arriving in Atlanta, Georgia, beginning the weekend of April 4. We will contact you as we develop more details.” Anand Vihari, a US citizen, said: “I came to India because my father, who lives in Bengaluru, was ailing. Before flying back to the US, I decided to visit my friends in Hyderabad for a day. But once I got here, janata curfew was announced and I couldn’t get a cab to the airport. Subsequently, all flights were suspended. Now, I am stuck.” Describing his position as a Catch-22 situation, the resident of North Carolina, said, “I am staying at a hotel (one of the few still open) and don’t know when I will be able to get back, either to my family in Bengaluru or my wife and children in the US. Also, the flights that are being organized for US citizens are from Delhi or Mumbai and I don’t know how I can get there. I would be glad if there was some way I can at least go back to Bengaluru, if not the US.” He remained wary of leaving India because -- with the US becoming the epicenter of Covid-19 cases – he was not sure if we would be allowed to fly back again anytime soon. Priyanka Chakravarthy, a resident of New Jersey and who came to India on March 13 for her father’s first death anniversary, said, “How will I travel when there is a complete lockdown? It is impossible for someone to drive me to Mumbai.” Her husband and daughter are in the US and she wants to be reunited with them soon. The Consulate, on its part, assured citizens that there will be multiple flights and that travel passes will be arranged for those impacted by the lockdown. In a Covid-19 related heath alert on Wednesday, it also said, “In cooperation with the US Consulates General in Chennai and Hyderabad, we are also working to arrange domestic charter flights to allow US Citizens from those areas to reach Mumbai.” However anxious comments continued to pour on social media, with some saying they needed more time to plan their travel to Mumbai. Tweeting to the Consulate, Krishna Kumar asked, “What are next upcoming flight dates after April 4th? I need at least 5 to 6 hours of travel to Hyderabad for a flight from Hyderabad to Mumbai. Plz, share schedules so we plan accordingly.” Venu Reddy had a similar problem, “Planning to travel from Chennai or Hyd to Mumbai, but we have not received any info. Required travel pass since maa is 300k away. She is a US citizen, her name is Sudha. please send her information quickly as two days left. Reg in STEP and forms.” The Consulate was making flight and other details available through Smart Traveler Enrollment Program in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-citizens-sceptical-about-rescue-plans-reaching-airports-a-challenge/articleshow/74957575.cms||Uttara Varma
April 3, 2020||Jaipur||Temples in Walled City remained shut this Ram Navami||Jaipur: Amid reports from West Bengal and other parts of the country where devotees defied the lockdown to offer prayers on Ram Navami, the Walled City of Jaipur, which is also known as ‘Choti Kashi’, wore a deserted look on Thursday. Jaipur has at least 20 big and small temples of Lord Rama, but in none of the temples devotees were allowed to offer prayers. The Walled City which is under lockdown is also famous for its heritage temples including Sitaramji temple near Kotwali police station, Sitaramji temple at Chaura Raasta, Chandpole Ram Temple and many others. TOI visited various temples and spoke to the priests and their families. “We had offered prayers in the morning and will organise an aarti in the evening where no devotes are allowed. We have not seen such a silence in this temple,” said 52-year-old Nand Kishor, a priest at Sitaramji temple at Choti Chaupar. “Jaipur had witnessed curfew in 1992 and also post Jaipur blasts, still we had a reasonable number of devotees in the evening. This is probably the first time when we had prepared a very limited prasad and had jalabhishek of Lord Rama,” he added. Even the priests are politely saying no to devotees who manage to throng to the temples. “For our safety and their safety, we are politely asking them to stay at home this time. It is better that we should cooperate with the government. If things improve, we will have a grand Ram Navmi function next year,” he said. Some of the temples played aarti and other rituals over loudspeakers in the evening. However, some people who are regular to these temples managed to reach with their masks, hand gloves and sanitizers. “I told policemen on the way that I am going to take medicines for my blood pressure and came here,” said 48-year-old Mahesh Goyal, a native of Chandpole Bazaar, who was seen at the temple. In other temples, including Ramchandraji temple near Hawa Mahal, only people who were found were some policemen. “Even prior to lockdown, my point is Hawa Mahal, thus I regularly come for prayers while I am on duty,” said Giriraj Singh, a traffic policeman who was on duty near Hawa Mahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/temples-in-walled-city-remained-shut-this-ram-navami/articleshow/74957568.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||13 family members of employee of Noida firm quarantined||Bareilly: The district health department has shifted 13 relatives of an employee of a Noida-based firm to the quarantine centre at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), after six members of another family linked to the same firm tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly. The test report of the latest Covid-suspect is awaited.The first employee of the Noida-based firm who is a Bareilly native who tested positive for Covid-19 is a 34-year-old man. Five members of his family, including his wife, mother, father, brother and sister, later tested positive for the same virus. It later surfaced that another man who had returned to Bareilly on March 18 works in the same firm in Noida. He was shifted to the district hospital’s isolation ward and his Covid-19 test report is awaited. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “As this man was living with 13 of his family members in Bareilly’s Sanjay Nagar, we have shifted his kin to a 48-bed quarantine centre at IVRI as a precautionary measure. Besides, 961 people in Bareilly are currently under home quarantine.” He added, “The condition of all six people who tested positive is stable. We will send their second sample to Lucknow for tests.”Additional CMO Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “A total of 34 people were found living inside religious institutions in Bareilly, but after their medical examination, they were found to be normal. They have been asked to undergo home quarantine.”As the six Covid-19 patients are residents of Subhash Nagar, health department has identified 29,500 houses in a 3km-radius of their house for active case surveillance. Apart from this, 7,100 houses have been identified in a 1km-radius of the buffer zone. On Thursday, 26 teams of the health department conducted survey of 2,297 houses in the 3km-radius of the patients’ house.In the last four days, 91 teams have done door-to-door survey of 7,695 houses. The teams found four symptomatic cases there, with fever, cough and respiratory distress. Officials said their samples will be collected for Covid-19 test too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/13-family-members-of-employee-of-noida-firm-quarantined/articleshow/74956908.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops check hotels, lodges for people staying without informing officials||Kolhapur: A day after nine people were found living in a Muslim boarding house at Dasara Chowk without the knowledge of the authorities, the city police swung into action and started searching all hotels and lodges to find if there are more such people. Tanaji Sawant, the inspector in-charge of the local crime branch, said, “Immediately after the incident came to light on Wednesday, we launched a drive to check all hotels, lodges and places where large number of people can be accommodated. This is to ensure that no one is staying at these places without informing the local police or civic authorities.” “We have already instructed the hotels and lodges to furnish details of every guest and inform us if they have foreign travel history. Since section 144 has been imposed in the district, we are continuously patrolling around such establishments to prevent crowding. In spite of all this, if anyone is found housing people without informing us, we will initiate action against them,” he said. Sawant also appealed to people to come forward and get screened for Covid-19 if they have come in contact with any confimed patient or anyone with foreign travel history. “It is in the interest of people and society. There is no need to panic and hide. This is a routine process and will help in keeping everyone safe,” he said. “We also appeal to the people to pass us the information if they know about foreign-returned people who have not yet revealed this to the local authorities or to the police. We will take immediate action against them as per rule,” he said. Meanwhile, talking about the Muslim boarding house incident, superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Action was taken after we received information from our sources. All nine people have been sent to institutional quarantine after examination at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital as a precautionary measure.” 600 find accommodation in shelter homes in district Collector Daulat Desai said on Thursday that the shelter homes set up at 11 different venues in the district were giving accomodation to more than 600 citizens. While 114 people living in these makeshift shelter homes are from Maharashtra, there are over 487 people from other states. Maximum number of people are from Tamil Nadu (190), followed by Karnataka (188), Rajasthan (58), Uttar Pradesh (28), Madhya Pradesh (14) among others. Officials from the health department said provisions had been made for food and lodging facilities. Meanwhile, Desai has requested to keep all the grocery shops and pharmacies, which fall under essential services, open from 9am to 9pm. He said since many citizens voluntarily opted for home-quarantine, it had become easier for the administration to curb the spread of coronavirus. He said that depending on the need, stores could be given permission to be kept open for 24 hours to avert overcrowding during the normal operational hours. “The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has started with the decentralization of vegetable sellers, which has helped in the steady supply of daily staples in the city,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-check-hotels-lodges-for-people-staying-without-informing-officials/articleshow/74957565.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||BMC to intensify sanitation drive across 80 wards||Bareilly: Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has chalked out an elaborate plan to intensify cleaning and sanitation work across its 80 wards and decided to restart the drive again in the city. Exercise of unclogging drains and manholes will also be taken up in the city’s interior areas. Officials said that though random city areas were being cleaned and disinfectants were being sprayed, civic body has now chalked out a plan to restart the drive to ensure all places are covered and sanitised properly. BMC sanitation and food inspector Mahendra Pratap said, “Work of sanitising the city will be taken up on a war-footing and all city areas, including prominent public places, residential localities and those located in the city centre, will be covered. Drains and manholes will be unclogged while roads will be regularly cleaned. Separate exercises of spraying disinfectants on streets, public places, outside residences will be taken up, besides the routine anti-larvae spraying which is done for mosquitoes. Instructions have been given to maintain cleanliness, especially where dumping yards are located.” Municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand told TOI on Thursday, “BMC is working on intensifying its cleanliness and sanitation effort across 80 wards. Ward councillors have been given instructions to maintain a vigil in their respective jurisdictions and ensure proper upkeep of places. The drive is aimed at ensuring that all parts of the city are covered. The exercise will be frequently held to ensure cleanliness and prevent any virus from setting in. Additionally, local residents are being asked not to unnecessarily venture out.” Apart from sanitising the city, civic authorities have been taking up appropriate measures to help people in need during the lockdown period. The BMC has initiated ‘doorstep delivery’ of necessary grocery items for locals. Also, around 300 big and small grocery stores have been roped in across the city for carrying out home deliveries of orders placed by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-to-intensify-sanitation-drive-across-80-wards/articleshow/74956924.cms||Maria Khan
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Lockdown: Three held for pelting stones oncops, admininistraive officers||Rampur: Three people among the six booked were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday for allegedly pelting stones at police and administrative officers who were enforcing the lockdown in Bhabbal Puri locality of Tanda thesil on Wednesday evening. Deputy district magistrate Gaurav Kumar, tehsildar Mahendra Bahadur Singh and Tanda kotwali SHO Durga Singh were patrolling the area, along with other officials, when the accused attacked them, but none of the officers sustained injury. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh told TOI that a case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act against six people, while three of them — Muhammad Altaf, Muhammad Gulfam and Muhammad Nafees, all residents of Miyan Wali Masjid in Bhabbalpuri — were arrested and sent to the jail. The ASP added that a manhunt was launched to nab the other three accused. An FIR has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 147 ( rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332(voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of other), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and section 3 of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lockdown-three-held-for-pelting-stones-oncops-admininistraive-officers/articleshow/74956929.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 3, 2020||Lucknow||SGPGI orders customized N95 masks for its corona warriors||Lucknow: The health professionals facing shortage of private protection equipment (PPE) and N95 masks while treating coronavirus patients can now heave a sigh of relief. Facing PPE crunch, Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) has placed order for N95 masks to a Kanpur-based firm, opening avenues for more indigenous production in state. Chief minister Yogi Aditaynath’s emphasis on boosting MSME sector has helped SGPGI which has set up a tertiary care centre in the battle against the pandemic. SGPGI director Dr Radha Krishna Dheeman told TOI on Thursday that indigenously manufactured N95 masks would arrive soon. UP government had placed order for PPE and N95 masks to HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL), a central government subsidiary. HLL is, however, flooded with orders. Apart from state government, SGPGI had also placed order to HLL. When SGPGI did not get response from HLL despite repeated reminders, it decided to look for other manufacturers who could cater its demand. Dr A K Baronia, member of logistics committee, told TOI, “We discussed the specifications of available N95 masks and decided to approach a Rajasthan factory which agreed to provide filter fabric that we got delivered to a firm in Kanpur having ultrasonic welding machine after it agreed to manufacture the masks for us.” “HLL gives one N95 mask for Rs 49, while Kanpur firm is providing a mask with better specifications for Rs 27 and will deliver them in a week,” he said. The logistics committee comprising Dr A K Baraoni, Dr Aditya Kapoor, Dr Gaurav Agarwal and Dr Afzal Azim, decided the required specifications and approved sample. Principal secretary MSME Navneet Sehgal told TOI, “Since chief minister had issued directions for giving boost to MME sector, we arranged initial amount from CSR funds of a company and coordinated with SGPGI and Kanpur firm. The firm will supply the masks soon. Some other MSME units in Noida have also started PPE production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sgpgi-orders-customized-n95-masks-for-its-corona-warriors/articleshow/74957942.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: 25 from Solapur who took part in Tablighi meet test negative||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur district administration, along with the police, is trying to find the number of people who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month. District collector Milind Shambharkar said the number of people who attended the religious gathering had gone upto 25 as against the initial assessment of 17. “Medical test of all the 25 people has been completed. Their throat swab samples tested negative for coronavirus,” said Shambharkar. While the administration is busy with the treatment of the people who had gone to Delhi last month, police have launched separate investigation to find out if more people attended the gathering. The probe has been launched as names of seven more people cropped up during the preliminary investigation. Officials said that ten people from Solapur city attended the religious gathering while eight from Barshi taluka had gone to Delhi last month. The district administration as well as the police are trying to find out how did the people return from Delhi to Solapur. Police could zero in on the people who attended the religious gathering after they were handed over a list by the state and the Central government. “Statements taken from the people indicate that many more may have gone to Delhi. We are trying to trace all the people,” said senior police officers So far, not a single confirmed case of coronavirus has been reported from Solapur district. Shambharkar said that of the 86 swab samples sent for testing, 80 have tested negative while the reports of six patients are still awaited. The district administration has advised home quarantine to 665 people, out of which 302 peole have completed the course.As many as 120 people in the district are currently in institutional quarantine.  The administration has opened up 34 shelter camps for migrant workers. As many as 2,600 workers have taken refuge in the shelter camps. The district administration has set up a separate control room to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities. As many as 74 officials have been assigned with various responsibilities related to curbing the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-from-solapur-who-took-part-in-tablighi-meet-test-ve/articleshow/74957571.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath, Digvijaya condemn attack on health staff, asks people to cooperate||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh condemned the attack on health workers in Indore and appealed to the people to cooperate so that the spread of the virus can be controlled. Former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted, “The incident of misbehaviour and stone-pelting on health workers in Indore, first in Ranipura and, yesterday in Tatpatti Bakhal is extremely sad and condemnable. Those who indulge in such activities are enemies of society and humanity. ”In another tweet, @OfficeOfKNath said, “In this time of crisis doctors, health workers and administrative officers are carrying out their duties while risking their lives to protect the lives of others. Everyone should come forward and cooperate and salute their dedication to serve. Such incidents cause shame to the state and city. The administration should make adequate arrangements for safety of doctors and health workers and take strong measures to prevent such incidents.” Digvijaya Singh posted a video with his message on his twitter account. He said, “Today, on television I saw two incidents of Indore. One video was of Tatpatti Bahal and Silawatpura where health workers had gone for check-up of certain persons. People of that area manhandled and pelted stones at the health workers. I condemn this incident. They are the same health workers who are putting their own lives in danger in order to save your lives. What is the justification of misbehaving with them?” The Rajya Sabha MP argued that it is not the fault of health workers if the government has sent them to examine Covid19 suspected cases. “Why are you venting your anger on them?” Digvijaya Singh asked. “My appeal to you is that you cooperate with them. The Coronavirus crisis facing us today can be controlled only with cooperation. If anyone is tested positive, then those who came in touch with them and neighbours need to be quarantined. It is necessary or we will not be able to control the spread of the virus. Please cooperate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-digvijaya-condemn-attack-on-health-staff-asks-people-to-cooperate/articleshow/74956932.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Yashomati Thakur asks officials to ensure supply of essentials in Amravati district||AMRAVATI: Maharashtra minister for women and child development and guardian minister of Amravati district, Yashomati Thakur, on Friday instructed officers and employees not to leave their taluka headquarters in any case. Thakur, who took stock of the situation in Teosa, Dhamangaon Railway, Chandur Railway and Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsils on Thursday and Friday, urged the civic, revenue and health machinery to ensure proper implementation of measures to control spread of coronavirus. “Go to every door and check every individual. Create awareness and keep close watch on the situation,” she said. She appealed to the machinery that nobody is deprived of essential commodities in rural parts. “Health staff, talathis, gram sevaks and anganwadi sevikas have important responsibility on their shoulders. They all should work collectively and take precautions,” she said. The minister held meetings with health, revenue and municipal authorities at all four talukas. She also visited hospitals and talked to officers and staff there. Thakur also met displaced persons at shelter homes and inquired about the facilities there. She lauded the cooperation being extended by voluntary organizations. Thakur also distributed grocery and grains to needy people at Teosa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thakur-asks-officials-to-ensure-supply-of-essentials-in-amravati-district/articleshow/74971631.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||225 related to Tablighi Delhi meet quarantined in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The state government has quarantined 225 people, including attendees to the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz and people they have met on their return to Bengal. Two among those kept in an isolation facility in New Town were shifted to ID Hospital and MR Bangur after they showed symptoms of fever and respiratory distress. The state says even though a bulk of these people had arrived in Bengal much before the lockdown, everyone will be isolated and medically examined. In addition to the 54 quarantined immediately after the Centre dispatched a list of 71 people, the state has identified and isolated 173 more who had been to Nizamuddin Markaz in March and brought them to the New Town facility late on Wednesday night and on Thursday morning. They were brought in buses and SUVs whose seats were covered with thick plastic sheets and disinfected once they disembarked. “Along with the attendees in Nizamuddin Markaz, some immediate relatives and friends whom they had contacted since their return were also quarantined,” an officer said. Ambulances and a team of medical officers are at the facility 24x7 and no one from outside is allowed inside the 10-storey building that has been converted into an isolation centre. A 35-strong security detail from the Techno City police station is guarding the facility. Five couples from Bhatpara, who had left for Delhi in mid-February for a Nizamuddin Markaz congregation, were sent to this facility on Thursday. They had returned to Bengal on March 16. They were first checked at the Bhatpara state general hospital and then sent to the New Town facility, local councillor Md Maksud Alam said. Authorities in West Midnapore on Thursday identified and placed under quarantine seven people, including two Imams, who met seven Indonesians who were sent to Kolkata and quarantined on Wednesday. The Indonesians and two Indian translators accompanying them reached Kharagpur mid-March from Delhi. Police has also learnt that 51 persons from Purulia, who attended the religious congregation at Delhi and have since spread out to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Purulia SP S. Selvamurugan said, "We have spoken to police administrations in Rajasthan and UP. We have been told they have been quarantined in mosques they were in.” In Murshidabad, the district administration has identified two persons who attended the congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin. Prashanta Biswas, the district chief medical officer of health (CMOH), said, "They had returned on March 11 and we have instructed them to remain under home quarantine. Already, 22 days have passed since their return. No symptoms of Covid-19 have been found in either of them.” “Many have also come from Mograhat and Maheshtala areas in South 24 Parganas. They comprise some Nizamuddin attendees and some of their immediate relatives and friends,” said another officer. (Inputs by Tamaghna Banerjee, Suman Chakraborti and Sanjib Banerjee in Kolkata, Sujay Khanra in Midnapore, Amit Singh Deo in Purulia and Sukumar Mahato in Berhampore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/225-related-to-tablighi-del-meet-quarantined/articleshow/74956964.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bengaluru||19 foreign Tabligh delegates picked up from a Bengaluru mosque||BENGALURU: Authorities had a hard time convincing 10 Indonesians and nine Kyrgyzstan nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi in February-March, to get medically checked and to stay in quarantine. These foreign nationals were allegedly staying in a mosque in Goripalya, off Mysuru Road and were picked up on Tuesday evening by officials involved in identifying contacts of Covid-19 patients. These foreign nationals flew into the city from New Delhi on March 13, said a source familiar with the operation to track Tabligh delegates who attended the conclave. “We received information from intelligence and other sources about 19 foreigners holed up in the mosque. We sent our health officers to inspect the place,” the source said. The three-floor mosque had housed the Indonesians on the first floor, the Kyrgyzstan nationals on the second floor and 12 Keralites on the third floor. All 31 were residing in the mosque since March 16 and were surviving only on bread and water. The officials spoke to the head cleric of the masjid, who, after much persuasion, eventually allowed them to enter and take all 31 into public quarantine. “We feared a law and order situation given that the area is densely populated area,” said the source. “We entered the masjid through the backdoor and ferried the 31people in two ambulances directly to a hospital in CV Raman Nagar. We were unable to converse with the foreigners because of the language barrier. They refused to eat food we gave them and began shouting and beating us.” Officials said some tried to escape as they were worried about their safety. However officials managed to convince them and gave them bread and biscuits which they ate. In Hubballi, As many as 15 Tablighi Jamaat delegates who were kept in an isolation facility at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital allegedly created a ruckus in the ward. Sources said the delegates reportedly harassed staff and doctors, refused to eat food that was served (upma) and demanded idli,vada, shira and dosa. They also demanded bottled mineral water, hot water for a bath, toothbrushes and other facilities. They threatened to leave if their demands were not fulfilled. After doctors met demands, delegates then demanded new beds. Doctors summoned the police, who got the inmates to fall in line. Sources alleged that the inmates even spat on the floor when the staff and doctors did not fulfil their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/19-foreign-tabligh-delegates-picked-up-from-a-city-mosque/articleshow/74957220.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 3, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 38 linked to Delhi event quarantined||SURAT: The Bharuch district administration has successfully traced another 24 individuals from the district who came in contact with those who attended the Tablighi Jamat event at Nizamuddin. On Thursday, police and the health authorities scouted out the 24 who had visited Bhavnagar and Tamil Nadu and established contact with the people there who attended the Nizamuddin event. About 38 people were traced from the district and have been strictly asked to stay under home quarantine. A senior health officer said, “We have ordered home quarantine for all the 24 people. As of now, a total of 62 people are under home quarantine in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/38-linked-to-delhi-event-quarantined/articleshow/74954724.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Vegetable supplies to Mumbai from Western Maharashtra, Nashik drop 60%||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: If you are seeing fewer vegetables and fruits in the Mumbai markets, it is because traders and farmers from western Maharashtra and Nashik are struggling to get workers to do the field work and transport the farm produce to the state capital. The farmers are counting their losses. Appasaheb Khanjire, a farmer from Nandni village in Shirol taluka of Kolhapur district, is unable to send capsicum to Mumbai hotels. He invested Rs 2lakh to cultivate the crop on two acres. “Current restrictions have stopped all mobilization and it is difficult to find workers to cut the crop,” he said. Sources in Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) said that 10 trucks of vegetables and fruits are sent daily to Mumbai from Shirol but hardly one truck is reaching the capital city now. Even the inflow at Kolhapur market committee has dropped from 2,100 quintals of vegetable and fruits every day to 1,600 quintals now. Sagar Shete, who runs a private company of agriculture produces, said that farmers have taken the crop but are not in position to send it to market because of lack of workers and problems in transportation. “Drivers and coolies are afraid to resume the work,” he said. Bhaskar Keskar, a farmer from Sangola taluka in Solapur district, has been struggling about how to send his pomegranate crop to Mumbai amid lockdown. “Pomegranate is now surrounded by grass, which is likely to affect the fruits. But I cannot find labourers to cut the grass and fruits,” he said. Nashik farmers hit too Officials said that around 500 tonnes of vegetables are sent to Mumbai from Nashik daily through 150 vehicles. Since the lockdown, the supply has reduced substantially. Only about 40-60 vehicles are going to Mumbai with around 150-200 tonnes of vegetables. Arun Kale, secretary of Nashik APMC, confirmed that the vegetable supply to Mumbai has been badly affected. “The Covid-19 outbreak has badly hit the vegetable supply to Mumbai. Vehicles are not allowed in most parts of the Mumbai,” he said. Traders said that drivers and labourers are worried of travelling to Mumbai, which has reported a high number of coronavirus cases. There are also concerns about the transport vehicles reaching Mumbai considering all the permissions required to be taken and returning to Nashik. Also, with the restricted hours of vegetable sale, they are unsure about the produce getting sold. “There are restricted hours to sell vegetables in Mumbai and there is no guarantee that all the stock will be sold there. Moreover, vehicles are not allowed at several locations in Mumbai. Hence, some traders are not taking risk,” said Ranjat Shinde, a trader who supplies vegetables to Mumbai. Moreover, transporters are also unwilling as there is no guarantee that they will get return trip. “The transport charges have also increased as there is no possibility that they will get return trip from Mumbai to Nashik. Moreover, they are not willing to go to Mumbai because of the outbreak of Covid-19,” said Bapu Pingle, another trader in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vegetable-supplies-to-mumbai-from-w-maha-nashik-drop-60/articleshow/74957581.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 137 people locked up in 48 hours, all asymptomatic||NAGPUR: Acting swiftly on the order of the home ministry, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has traced, examined and quarantined 137 people within 48 hours. After taking their details, it was found that not all are Muslims, a few have not even toured New Delhi or any other place in the last one month and few have only digital footprints in a 3km radius of Nizamuddin where the Tablighi Jamaat was held in February-March. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that the 137 people are asymptomatic and reports of their swab samples are awaited. “We received two lists of 68 and 207 over Tuesday and Wednesday. Our teams shortlisted all contacts, identified some from rural parts of Nagpur as well as other districts of the state on a war footing. A 165 were identified from city of who 105 were traced. Some had toured New Delhi with family members and they add up to 137 who have been examined and quarantined at institutional centres,” he added. Mundhe added that 29 of the remaining 60 are untraceable as their mobile phone numbers are not in operation or they cannot be contacted. “A few of the remaining 31 are already under home quarantine. Everything related to the others will be sorted out soon,” he said. The commissioner said it was difficult to identify how many attended the Delhi meet. “The government has worked out digital footprints in a 3km radius of the event for some selected days. The need was to examine and quarantine them which we have swiftly done,” said Mundhe. Along with the 137 people, the administration also has the contact of their close members. “In case any tests positive, we can trace and quarantine the members contacts within an hour,” he said. Probably for a first in the country, Mundhe has developed a Covid-19 War Room in which all information coming from government and other departments are collated and analysed. On Wednesday, the Union government blamed travellers who had attended the Jamaat at a Delhi mosque in February-March for the sudden rise in those testing and dying of Covid-19. The Centre had sent the list of names and mobile numbers to state governments which segregated it by districts and then sent it to special branches of the police. The police shared it with the civic bodies. The numbers were identified on the basis of their cell tower location in the area and the period where the Jamaat was held. The names and address, as registered while the SIMs were purchased, is also mentioned in the list. Of Wednesday’s list of 68, 48 of the city had travel history or stay in New Delhi. Four claimed they had never travelled either to New Delhi or any other place in the last month. The rest were from rural parts of Nagpur district and other districts. A scrutiny of the list of these 68 reveals that 37 are non-Muslim names. However, as directed by the Centre, the NMC quarantined all of them. TOI spoke to one of the quarantined non-Muslim who is a resident of Civil Lines, a tony locality of Nagpur. “I am a practising Supreme Court lawyer. The SIM card of mobile number mentioned in the list available with the NMC is in the name of my father and I am using it. When officials came to my house I told them that I am Delhi resident and not my father. So they have quarantined me.” This lawyer’s office is at the Sunder Nagar Market and residence at Lajpat Nagar in Delhi. “I use the Nizamuddin flyover at least twice a day. I suppose that’s how my number came on the list. I returned to Nagpur on March 18 by air. I had no symptoms in the past and now. Also, its more than 14 days since I returned from New Delhi. I should be allowed to go home after my reports come,” he said. Reports of samples of 54, which were sent to Mayo Hospital on Wednesday, are awaited. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said, “200 samples are pending for testing and may take 2-3 days. But that is a non-issue as all are in quarantine in institutional centres.” The NMC teams also had to face resistance from some people. But the NMC teams led by chief medical officer health Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officers managed to convince and realize all the importance of quarantine and initiatives of MHA. Similarly, the Nagpur Rural Police is tracing 59 people in their jurisdiction. As reported by TOI on Thursday, Abdul Bari Patel, the secretary of the Tablighi Markas in Nagpur, only seven members from city attended the international conference in New Delhi. One of them had taken ill and was treated for urinary tract infection and pneumonia. “He was tested for coronavirus and the result was negative,” he said. The Chandrapur administration has traced yet other person with travel history to the Nizamuddin Markaz of Tabliq Jamat. He was put into isolation ward in GMCH Chandrapur and his Covid-19 test samples were collected on Thursday. Meanwhile, the report of the person who had travelled to Markaz has turned negative. District collector Kunal Khemnar said he had a list 38 persons who had travelled from Nizamuddin to Chandrapur. All were traced. It was found that only 22 were present in Chandrapur while the others are away in other districts or states. Khemnar said there many non-Muslims figure in the 38. Collector Dr Khemnar further informed that the 50-year-old person, put into isolation ward on Thursday, had visited the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz, but had not attended its international conference. “He had returned to Chandrapur on March 9. He has self reported his visit to Markaz and is now in the isolation ward. His samples for Covid-19 test have been collected,” he told. The collector also informed that the person from Rajura who had attended the international conference has tested negative. In Wardha, district collector Vivek Bhimanwar made it clear that all the 22 persons in his list had not attended the meet. The administration traced their addresses and visited their homes but 15 are not residents of Wardha district. One of the seven from Arvi tehsil was shifted to isolation ward at Arvi rural hospital along with his 4 family members. Their samples have been sent for testing and reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/137-people-locked-up-in-48-hrs-all-asymptomatic/articleshow/74956960.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 3, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath appoints Jeetu Patwari as PCC media chief||BHOPAL: Former chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath on Thursday appointed former minister for higher education Jeetu Patwari as the party’s media department chief. Patwari is also one of the four working presidents of the state party unit. He succeeds Shobha Oza, who was recently appointed State Women’s Commission chairperson before the Congress government was brought down by 22 rebel MLAs of the Jyotiraditya Scindia camp last month. The appointment letter from Kamal Nath to Jeetu Patwari said, “Jeetu Patwari (MLA), working president, Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee is being given additional responsibility as Madhya Pradesh media president. I hope that you will with all dedication work according to the expectations of AICC president Sonia Gandhi and strengthen the Congress party organisation.” Former president of the state Youth Congress, Jeetu Patwari is two-time legislator from Rau constituency of Indore. He was minister for higher education, sports and youth welfare in the 15-month Kamal Nath government. He shot to prominence and came close to the high-command when former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi pillion rode on his motorbike through a curfew imposed after the Mandsaur firing incident in June 2016. Last month, during the political crisis arising out of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s rebellion and leaving the party, Patwari went to Karnataka to bring back one of the 22 rebel MLAs lodged in a resort there. Patwari along with father and close relatives of MLA from Haatpipaliya Manoj Choudhary went to Bengaluru to rescue the legislator from alleged confinement by BJP. Patwari again hit the news headlines as he jostled with the Karnataka police and was arrested trying to meet the rebel MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-appoints-patwari-as-pcc-media-chief/articleshow/74956948.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop roughs up petrol pump staffer||Coimbatore: A head constable attached to the Sulur police station was transferred to the rural armed police on Wednesday for allegedly beating up a petrol pump staff who refused to serve him.Police sources identified the victim as A Ashok Raja of Thoothukudi. “The 26-year-old man was working at a petrol pump in Sulur when head constable Madappan, who was in plain clothes, came there on his motorcycle around 3pm. Raja refused to serve Madappan and informed him that the state government has limited the business hours from 6am to 2.30pm till April 14 due to the shutdown. But he served some income tax department officials who came there,” a police officer said.“An enraged Madappan sent two cops to the petrol pump to pick up Raja. The cops took Raja to the police station, where Madappan thrashed him,” the officer told TOI. Raja suffered a fractured left hand in the assault and was admitted to a private hospital in Sulur. However, he did not lodge a formal complaint against the cop.Meanwhile, superintendent of police Sujit Kumar who got wind of the incident on Wednesday evening, transferred Madappan to the rural armed police. “An inquiry has been initiated against the cop. Departmental action will be initiated against him,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-roughs-up-petrol-pump-staffer/articleshow/74956969.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Testing lab at Miraj govt hosp operational from today||Kolhapur: The newly installed Covid-19 testing lab at the Miraj Government Medical College is all set to begin operations from Friday.Sangli district civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe said the quality-control test of the lab was successful and the lab would begin operations by testing samples from within the district. “We would like to be on the front foot with qualitative measures instead of quantitative ones. As our staff gets familiar with the machine and its operation, we can start taking samples from other districts too,” said Salunkhe.Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI that he had not been able to do a follow-up of the testing lab due to his busy schedule. “For now,we will test the samples from Miraj for a few days. Samples from other districts will be accepted after two to three days,” said Chaudhari.State minister for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that once the machine provided to Miraj Government Medical College by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is ready for use, it would be able to test 50 swab samples at any given time. The machine at the testing lab will provide speedy results of the throat swab samples. Once functional, the swab samples of the suspected Covid-19 cases from Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, Satara and Sindhudurg districts can be sent to Miraj Government Medical College for testing. The officials from the Satara health department said for them, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune was closer and that they would continue to send their samples to the NIV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/testing-lab-at-miraj-govt-hosp-operational-from-today/articleshow/74957587.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||‘Wave interest on farm loan’||Pilibhit: The Union and the state governments should address the farmers’ woes which were intensified by the outbreak of novel coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown for 21 days, just before the harvesting of the wheat crop, said VM Singh, national convener of All India Farmers’ Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of more than 250 farmer unions. Posting a video message for the farmers on social media at 5pm on Thursday, Singh said, “The government is mum over owes of farmers, who are unable to harvest their standing wheat crop due to the lockdown. The government should announce a subsidy of Rs 5 on per litre milk to enable the farmers to meet the additional cost of feeding their livestock.” “They work as labourers to earn additional money to feed their family and cattle. But, the novel coronavirus and the lockdown deprived them of their additional source of earning, and thus, the government should waive the interest on their agricultural loan and suspend the recovery of their loans until the normalcy returns,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wave-interest-on-farm-loan/articleshow/74956965.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Purchase of ventilators hits snag, needs collector’s nod||Panaji: After the state upped efforts to tackle the Covid-19 threat by announcing the purchase of 200 ventilators, its procurement is now likely to be delayed. Following government approval, the health department last week moved quickly to obtain permission from the finance department to purchase the ventilators at a cost of Rs 16 crore by utilising the district mineral fund. However, the process will have now have to be reinitiated by a district collector, an official said. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also holds the finance portfolio, had given his approval last week. However, for utilising the district mineral fund to buy the ventilators, a district collector will have to initiate the process afresh. An approval from the finance department will also be needed,” he said. The health department had even finalised the contractor to supply the ventilators, but had to cancel. “The very purpose of urgency has been defeated,” he said. On April 1, the directorate of mines and geology had written to both the district collectors informing them about the availability of the fund for their utilisation - Rs 28.5 crore for North Goa and Rs 28.2 crore for South Goa. A senior official at Goa Medical College (GMC) said that with the current high demand for ventilators from all states, Goa might have to wait longer if it doesn’t expedite its procurement process. “Goa can very well forget about the purchase proposition if it delays any longer,” he said. With difficulty, the government managed to install 10 ventilators at ESI Hospital in Margao for Covid-19 patients. As compared to other states, Goa is better placed to deal with the disease. However, it needs to arrange more ventilators in its preparedness to fight the virus. The additional ventilators will prove critical if Goa sees a rise in positive cases. “We are fortunate to have only a handful of cases, but if the numbers climb, we will be in trouble,” the GMC official said. Arvind Bugde, director, directorate of mines and geology, on April 1, informed both district collectors that funds can be utilised for purchase and installation or creation of necessary medical equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/purchase-of-ventilators-hits-snag-needs-collectors-nod/articleshow/74957588.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Samples flood Mayo Covid-19 lab in Jamaat fallout||NAGPUR: The only Covid-19 testing facility of Central India at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH) received more than 200 samples for testing from across Vidarbha on Thursday. This sudden flood of samples is the fallout of Tablighi Jamaat meet, as every district in Vidarbha has people who either participated in this religious congregation held at Nizamuddin, or travelled to New Delhi during the same period. The state government gave a list of all such travellers to the respective district administrations earlier this week. By Wednesday, most of the people in these lists were identified and quarantined in respective districts. Swab samples of most of these quarantined persons were collected in last two days and they reached IGGMCH Lab on Thursday. Sources said that the lab can test at the most 120 samples per day in three batches. This lab serves not only Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh but most parts of Madhya Pradesh too. Samples do come here from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. After latest guidelines of ICMR, every viral pneumonia patient too needs to be screened for Covid-19. So, many private hospitals also send swab samples here for testing. With limited manpower and resources, it was a tough time for this lab on Thursday to test all the samples. IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keolia said the lab is working in full three shifts. “There is no shortage of reagent or kits. We get all necessary supply from NVI Pune regularly. Results of some cases may take time due to technical issues,” he said. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar made it clear that it may take two or three days to complete all these tests. “The lab is working at full capacity. Till date, it was giving all results on time. The sudden spurt in number of samples may delay results of some samples for up to two days. But, that is not the cause of concern,” said Kumar, adding that the suspects are in quarantine, which is a major relief for the administration. As per the official figures given by district collector, this lab tested 101 samples on March 30 and 99 samples on March 31. Since the first sample of city was tested on March 5, it has tested total 897 samples till March 31. Figures of April 1 and 2 were not available but they are definitely more than 100 looking at the number of persons quarantined in government facilities in these two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samples-flood-mayo-covid-19-lab-in-jamaat-fallout/articleshow/74956982.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu students in UK tweet SOS||HYDERABAD: As many as 300 Indian students, most of them from the Telugu states, stranded in the UK, launched a campaign on Thursday to impress upon the Centre to operate a special flight and bring them back to India. The students, several of whom are stranded in London since mid-March, tweeted to Union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar. “The number of Covid-19 positive cases are high in UK. Help us,” Saikumarreddy Kancharla, a student, tweeted. Another student, Sudhanshu Kalal, tweeted, “Before the situation worsens, evacuate us.” Andhra Pradesh minister for education, A Suresh, wrote to Jaishankar urging him to help the students return home. In the letter, he said the councillor, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, Town Hall, Kensington had sent a letter saying that many Telugu students from AP and Telangana were stranded in the UK after the Covid-19 outbreak. The councillor said that with the support of community leaders, accommodation and food were arranged for the students, but added that the expenditure is not enough to sustain the activity and the resources will come to an end sooner or later. Suresh urged AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to take measures to repatriate the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-students-in-uk-tweet-sos/articleshow/74957605.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Tablighi dragnet catches all, Hindus, Muslims, lawyers, tailors||NAGPUR: A lawyer from Nagpur, now working in Delhi, lives around 3km from the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin, and uses a SIM card registered in her father’s name. She has been getting calls from government officials in Nagpur asking for her father, as they want to move him into quarantine, since ‘his’ phone was detected close to the venue of the Tablighi Jamaat event at New Delhi. Vijaya Pandey (named changed) says, “There is some confusion it seems. I haven’t even stepped out of my house in Delhi since the lockdown. Even my father is with me. Maybe because my house is within 3km radius of the Markaz, they have been calling me, thinking that I am from Nagpur and may have visited the locality during a visit to Delhi.” Kunal Poratkar, an engineer living in Hudkeshwar area of the city, who had been to Manali via Delhi too has been quarantined at MLA Hostel. He does not have any complaint about the conditions at the facility, or the behaviour of officials, however, Poratkar stresses that he was not even close to Nizamuddin area during his visit to Delhi. “I was in Delhi on March 8, and headed for Manali. On the way back, I was in Delhi on March 16. Of course, I visited areas like Dwarka, AIIMS and Preet Vihar to meet relatives, but not Nizamuddin or the Markaz. Even the driver who took us to Manali was from Chandigarh,” he says. TOI called random people whom the civic authorities had contacted during the drive to scan persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi. As the names had been identified by tracking phone calls, the list of 60 odd persons was not religion specific. Even some Muslims, who had been to Delhi but not the Markaz event, have been called and quarantined. All of the 15 persons contacted by TOI at random claimed they were not at the Markaz event. A number of them had, however, boarded the train back from Nizamuddin railway station or alighted there. Three of them, including the lawyer mentioned above, no longer live in Nagpur but are continuing to use the phone number they had got in the city. Ten of them claimed that over 14 days had passed since their return, and they had suffered no symptoms. One of them was, in fact, back home after 24 hours in quarantine as his test result came back negative. Those quarantined also alleged that they were kept in the dark. They claimed the officials told them they will have to stay for only 24 hours, but on reaching there they were told the stay may last for 14 days. “I came back by flight and there is no question of visiting the Tablighi Jamaat as I am from a different sect. I had been to Himachal Pradesh for a vacation,” said Sheikh Mohammed Taufique, who has been quarantined. “They should not have lied. If I have to stay here for 14 days I could have come prepared. But they said it’s going to be for 24 hours only,” he said. An annoyed Rohit Hareram said he has shifted from Nagpur to Delhi. Originally from Bihar, Hareram stays at Badarpur, far away from Nizamuddin. Manish Kumar, a tailor, who was also contacted, has also left Nagpur two years ago and now lives in Noida, again far away from Nizamuddin, he said. Tanveer Ashraf, a resident of Mominpura, said he had been for a pilgrimage to shrines in Etawah and Bareilly, and had only caught the train back to Nagpur from Nizamuddin railway station. “Usually I visit Nizamuddin Auliya shrine, which is different from the Tablighi Jamaat. This time I did not even go there and only visited Hotel Al Kareem near Jama Masjid to have lunch and came back,” he said. Ghulam Ashraf and five others from Nagpur said they had been to the Sufi saint Moinuddin Chisti’s shrine at Ajmer, and had only made a stopover at Delhi, but in different localities. Shravan Varma said he was stranded at Dehradun, where he had gone for his son’s interview at the Indian Air Force selection board. They had gone via Delhi. Raunaq Gupta, who got a call day before yesterday, said he is back from quarantine facility after 24 hours on testing negative. He claims to have gone to Karol Bagh only, and not Nizamuddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tablighi-dragnet-catches-all-hindus-muslims-lawyers-tailors/articleshow/74956999.cms||Shishir Arya
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Viral worry pushes back Poila Baishakh plans by 12 days||Kolkata: The first day of the Bengali New Year is also the last day of the ongoing lockdown, unless it gets extended. With the city almost certain to ring in a quiet 1427 sans festivities, many traders have decided on another auspicious day to start their ledger. Akshaya Tritiya, on April 26, could be their deferred Poila Baishakh celebration day and the next best occasion for symbolic opening of the haalkhata (as the ledger is called in Bengali). “We are talking to traders and members of our association to see if this can be done. The customary Lakshmi-Ganesh puja could be performed privately at home on April 14. And we could do haalkhata and the New Year celebration in shops on Akshaya Tritiya,” said Tapas Roy, member of Bangiya Prakashak-O-Pustak Bikreta Sabha, an umbrella organization of booksellers and publishers. Currently, all Poila Baishakh invitations, order for food and sweet packets stand cancelled. Print orders for calendars, too, are on hold. “For Bengalis, Poila Baishakh is not just the first day of the Bengali calendar. It’s an emotion, a day when the idea of being a Bengali is felt more than ever. Since we are forced to do away with the celebrations on April 14 this year, it might be a good idea to make use of Akshaya Tritiya that comes 12 days later,” said Sangita Roy of Urbashi Prakashan. Sourav Koley, owner of Sourav Footware at Kankurgachhi’s VIP Market, echoed, “One needs to make a fresh start somewhere, after warding off all the negativity that this coronavirus has brought. So, April 26 could be identified as the day of the new dawn, at least for business enterprises.” Though the 28-year-old seemed positive, 69-year-old Bablu Dey, owner of Guinea Emporium, a jewellery store in Bowbazar, was not sure what was in store in the run-up to Poila Baishak or the next one or two months. “We must wait and see how far the effort to flatten the corona curve impacts, whether there is a surge in the next 15-20 days and if the lockdown is extended,” said Dey, who is also the president of Swarna Shilpa Bachao Forum, an association of jewellers. About Akshay Tithiya being chosen for haalkhata, Das added: “I just hope we can make it that day. Even if the lockdown is lifted, the situation has to improve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/viral-worry-pushes-back-poila-baishakh-plans-by-12-days/articleshow/74956996.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 3, 2020||Goa||Disinfection drive held at Siolim||Saligao: The Siolim-Marna panchayat in Bardez undertook a general disinfection drive at all public places. The disinfection drive, undertaken as a precautionary measure to curtail the spread of novel coronavirus and for the safety of villagers, was conducted by officials of the fire service department. Officials sprayed the disinfectant at many public places, especially the area near the St Anthony Community Centre and the bazar near the church. All the shops and even the fish market was treated with the disinfectant. All panchayat members were present during the drive. Around eight labourers were engaged to clear out dry leaves and other garbage strewn along the roadside before the disinfectant could be sprayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disinfection-drive-held-at-siolim/articleshow/74957606.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman kills self over domestic tiff||Coimbatore: A 25-year-old woman who got married recently killed herself after a tiff with her husband.Police said the deceased, Nandhini, 25, from Umapalayam near Mettupalayam, took the extreme step after failing to convince her husband to part ways with his family.The woman had got married to Manikandan 5 months ago and was not keen on staying with her husband’s family. She often asked her husband to leave his joint family, but Manikandan did not pay heed to her requests. This led to frequent arguments between the couple, police said.On March 26, a dejected Nandhini consumed poison. She died without responding to treatment on Monday at the the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Based on her mother’s complaint, police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-kills-self-over-domestic-tiff/articleshow/74957000.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Meat, fish shops to be shifted to outskirts||Salem: All meat shops will be shifted to Karuppur on the outskirts of the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) commissioner R Sadheesh said on Thursday."The temporary meat shops will be functioning on every Saturdays and Sundays starting April 4," Sadheesh said. More than 500 meat and fish shops are functioning in the city. They are open on all days. A large number of people gather at these shops without maintaining social distance. The temporary meat shops will be set up on an open ground, situated near Arabhi College on the Salem-Bengaluru National Highway. More than 300 shops can be set up there. There will be sperate spaces for fish, mutton and chicken shops. "We have given a two-metre distance between each person, and meat and fish will not be given to people violating the social distancing norm," he said. The commissioner said people should cooperate with SMC's initiatives to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/meat-fish-shops-to-be-shifted-to-outskirts/articleshow/74956988.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Lockdown: Three held for pelting stones on cops, administrative officers||Rampur: Three people among the six booked were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday for allegedly pelting stones at police and administrative officers who were enforcing the lockdown in Bhabbal Puri locality of Tanda thesil on Wednesday evening. Deputy district magistrate Gaurav Kumar, tehsildar Mahendra Bahadur Singh and Tanda kotwali SHO Durga Singh were patrolling the area, along with other officials, when the accused attacked them, but none of the officers sustained injury. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh told TOI that a case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act against six people, while three of them — Muhammad Altaf, Muhammad Gulfam and Muhammad Nafees, all residents of Miyan Wali Masjid in Bhabbalpuri — were arrested and sent to the jail. The ASP added that a manhunt was launched to nab the other three accused. An FIR has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 147 ( rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332(voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of other), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and section 3 of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lockdown-three-held-for-pelting-stones-on-cops-administrative-officers/articleshow/74956986.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||29,542 homes surveyed in Kolhapur city||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has surveyed as many as 29,542 homes since March 18, looking for people with symptoms of Covid-19. A total of 1.12 lakh people have been examined. In a single day, on April 1, around 1,777 homes were surveyed and 7,480 citizens examined for symptoms matching coronavirus infection. The door-to-door screening was carried out in Yadav Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Raigad Colony, Ramanand Colony, Nehru Nagar, Rege Tikti, Dange Galli, Budhwar Peth, Shaniwar Peth, Somwar Peth. The survey has revealed that there are 90 citizens with foreign travel history. Among these, one citizen had symptoms of cold, fever and cough. Around 28 citizens were asked to get tested at the civil hospital. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetty told TOI, “Citizens have responded well to the KMC and the district administration’s constant appeals to stay indoors. It will surely help us in containing the infection.” He said that during his field visit on Thursday, he was happy to note that citizens were staying indoors. The administration has decentralized vegetable markets across many areas of the city and ample stock of the farm produce was available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/29542-homes-surveyed-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/74957598.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||2 held for spreading fake news; top cop issues warning||Kolkata: Two youths were arrested in New Town and Kestopur on Thursday for allegedly circulating fake news regarding novel coronavirus. The Kolkata Police commissioner reiterated that netizens needed to be careful about the authenticity of nCoV-related news before forwarding them on social media. Officers of the cyber crime police station of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they acted on a complaint from a television news channel, alleging that fake news regarding government-imposed internet shutdown was being spread over WhatsApp using the company’s logo. Rajesh Roy (23) and Prasanta Mullick (21) were arrested subsequently. Soft copies of the circulated message were found on their phone. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma warned citizens not to share fake Covid-19 related news on any social networking site. Sharma took to Twitter on Thursday evening and released a list of dos and don’ts for the citizens. “Say no to fake news. KP Detective Department will take strong legal action against rumour mongers #FightAgainstCOVID19,” he tweeted. The latest round of warning follows an alarm in Bhowanipore after fake news claiming two fruitsellers at Jadubabu Bazar had developed corona symptoms went viral. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma had condemned the development and asked everyone to stop spreading rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-for-spreading-fake-news-top-cop-issues-warning/articleshow/74957010.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Police begin search & sanitise ops inside Pilibhit mosques, madrasas, dargahs||Pilibhit: Pilibhit police, along with civil administration, health department and local bodies on Thursday carried out a drive to sanitise mosques, madrasas and dargahs across the district. Simultaneously, police have begun an intensive search operation at all these religious and educational institutions to trace attendees of a religious event held in March at a mosque in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin, flouting social distancing norms. Superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit said thousands of attendees at the event were yet to be identified, and that a few of them were suspected to have taken refuge in Pilibhit. “As many of the attendees have tested positive for Covid-19, it has become inevitable to find them, in order to save the people and the country from the scourge of the virus. Because of the intensity of the matter, police won’t hesitate in searching private residences if they get trusted leads regarding the presence of potentially affected people inside,” Dixit said. Reports received so far have revealed a majority of those infected by the novel coronavirus belong to a particular community. The sanitisation drive was thus aimed at protecting them from further infection, he added. “We have as many as 380 mosques, 222 madrasas and 97 dargahs in the district. To ensure a flawless search and sanitisation drive, we’ve divided the district into four sub-divisions, in each of which, respective COs and SDMs will hold command of operation and monitor it. Decentralising the drive further, SHOs will conduct drives in their respective circles,” said the SP. CM Yogi Adityanath was prompted to hold a video conference with the DM, SP and CMO of Agra and Bareilly divisions on the issue on Wednesday evening, in which he reviewed availability of sanitising spray in adequate quantity, said Dixit, claiming the district had adequate stocks of the chemicals. “Officials of the health department and local bodies will assist police with additional manpower for the sanitization drive. They will review the work on the spot to report if it was up to the mark,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-begin-search-sanitise-ops-inside-pilibhit-mosques-madrasas-dargahs/articleshow/74957011.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Confusion galore: How many Tablighis in the Delhi Tablighi list?||Nagpur: The Nagpur-Chhattisgarh Markaz on Thursday countered Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) claim that it had information about 54 Tablighi members who had participated in the controversial Delhi meet early in March.In a press note and a video, NMC chief Tukaram Munde had claimed to have got details of 54 people who had allegedly attended the Tablighi congregation from March 7 to 9.Incidentally, a list of 52 Tablighis camping in the city since February was handed over to Munde on Wednesday by the Markaz office-bearers.Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel said 44 Indians and eight Myanmar nationals (all Tablighis) arrived in different batches in Nagpur via Delhi between February 28 and March 7, when no travel restrictions were in place. “Tablighi Jamaat of eight more Indians arrived on March 17 from Jabalpur. Like this, there are 60 Tablighis, including 52 coming via Delhi. A batch belongs to Manipur, which came from the national capital. The Delhi arrivals seem to have confused them,” he said.NMC had a list of 68 while the one submitted by Markaz has 60. But, after scrutiny, NMC was left with 48 while six more had travelled with some of them. In the Markaz list, eight are not linked to Delhi. The close tally in the 50s, beside the name Tablighi led to the confusion.Another alleged blunder by the civic body was not taking the date of arrival into consideration. The meet took place from March 7, while the last Tablighi batch from Delhi arrived here the same day.In response to a TOI query, Munde and his staff clarified that not all 54 were Muslims, thus ruling out the Tablighi link. However, the NMC didn’t issue a public clarification for Munde’s video, though the NMC list itself doesn’t say do.TOI asked Mundhe if NMC has confirmed names or details of 54 people from Nagpur who allegedly visited the controversial congregation on March 7, 8 and 9. Munde said, “Not all 54 are Muslims. I am not saying that all 54 were at the meet. These include even those who may have come in contact with positive people (patients).”NMC officials said the list is of close contacts of people found Covid-19 positive in Delhi. “There is no duration when these people came in contact with positive patients. The list also doesn’t convey if all are high risk or low risk. Several lists are being prepared by the Delhi government. The Union home ministry sent the list to the state government, which gave us 68 names. Of these, 16 don’t belong to Nagpur and four are untraceable. When we went to pick up the rest 48, six more were found to have travelled with some of the people to Delhi. All have been quarantined,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-galore-how-many-tablighis-in-the-delhi-tablighi-list/articleshow/74957008.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Free equipment for farmers||Coimbatore: The district agriculture department has tied-up with a private firm to lend tractors and other farm equipment free of cost to small and marginal farmers who have been struggling amid the lockdown. District joint director of agriculture Chitra Devi said they have tied up with JFarm, an initiative of the Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited (TAFE). “The organisation will lend small and marginal farmers tractors and farm machinery free of cost for 90 days. The farmers can avail the services in three ways. They can book the equipment they need in the Uzhavan app’s lending farm equipment option. They can also contact JFarm’s toll-free number 18004200100 or contact JFarm officials at 7448779909.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/free-equipment-for-farmers/articleshow/74957012.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Warned Jamaat on prohibitory orders: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: While Delhi Police has sent notices to prominent members of the Tablighi Jamaat for violation of Covid-19 lockdown requirements, its leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi released two audio messages on Thursday. In one he tells members not to worry about the novel coronavirus, but reverses his stand in the second. Police suspect the absconding maulana is infected and is in self-quarantine. In the first clip posted on the Delhi Markaz YouTube channel, Saad is heard reiterating his earlier stand that the novel coronavirus would not affect the Muslims. He asserts that the mosque is the best place to die if at all anyone is infected by the virus. However, in the second audio released a few hours later, the maulana retracts his statement and instead appeals to the Tablighi Jamaat members to follow the guidelines of the government and avoid large gatherings. He himself claimed to be in quarantine on the advice of doctors. "There is no doubt that what is happening in the world is the result of humanity’s crimes. We should remain at home, that is the only way to calm the wrath of God,” Saad says in the clip. “One should follow the advice of doctors and cooperate with the administration. Wherever our members are, they should follow the administration's orders. Quarantine yourself, no matter where you are. It is not against Islam or Shariyat.” Cops suspect that some high-ranking members of the Jamaat, including Saad, have been infected and are living in self-quarantine. A team was sent to his residence in Muzaffarnagar where his family members received a notice asking the maulana to join police probe into the mass defiance of lockdown orders that has left hundreds at risk of Covid-19 infection. The family reportedly told police that Saad’s lawyer would get in touch with them. Delhi Police had informed members of Tablighi Jamaat gathered at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin for a conference about the orders prohibiting the assembly of large numbers of people on March 21, two days before the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was announced. They had also been directed to send back the foreign guests housed in the building. In the FIR registered against Saad Kandhalvi and six others, police said that a team led by the area sub-divisional magistrate and officials of Delhi government’s health department visited the Markaz building between March 26 and 30 and found almost 1,300 people staying on the premises in total disregard of social distancing norms. None of them had masks on or were using hand sanitisers. The Crime Branch has formed 50 teams that approached the 20 hospitals where the Jamaat participants were lodged for details of these patients and their test reports. The Jamaat members will be questioned after their recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/warned-jamaat-on-prohibitory-orders-cops/articleshow/74957674.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Sonsoddo dump grows as access to Karnataka’s cement factories cut||Margao: The lockdown situation in the state has also impacted waste management operations at the Sonsoddo garbage management facility. As transport across the state has come to a standstill, baled dry waste, which was otherwise being sent to cement factories in Karnataka, has begun piling up at Sonsoddo. Around 15 tonne dry waste would land at Sonsoddo everyday, which would then be baled. However, sources said that with the ban on movement of vehicles across the borders, the contractor has stopped lifting the baled dry waste. As the accumulation of large quantities of dry waste has utilised considerable space at Sonsoddo, baling operations have also been suspended. Confirming this, chief officer of Margao Municipal Council (MMC), Ajit Panchwadkar said that non-availability of belts used to compress and wrap the baled dry waste has also affected baling operations. “As everything is closed down, we are unable to source these consumables, as a result of which no baling of dry waste is possible. As regards the accumulated dry waste, we will have to wait until the movement of vehicles across the borders is allowed for the contractor to lift the waste,” Panchwadkar said. Nevertheless, the lockdown situation has resulted in reduction of dry waste generation in the city by over 60 percent. Panchwadkar said, “As all shops and markets are closed, there is not much plastic and other dry waste generated in the city. We are now collecting dry waste from across the city only once a week, instead of twice a week done earlier.” Door-to-door collection of waste is, however, being done on a daily basis, he said. The bio-remediation work of the legacy dump at Sonsoddo has also resumed since Wednesday. Panchwadkar said that almost half the waste accumulated inside the garbage treatment plant has also been carted away for bioremediation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sonsoddo-dump-grows-as-access-to-karnatakas-cement-factories-cut/articleshow/74957610.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Residents’ associations, hosps join hands to give medical aid||KOCHI: Offering services in their neighbourhood, online and telephonic consultations — this is how doctors cater to those in need of medical assistance during lockdown period. As per the request of residents associations in Ernakulam, doctors residing in apartment complexes will form emergency response teams and offer free consultations to their ill neighbours. On the other hand, the city hospitals, that had to cut down or stop outpatient consultations to ensure that people don’t crowd up at hospitals, have now gone a step ahead to help their patients. Besides offering online consultation, they are also ensuring home delivery of essential drugs free of cost. While video and telephonic consultations can be availed by patients from across the country, most hospitals have said that free home delivery of medicines will be available within 20km to 25km radius of the hospital. While some hospitals are offering these services to their existing patients, others are even allowing new patients to avail tele-consultation. “We are providing video consultation for the needy at our apartment complex, as house calls are unsafe without personal protection equipment. For any emergency medical care facilities, there are hospitals in our vicinity,” said Dr Sandeep Prabhakaran, urologist and resident of Prestige Neptune’s Courtyard, Marine Drive. Some associations have sought help of homeopathy and ayurveda doctors in their apartment complexes to know about medicines that can help improve immunity in people, besides tying up with local hospitals. “There are people who can’t avoid going to the hospital even during lockdown. We facilitate that besides ensuring that our doctors are available round the clock for any medical emergency,” said Hawkins George, president, Skyline Riverdale association, Maradu. Many residents associations have either formed a common group in which people can alert in case of a medical emergency, or have developed a mobile applications through which communication on medical needs take place. They are conducting a social audit on the medical needs of the people living on the premises. “We have prepared a list of people residing in the apartment complex, which has details of the elderly residents and their medical requirements. This has been shared with doctors in our association,” said Kent Illam owners residents association (KIORA) president Anup Mathew. VPS Lakeshore hospital offers free services, including telephonic and video consultations with the doctors and home delivery of medicines. Government recently legalized the telephonic consultation of patients with doctors and now city hospitals on an average receive 100 to 200 calls daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-associations-hosps-join-hands-to-give-medical-aid/articleshow/74955852.cms||Preetu Nair
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 1.1k two-wheelers seized from violators||Kolhapur: More than 1,100 motorcycles have been seized in the city over the past 11 days for prohibitory order violations. Police said the action would continue if people violate the lockdown and prohibitory orders. Police superintendent Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Since the launch of lockdown in the district, we requested people to stay in their houses and not to come out without any valid reason. But people continued to come out on the road. We were forced to take action against them and register cases against them.” Deshmukh added that instructions were given to all police stations to seize the vehicles people had used to venture out. Police officers said some were caught roaming in the city saying they were looking to purchase vegetables but were not found carrying any purse with them. Some cited medical reasons and said they wanted to visit medical shops or hospitals, but they were not carrying prescriptions or case papers. Police took action against all such people and seized more than 1,100 motorcycles. Police have also recovered fine of Rs 4.64 lakh from them. “Our drive will continue till the lockdown is in effect. We appeal to people to not come out of houses and face wrath of police without any valid reason. The vegetables and grocery supplies are regular and people need not panic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-1-1k-two-wheelers-seized-from-violators/articleshow/74957608.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for flouting quarantine, tearing notice||Bareilly: An FIR has been registered against a man, who is currently under home quarantine, for allegedly roaming in the area and tearing a ‘stay at home’ notice pasted outside his house. The man reportedly came in contact with a 54-year-old man, a loco-pilot, who was recently tested positive for Covid-19. Police said when their team went to Krishna Nagar Phase 2 for patrolling on Wednesday evening, they learnt that health department has placed a man under home quarantine. The locals complained to the police that the man have torn the quarantine notice which was pasted outside his house. The locals claimed that the man flouted quarantine norms by roaming outside. The police added that his uncaring attitude may spread the disease further in the area. On Thursday, station house officer, Baradari police station, Naresh Kumar Tyagi, said, “After locals complained to us, we verified and lodged an FIR. The man has been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of diseases dangerous to life).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-flouting-quarantine-tearing-notice/articleshow/74957002.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s fight against pandemic hit as ministers not on same page||BENGALURU: Senior BJP ministers and officials overseeing Covid-19 crisis in Karnataka appear to be not in sync with each other. They seem to be working in silos, giving out different numbers on a daily basis, leading to utter confusion and chaos. The chief minister’s office, and departments of state health and family welfare, medical education, home and IT-BT have been part of the taskforce formed to fight the pandemic, but there appears to be a complete lack coordination among these departments, thanks to ego clashes and one-upmanship among senior ministers. The latest Tablighi Jamaat crisis is a classic example. Hours after medical education minister K Sudhakar said they have identified 45 foreign nationals who had arrived in Karnataka after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, health minister B Sriramulu tweeted that as many as 62 have been tracked and quarantined. The home department later clarified that only 50 foreign nationals were tracked and 12 had left for their home countries. In another goof-up, hours after Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said the Centre shared a list of 1,500 people, who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz from Karnataka, the home department maintained that only 391 people have been identified and quarantined. Chief minster BS Yediyurappa reiterated the same on Thursday afternoon. But later in the evening, state health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said 1,000 people of the total 1,500 linked with the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin were screened and more than 200 swabs sent for testing. The minority welfare department, which has been tasked with identifying Tablighi Jamaat members, is only adding to the confusion, working on its own and coming up with different numbers. “If you ask 20 different people then you will get 20 different facts. Whose job is it to identify foreign nationals? It is the police. How can a health minister have details about these numbers without us sharing it with him?” shot back a top police officer, when TOI contacted him to seek clarity on the numbers. It may be recalled that Yediyurappa recently relieved Sriramulu of the responsibility of handling all matters relating to the pandemic following ego clashes between him and the medical education minister on the issue. The CM later formed a taskforce and included home minister Basavaraj Bommai and deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan in it hoping to see better coordination, but it only led to more politicking and confusion. While initially, the CM decided to have a taskforce under chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, he was forced to change his plan reportedly under pressure from Sriramulu, who wanted to be made the chairman of the group. But with Sriramulu reportedly failing to work “in sync with other ministers and officials”, Yediyurappa was forced to hand over charge to Sudhakar. Now, Sriramulu seems to have taken upon the responsibility of “breaking the news” only on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-fight-against-outbreak-hit-as-ministers-not-on-same-page/articleshow/74957251.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 3, 2020||Goa||Schools get guidelines for preparing IX, XI results||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has issued guidelines to schools on preparation of final results for Class IX and XI students. The second term exam had to be cancelled recently after the Covid-19-related lockdown was announced. The Board has said that some schools had already managed to conduct the second term exam prior to the lockdown and said that such institutes can go ahead with preparing the results as per the usual norms of passing for students. But in case of schools that have not held the second term exam, the results should be prepared by taking an aggregate of marks of the exams already conducted. The Board has provided guidelines on how to prepare results in case of different situations. Results are to be prepared based on a nine point scale with 33% passing. “Supplementary examinations are to be conducted only in those subjects where a student’s score is H or I grade in aggregate with a minimum H grade in theory component and H grade in practical component, irrespective of number of subjects.” There is no restriction on the number of subjects that a student can appear for the supplementary exam. “Supplementary examinations will be based on only second term syllabus. Sports merit marks and condonation marks are to be exercised for passing criteria of supplementary exam. Supplementary exams shall be conducted after commencement of new academic year 2020-21,” the Board said. For children with special needs, the marks are to be calculated on similar lines, the Board said. “It is enjoined upon all school heads to prepare results as per the guidelines to maintain uniformity,” Goa Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-get-guidelines-for-preparing-ix-xi-results/articleshow/75074329.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chennai||MP, collector ensure help for 1.5K TN workers stuck in Maha||Villupuram: More than 1,500 guest workers from Villupuram district, who were stranded in different parts of Maharashtra like Goregaon and Andheri without proper food, finally got help on Thursday evening, thanks to the intervention of Villupuram MP D Ravikumar and Villupuram collector A Annadurai. The workers, hailing from T Devanur, C Meyyur, Keezhakondur, Vengur, Yemathur, Agaram and Kadanur regions in Villupuram district, had been involved in laying cables in Maharashtra when the national lockdown was declared. Though most of them have agricultural land of their own, they go to other parts of the country in search of work for almost half of the year. Once rainy season starts, they return to their villages to carry out agricultural operations. D Kandhan, 46, a migrant worker stranded in Maharashtra, said, “We are small farmers, holding rain-fed dry land. We do not have wells and motors to carryout agricultural operations all through the year. We have been working as nomads across various parts of the country for the past two decades. We came to Goregaon East to lay underground cables. Here, men are paid Rs 500 a day and women are paid Rs 350 a day.” While about 150 workers are stuck at Santhosh Nagar and Ambavadi in Goregaon East, about 1,350 are stranded in Andheri, Marol, Dharavi and Chotta Kashmir. “Our families are starving here without proper food and medical care for the past few days,” he said. V Murugan, 47, from Keezhakondur vilage said, “As we lead a nomadic life, we leave our kids with elders in the family. They go to schools in our native village. We move around in Maharashtra, depending on our work, carrying toddlers”. They live in roadside shacks. Villupuram MP D Ravikumar said he had contacted Villupuram collector, who in turn, contacted his counterparts in Maharashtra and organized help on Thursday evening. An NGO has provided them food. It has also promised to sustain the supply till normalcy returns. Ravikumar said there are many others from Villupuram in Goa, Kerala and Telangana, who need help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mp-collector-ensure-help-for-1-5k-tn-workers-stuck-in-maha/articleshow/74957689.cms||Karal Marx
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||TJ delegates to be housed in 3 locations||Coimbatore: The district administration and the public health department have identified three locations to house people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi but have tested negative. The participants will be housed in a school in Pollachi and Coimbatore and a lodge in Mettupalayam for 14-21 days. Meanwhile, containment plans for Mettupalayam is already underway and is expected to begin in Annur on Friday. “We made this decision because we find the viral load relatively higher in the patients who got infected in New Delhi and we have come across cases in the state where patients initially tested negative but later tested positive,” a health department official said. “It includes Erode doctor’s husband and the first patient in Madurai’s older son,” he said. “So, we want to watch them for 21 days because the virus can incubate up to 14 days and show symptoms later,” he added. At least 11 patients who tested negative in Mettupalayam will be housed in the lodge, three people who tested negative in Pollachi will be housed in the school and everyone who tested negative in ESI will be housed in the school.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tj-delegates-to-be-housed-in-3-locations/articleshow/74957015.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC looks to VNIT hostels for quarantine as Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati fill up in a day||Nagpur: Rooms having a capacity of 125 persons at Vanamati and Ravi Bhavan filled up in a single day after officials quarantined a large number of people traced from close contacts list of Delhi positive patients provided by the state government.The sudden rise led to Nagpur Municipal Corporation health department, entrusted with tracing the suspects, to start making new arrangements as the numbers are likely to go up further in the next couple of days.MLA hostels, where city’s first qurantine facility was set up on March 13, took around 21 days to fill up its 210 room in Wing II and III. Nagpur NMC health team on Wednesday started readying the old hostels of VNIT at Bajaj Nagar for quarantine facility.VNIT officials said 200 to 300 old hostel rooms were shown to the authorities but they were yet to receive any official letter of acquisition. The campus too was shut 10 days before the nationwide lockdown was announced. VNIT students were asked to leave by March 16. Several institutions including the Nagpur University, too, are having vacant hostels. Including the new hostels, VNIT has space for accommodating over 4000 people. SDO Shekhar Ghadge said Vanamati facility was started on Wednesday but it was full on Thursday. “35 people were brought to Ravi Bhavan on Thursday. Vanamati can take in 84 persons. At both places, two are sharing a room,” he said.Ghadge said administration was looking at options and therefore VNIT campus was inspected. “It is not necessary we will acquire some property. Several factors are considered before we convert a place into quarantine centre. Ultimately, the divisional commissioner and the district collector will decide,” he said.On sudden rise in number of suspected cases, he said NMC was entrused with identifying and bringing them here. The MLA hostels, where around 30 rooms were vacant a day ago, were full on Thursday.Ghadge said several people would be completing their 14-day quarantine at MLA hostel soon so there will be vacant rooms.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar confirmed the rise in number of suspects was mainly because of the Delhi list and Nizamuddin Tablighi congregation fallout.There were also concerns regarding house keeping and catering services at Vanamati and Ravi Bhavan. Sources said the staff was scared of servicing the suspected Covid-19 cases.Initially, MLA hostels operator too had faced the same issue but somehow managed to retain 80 workers who are deployed now in two shifts there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-looks-to-vnit-hostels-for-quarantine-as-ravi-bhavan-vanamati-fill-up-in-a-day/articleshow/74957021.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 3, 2020||Goa||All 38 Quepem workers find relief in civic body||Quepem: Taking cognisance of a TOI report that migrant labourers working at the under-construction Quepem municipal fish market complex have been left to fend for themselves, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar has allotted all 38 of them work in the Quepem municipality as daily wage workers. “Five labourers will work each day on a rotation basis. They will load stocks of essentials into vehicles at the municipal godown and will go along with the municipality staff to distribute stock to locals,” the MLA said. Kavalekar told TOI that he had instructed the Quepem Municipal Council to engage the labourers so that they can earn wages and fend for themselves. He further said that his staff has been told to identify stranded migrant labourers and others who are unable to get food daily. Stock of 100 bags of rice has been kept aside at the deputy collector’s office and the RSS had taken up the responsibility of distributing it to needy people, Kavalekar said. Stating that nobody should take political mileage of the current situation, the MLA said, “Our enemy is the coronavirus. We should leave politics aside and work unitedly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-38-quepem-workers-find-relief-in-civic-body/articleshow/74957627.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Railway workers produce sanitisers & masks||HYDERABAD: Railway workshops and production units in the twin states have been directed to manufacture essential medical items like hand sanitisers and masks in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With an increased demand for essential medical items in railway hospitals and health units, workers are doing 10-12 hours overtime while experimenting in manufacturing essential health commodities such as beds, cots, and trolleys. “We are currently working on making hand sanitisers, masks made of cotton cloth which will be reusable, cots, and aprons to fill in the demands of hospitals and employees in our zone,” a worker from the carriage workshop told TOI. Officials said that the work is being done in Kazipet, Vijayawada, Lallaguda, and Guntur. Carriage workshops have found newer ways to put the workers to work and also deal with the crisis at hand during the lockdown. “We have been appealing to the state government to provide us with masks, kits, and sanitisers but most of our supply needs are being met by the products made by railway workers,” hospital staff from the railway hospital in Mettaguda told TOI. Divisional railway managers (DRMs) said the workers involved in manufacturing these essential health products are usually preoccupied with tasks like stitching and repairing berths, berth covers, blankets and curtains in the train coaches. “Other than our administrative staff, the rest of our field employees are deployed with the involvement of Railway Protection Force (RPF),” a SCR official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rly-workers-produce-sanitisers-masks/articleshow/74957651.cms||Arya Sharan
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||District administration put on high alert in Guntur, Nellore||GUNTUR/VIJAYAWADA: The state government has put district administrations of Guntur and Nellore on ‘very high alert’ as both the districts reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases till Thursday. About 20 people tested positive in both Guntur and Nellore. The sudden spike in positive cases has been linked to the screening of more people who returned from the religious congregation in New Delhi. Guntur district, which had reported nine positive cases till Wednesday, witnessed a steep jump taking the total number of positive cases to 20, with 11 people testing positive in a single day.  District collector Samuel Anand Kumar reviewed the situation with senior officials. The spurt in the Covid-19 cases in Guntur city has rattled the civic administration as it had to declare at least 15 municipal divisions of 23 in One Town area as containment zones. The city reported nine cases, the highest from one place in the state. GMC has declared Balaji Nagar, Srinivasa Rao Thota, Kummari Bazar and Dagah Manyam as new containment areas. Municipal commissioner C Anuradha inspected the containment measures across the city on Thursday. The commissioner said there should not be any lenience in enforcing restrictions in areas declared containment zones. t. Meanwhile, civil supplies department has started door delivery of ration to households in the containment zones. A similar situation prevails in Nellore district, which reported 20 positive cases. “We are taking all measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is not yet time to press the panic button. All the new cases are either Delhi returnees or their primary contacts,” said the district collector MV Seshagiri Babu. Meanwhile, with the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, officials declared Tipper Bazaar in Mangalagiri town as a ‘red zone’ on Thursday. According to police, a 72-year-old resident in Tipper Bazar, who attended Markaz in New Delhi, tested positive on Wednesday night. He and his family members have been taken to a quarantine centre. “There has been a positive case in the area and we have barricaded the premises. The person is currently receiving treatment and disinfectants has been sprayed in the area. Absolute curfew measures are being practiced,” Mangalagiri town SI Narayana told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dist-administration-put-on-high-alert-in-guntur-nellore/articleshow/74955873.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nashik||Major drop in vegetable supply to Mumbai||Nashik/Kolhapur: The unavailability of workers in Nashik and western Maharashtra is beginning to affect the availability of fresh fruits and vegetables in markets across Mumbai. Traders and farmers in Nashik and western Maharashtra do not have people to either work in the farms or to transport the produce to the state capital. Nashik is the biggest supplier of vegetables and fruits to the Mumbai markets — nearly 150 vehicles carrying more than 500 tonne of fresh produce usually leave Nashik for Mumbai every day. Since the lockdown, the supply has reduced substantially. Only about 40-60 vehicles are going to Mumbai with around 150-200 tonne of produce. Arun Kale, the secretary of the Nashik APMC, confirmed that the vegetable supply to Mumbai has been badly affected. “The Covid-19 outbreak has hit the supplies to Mumbai. Vehicles are not allowed in most parts of the Mumbai,” he said. Traders said the drivers and workers are wary of travelling to Mumbai as the city has reported a high number of Covid-19 cases. There are also concerns about the transport vehicles reaching Mumbai (considering all the permissions required) and returning to Nashik. The restriction on the duration the vegetables can be sold is also worrisome. People are unsure about the produce getting sold. “There are restricted hours to sell vegetables in Mumbai and there is no guarantee that all the stock will be sold. Moreover, vehicles are not allowed at several places in Mumbai. That is why some traders are not taking risks,” said Ranjat Shinde, a vegetable trader. Transporters are also unwilling to go to Mumbai as there is no guarantee that they will get a return trip. “The transport charges have increased as there is no guarantee that they will get a return trip from Mumbai to Nashik,” said Bapu Pingle, another trader. Appasaheb Khanjire, a farmer from Nandni village in Shirol taluka of Kolhapur district, is unable to send his capsicum to the hotels and restaurants in Mumbai. He had invested Rs 2 lakh to cultivate the crop on two acres. “Current restrictions have stopped all mobilization and it is difficult to find workers to cut the crop,” he said. Sources at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) said 10 trucks of vegetables and fruits are sent daily to Mumbai from Shirol, but hardly one truck is reaching the capital city now. Even the inflow at the Kolhapur market committee has dropped from 2,100 quintal of vegetable and fruits every day to 1,600 quintal now. Sagar Shete, who runs a private company of agriculture produce, said farmers have cut the crop, but are not in a position to send the same to markets. “Drivers and coolies are afraid to resume the work,” he said. Bhaskar Keskar, a farmer from Sangola taluka in Solapur district, has been unable to send his pomegranate crop to Mumbai. “Pomegranate trees are now surrounded by grass, which is likely to affect the fruits. But I cannot find workers to cut the grass and fruits,” he said. Nashik traders said around 100 tonnes of vegetables are also sent to Gujarat every day in 25-30 trucks, but this supply has totally stopped due to the lockdown. The vehicles are being stopped at various places on roads to various cities in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/major-drop-in-vegetable-supply-to-mumbai/articleshow/74957189.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Why go to market, when city corpn brings veggies to your doorstep?||Coimbatore: To prevent people from crowding markets, the city corporation, along with the departments of agriculture, horticulture, and agriculture marketing and agri business, have started mobile markets to deliver vegetables to residential areas directly. They came alive on Thursday with municipal administration minister S P Velumani flagging off 25 vehicles carrying vegetables - five for each zone - from CCMC premises. The vehicles would deliver two different vegetable packages, one priced at Rs 100 and the other at Rs 200. The first package would have tomato, big onions, green chillies, coconut, brinjal, ladies finger, snake gourd, ribbed gourd, drumstick, curry leaves, coriander and mint. In addition to these, the latter package would have lemon, potatoes, spinach, carrot, radish and beetroot. Agriculture marketing department officials said the vegetables would be procured from farmers’ cooperatives, farmer producer groups and farmers’ producer organizations and transported to residential areas of every ward for sale. M Bhuvaneswari, deputy director of horticulture, Coimbatore, said the move would help farmers as well as they were struggling to sell the produce in the absence of proper transportation (due to lockdown). “Now, the farmer producer groups can collect produce from their members and transport them in vehicles provided by the city corporation.” She said surplus vegetables from uzhavar santhais would also be sold through mobile markets. The officer said if the initiative invoked good response from the residents, they would look at increasing the number of vehicles. She said other districts too had introduced mobile vegetable markets. A city corporation source said they had been planning for about a week to introduce the mobile markets. Earlier, pointing out that mobile vegetable markets were introduced in Thoothukkudi, Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan had on Wednesday written to collector K Rajamani, seeking to implement the scheme in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/why-go-to-market-when-city-corpn-brings-veggies-to-your-doorstep/articleshow/74957027.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Samples of 16 Jamaat men who took part in Delhi event sent for Covid-19 test||Bareilly: Sixteen people, including nine Thai nationals and two from Tamil Nadu, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin recently were found by health department with support of local intelligence unit (LIU) at three locations in UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Thursday. Their samples have been sent for Covid-19 testing to Lucknow and reports are expected soon.All the 16 people have been quarantined at district hospital in Shahjahanpur. On Wednesday evening, LIU in-charge Chandrabhan Singh along with local police checked a place of worship near Anta Chouraha under the limits of Sadar Bazaar police station, where they found nine foreign nationals and two persons from Tamil Nadu. The people from Thailand had shared their information about their presence earlier with LIU, but they didn’t mention anything about their visit to Nizamuddin Markaz for the Tablighi Jamaat event. The health department has now quarantined all of them. A local resident who was taking care of them and the individuals from Tamil Nadu was booked by police for “not sharing information with district administration and endangering the life of others”.Five people from RC Mission area of Shahjahanpur had also reportedly concealed the fact that they had attended the event and they were quarantined by the health department. All of them have been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act.SHO Sadar Bazaar police station Kiran Pal Singh said, “All the foreign nationals and other individuals have been shifted to district hospital and placed under quarantine by health department. An FIR has been registered against locals under relevant sections for concealing information and showing negligence.”District immunization officer Dr Laxman Singh told TOI on Thursday, “We have sent the samples of total 21 people, including those from Thailand, for Covid-19 test and their reports are expected by Friday morning. All the suspects are under quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/samples-of-16-jamaat-men-who-took-part-in-delhi-event-sent-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/74957022.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops request citizens to stay home in new video||Kolhapur: A video of emotional appeals by police such as ‘we also have families but are out on roads for your safety’ and ‘please respect the rules and stay at home’ is doing the rounds on social media. Police struck upon the idea to circulate the new video as an earlier video clip, circulated by them with a message, of people going on morning walks made a positive impact and reduced the number of citizens on the streets. The latest 77-second video shows police personnel holding placards with messages and appeals to citizens to stay at home in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus and help police in doing their duty. The video shot in places like Rankala, Bindu chowk, Shivaji bridge, Juna Rajwada police station and even before the office of the Kolhapur superintendent of police shows police personnel in uniform holding placards. The video starts with a constable holding a placard that reads: “I have two children.” In another frame, the focus moves to a different constable whose placard reads: “I have elderly parents at home.” Throughout the video, the only essence one gets is that even police personnel are human beings but are out on roads for the safety of citizens. Through the video, police try to drive home the point that they can serve the citizens better only if they cooperated and stayed at home. “We are continuously trying to convince people to stay at home. Roaming on roads is not in the interest of any individual or society. Despite taking action against those caught violating rules, people are still venturing out unnecessarily. Hence, we decided to make an emotional appeal to citizens and circulate it on social media to convey our message,”said a senior police officer. “Our previous video of people going for morning walk created a good impact. The number of people coming out for morning walk has reduced. We expect this video to have the same impact and make people stay at home as long as the lockdown is in place,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-request-citizens-to-stay-home-in-new-video/articleshow/74957620.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Thanks to volunteers, stranded guest workers shifted to community hall||Coimbatore: Close to 50 guest workers who had been camping at a park near Sungam bypass for the last one week have been shifted to a community hall in the city, courtesy a group of volunteers.The guest workers, mostly from unorganised sectors such as hotels and real estate, hail from Chennai, Tirupur, Trichy, Madurai, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Theni, and from neighbouring Kerala. Around 8.30pm on Wednesday, a team of police personnel asked them to vacate the park because prohibitory orders were in force. Left stranded and clueless, some workers reached out to a group of volunteers, who arrived there and requested police and civic body officials to arrange for an alternative accommodation for the workers. The officials then decided to shift them to a community hall near the Thandu Mariamman temple. Vivek, a social worker who has been helping in arranging food for the workers, said, “It’s good that they now have a roof over their head.” The temporary arrangement is a big relief for guest workers like M Vijay, 39, from Chennai, a veteran employee of an eatery in Kovai Pudur. After work, he used to sleep at the hotel premises. However, the 21-day lockdown left him without a shelter as the owner locked his hotel and asked all his workers to leave. With no food and a place to stay and public transport grinding to a halt, Vijay and 48 other guest workers decided to camp at the park near Sungam bypass. “We had been staying on the roadside park in Sungam for a week. When we were chased away by police, we didn’t know what to do. Thankfully, the volunteers who had been giving us food, arranged for this hall. We have food and water here,” said Vijay. Officials said they were looking to shift the guest workers to a location outside the city limits as they anticipate opposition from local residents at some point of time. “We are looking for an alternative space outside city limits. We will shift them there once we find one,” said Mahesh Kumar, Coimbatore north tahsildar, who was handling the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thanks-to-volunteers-stranded-guest-workers-shifted-to-community-hall/articleshow/74957038.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||Uncertainty over UP wheat crop procurement persists||Pilibhit: There’s widespread uncertainty over when wheat procurement can begin in Uttar Pradesh, what with the nationwide lockdown over the Covid-19 scare. According to the existing procurement policy, announced by state principal secretary for food and civil supplies, Nivedita Shukla Verma, wheat procurement across the state was to begin from April 1 and conclude on June 15.Farmer leaders have said the government should bear the liability to protect from unfavourable weather conditions any wheat that has already been harvested anywhere in state, till the time procurement begins.The state government had fixed a target of procuring 55 lakh metric tonnes of wheat during the current season, via its network of 5,000 procurement centres. UP food commissioner Manish Chauhan said the decision to revise dates for commencement of wheat procurement is pending with the state government.District authorities too said they haven’t received any information from the state administration in this regard. In normal course, state administration gives procurement agencies gunny bags to pack wheat, at least one week before the beginning of procurement, but this supply too is delayed this year.Under its procurement policy for the current year, the state government had engaged 10 agencies. Of these, the maximum number of 3,210 centres (out of the approved figure of 5,000) have been assigned to Pradesh Cooperative Federation, while UP State Food and Essential Commodities Corporation has been allotted the minimum — 60 centres.“I’m yet to receive any information on any state cabinet decision to revise the wheat procurement schedule. The matter is under consideration and dates are expected to be finalised soon,” said Chauhan.As a result, district authorities haven’t set up any procurement centre yet. In Pilibhit, where wheat has been sown over 1.49 lakh hectares, which is expected to produce 7.5 lakh metric tonnes of crop, district food and marketing officer Avinash Jha said the state had approved 87 procurement centres in the first phase, but because gunny bags and final procurement schedule are awaited, the process won’t start on April 1.The national convener of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, V M Singh, said, “Because procurement has been postponed by the lockdown, the state government carries moral responsibility to protect any harvested wheat from decay due to unavoidable circumstances like untimely rains. It’s obligatory as especially marginal and small farmers have no storage capacity in their farms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/uncertainty-over-up-wheat-crop-procurement-persists/articleshow/74957037.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Grocers in Quepem face stock crunch||Quepem: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday had said that 37 grocery shops would remain open in Quepem. But on Thursday, except one grocer, who is also managing a fair-price shop in his premises, catered to the public. Many retailers blamed the closure of their shops on the unavailability of stock. People alleged that authorities passed on wrong information to Sawant over the number of shops to be kept open for public. “Chief minister’s statement wasn’t based on facts. Not even a single shop owner lifted shutters after lockdown. Sahakar Bhandar also downed its shutters since Saturday,” said Christanand Pednekar, a social activist. Diogo Fernandes, a leading grocer in the town said, “Why should I keep my shop open when there is nothing to sell?” “I had approached the wholesaler for supply of essential goods, but he turned down my request as the stock was not available,” he said. Former chairperson of Quepem municipal council Manuel Colaco alleged that wholesale dealers are having enough stock, but they are turning away retailers. “They supply only to ministers and MLAs,” he said. Two more fair price shops in the town were also remained shut on Thursday. Earlier, deputy collector of Quepem had informed that permission had been granted to around 37 grocery shop owners, including fair price shops, to keep their outlets open. But, lack of stock forced them to down their shutters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grocers-in-quepem-face-stock-crunch/articleshow/74957681.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||One more +ve in Buldhana, three samples still pending||Nagpur: Buldhana continued to report positive Covid-19 patient for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Buldhana now has four positive patients admitted in the isolation facility at local women’s hospital.“One person from the high-risk contacts of one of the admitted patients tested positive on April 2, taking the total number of positive cases in Buldhana to 5, including one deceased,” said district civil surgeon Dr Premchand Pandit.The new patient is a 10-year-old boy, who could be from the same family of the deceased, but the authorities refused to share any more information about the patient.Dr Pandit, however, said that they are waiting for results of three more samples of high-risk contacts of the deceased.“After most of the high-risk contacts of the deceased person tested negative, we selected six others from the close contacts of new positive patients. Out of those six, we received three results on April 2. Two tested negative and one positive. We are still awaiting results of three samples,” he said. The new patient is asymptomatic and has no travel history. As the patient is minor, he could have received infection either from the deceased or any of the positive patients. But, the main source of infection is yet to be traced.“We are waiting for three more results. I can comment on this issue only after that,” said the civil surgeon.As the source of infection is still not traced in Buldhana, the authorities now believe that the deceased, who had travelled to Yavatmal district a few days ago, before must have got infected there.“What we know at the moment is that the deceased had travelled to Yavatmal, where some positive cases have been found. As the Buldhana connection of infection is still not clear, we believe that there must be a Yavatmal link. We are investigating in that direction,” said Dr Pandit.Sources in Nagpur said that three samples pending from Buldhana were tested on Thursday’s first batch but results were expected only late Thursday night.Buldhana cluster March 28: A 45-year-old teacher died in Covid-19 isolation ward of Buldhana civil hospital March 29: His samples sent on March 28 test positive March 30: Admin quarantine 66 persons from his high-risk and low-risk contacts March 31: Two family members of deceased test positive for Covid-19April 01: A 23-year-old youth from high-risk contacts of deceased person test positiveApril 02: Ten-year-old boy from the high risk contacts of deceased person test positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-ve-in-buldhana-three-samples-still-pending/articleshow/74957041.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Distributors refuse to deliver packed food items||Nagpur: The shortage of packaged food items is going to become more acute in the coming days as distributors of these goods have refused to deliver them to retailers. Shopkeepers across the city have demanded that district administration take action against these distributors for not acting responsibly.A departmental store owner told TOI that distributors had joined hands and told retailers like him that they did not have staff and hence shopkeepers will have to pick up the goods from their godowns. “I stock about 200 items in my shop. With limited staff how will send them to collect goods from 200 godowns. Half of the goods in my shop are manufactured by Hindustan Liver Limited (HLL). Even its distributors are not cooperating. Consumers will blame us for shortage,” he said.Suresh Lalwani, a shopkeeper from Dhantoli, said that he did not have many brands of packaged food items like cooking oil, tea, coffee, milk powder, etc since last three to four days. “Liquid soaps and similar items are also not available. The district collector should take necessary steps as the lockdown is up to April 14,” he told TOI.Meanwhile,. grain merchants have claimed that the city was facing shortage of good quality wheat. Pratap Motwani, a prominent trader said that there was ample stock of low quality wheat in Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns. “State government is also providing us this type of wheat. This is used by flour mills and semolina manufacturing units. Most people don’t buy it,” he told TOI.Motwani said that grain markets of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan were flush with good quality wheat but the traders were unable to transport it to Nagpur. “The administration must do something about it,” he added.Mataprasad Gupta, a vegetable seller from Ramdaspeth, said that rates of greens had stabilized as bulk supply of vegetables had become streamlined in the city. “Rates of some vegetables have reduced in fact,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/distributors-refuse-to-deliver-packed-food-items/articleshow/74957033.cms||Ashish Roy
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Child abuse cases a cause for worry||KOCHI: Cases of child sexual abuse continue to get reported in Ernakulam even during the lockdown. According to sources, Childline has referred five cases of Child Sexual Abuse (CSA) to police since the lockdown was declared. Sources with Childline said that most of these cases came to the fore, when children, who are now spending more time with their parents due to the lockdown, opened up about their ordeal to parents. “Most of the cases were incidents that happened in the past,” said a Childline official in Kochi. The official added that instances of abuse occurred in the district even during the lockdown. “There were at least two cases in which the abuse happened during the lockdown. In one case, a child received vulgar messages through social media, which is a crime under the Pocso Act,” said the official. Agencies like Childline, though not active on the ground due to the lockdown, are coordinating online and through the phone and are conducting works like providing shelter to children in need of care and reporting abuse cases to police. Childline officials said that three children who were in need of protective care were shifted to a care home on Wednesday by the intervention of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). “CWC is working in tandem with agencies like Special Juvenile Police Unit, District Child Protection Unit and Childline,” said CWC chairperson Bitty K Joseph. Officials said that they have received calls from parents seeking emotional support and guidance for children who are affected by the lockdown. “Some children have issues because of their addiction to mobile phones. Some others have issues because they are not able to go out. We are giving tips to parents of such children. Also, calls reporting cases like that of ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) are being referred to other agencies,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/child-abuse-cases-a-cause-for-worry/articleshow/74955890.cms||Disney Tom
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors coming up with innovative solutions to deal with emergencies||Nagpur: Midst of the lockdown, doctors and engineers in the city have joined hands to come up with some innovative solutions that could prove helpful to overcome crisis of medical equipment and surgical protective gears in case the virus outbreak poses stiffer challenges. Shortage of ventilators is one of the biggest hurdles India is facing in the fight against coronavirus outbreak. At New Era hospital, doctors have developed a tool with which eight patients can be put on one ventilator at the same time. “Two days ago, we made this ‘splitter’ with the use of computerized 3-D printing mechanism. Now, in case of emergency like mass casualty, we can ventilate eight patients with one ventilator. We can make more such splitters, if needed,” said Dr Anand Sancheti, director of New Era Hospital. The splitter concept is used in foreign countries too. But one splitter can ventilate two or maximum four beds. The one designed in New Era hospital is arguably the first in the world which can serve eight patients at a time. Dr Sancheti stated that Samir and Siddharth Bhusari of Saras Life Solution Company in Butibori provided valuable technical support for this invention. Pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat has designed a safety box for performing difficult bronchoscopy procedures in suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients.“Covid-19 spreads through coughing and sneezing, so it is very risky to perform bronchoscopy procedures in suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients. The aerosols generated by a patient during such procedures can infect the doctor as well as spread in the surrounding area, thus infecting other patients,” said Dr Arbat. He worked on this design during lockdown and used only acrylic sheets and plastic materials available in the hospital as all vendors were shut. According to him, the prototype model has been already used and can be easily replicated by any doctor or hospital for treating patients of Covid-19. Dr Arbat said that he got the idea from some similar designs being used by doctors abroad. “I made an improvisation to make the box multipurpose for performing bronchoscopy as well as intubation procedures. I believe it is very economical to fabricate and should be useful for all doctors. It is advisable for the doctors and staff to wear proper personal protective equipment (PPE) for maximum safety,” he said.Nurses in Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences made innovative use of the available material to design personal protection suite for them to deal with shortage of PPE kits and masks. “Necessity is the mother of invention. Our staff designed and stitched this PPE kit right here in our hospital. I appreciated their effort. I know this is makeshift arrangement. Doctors must get proper protection as the cases are increasing,” said Dr Sameer Paltewar, director of Meditrina Institute. NEW TOOLS TO FIGHT COVID-19Bronchoscopy Safety BoxIt’s a see-through box with apertures on different sides There are two operator apertures, one assistant aperture and one bronchoscopy aperture Each aperture is covered with a plastic sheet valve which opens and closes with entry and exit of hands as well as the bronchoscope There is an additional aperture for connecting a negative suction cannula for suctioning the aerosol generated during the procedure The patient end has PVC sheet curtains to accommodate shoulders/chest of patientVentilator splitter A specially designed flow diverter, having eight openings, is fixed on the ventilator With this, ventilator gets modified to allow attachment of eight circuitsThe ventilator is set on a pressure control mode with peak pressure of 26With this, ventilator generates tidal volume up to 4,000ml per minute After splitting through eight openings, it provides 500ml tidal volume per patient Not recommended for routine use. Designed only to deal with emergency situation during Covid-19 outbreak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-coming-up-with-innovative-solutions-to-deal-with-emergencies/articleshow/74957067.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government requested to help the poor||CHARMINAR: The Tahreek Muslim Shabban (TMS), a city-based organisation, on Thursday urged the Telangana government to ensure immediate help to the poor in Hyderabad. Mohammed Mushtaq Malik, president, TMS said that as the country is reeling under a crisis, many poor families are living without food and ration. A representation was submitted to Hyderabad collector Swetha Mohanty seeking immediate help from the state government. The collector is said to have assured TMS that officials concerned would arrange for relief material. “Hundreds of families from various localities are approaching us for ration. But we have only limited resources to meet their requirements,” said Malik.— (With inputs from Omer bin Taher)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-requested-to-help-the-poor/articleshow/74957048.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Leopard kills nine goats in Valsad village farm||SURAT: At least nine goats were killed by a leopard in Kosamba village in Valsad district on Wednesday night. According to forest officials, the incident took place in the farm of Narendra Tandel of Kosamba village. “The leopard killed nine goats kept on a farm in Pargi Faliya of the village. We have placed cages to nab the leopard and compensation to the farmer is being processed,” said Yuvrajsinh Zala, assistant conservator of forests, Dharampur sub-division, Valsad North Forest Division. According to 2016 leopard count in the state, there are 18 leopards in Valsad district. There are 1,395 leopards reported from across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leopard-kills-nine-goats-in-valsad-village-farm/articleshow/74954804.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to give Covid-19 info via chatbot||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Friday launched a Covid-19 chatbot to provide information about the virus to the general public. “WhatsApp number 8800007722 will provide you all information related to novel coronavirus. When you send a “Hi” on this number, a nine-point menu will appear. Information on signs and symptoms, measures taken by Delhi government to deal with the pandemic, among others, will be provided,” said CM Arvind Kejriwal. The other information on the number includes how to keep the infection away, screening and testing facilities, helpline numbers, hunger relief, e-pass and frequently asked questions, besides an option to donate to CM Relief Fund. Meanwhile, the CM interacted with all AAP MLAs and the eight BJP legislators through video conferencing on Friday to find out the situation in their respective areas. The MLAs have been instructed to ensure that people in their constituencies get benefits of all government schemes during the lockdown. Kejriwal said that the situation is under control and if there is an outbreak, the government is prepared to handle it. “The increase in figures has been because of local contact and transmission. A patient who was brought from Alami Markaz in Nizamuddin died in the last 24 hours, taking the figure of deaths to five in Delhi,” he added. “In the time of extreme crisis, all parties are working as a team,” Kejriwal tweeted. He told the MLAs to inspect the ration and food distribution regularly. If they see any irregularity or problem, they must inform the government so that prompt action can be taken. He also asked the BJP MLAs to give suggestions to make the fight against novel coronavirus stronger and appealed to them to support the government. Food minister Imran Hussain reviewed the transportation of enhanced quantities of ration to fair price shops for distribution among the beneficiaries. He appealed to all transporters to increase the frequency of trips of trucks for delivery of foodgrains. He warned that stern action will be taken in case of diversion of foodgrains, deliberate delay in transportation, etc. At 3pm on Saturday, Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and experts will hold a digital interaction with around 44 lakh students of government and private school and their parents. The session has been named “parenting in the time of corona”.n a review meeting on Friday, Baijal instructed officials that testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should remain key focus areas in the Covid-19 fight. Sisodia also participated at the meeting. Officials were instructed to ensure strict vigil of all home-quarantine cases and take deterrent action against violators. The health department was directed to procure essentials, ramp up infrastructure and ensure availability of PPEfor front line health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-give-covid-19-info-via-chatbot/articleshow/74975453.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Dole distribution begins in Salem||Salem: The issuing of state government’s dole for ration cardholders began in the Salem region on Thursday.Rs 1,000 in cash, rice, sugar and dal were issued to the beneficiaries. In Salem district, 9.76 lakh families, including 882 Sri Lankan refugee families, will be getting the dole. Hundred beneficiaries will get their doles per day in a ration shop. Tokens were issued to all the cardholders across the district. While 5.08 lakh cardholders will benefit from the scheme in Namakkal district, 5.48 lakh cardholders will benefit from Krishnagiri district. get this relief materials in the district from 1,094 ration shops. Similarly, 4.28 lakh families will get the dole in Dharmapuri district and 6.84 cardholders in Erode district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dole-distribution-begins-in-salem/articleshow/74957070.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Engineering colleges rely on online classes||KOCHI: With the Covid-19 pandemic derailing the academic timetable of engineering institutions, many engineering colleges in Ernakulam are struggling to complete their syllabus for the current semester. Since the chances of reopening the institutions anytime soon remain uncertain, many colleges are now relying on online classes to complete the portions before the exams. A well-organized online education system has been developed by many colleges not only to deliver lectures but also to mark attendance, submission and evaluation of assignments and projects. Also, colleges have been uploading offline videos created by teachers on specific subjects and promoting students to pursue online courses in All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE’s) online portal Swayam and other platforms like Coursera. Institutions like Govt Model Engineering College, Rajagiri School of Engineering & Technology, Cusat, Jyothi Engineering College, SCMS School of Engineering & Technology (SSET) etc., have successfully carried out online sessions over the last one week and many other colleges are planning to the follow the path. “The abrupt shutdown of classes has been challenging for us as only 60% of syllabus have been completed. The uncertainty over the shutdown is another issue. So we thought of online learning using platforms like Google Classrooms. But, lack high-speed internet connectivity at houses of many students is also an issue. So, we are uploading videos on the website for students to download them. Assignments are also being given based on these lectures. Whatsapp groups are active for interaction between students and teachers. We hope to complete the syllabus before the exams,” said Vinu Thomas, principal, Model Engineering College. More than 250 video lectures uploaded by the teachers of RSET are accessible to not only Rajagiri students but also for students of other colleges. “We are also organising faculty meeting and academic planning online these days. We are also using our YouTube channel and Facebook page to stream the videos,” said Fr. Joel Pullolil, online classes coordinator. Jyothi Engineering College in Cheruthuruthy has uploaded more than 100 video lectures on its website in addition to numerous powerpoint presentations on various subjects with voice-overs by the teachers. “The assignments have to be submitted within the deadline and the students’ attendance is marked based on that,” said principal Fr. Jaison Paul Mulerikkal. George Mathew, principal of school of engineering, Cusat, said besides online sessions by departments, students are urged to complete courses in Swayam e-learning platform. “Due to Covid-19, many courses are now free of cost. It will help students prepare for exams too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engineering-colleges-rely-on-online-classes/articleshow/74955930.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT researchers: People junked public transport to beat virus||HYDERABAD: Awareness about Covid-19 is higher in tier-1 cities as compared to tier-2 and tier-3 cities, reveals a study by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad and IIT-Bombay. Interestingly, a majority of respondents, 93%, found private mode of transport to be safer compared to the public one. The researchers studied the impact of Covid-19 outbreak on daily commute during the transition phase between pre-lockdown and lockdown period. Over 1,900 participants took part in an online survey, which collects data related to the daily commute and visit behaviour. This study analysed travel and visit behaviour changes that occurred during the third week of Covid-19 outbreak in India during pre-lockdown period. Results indicated that in tier-1 cities, about 12% of the respondents switched from public to private mode during the third week of Covid-19 as against nine per cent in tier-2 and seven per cent in tier-3 cities. Moreover, nearly 48% of people said they did not travel to work during the third week of March, whereas 28% had the same frequency of travel to work. Nearly 93% respondents found the private mode of transport to be safer compared to the public one. “Given the uncertainties in the minds of the commuters regarding their travel behaviour due to social distancing, it is important for policy-makers and local transport authorities in general to understand the change in travel pattern,” Digvijay S Pawar, assistant professor, department of civil engineering, IIT-Hyderabad, who was part of the study, told TOI. When enquired about cancellation of trips between the cities using major mode of transportation, around 18% said they cancelled their flights as against 20% who cancelled train journeys. This indicated that the awareness about Covid-19 was higher in tier-1 cities followed by tier-2 and tier-3 cities. “We are also trying to understand the effect of Covid-19 on transportation-related emissions. The data on reduction in vehicle miles travelled and vehicle type will be used to quantitatively model the reduction in traffic-related emissions,” said researcher Pritha Chatterjee, an assistant professor with IIT-Hyderabad. The researchers recommended spreading more awareness about the ill-effects and spread of Covid-19, especially among the weaker sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-researchers-people-junked-public-transport-to-beat-virus/articleshow/74957075.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||NER Izzatnagar division to set up 10 coaches as quarantine wards||Bareilly: Following instructions by the Railway Board, the divisional headquarters of North Eastern Railway (NER), Izzatnagar division, has started preparations to convert at least 10 coaches into quarantine wards for Covid-19 patients.Public relation officer of NER Rajendra Singh said two coaches would be placed at Izzatnagar station and two at Bareilly City station.The remaining six coaches would be kept in reserve so that these could taken to any desired place as per requirement.PRO Singh said a 10- bed isolation ward at the Railway Hospital in Izzatnagar has been set up and they are going to recruit doctors and paramedical staff to combat any untoward situation.“Interested eligible candidates can come with their testimonials in a walk-in interview on April 6. Meanwhile, our existing medical staff members have been provided all protective gear against Covid-19 virus. We are fully prepared for any emergency,” he said.Meanwhile, the chief public relation officer (CPRO) of NER, Pankaj Kumar Singh, said in order to curb Covid-19 infection from spreading. railways has been taking every possible step.Now the NER has started converting coaches into quarantine wards at the Gorakhpur railway workshop.“We have turned five coaches into isolation wards and the soon, we will convert more coaches into isolation wards. If need be, we are ready to convert eight to 10 coaches into isolation wards in a day. As of now, we have given a target of 97 coaches to be converted into isolation wards to the Gorakhpur workshop,” the CPRO said.Railway officials said that they are also converting their hospital into a Covid-19 health centre.Till now, arrangements for 200 beds have been made at Gorakhpur Railway Hospital.Singh also warned tmigrants heading home from walking on railway tracks. “We have stopped operation of passengers trains only while freight trains are still running and walking on the tracks can cause fatal accidents. Moreover, walking on the tracks is also illegal,” he said....||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ner-izzatnagar-division-to-set-up-10-coaches-as-quarantine-wards/articleshow/74957126.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 3, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: People venturing out on pretext of serving tea to cops||RAJKOT: Junagadh police has prohibited people from serving tea to the policemen on duty. In a statement issued on Thursday, Junagadh superintendent of police Saurabh Singh said that people are finding excuses to come out from the home under guise of serving tea to the police personnel. It was also found that tea and snacks served to policemen on duty was of inferior quality which can affect their health. The SP has asked these people to first get approval to serve tea and snacks to policemen and home guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/people-venturing-out-on-pretext-of-serving-tea-to-cops/articleshow/74955937.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Afflicted in Mettupalayam GH to be shifted to pvt hospital||Coimbatore: With a large patient population flocking to the Mettupalayam government hospital, where 21 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment, the district administration has taken over a private hospital in the vicinity to handle the ones infected with the virus until the crisis was over. The patients would, however, be treated by doctors at the government hospital. The health department is, meanwhile, rolling out the measures to contain the spread of the virus in and around the residential areas of all the 28 positive patients, seven of who are admitted to the ESI Hospital. While the Mettupalayam government hospital had created an exclusive isolation ward for Covid-19 patients around three weeks ago, the district administration has decided not to use the facility to treat the 21 people who recently tested positive for the virus. They would now be shifted to the Hindusthan Hospital, a private hospital located around 2km from the government hospital on Friday or Saturday. Dr Seralathan, chief medical officer, Mettupalayam government hospital, said, “The health department has taken over the private hospital and allotted that to us for treating and isolating Covid-19 patients. This is to ensure the safety of other patients, who flock to the government hospital in large numbers daily. By shifting the Covid-19 patients out of our campus, we could contain the possible local transmission of the virus.” Patients at the Hindusthan Hospital have already been moved out and arrangements are being made to house the Covid-19 patients. “We have allocated three doctors, as many staff members and two sanitary workers to handle the patients in three shifts. We are in the process of setting up the ward. We will shift them soon,” Dr Seralathan said. Pointing out that almost all the 21 patients were aged above 50 years and that they were attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi, another source said their symptoms were more severe than that of the patients who were infected while abroad. “However, none of them require ventilator support yet. They also don’t have any major lung congestion or other issues so far,” Dr Seralathan said. Meanwhile, district collector K Rajamani said efforts were on to contain local transmission of the virus. “Most of the patients are residents of Sirumugai Road. So, we have placed barricades and cordoned off the entire stretch of road and other interior roads, to ensure that no one goes out or gets in. Health workers have started visiting every households in the immediate vicinity of the patients to screen the residents for any symptoms and educate them on the importance of following the preventive measures. After that, we will widen the circle and screen all the residents within the 5km radius.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/afflicted-in-mettupalayam-gh-to-be-shifted-to-pvt-hospital/articleshow/74957076.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Ration shops distribute dole to cardholders||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the distribution of government dole of Rs 1,000 and other essential items to the ration card holders in the district on Thursday. To ensure physical distancing, people were made to stand in queues at a distance of 1m in front of the ration shops. Except for complaints of delay in distributing the dole, the exercise passed off without drawing any flak on day one. Around 9.7 lakh card holders would benefit from the move in the district over the next few days. The dole would be distributed through 1,400-odd ration shops in the district. Addressing the media, Velumani said the government had already allocated Rs 3,280 crore to distribute the dole that include rice, dal, sugar and edible oil to all the ration card holders in the state. The minister said, “There are 9,76,106 ration card holders in the district alone. While rice card holders are eligible for all the items in the relief package, sugar card holders will get all the other items, except Rs 1,000. To prevent crowding of ration shops, card holders were in advance issued tokens with time and date, which they have to follow without any fail.” He requested the card holders not go to ration shops to collect the tokens. “Those who don’t want to avail of the dole can register their details on website and TNEPD app.” The minister said the dole would be distributed through all the 1,418 rations shops in the district and that the entire process would be monitored by 12 officials who are in the rank of deputy collector. “The salesmen at the ration shops will be provided Rs 2,500 and the assistant, Rs 2,000.” Velumani also distributed pamphlets on Covid-19 preventive measures to the ration card holders at Kuniyamuthur. He was accompanied by collector K Rajamani and district revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan, among others. Meanwhile, ration card holders had to wait in queue impatiently for more than two hours in front of the fair price shop at Poosaripalayam, only for some to return empty-handed. The card holders said they were not instructed properly. “The salesman at the shop said he would distribute the dole to all. Later, he said he could distribute the same only to 100 people a day,” said a card holder.Upset, some card holders argued with the salesman, but they left the shop without creating any law and order situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ration-shops-distribute-dole-to-cardholders/articleshow/74957087.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Police warn guest workers who hoard essential items||Kochi: A video of policemen visiting a camp of guest workers has gone viral on social media in which the labourers are seen hoarding essential commodities even as they sought assistance of the authorities in arranging them food. The video was shot from a camp at SRM Road in the city and the policemen can be seen going to the kitchen of the labourers to find rice and vegetables stocked. “We reached here after receiving an alert that there was scarcity of food. We found four rice sacks, stacked one above the other. There was a lot of tomato, potatoes, onions, soya chunks, etc. as well. This is not right. We are providing food to those who are unable to get any food. By hoarding, you are actually taking the benefits that they were supposed to get,” a policeman can be heard saying in the video. After the video went viral, sources with the Ernakulam North police confirmed its authenticity. The incident happened on Wednesday. The labourers were involved in bag-making business. There were around eleven of them at the camp and they had enough LPG and all the needed stuff to survive the entire lockdown, however, they still informed that they wanted food,” said an officer with North Police. Police added that they observed a similar situation at another house of guest labourers where six persons were staying. “We think that they were trying to save up by not cooking. There are several guest workers who actually don’t have the money or provisions to prepare food. But there some people who are taking advantage of the situation. We warned them and asked them to cook their own food from now on,” said the officer. Kochi City police have been arranging food for those who are struggling to find food during the lockdown. “There are Malayalis who are struggling to get food. People alert us about such persons who are unable to buy groceries. We are arranging help to these people. By hoarding, some people are actually getting the assistance which should be going to those who deserve it,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-warn-guest-workers-who-hoard-essential-items/articleshow/74955955.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Postal dept lends a helping hand||Coimbatore: The department of posts is ready to deliver medical equipment and medicines anywhere in the state during the lockdown period, senior superintendent Sudhir Gopal Jakhere said. The medical products will be booked under ‘logistics post’ and the minimum weight acceptable will be 50 kilograms. The goods booked in the Coimbatore head post offices will be put on a truck and delivered directly to the destination. They will not change hands more than once, making it a quicker service compared to the speed post. The department had collected three parcels of medical equipment and medicines on Wednesday, which were delivered to Madurai and Pollachi by Thursday afternoon. “We are cheaper than private courier services. Most importantly, we offer a secure service because our postmen don’t get stopped anywhere as post is an essential service,” Jakhere said. “Our network of postmen who can deliver smaller consignments is also extensive, ensuring delivery even to far-flung hospitals, clinics and medical facilities in rural areas” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/postal-dept-lends-a-helping-hand/articleshow/74957080.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to give Rs 5,000 to auto, gramin sewa drivers||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to drivers of public service vehicles (PSV), which have gone off the roads because of the lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced that Delhi government will provide them Rs 5,000 to deal with financial crisis. The beneficiaries include drivers of autorickshaws, taxis, gramin sewa and rural transport vehicles (RTV), e-rickshaws and other PSVs. A transport department official said around 95,000 autorickshaws, 6,000 gramin sewa, 1.5 lakh e-rickshaws and around 1.5 lakh cabs are registered in Delhi. The drivers depend on these vehicles to make a living, but the shutdown has left them with no means of income. Many of them also have to repay loans taken for the vehicles. The representatives of these drivers recently urged the CM to do something for them as they are facing a crisis. Kejriwal said, “I have been receiving calls from e-rickshaw, cab, RTV, and autorickshaw drivers that they are suffering because their income has dried up. I want to assure them that I will never leave them in a lurch. The drivers of all PSVs will be given aid by the government.” “We want their bank account details for that. Planning will be done accordingly and an assistance of Rs 5,000 will be transferred to their accounts. Delhi government is giving a formal structure to the plan,” he added. Giving an update about Covid-19 cases in the capital, Kejriwal said the number has reached 219, including 108 people from Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, Nizamuddin. Four people, including two from Nizamuddin, have died. The government is scaling up the food distribution process. On April 1, lunch and dinner was provided to 6 lakh people across Delhi. “Out of the 219 positive cases in Delhi, 51 have a history of international travel, while 29 cases are a result of local transmission by travellers. There are 208 patients in the hospitals out of which five are on oxygen support, one on a ventilator and 202 are stable. I hope all of them recover soon,” Kejriwal said. Out of the 2,346 people evacuated from Alami Markaz, 536 have been admitted to hospitals and 1,810 have been placed under quarantine. “We are testing these 536 people. The number of Covid-19 positive cases might rise in the next 2-3 days. A total of 2,943 people are under quarantine in Delhi, including 1,133 travellers. In all, 21,307 people have been advised self-quarantine,” Kejriwal said, adding that there was no community spread of novel coronavirus as of now. Referring to the situation in USA, Kejriwal said that it was absolutely necessary to follow the lockdown protocol. He appealed to people to stay at home to avoid getting infected by the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-give-rs-5k-to-auto-gramin-sewa-drivers/articleshow/74957684.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre ready to relax rules if Telangana government borrows||HYDERABAD: Even as the Telangana government continues to grapple with revenue crunch on account of the lockdown, the Centre has expressed its willingness to extend relaxations if the state opts for extra borrowings from banks. “The FRBM Act imposes curbs on states to borrow within 3% of GSDP. The relaxations can be sought for loan overdraft facility from the RBI,” highly-placed sources in the government told TOI. The state government requires not less than Rs 10,000 crore every month to meet various expenditure. Telangana has around four lakh government employees and pension holders and their salary and pension bill alone come to Rs 2,500 crore. With the recent proposal to pay them in instalments, the government will save about Rs 1,000 crore. The government also needs Rs 800 crore towards payment of welfare pensions and another Rs 4,000 crore to clear debts and interest payments. With Rs 5,000 crore revenue loss in March and another Rs 10,000 crore in April, the combined loss of Rs 15,000 crore would be too much to bear for the government, experts said. “If the state goes for additional borrowings, it will further bleed the state of revenue,” an expert said. The government had proposed a Rs 1.8 lakh crore ambitious budget in March, expecting to generate Rs 85,000 crore tax income, Rs 30,000 crore non-tax revenue and Rs 16,000 crore in the form of additional grant from the Centre. But, in the first month itself, the overall loss was Rs 8,000 crore, officials said. Meanwhile, the government has released Rs 370 crore towards meeting expenditure on Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-ready-to-relax-rules-if-t-govt-borrows/articleshow/74957083.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad mosque delivers ration to needy||HYDERABAD: The famous Spanish Mosque of Paigah Palace on Thursday started distributing ration to people in need of basic essentials. Phase 1 of the drive covered 600 families of all communities living in Secunderabad. The police department helped the mutawalli committee of the mosque in the distribution. Every package comprised five-kg rice, two-kg aata, sugar, dal among other things and will last a family for at least 15 days. By the weekend, volunteers of the mosque hope to cover 1,250 homes. “We hope that more people are inspired by such gestures and come out in large numbers to help those who require our support right now,” said Faiz Khan of the Paigah family, lauding police’s support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-mosque-delivers-ration-to-needy/articleshow/74957098.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Health surveys in villages to detect Covid-19 suspects: Goa CM||PANAJI: Stepping up measures to combat Covid-19, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the state authorities will conduct health surveys in villages to find out if anyone is suffering from cold or any other novel coronavirus-related symptoms. Talking to reporters following a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Sawant said the PM has advised that village-level surveillance be carried out to detect possible cases. Accordingly the chief minister said that he has “directed the health secretary to come out with a format through which survey can be conducted in villages to find out if any person is suffering from flu or cold which can result in spread of Covid-19”. The chief minister said that if more cases are found in villages then cluster containment would be done. The next month is crucial, Sawant said, adding that it has not been decided whether the lockdown will end on March 14 or not. “We will suggest to the Prime Minister to continue keeping the borders closed for a few more days,” the chief minister said. On reviving the Goa’s economy post lockdown, he said that an economic revival team would be constituted to advice the state government. Paramedical staff, Ayush doctors and others will receive updated information about Covid-19 via video conference in the next few days, Sawant said even as he appealed to religious head to spread awareness about the virus. On the availability of groceries, the chief minister said that around 430 trucks have crossed the border with essential commodities. However, he warned that if people continue to treat the lockdown casually and venture out, then he would be forced to direct police to take action. During the video conference, the PM addressed the issue of Goan seafarers stuck overseas, Sawant said. “The PM has already spoken to all Indian embassies aboard. A list of Indians aboard is being prepared. They will be lifted and brought back to India, but it has not been decided when,” he said He also said that the government is ready to keep the around 8,000 Goans working aboard in state quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-surveys-in-villages-to-detect-covid-19-suspects-cm/articleshow/74957683.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Orphanages in Telangana running out of supplies, collectors told to help||HYDERABAD: Several child care institutes in Telangana have raised concerns over the shortage of ration and groceries in orphanages during the lockdown, following which the women development and child welfare department directed district collectors to take up measures to resolve the issue. Vastalayam Orphanage in Nagole has 36 children, all aged between eight and 18 years. Its founder, Raghavendra D, said, amid the lockdown, they are worried about the shortage of essential items. “The orphanage runs on donations, with the lockdown, our funds have dried up,” he said. Soon after the lockdown, he approasched Balala Hakkula Sangham, a child rights NGO in Hyderabad, seeking help. Though the NGO extended help to buy essential items for a month, Balala Hakkula Sangham says several other child care institutes have also approached the organisation complaining of similar shortages. Another orphanage, Laalana in Bandlaguda, which is home to 20 children, also raised similar concerns. The orphanage has food enough for only 10 days. According to the department, as many as 446 child care institutes were identified, of which 48 were registered. “Of the 398 unregistered child care institutes, 174 have reached out saying they need essential items, and of the 48 registered child care institutes, 36 reached out. The collectors have been instructed to understand the requirement of the child care institutes and accordingly provide the items,” said an official from the department. However, members of the orphanages said there has been a lack of communication from the department on when the supplies will be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orphanages-in-t-running-out-of-supplies-collectors-told-to-help/articleshow/74957096.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Covid outbreak brings good business for home delivery startups||Trichy: The Covid-19 lockdown has brought about a level-playing field for the local startups to cash in on the situation and launch door delivery facility. The startups target customers who stay indoors through social media platforms to door deliver goods. The overwhelming response for door delivery service has pushed the entrepreneurs to scout for more delivery boys.With local grocery stores catering to public in their neighbourhoods ever since the shutdown, small-time local entrepreneurs see an opportunity in establishing their business by serving people during the lockdown. City-based business establishments have entered into joint ventures to deliver their products to the people in need. "There has been a tremendous response from the people than anticipated, so we have restricted our service within Srirangam and Thiruvanaikovil. Paneer has become the most sought after commodity," N Ramesh, managing director, Vethaa Milk, said. City-based Cake Bee confectionary group has joined with Vethaa milk to supply bread and rusk to residents of Srirangam who place orders through the helpline number 95855-16681.Number 1 tollgate-based B&B Organics is another startup that promised to deliver groceries on the same day in Trichy city. The startup takes orders between 10 am to 3 pm and delivers between 6 am to 12 pm on the same day or the next day if there are too many orders. Trichy Mandi is another startup that has been delivering eight varieties of rice in the city since the lockdown. "We have been receiving a minimum of 15 calls a day demanding rice bags. With only one delivery person, we still manage to deliver the orders the same day," V Tamiliniyan, cofounder of Trichy Mandi, said. The startup delivers rice at the doorsteps for free. The door-delivery startup said that city police have issued vehicle passes to supply the essential commodities to people.With people glued to the social media platforms, the startups have been sharing flyers on Facebook and WhatsApp platforms. With the soaring demand, the only challenge for the startups is to recruit delivery boys to take up the orders and deliver them on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-outbreak-brings-good-business-for-home-delivery-startups/articleshow/74957108.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Go digital, banks urge customers||KOCHI: With the spiralling number Covid-19 cases across the country, the fear of contracting the disease has made people opt for bizarre ways to stay safe. People have even started adopting their own ways to disinfect currency notes and coins which change many hands. While some people resort to spraying sanitizers on currency notes, others wash coins in soap solutions. “None of us know who all have handled these currencies. It is unclear whether any mechanism has been put in place to disinfect currency notes,” said Joy John, a resident who shops at Ernakulam market. He said many shopkeepers and retailers do not have payment apps and they deal in cash. “Debit and credit cards can be cleaned with a disinfectant tissue after each use,” he said. Banks have placed hand sanitizers in ATMs for customers to use it before and after using the machine. However, though sanitizers available in the market are not known to disinfect currency notes, people have been spraying it on the notes thinking that it will help in tackling the disease. “I do not know if this activity can cause any damage to currency notes or the magnetic stripe or chip on the cards. Even if coins are washed using soap or is drenched in disinfectants it is not going to cause much damage,” said Srijith R, a bank employee. Meanwhile, Satheesh Kumar, lead district manager (LDM) Ernakulam said instead of opting for such strange ways to keep cash clean, people should opt for digital platforms to transact money. “We have been appealing to people to go online. In fact, this is the time for citizens to start using payments apps and shifting to online tractions. Almost all banks have mobile phone applications and there is no need for people to crowd at banks,” he said. “Disinfection of currency notes and chests in banks across the country is a humongous process. In the better interest of the economy and also taking into account the present crisis and fear, it is better to minimise or avoid cash transactions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/go-digital-banks-urge-customers/articleshow/74955997.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
April 3, 2020||Goa||No food, elephants in Goa pay price for lockdown||PANAJI: Staying in their holding areas in Goa with minimum feed at their disposal, captive animals like elephants are worse hit during the lockdown. The elephant caretakers in the state are awaiting a green signal from the government to transport fodder from other states. However, with movement restricted, the caretakers have no choice but underfeed the elephants and they are therefore seeking travel permits to source fodder and facilitate the feeding of these gentle giants. “Due to the lockdown, acquiring the natural fresh green fodder has become difficult. Now, I’m serving them greens from my own property. But soon, even that will soon get exhausted,” director of Goa Ecotourism Joseph Baretto said. He owns a rest house in Kulem and has six elephants in his farm, including one six-month-old elephant calf. Baretto said that he contacted the Mamlatdar, deputy collector as well as the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services (AHVS) for help, but to no avail. “The feed has rice mixed with cereals and vitamins. Our elephants require about 12 palm tree leaves per day and it is difficult to source them as well as transport them, right now. It costs Rs 3,500-4,000 per elephant per day. We cannot keep the animals hungry and confined in one space until the lockdown ends,” he said. Captive animals depend of their owners to feed them, but the forest department must intervene to help, said Alok Hisarwala Gupta, who manages the elephants’ rights campaign of the Federation of the Indian Animal Protection Organisation. “The forest department is the custodian and it is their responsibility to step in. The department must inspect such sites and make sure that the elephants are being fed. They must also conduct a simple medical examination to make sure that they’re okay,” he said. The chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden, Santosh Kumar said that the AHVS has referred the matter to them on Thursday. “We are in the process of issuing them a permit.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-food-elephants-pay-price-for-lockdown/articleshow/74957685.cms||Nida Sayed
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Jail if no lockdown wages paid||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat’s labour & employment department has stated in a government resolution that employers who do not pay wages to workers during the lockdown can be jailed up to one year under the Disaster Management Act. Vipul Mitra, the additional chief secretary (ACS), labour & employment said, “Directions have already been issued to all collectors and labour officers to strictly ensure that workers and labourers get full wages even during the lockdown period.” He added, “The violation of Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act is punishable under Section 51 of the Act with imprisonment for a term which may be extended to one year, or with fine, or both.” Mitra further said that the labour department has issued advisories over the past few days, directing employers not to lay off any employees or workers because of the lockdown. He added that employers have been directed not to reduce wages during this period. “In case any worker takes leave, he/she should be deemed to be on duty without any deduction in wages till 15-04-20,” Mitra said. The official said that another advisory says unorganized sector workers will be deemed to be on duty without any deduction in wages till April 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jail-if-no-lockdown-wages-paid/articleshow/74957246.cms||Kapil Dave
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||NGO conducts door-to-door survey in Hyderabad slums, supplies food to poor||CHARMINAR: Hyderabad-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF) is carrying out door-to-door surveys to identify the poor in order to supply essentials to them amid the lockdown. The NGO is also providing transport facilities to dialysis patients under the state government’s Aarogyasri scheme. The NGO began a fundraiser through WhatsApp on March 24 and mobilised Rs 14.5 lakh in a day. Further, a team of over 105 volunteers was deployed at slums in the city. Meanwhile, another team comprising of women has been tasked to identify the chronically-ill and pregnant women so that they can be assisted during emergencies, while a third team serves food prepared at the NGO’s community kitchen to migrant workers. “The last 10 days have been hectic for us. Our donors’ huge trust in us motivates us to help the poor,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, who heads HHF. Mohammed Imran, operations manager of the NGO said that the NGO is receiving several calls from many facing food shortage. Meanwhile, several NGOs in the city have recently come forward to help senior citizens during the lockdown by providing them with essential commodities. For instance, Youngistaan Foundation is helping out senior citizens by providing them groceries, vegetables and medicines. Similarly, Helpage India has provided senior citizens associations contact numbers of doctors for medical assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-conducts-door-to-door-survey-in-hyd-slums-supplies-food-to-poor/articleshow/74957107.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Compassion runs supply chain in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Collecting between 15,000 and 20,000 rotis every day with the help of volunteers, Dr Prakash Kurmi of Shivam Charitable Trust and Montu Shah of Jayhind Sewa Samiti have been feeding the poor for the past nine days. “We got in touch with dozens of residential societies in the eastern part of the city and asked them to donate rotis,” Kurmi said. “Our volunteers collect the rotis twice daily from these societies.” The Good Samaritans also prepare a vegetable curry and serve the poor in slums and other places. “We are thankful to the residents of about 100 residential societies who have been donating rotis.” Kurmi said. They intend to continue feeding the poor until the end of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/compassion-runs-supply-chain/articleshow/74957688.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Nagpur||Political war of words erupts over distribution of ration through PDS||Nagpur: BJP leaders have lodged a complaint with the district administration pointing out several lapses in the public distribution system (PDS). This seems to be a fall out of a political war between BJP and Congress. BJP leader Virendra Kukreja has alleged that Congress workers were appropriating the rations meant for poor people. Meanwhile, guardian minister Nitin Raut has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to immediately issue an order whereby poor people who do not have ration cards should also get food grains under PDS. Vijay Zalke, standing committee chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), met district collector Ravindra Thakre on Thursday morning and pointed out several lacunae. According to the memorandum submitted by him, many people have ration cards but as they are not online they are having problems in getting ration. Also, there are some people who have ration cards issued in places other than Nagpur. They too are not getting food grains. Same is the case with tenants who are natives of other places. Zalke has asked whether only Ujjwala Scheme beneficiaries would get free gas cylinders. Kukreja alleged in a press note that district collector Thakre had made only Congress workers as the local distribution agents of ration. “He did not discuss it with other political parties and acted under the influence of the guardian minister. It is unfortunate such cheap politics is being done when a pandemic is raging in the country,” he told TOI. Kukreja further said that Congress workers had practically captured ration shops and were distributing ration to only their supporters. He has released a list of Congress workers appointed as local distributors by the administration. Ravindra Khazanchi, resident deputy collector, refuted the allegations and said that food grains were being provided under PDS through government mechanism and workers of any political party did not have any role in it. “Ration is being distributed smoothly and we have not received any complaint from the beneficiaries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/political-war-of-words-erupts-over-distribution-of-ration-through-pds/articleshow/74957114.cms||Ashish Roy
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||He ensures 1,000-odd families get vegetable in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: “I have developed a friendship with hundreds of families over the past five years and it is at trying times like these that relationships are put to test,” says 26-year old Manish Verma, a vegetable and fruit seller who has been running his shop for the past five years at Maninagar area of Ahmedabad. Although his family has been asking him not to get exposed to the threat of coronavirus and keep his shop closed until normalcy returns, Manish gets to work early every morning, setting up his vegetable stall well before 7am, to ensure that the 1,000-odd families residing in the Parishkaar township of Maninagar East can stock up on vegetables and fruits for the day. “I keep my shop open for a few hours in the morning and again in later afternoon. “People are clearly scared, and do not wait too long at my shop, but many express their gratitude that essentials like vegetables and fruits are available uninterrupted at no extra cost,” says Manish. In fact, he does get calls from customers at odd hours, asking him to open his shop so that they can buy essentials. But his family is worried. “I have a two-year-old kid and elderly parents at home. It is only natural for family members to be worried about the safety of everybody at home even as dozens of people visit my shop everyday,” says Manish. However, he adds in the same breath, “I believe in karma. If I will ensure that people get their vegetable supply everyday, nothing untoward will happen to me.” Manish says that thankfully, there has been no reduction in the quantity of vegetables and fruits coming into the city. “The lockdown has been in force for over a week now, but the supply of vegetables has been normal. The government has been doing a good job in ensuring that vegetables are available in adequate quantity. Otherwise, there would have been a spurt in prices, creating more panic among people,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/he-ensures-1000-odd-families-get-vegetable/articleshow/74957735.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 14 lakh get Rs 221 crore in advance pension||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has paid Rs 221 crore as advance pension for April to more than 13 lakh pensioners and other beneficiaries. Gujarat has 13.66 lakh such beneficiaries. Ashwani Kumar, the secretary to the CM, said on Thursday that this amount has been deposited into the personal bank accounts through direct beneficiary transfer (DBT). Kumar said that the state government has taken several important decisions to give financial support to small milk producers and pastoralists (animal breeders) of rural areas. The interests of employees of private industries and traders of Gujarat have also been taken into account. Small milk producers who are not members of cooperatives, can deposit their milk and milk produce with primary milk cooperative societies. Kumar said that the CM has specifically and firmly told the owners, managements, and registered labour contractors of private industrial units and factories that they cannot sack employees and daily wagers during the lockdown. The same direction has been given to shop owners. The official said that from April 4, under the ‘Anna Brahm Yojana’, foodgrains will be distributed to the destitute, homeless people, and those who have arrived from other states in search of employment. Under the National Food Security Act, 66 lakh families covering 3.25 crore persons are going to receive foodgrains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14l-get-rs-221-cr-in-advance-pension/articleshow/74957244.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Covid outbreak brings good business for home delivery startups||Trichy: The Covid-19 lockdown has brought about a level-playing field for the local startups to cash in on the situation and launch door delivery facility. The startups target customers who stay indoors through social media platforms to door deliver goods. The overwhelming response for door delivery service has pushed the entrepreneurs to scout for more delivery boys.With local grocery stores catering to public in their neighbourhoods ever since the shutdown, small-time local entrepreneurs see an opportunity in establishing their business by serving people during the lockdown. City-based business establishments have entered into joint ventures to deliver their products to the people in need. "There has been a tremendous response from the people than anticipated, so we have restricted our service within Srirangam and Thiruvanaikovil. Paneer has become the most sought after commodity," N Ramesh, managing director, Vethaa Milk, said. City-based Cake Bee confectionary group has joined with Vethaa milk to supply bread and rusk to residents of Srirangam who place orders through the helpline number 95855-16681.Number 1 tollgate-based B&B Organics is another startup that promised to deliver groceries on the same day in Trichy city. The startup takes orders between 10 am to 3 pm and delivers between 6 am to 12 pm on the same day or the next day if there are too many orders. Trichy Mandi is another startup that has been delivering eight varieties of rice in the city since the lockdown. "We have been receiving a minimum of 15 calls a day demanding rice bags. With only one delivery person, we still manage to deliver the orders the same day," V Tamiliniyan, cofounder of Trichy Mandi, said. The startup delivers rice at the doorsteps for free. The door-delivery startup said that city police have issued vehicle passes to supply the essential commodities to people.With people glued to the social media platforms, the startups have been sharing flyers on Facebook and WhatsApp platforms. With the soaring demand, the only challenge for the startups is to recruit delivery boys to take up the orders and deliver them on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-outbreak-brings-good-business-for-home-delivery-startups/articleshow/74957111.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 3, 2020||Goa||Police asked to monitor jetty activities||Panaji: The Goa fisheries department has written to the coastal police to deploy their forces at four jetties—Malim, Chapora, Vasco & Cutbona—to stop all fishing activities. Only provision of ration and other materials “required for the safety of the crew” working on the boats will be allowed, the order stated. Fishing in Goa has been stopped from April 2 in view of the novel coronavirus. The department has therefore written to the coastal police to deploy police personnel at the jetties to ensure that the fishing activities do not continue. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-asked-to-monitor-jetty-activities/articleshow/74957691.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Three persons injured in road accident in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three pedestrians were injured in an accident after being hit by a milk van on the outskirts of Mekaguda village near NATCO pharma company under Nandigama police station limits on Thursday. According to the Cyberabad traffic police, the milk van’s headlights were not turned on. The van was heading towards Mekaguda from Mahbubnagar when the accident occurred. “The injured were out jogging at the time of the accident. The driver abandoned the vehicle before fleeing,” the Cyberabad traffic police said in a statement. The injured, K Sandeep Reddy (20), K Santosh Reddy (13) and C Bhargav Reddy (20), all residents of Mekaguda, were shifted to Shadnagar hospital. Sandeep and Santosh, who sustained multiple fractures, were later shifted to Apollo Hospital in Jubilee Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-persons-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/74957117.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Give protection equipment to doctors battling Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh HC||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Thursday directed the state government to extend proper treatment to the patients tested positive for Covid-19 who first brought to ASRAM Hospital at Eluru and later shifted to Government General Hospital (GGH). The HC on Wednesday took up the matter as a public interest litigation (PIL) based on news reports that the doctors and paramedical staff of ASRAM Hospital went on leave contending that they were not provided with necessary equipment, particularly the personal protection equipment (PPE) to treat Covid-19 patients. The advocate appearing on behalf of the government said the reports were not true and the state government has provided 16 PPEs to the ASRAM Hospital. The HC directed the 1 additional district judge, T Mallikarjunarao, to visit the hospital and submit a report on the issue. On receiving the report from Mallikarjunarao, the HC observed on Thursday that at the time of the statement made before the court the PPEs were not provided to the hospital staff. The PPEs were given after the high court passed the order on Wednesday. The state government counsel C Suman justified the government’s action referring to the chart prepared and rational use of PPE kits issued by World Health Organisation (WHO). The HC directed the state government to comply with the Supreme Court guidelines and the guidelines issued by the Union government while treating Covid-19 patients and provide necessary protection equipment to the doctors and medical staff treating such patients. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/give-protection-equipment-to-doctors-battling-covid-19-hc/articleshow/74956028.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kochi||Male & female deer live in separation at Hill Palace||Kochi: To control overpopulation of spotted and sambar deer at the deer park in Tripunithura Hill Palace, authorities have separated male deer from females. The park, situated on 2.5acres of land, is home to around 260 deer. A fence has been erected in the middle of the park to separate the male ones and females. The animals were separated in a similar manner a few months ago as well and according to authorities, the method has controlled the deer population. The gestation period of a spotted deer is seven to eight months and for sambar deer its nine months. “We did this following a direction from the forest department. It is a cruelty to these animals but there is no choice. The separation bore fruit as it helped us control overpopulation of these deer. We have been trying to shift these animals to forest land with the support of forest department. But the department is not eager to shift them due to practical difficulties. Leaving these animals in the forest land will be disastrous as they are not accustomed to wildlife. So the animals will be shifted in phase manner since the transportation is a big challenge. Five deer will be shifted in the initial stage and shifting of the rest will be based on the feedback,” said centre for heritage studies (CHS) registrar Karunadas T K. “We have been processing the files related to shifting of deer. We discussed the matter during the last governing body meet. Many animals also get injured when they fight with each other. While, some die of injuries, others die of age-related ailments,” he added. Currently, the park does not face any food shortage issue due to the lockdown. But if the lockdown continues after April 15, there might be a shortage. The running of deer park also creates huge burden on the CHS as the expense touches around Rs 3 lakh per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/male-female-deer-live-in-separation-at-hill-palace/articleshow/74956053.cms||T C Sreemol
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Corpn begins door-to-door screening||Trichy: Trichy Corporation launched door-to-door screening of houses to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms in all the four zones on Thursday. The civic body plans to cover around 5,000 houses in each of the zones daily. Corporation officials said that 50-100 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) have been appointed in each of the zones - Ponmalai, Srirangam, K Abishekpauram and Ariyamangalam. They will primarily inspect households with people having travel history and those who are under home quarantine. They would also screen people living within a 5-km radius of these houses. “Not just the wards with home quarantined people and foreign returnees, but all the 65 wards in the city will gradually be covered in the door-to-door inspection. Each DBCs will cover at least 50 houses between 8am and 2pm daily,” a corporation official said. The exercise is expected to go on for a week and is aimed at ensuring that all residents are screened for Covid-19. Around 3-4 wards each in K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai were covered on Thursday. The workers were provided with a route map and survey sheets to record the details of the residents screened. “If the residents display multiple symptoms of Covid-19 such as high fever, coughing, sneezing and cold, they will be insisted on undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital,” a health official added. People having minor symptoms such as sore throat will be advised to visit the nearest urban primary health centre. The civic body said that they are also looking for volunteers to carry out city-wide survey to screen maximum number of people as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-begins-door-to-door-screening/articleshow/74957128.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drones to alert Ahmedabad cops with beeps||AHMEDABAD: In a bid to enforce the lockdown, the city police has procured 15 drones which will start sending beeps to responders they are coupled with, if they detect social distancing norms being violated on the ground below. This will make it easier for cops to home in on the area and book the violators. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar said, “We experimented with the drones on Thursday noon and they worked efficiently. We flew them over Shahibaug and densely populated areas like Kalupur and Bapunagar and every time the drones caught men violating the standard social distancing of 1.5 metres the responder on the ground emitted a “beep” sound.” Top sources of city police said the drones will be used for surveillance in densely populated areas to prevent people from gathering in large numbers. “The drones will be put into action from Friday,” a senior police official added. Tomar said in a second experiment they held meetings with local leaders of sensitive areas and asked them to make WhatsApp groups in their own areas and instruct the people to stay indoors and stay safe. “We have a public address system which can be used on roads but the vehicle cannot venture into small lanes so we told the local leaders to handle the situation by creating WhatsApp groups,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drones-to-alert-cops-with-beeps/articleshow/74957734.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beaten for complaint over network||AHMEDABAD: While people have a small measure of relief in the internet during the lockdown, a 35-year-old Asarwa man, Satnamsingh Saluja, was beaten up by three employees of a private internet provider on Wednesday, when he complained of his network being disconnected. All three have been arrested. According to the FIR, Saluja owns a mobile shop in Meghaninagar and had bought an internet connection in January. After two and half months, the connection stopped working. He called the local agency owner, Vishal Patni, to repair it but got no response. The FIR states that during the lockdown, when Saluja was home, Patni came there with his aides Anil Patni and Umang Vaghela, and asked him about the internet connection. “When Saluja told them the internet connection was not working for a fortnight, the three started abusing him and then assaulted him.” said inspector D J Chudasama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-for-complaint-over-network/articleshow/74957242.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Modify master plan to allot land to poor: Andhra Pradesh government to CRDA||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has asked the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) to modify the capital city master plan to allot land to the poor as part of the house-for-all scheme. The government has issued GO 131 for this purpose. The government said it would move the Supreme Court with a Special Leave Petition (SLP) on the findings of the high court limiting the scope and purport of the term ‘housing’ and the terms ‘economically weaker sections’ and ‘poor’. Earlier the high court suspended the GO 107 issued by the state government after hearing a batch of petitions challenging the GO through an interim order observing that prima facie the GO 107 was in conflict of the provisions of the CRDA Act. The high court observed that the GO 367 and GO 488 issued by the revenue department notifying guidelines for housing-for-all scheme was also prima facie in conflict with the Act. In pursuance of the high court order, the state government has on March 31 issued GO 99 making partial modifications to the GO 367 and GO 488. After modifying the guidelines, the state government issued fresh directions to the CRDA under section 16 of the CRDA Act, to take up the process of allotment of land within capital city area, as requested by the collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts. The state government stated that CRDA shall comply with the directions of the high court following the procedure under section 127, 128 and 130 of AP CRDA Act construing the revenue department as the applicant for the purpose of regulations of 6.5.1 of Amaravati Land Allotment Regulations. The state government further directed the CRDA to exercise its power under rule 9.4 of Amaravati Land Allotment Rules to relax the operation of any rules as deemed necessary, limited to the special case of the scheme of housing for all to achieve the objectives of the Act and due changes to the master plan as may be necessary be undertaken by CRDA as per laid down procedures within the Act. While issuing the directions to the CRDA, the state government stated in the GO that all preparatory steps in this regard shall await and abide by the directions of the Supreme Court in the SLP to be filed by the state government and further directions as may be issued by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/modify-master-plan-to-allot-land-to-poor-govt-to-crda/articleshow/74956060.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Corporation’s door-delivery helpline comes a cropper||Trichy: Five days after Trichy City Corporation came out with helplines for residents to order groceries and get it home delivered, local people complained that a majority of the helpline numbers were not answering to their calls. Expressing disappointment over the helplines that fail to help them during the lockdown, residents sought for ward-wise helplines to contact shops to purchase groceries.The corporation announced a dozen helpline numbers on March 27 to deliver groceries at doorsteps. It is learnt that the grocery shops whose contact numbers were publicised by the corporation through newspapers were flooded with 100-125 calls each day. Most of the outlets seem to have gone out of stocks and the remaining could not supply groceries even on the following days due to the piled-up orders. “Some of the mobile numbers provided were switched off. Senior citizens residing alone heavily relied on door delivery,” R Gayathri, a resident of Karumandapam, said.As TOI attempted to contact the helpline numbers provided by the urban local body, many shops that assured pan-city door delivery did not answer the calls.Since the civic body did not allot shops in particular zones or wards, it is learnt that people had to ordering groceries from shops locater very far. “Ward-wise contact numbers and shops, if provided, would have helped people to call the shops near to them. That would have eased the burden off the traders,” D Manoj, a resident of Cantonment, said. Corporation officials, when contacted, said that they do not have any plans to provide additional helplines for availing door delivery of groceries. “During such an adverse situation, I appeal to the people to make use of the commodities available,” Trichy City Corporation Commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corporations-door-delivery-helpline-comes-a-cropper/articleshow/74957120.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC hires data scientists||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is now hiring data scientists to run regression analysis of morbidity and mortality Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad. The data scientists will draw a correlation between a Covid-19 positive patients including their age gender co-morbidity conditions like diabetic, whether they smoke, suffer from hypertension and minute aspects including the type of dwelling, geographical location. It will also dwell into the health condition of people living in a cluster. “The data is based on a detailed interview that we have been carrying out with each Covid-19 patient, from which 500 data points have been generated,” says municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra. He adds, “The regression analysis will give us a predictive analysis that will helps us investigate links between morbidity and mortality in Covid-19. This technique is used for forecasting and time series modelling.” Nehra said that more than two dozen data analysts have agreed to work. The AMC has now constituted more than 500 survey teams to fan out into dense clusters of the city to conduct health surveys — mainly looking into basic symptoms of cold and fever. This was after four Covid-19 patients — three of a family from Bapunagar and one from Chandkheda —were detected in the door-to-door survey of the AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-hires-data-scientists/articleshow/74957733.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||Waste piles up along Salcete’s coastine||Colva: Garbage continues to accumulate along Salcete’s coast, from Colva to Benaulim, as waste collection vehicles are yet to be granted passes to pick up trash from the area. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said while the designated beach-cleaning agency, Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation, has been keeping the shores clean, the district administration was yet to issue permits to vehicles to lift the waste. He said the issue would be sorted out soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waste-piles-up-along-salcetes-coastine/articleshow/74957697.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Nursing student recalls scary trip from Vizag||Kolkata: Final-year nursing student Satarupa Das from Krishnagore finally managed to make it to her native town after being stuck for more than nine days in Visakhapatnam and then in Odisha due to the lockdown. She arrived home with the help of former India football captain Kalyan Choubey on March 31. Das described how scared she was on March 20 when her institute, Seven Hills College of Nursing, in Vishakapatnam suddenly announced that it would be closed and the hostels, too, shut till further notice. “There was no reservation available next day in any train to Kolkata and ‘janata curfew’ was observed on March 22. So I decided to go along with my friend to her home in Odisha on March 21. I felt it was a safer option than putting up at a hotel or guesthouse in Visakhapatnam. My plan was to come to Kolkata after the ‘janata curfew’ was over. But then the lockdown was announced from March 25,” she said. According to Das, her father then got in touch with Choubey, a family friend. “Choubeybabu arranged a pass for me to come up to Datan on the Bengal-Odisha border. My friend’s father dropped me off in their car at Datan where my father was waiting. It was a very scary time for me. At one point, I was nearly reduced to tears.,” she added. “We were very worried about her. I could breathe easy only when I saw her at Datan,” her father Santosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nursing-student-recalls-scary-trip-from-vizag/articleshow/74957142.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Card holders keep distance on chairs while waiting for dole on day one||Trichy: People queued up in front of ration shops to collect the dole, which includes Rs 1,000 cash, announced by the state government in Trichy and other central districts on Thursday. Officials, who want the cardholders to maintain social distance, provided them chairs to sit while waiting in front of a ration shop in Pudukottai.Meanwhile, food minister R Kamaraj has appealed to people not to turn up at the shops to get tokens, as all the beneficiaries would get the tokens at their doorsteps. While speaking to the reporters in Tiruvarur on Thursday, the minister appealed to people to maintain social distance to combat Covid-19.The process of distribution of cash as well as essentials to 7.85 lakh people through 1,224 ration shops commenced in Trichy, where people maintained social distance, officials said.“We had clearly mentioned the token number as well as the exact time for the cardholders to arrive at the shop. So, people came to the shops leisurely without hurry. This could help them maintain social distance properly”, joint registrar of cooperative department, Trichy, K P Arularasu said.However, at some of the shops people did not follow the norms. However, everything set right by the cooperative staff during the first day, officials said.In Thanjavur, almost all the ration shops have proper markings, so that the beneficiaries could maintain social distance while receiving the dole. A total of 6.53 lakh card holders would get the benefit through 1,185 shops in the district.Co-operative department staff delivered the dole pack at the doorsteps of those who have been home quarantined at Mathappa Street in Kumbakonam.At Thirukokarnam in Pudukottai district, cardholders were provided with 50 chairs in front of a ration shop keeping one-metre distance. The beneficiaries, particularly senior citizens, welcomed the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/card-holders-keep-distance-on-chairs-while-waiting-for-dole-on-day-one/articleshow/74957132.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Chennai||If it’s a disaster, you can count on the ‘famous five’||Chennai: Thick as thieves since their school days, they are now inseparable in helping the authorities whenever a disaster befalls the city or state. Whether it is a calamity like the unprecedented floods that devastated Chennai in December 2015, or the currently raging Covid-19 pandemic, C N Paul Pradeep, Santhosh Subramaniam S, Fazil A, Lakshman R and Mathivanan M have always been among the first to plunge headlong into helping officials tackle any emergency. During the ongoing lockdown, the five friends have been helping Greater Chennai Corporation officials and police organize community kitchens and distribute groceries to the thousands of guest workers stranded across the city. In the beginning, they focused on the homeless and the elderly, spending from their pockets to provide succor. Then they posted pictures of the relief work on a social networking site and when assistance poured in, Pradeep and his friends have used it to good effect. The five friends are not new to disasters, but the intensity and spread of the current pandemic has frazzled them. Five days ago, Pradeep and Fazil visited a settlement in Valasaravakkam with corporation officials and found at least 22 guest workers, who sell kulfi for a living, and their children starving. “They are from Uttar Pradesh. The owner who brought them here is helpless as he doesn’t have any business now. They don’t know what to do. We have provided rice and dal they can use for 10 days,” says Pradeep. Many of the stranded workers can’t speak Tamil or English. “We are identifying many such clusters of workers, homeless and daily wagers whose families are economically down. We are trying our best to give them dry rations.” The journey had begun at their alma mater St John’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Valasaravakkam. “We always wanted to do good for society. We are from different walks of life, but when it comes to helping fellow beings, we are together,” says Fazil. It was Pradeep who got things started. “I wanted to join the defence services. It was my dream to serve my country. It didn’t work out. But I will serve my country like the way what I am doing now. I am proud of my country,” he says.  While visiting areas where workers are trapped do they take precautions? “Yes, we have protective gear as we know we can’t take chances,” says Fazil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/if-its-a-disaster-you-can-count-on-the-famous-five/articleshow/74957703.cms||M T Saju
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Power utilities seek nod on reposting staff||VIJAYAWADA: Power utilities in the state requested Justice Dharmadhikari committee to give appropriate directions regarding reposting and payment of salaries for exchanged employees. Various power utilities in Telangana have not come forward to admit 584 employees relived from Andhra Pradesh in pursuance of the final orders issued by the committee. In a letter seeking the intervention of the committee, AP Transco JMD KVN Chakradhar Babu said the AP power utilities were required to admit the 655 employees relieved from Telangana utilities as per the final report dated and similarly the Telangana power utilities were required to admit corresponding 655 employees (584 + 71 special cases like persons with disabilities, personal medical hardship, spouse cases etc) relieved from the AP utilities. The APSEB Engineers’ Association said that the Telangana power utilities have been discriminating against employees from the 13 districts of the residual state of Andhra Pradesh while continuing people from other states like Odisha, Karnataka and Maharashtra. APSEB Engineers’ Association said the AP power utilities, in obedience with the latest orders of the committee and in order to amicably settle the issues of employees’ allocation were willing to admit these 655 employees relieved by the Telangana utilities. Similarly, the Telangana utilities should have accepted the same number of employees who were relieved by the AP power utilities on March 14, 2020 as per the revised directions of the committee, bringing a logical conclusion to the dispute. However, the managements of Telangana power utilities have now opted to act contrary to the directions of the committee citing various untenable reasons. “The Telangana utilities waited till the end of March with an intent to disobey and circumvent the committee’s directions and now communicated that they were rejecting the allocation of 584 employees,” the association said in a statement. The association said that they have learned from reliable sources that the final allocation process has been kept in abeyance by the committee awaiting restoration of normal life disrupted by coronavirus pandemic till May. If the process of final allocation has been deferred until May 30, the payment of salaries in terms of the allocation may also have to be deferred to the same date, they have demanded. Various power utilities in Telangana have not come forward to admit 584 employees relived from Andhra Pradesh in pursuance of the final orders issued by the committe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/power-utilities-seek-nod-on-reposting-staff/articleshow/74956087.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Trichy||Truckers with loads of paddy stranded at mill for 4 days||Trichy: Without staff at the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation’s (TNCSC) Modern Rice Mill in Athavathur, around 50 truckers who arrived with loads of paddy from neighbouring districts have been left in the lurch as they are unable to unload the paddy or get proper meals for four days on Thursday.The paddy procured through direct procurement centers (DPCs) across the district is being brought to the mill from where it would be transported to various godowns. Around 40 trucks are parked in front of the mill with paddy transported from Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karur districts.“As there are no hotels and eateries near the rice mill, drivers along with cleaners have been struggling to get food,” said Sakthivel, one of the drivers who arrived from Karur. Another driver K Saravanan from Ariyalur said there was no staff to unload the bags. “I came here on Tuesday. Nobody cared for us and we are waiting here without proper food. We walked two to three kilometres to have some food. No one is there at the mill to tell us about our condition,” he added.When contacted, TNCSC senior regional manager, Trichy, G Chitrasasu told TOI, “Trucks from Karur and Ariyalur arrived at the mill without our knowledge. In order to maintain social distance, the mill is functioning with very few workers. That is the reason for this confusion. Upon knowing the situation, I took all my efforts to off-load 15 trucks. The remaining will be cleared tomorrow (Friday)”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/truckers-with-loads-of-paddy-stranded-at-mill-for-4-days/articleshow/74957136.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seven deaths in Gujarat: Four had travel history||AHMEDABAD: On Thursday, Gujarat recorded its seventh Covid-19 death – putting the state at second in India in terms of mortality. Only Maharashtra with 13 deaths has more due to the virus, according to data from the Union health ministry. Ahmedabad now has had three deaths, followed by two in Bhavnagar and one each in Surat and Vadodara. Of the seven victims, two had a history of international travel, to Saudi Arabia and Sri Lanka, two had travelled to Delhi and Jaipur and three were cases of local transmission. State health department officials said that the 52-year-old man from Vadodara had been critical with about a week on the ventilator. “It matches the overall pattern of co-morbidity in all other cases we have observed so far. Of six earlier cases, all four men had a history of diabetes. One of them was a cancer patient whereas another deceased was a heart patient,” said a senior state health department official. Both women who died had mental illnesses and one had a stroke a fortnight before her demise. Three of the deceased were older than 60. 33 Covid-19 patients had travelled abroad, eight within in India Ahmedabad: On Thursday, the state health department provided an analysis of the international and domestic travel history of Covid-19 patients in Gujarat. The analysis said 13 infected persons had a history of travel to the UAE (including Dubai and Abu Dhabi), six to Saudi Arabia, five to the UK, three to Sri Lanka, two to the US and one each to France, Spain, Pakistan and Finland. Likewise, the eight with domestic travel history included four who went to Madhya Pradesh, two to Delhi and one each to Rajasthan and Maharashtra. MP students to get internshipJayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that the state has decided to provide internships to all medical students from Gujarat who are pursuing education in other states. “We received a request from a group of students from Madhya Pradesh who were to start their medical internship from April 1 but due to the lockdown could not travel back. After a discussion with our counterparts, it was decided that the students would be able to do their internship in Gujarat which would be considered valid for their degree,” said Ravi, adding that it would be applied to other Gujarati medical students as well. “Likewise, faculty members at state medical colleges that are not functional right now, will also be roped in for Covid-19 duties,” she added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-deaths-in-state-4-had-travel-history/articleshow/74957750.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Goa||17 Jamaat meet returnees’ swabs sent for testing||Panaji: The directorate of health (DHS) services has sent swab samples of 17 persons—eight located on Wednesday—who were part of the the markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month, for testing and their reports were awaited. Police have been asked to locate if any more persons from Goa attended the event in Nizamuddin. “The 17 persons were traced in Bicholim, Ponda and Old Goa and police have been asked to check if there are more,” he said. A health officer said the DHS succeeded in tracing 111 of the 112 passengers who travelled from Mumbai to Goa on a Vistara domestic flight on March 22. “Police are trying find the last one but 111 tested negative for Covid-19,” he said. The DHS had put out an appeal after one of the passengers tested positive for the virus. Goa has five confirmed cases of Covid-19 and patients are being treated in ESI hospital in Margao. The health condition of two patients have improved and may be discharged on recovery but subject to their next tests coming negative, he said. As per protocol, a Covid-19 patient can be discharged only after evidence of chest radiographic clearance and viral clearance in respiratory samples after two specimen test negative for Covid-19 within a period of 24 hours, he said. Of the 63 samples sent for testing on Wednesday, 62 tested negative for Covid-19 while the result of one sample is awaited. As of Thursday, 94 persons are in quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/17-jamaat-meet-returnees-swabs-sent-for-testing/articleshow/74957701.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Bareilly||NER Izzatnagar division to set up 10 coaches as quarantine wards||Bareilly: Following instructions by the Railway Board, the divisional headquarters of North Eastern Railway (NER), Izzatnagar division, has started preparations to convert at least 10 coaches into quarantine wards for Covid-19 patients.Public relation officer of NER Rajendra Singh said two coaches would be placed at Izzatnagar station and two at Bareilly City station.The remaining six coaches would be kept in reserve so that these could taken to any desired place as per requirement.PRO Singh said a 10- bed isolation ward at the Railway Hospital in Izzatnagar has been set up and they are going to recruit doctors and paramedical staff to combat any untoward situation.“Interested eligible candidates can come with their testimonials in a walk-in interview on April 6. Meanwhile, our existing medical staff members have been provided all protective gear against Covid-19 virus. We are fully prepared for any emergency,” he said.Meanwhile, the chief public relation officer (CPRO) of NER, Pankaj Kumar Singh, said in order to curb Covid-19 infection from spreading. railways has been taking every possible step.Now the NER has started converting coaches into quarantine wards at the Gorakhpur railway workshop.“We have turned five coaches into isolation wards and the soon, we will convert more coaches into isolation wards. If need be, we are ready to convert eight to 10 coaches into isolation wards in a day. As of now, we have given a target of 97 coaches to be converted into isolation wards to the Gorakhpur workshop,” the CPRO said.Railway officials said that they are also converting their hospital into a Covid-19 health centre.Till now, arrangements for 200 beds have been made at Gorakhpur Railway Hospital.Singh also warned tmigrants heading home from walking on railway tracks. “We have stopped operation of passengers trains only while freight trains are still running and walking on the tracks can cause fatal accidents. Moreover, walking on the tracks is also illegal,” he said....||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ner-izzatnagar-division-to-set-up-10-coaches-as-quarantine-wards/articleshow/74957129.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Stress, isolation take toll on mental well-being||HYDERABAD: Anxiety, fear, anger, stress and agitation coupled with lack of proper information are affecting the mental health of people with suspected Covid-19 symptoms kept in hospital quarantine or home isolation, if selfie videos and audio messages of those under quarantine are any indication. Video and audio messages released by some of those in hospital quarantine or home isolation reveal that they do not actually know why they have been kept away from others. Lack of counselling by health experts and psychologists is making things worse for them. Some of them also question why they are being singled out and tested for Covid-19 while thousands of other ‘suspects’ are simply put in quarantine. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have kept about 50,000 people under quarantine or isolation, but hardly 3,000 of them had undergone tests for the coronavirus. A youth picked up from a village in Krishna district was shifted to a quarantine centre without being informed as to why he was being isolated. He released a video message — now viral on social media — stating that two officials had visited his house and forcibly brought him to the quarantine centre. “Ironically, the two officials too do not know the reason why I was kept in isolation. I did not visit any foreign country. I did not visit Delhi meet. I did not come in contact with any of the suspects,” he said, wondering why he was being ‘hounded.’ A middle-aged man, who attended the Delhi Markaz meeting, released a video message arguing that though 180 people had travelled by the same flight he had taken from Delhi to Vijayawada on March 17, only he and a few others were kept in quarantine. Another video message by an extended family member says that though none of them had shown any symptoms, they are kept in home isolation. According to WHO, many of the people kept in isolation or forced to stay at homes due to lockdown are undergoing stress. “The crisis is generating stress throughout the population. It is important to reduce stigma surrounding infected persons. Older adults, especially in isolation and those with cognitive decline/dementia, may become more anxious, angry, stressed, agitated and withdrawn, while in quarantine,” it said. Social activist V Srinivas Rao said people in quarantine should be told the reasons for their isolation and how it is beneficial for them and their family members. “Health care personnel and expert psychologists should extend practical and emotional support to such people,” he said. Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation, an NGO, told TOI that panic, anxiety, fear and stigma seem to be taking a toll on many people on account of coronavirus. He said a young woman, who had come to Hyderabad to look after her sick father during lockdown, was asked to remain in isolation. “The landlady is insisting that they self-quarantine without any valid reason and just out of fear and panic,” Mujtaba said. He said those who are under quarantine are facing hostility from their own family, relatives and landlords.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stress-isolation-take-toll-on-mental-well-being/articleshow/74957130.cms||Syed Akbar
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi spooked by bird flu fears amid Covid scare||Ranchi: While the Jharkhand government machinery grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic, bird flu may have affected several villages adjoining the state zoo on the outskirts of Ranchi. The district animal husbandry department has put several villages on Ormanjhi block, some 20km from Ranchi, under its lens after 10 birds died of bird flu in the neighbouring Birsa Biological Park in the last week of February. On February 23, two garuds (a rare species of bird), three owls and two white ibis were found dead in the park’s aviary section. Two days later, two more owls and one ‘garud’ died. All of them showed symptoms of avian influenza. The samples were sent to Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases for tests and on March 16, all samples tested positive for avian influenza. Following the test reports, a quick response team of the department went into an overdrive and its doctors and experts fanned out in 10 villages around the 259-acre zoo to collect samples from poultry and other avian species. The sample collection exercise was held between March 17 and 19. While the first batches of samples were sent to Bhopal for tests, others were held back as transportation came to a complete halt in Jharkhand since March 22 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. However, no further avian deaths have been reported from the zoo or the adjoining hamlets, so far. Ajay Kumar, the zoo vet, said, “Following the deaths, the zoo aviary was emptied and sanitized. So far, no fresh case has been reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-spooked-by-bird-flu-fears-amid-covid-scare/articleshow/74956816.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||CBSE schools in Jharkhand start promoting students without examinations||Ranchi: Following CBSE directives to promote students of Classes I to IX and XI without holding examinations in view of the nationwide lockdown, many schools have begun the process. Ranchi’s Jawahar Vidya Mandir on Wednesday issued a notification stating students of Classes I to VIII have been promoted while the results of Class IX students will be published on April 6. The notification added, students of Class XI will be promoted, but their assessment will be done within 15 days after the school reopens. JVM principal Samarjit Jana said, “We have promoted all the students while results will be published as per the notified dates.” Delhi Public School and DAV Kapildev in Ranchi said they had already published the results, but will comply with CBSE’s directives. A similar line will be followed at Sant Nandlal Vidya Mandir in Ghatshila, informed the school’s principal Sanjay Mallick. On the other hand, some private schools are yet to decide on the state government’s advisory or appeal of waiving off fees during the lockdown period. Principal of DPS, Ram Singh, reiterated that the management will discuss after the school reopens while Mallick added, “We will certainly take a humanitarian decision.” Principal of Vidya Vikas Public School in Morabadi, Manisha Verma, appealed to the government to announce aids. She said, “We have a low budget and often face financial crisis. If we give concessions to the students, we may not be able to pay our teachers. Hence, the government should come up with a plan that can help smaller schools like us and students.” Meanwhile, president of All School Parents Association (ASPA), Ajay Ray alleged that some schools have started asking students for submission of fee through SMS alerts. He said, “In spite of the state education minister’s appeal, several schools have started asking for fees. We demand government’s intervention and an audit whether schools can afford concessions or not.” ASPA added that they will take legal steps if the government fails to implement the concession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cbse-schools-in-jharkhand-start-promoting-students-without-examinations/articleshow/74956995.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Malaysian Covid-19 patient develops symptoms but stable, say Rims doctors||RANCHI: The 22-year-old Malaysian woman, who became Jharkhand’s first Covid-19 patient after she tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tueday, is in stable condition despite developing a few symptoms of the viral infection on Wednesday night, a team of doctors treating her at the trauma centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here said on Thursday. The woman was asymptomatic when she was tested at a Khelgaon-based quarantine centre. Talking to TOI, Dr Devesh, a professor at the preventive and social medicine department at Rims, said, “On Wednesday night, she developed gastrointestinal disturbances and diarrhoea. However, she is responding well to the line of treatment and her condition in stable.” Devesh, who is coordinating with other doctors of the novel coronavirus task force at Rims, added, “She also developed mild sneezing, but is not facing any breathing difficulties. The patient has a history of sinusitis. I have spoken to her doctor in Malaysia to get her medical history. Hopefully, she will recover soon.” The patient’s husband and their four-year-old son, who accompanied her on the religious tour of Tablighi Jamaat, have been shifted to to the isolation centre of Rims as a precautionary measure. They will be re-tested for the infection within the next four to five days, officials said. Dr Manoj Kumar, head of microbiology department at Rims, said no timeline can be given for a Covid-19 patient to develop symptoms. An infected person or those who come in contact with them can develop symptoms anytime during the 14-day quarantine period, he said. “To ascertain if anyone among those quarantined with the Malaysian woman is infected, we will make all of them, including her husband and child, undergo re-tests,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/malaysian-covid-patient-develops-symptoms-but-stable-say-rims-doctors/articleshow/74957030.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC judges to donate Rs 25k each to PM relief fund||Ranchi: Taking a cue from their counterparts in the Supreme Court, all 18 judges of the Jharkhand high court have decided to donate Rs 25,000 each to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund) to fight the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. The court’s registrar general, Ambuj Nath, on Thursday said, “All HC judges will donate Rs 25,000 to the PM’s Relief Fund. The court has also advised district judges to donate three days’ salary and for non-gazette officials and grade four staff, it has been advised to donate two and one day’s salary respectively. However, all contributions will be voluntary.” After the notification, judicial officers of Ranchi civil court donated three days’ salary to the fund. Meanwhile, District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) provided 30 para-legal volunteers to the Ranchi administration for door-to-door survey in Hindpiri area, where the state’s first Covid-19 patient emerged on Tuesday. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “At present, 15 of our volunteers are working on the field and the rest are at the administration’s disposal.” DLSA is also operating a ‘Sewa Rath’ in Ranchi to provide food packets to the people who are needy or stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-judges-to-donate-rs-25k-each-to-pm-relief-fund/articleshow/74956884.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Tests must for all Hindpiri residents: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday appealed to the residents of Hindpiri to cooperate with the administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases in the state and stressed that every resident living in the heavily-congested area in the heart of the city will have to undergo a test. On Thursday, the district administration doubled its efforts in Hindpri by fanning out several teams for contact tracing and door-to-door sampling, but was faced with stiff resistance by the locals. Speaking to the media outside his office at Project Building after a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hemant said, “Everyone has to understand that the fight against novel coronavirus needs collective efforts. After one positive case from Hindpiri, all the residents of the area will have to undergo tests. I urge all of them to help the administration to prevent the spread and not panic, but testing is mandatory and everyone has to follow.” Hemant added that in order to allay fears, the government is now considering to hold community/lane-level health camps so that people in the locality can come and get themselves tested. He said, “As an alternative to door-to-door sampling, we are working on this plan so that our health experts and workers don’t have to knock every house. I hope to get cooperation from the people of the area.” Reiterating the importance of the lockdown, Hemant said he held a meeting with senior officials to brainstorm on more stringent ways to enforce it. “We have to stay at home if we want to stop coronavirus from spreading. Now that we have our first positive case, we have to be more cautious,” the CM added. About the meeting with Modi, Hemant said though he didn’t get a chance to speak to him directly unlike a few CMs, there was a consensus among all for a collective fight against novel coronavirus. Hemant said, “The major part of the deliberation revolved around providing more facilities to health staff and workers who are in the frontline. In Jharkhand too, there is scarcity of medical equipment and allied facilities. The PM has assured that the Union government is working at various levels to address the problem. There were a few talks on the economy and the expenses incurred by states to fight the virus. The Centre assured total support from its side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tests-must-for-all-hindpiri-residents-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren/articleshow/74956848.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi neighbourhoods go into shell after 1 tests positive for Covid-19||Ranchi: After one person tested positive for covid-19 in Ranchi on Tuesday, several localities and housing societies in the capital began putting up barricades or closing entry and exit gates from Wednesday. On Tuesday, a 22-year-old Malaysian girl, who was living in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality, became the first covid-19 victim in Jharkhand. While police upped vigil and surveillance to enforce lockdown on the streets of the capital, the district administration deputed medical and sanitation teams in Hindpiri as part of the contact-tracing programme to scan more suspects for coronavirus. Many societies, on the other hand, resorted to additional preventive measures like banning entry of visitors, taking a cue from similar steps adopted by many villages on the outskirts of Ranchi and in other parts of the state. Virendra Singh, a resident of New Shukla Colony in Doranda, said that soon after the news flashed about the coronavirus positive case in the capital, the residents held a meeting and decided to ban entry of any outsider. He said, “We have sealed all three sides of the lanes leading to our colony with bamboos and wires and put up a banner announcing shutdown. Even, we have asked all residents to not venture out unnecessarily.” What about exigencies? Singh said, “Those are exceptions that even the government acknowledges. But going out daily for veggies can’t be treated as an exigency. Society management teams are keeping a tab on unwanted movements.” Md Zahid, a resident of Darji Mohalla, a minority-dominated neighbourhood in Doranda, said that all three streets in their locality are closed for inbound and outbound movement from Wednesday. He said, “Even the local mosque, too, has made an announcement asking residents to perform namaz only from their houses. While the administration is doing its best, residents, too, should cooperate to fight the crisis.” In Kokar, all roads near Durga Mandir and Chuna Bhatti are being sealed by residents to prevent any sort of trespassing. Similarly, in Morhabadi’s Kusum Vihar, several apartments have closed their gates barring entry for all outsiders. An official of Kaveri enclave apartment in Kusum Vihar said on the condition of anonymity, “The society management has informed everyone to alert local police if any resident tries to unnecessarily venture out or allows any guest to enter the compound.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-neighbourhoods-go-into-shell-after-1-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74938304.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||1,300 to be shifted from crowded jails in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Following the Supreme Court’s order to decongest jails in view of coronavirus pandemic coupled with a directive from a high-powered committee of the Jharkhand high court, state prison authorities have decided to shift around 1,300 prisoners to less crowded jails. Talking to TOI on Thursday, IG (prisons) Sashi Ranjan said, “We are shifting inmates from jails in Saraikela-Kharsawan, Gumla, Giridih and Garwah districts to other places. For instance, inmates of Gumla jail are being brought to Birsa Munda central jail in Ranchi.” The high court’s high-powered committee had also recommended a host of other measures for protection of prisoners from the novel coronavirus infection. The suggestions include providing accommodation to prisoners of crowded jails in new jail buildings at Chakradharpur, Barhi and Nagar Untari in Garhwa. Speaking on the issue, Ranjan said many establishment work, including providing elaborate security needs are yet to be done before making these new buildings operational. “We are still looking into the possibilities,” he added. Another jail official maintained that they are also taking other precautions as prescribed by government and court, which includes production of inmates through video-conferencing, proper sanitization and fumigation of jails, implementation of social distancing norms and use of masks, soap and sanitizers. “We are keeping a strict vigil on prisoners to prevent any virus infection and isolation spaces have been earmarked in all prisons,” a jail official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1300-to-be-shifted-from-crowded-jails-in-jharkhand/articleshow/74956925.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 3, 2020||Business||Two-wheeler sales in March: Hero, Bajaj, TVS, Royal Enfield plunge, Honda survives scare||NEW DELHI: Leading two-wheeler manufacturers Hero MotoCorp, TVS Motor Company amd Royal Enfield witness significant drop in sales in March due to coronavirus spread and the subsequent lockdown. Amid the tanking sales, Honda two-wheelers survived the onslaught, registering a single-digit growth. Hero MotoCorp sales down 42%The country's largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp reported a 42.4 per cent decline in total sales at 3,34,647 units in March. The company had sold 5,81,279 units in the corresponding month of the previous year, Hero MotoCorp said in a statement. Total motorcycle sales stood at 3,05,883 units last month as against 5,35,943 units in March 2019, down 42.9 per cent. Total scooter sales declined 36.55 per cent to 28,764 units as compared with 45,336 units in the year-ago month, it added. In the domestic market, sales stood at 3,16,685 units last month as compared with 5,53,302 units in the same period a year ago, down 42.7 per cent. "In March 2020, the auto industry and the entire global economy has been faced with unprecedented disruption, owing to the novel coronavirus. The COVID-19 has resulted in interrupted supply chains, halted production and lock-down, leading to no retails," the company said. The two-wheeler major said it has elevated Naveen Chauhan as Head of Sales and After Sales, with immediate effect. Honda Two Wheeler sales up 5%Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India reported a 5 per cent increase in total sales at 2,61,699 units in March. The company had sold 2,49,136 units in the same month last year, HMSI said in a statement. Domestic sales during the month stood at 2,45,699 units, a 11 per cent increase from 2,22,325 units in March last year. HMSI closed 2019-20 fiscal with total sales of 50,31,297 two-wheelers, which includes domestic sales of 47,06,572 units and exports of 3,24,725 units. "Despite all efforts, 2019-20 has been a challenging year in more ways than one. COVID-19 impact derailed industry's plans and has severely impacted the automobile ecosystem – right from supply chain to dealers," HMSI Director Sales and Marketing Yadvinder Singh Guleria said. TVS Motor sales drop 55%TVS Motor Company reported a 55.5 per cent decline in total sales in March at 1,44,739 units. The company, which primarily makes two-wheelers and three-wheelers, had sold 3,25,323 units in March 2019, TVS Motor Company said in a statement. "There has been a huge impact on the company's production and sales this month because of COVID-19 lockdown across the country," it added. Total two-wheeler sales during the month stood at 1,33,988 units as against 3,10,885 units in March 2019, down 56.9 per cent. Domestic two-wheeler sales stood at 94,103 units last month as compared to 2,47,694 units in March 2019, a decline of 62 per cent, it added. Total exports declined 34.3 per cent to 50,197 units last month as compared with 76,405 units in March 2019. Bajaj Auto total sales down 38%Bajaj Auto reported 38 per cent decline in total sales to 2,42,57 units in March as against 3,93,351 in the same month last year. Total domestic sales fell 55 per cent to 1,16,541 units last month as compared to 2,59,185 units in March 2019, Bajaj Auto said in a statement. The company further said its total two-wheeler sales were down 35 per cent at 2,10,976 units as compared to 3,23,538 units in the year-ago month. Domestic two-wheeler sales were at 98,412 units last month as against 2,20,213 units in March 2019, a decline of 55 per cent, it added. For the 2019-20, the two-wheeler maker reported 8 per cent dip in sales at 46,15,212 units as compared to 50,19,503 units in 2018-19. Royal Enfield sales down 41%Royal Enfield reported 41 per cent decline in total sales at 35,814 units in March. The company had registered total sales of 60,831 units in the same month a year ago, Royal Enfield said in a statement. Domestic sales in March were at 32,630 units as against 58,434 units in the year-ago month, down 44 per cent, it added. Exports last month were at 3,184 units as compared to 2,357 units in March 2019, an increase of 33 per cent, it said. Suzuki Motorcycle clocks 40,636 units salesThe company registered total sales of 40,636 units until March 22, 2020, that was followed by a production halt due to the lockdown imposed to prevent spread of coronavirus outbreak, SMIPL said in a statement. Sales in domestic market stood at 33,930 units in March 2020, it added. “We are pleased to close this financial year on a positive note with 5.7 per cent growth amid the precautionary measures taken in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic," SMIPL Managing Director Koichiro Hirao said. At present, he further said,"our first and foremost priority is to ensure the health and safety of the employees and all stakeholders. As the industry fights the COVID-19 pandemic by implementing shutdowns and taking precautionary measures, we believe that industry will overcome this difficult time and bounce back with positive growth in the coming months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/two-wheeler-sales-in-march-hero-bajaj-tvs-royal-enfield-plunge-honda-survives-scare/articleshow/74956030.cms||Anirban Mitra
April 3, 2020||Surat||SMC to make Covid-19 positive patients’ names public||SURAT: Amid the rise in local transmission of coronavirus in the city, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to make names of Covid-19 positive patients public. “The decision was taken so that people who came into contact with them can know about it and ensure that they also self quarantine or take necessary precautions,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. This decision was taken after two case of location transmission were reported from the city, one from Rander and one from Pandesara where an executive of a supermarket chain tested positive on Wednesday Moreover, SMC has called upon its retired staff members to join the civic body in the fight against the global pandemic. "Total seven staff members were scheduled to retire on March 31, but they are engaged in COVID-19 activity and therefore given extension. We have also asked 184 SMC's retired staff members to help civic body in its fight against the virus by helping it in various ways,'' Pani said. Meanwhile SMC is hopeful that other six patients who are in isolation ward of NCH would also be discharged soon. “Two COVID-19 positive people successfully battling out the virus is extremely encouraging news for us. At present, six positive patients are who are in isolation ward are also stable and we are hopeful of their recovery soon,'' said Pani. None of these six are either on ventilator support of oxygen. Also, three new suspected patients were admitted in the NCH and the SMIMER on Thursday. None of them a travel history and they are from Pandesara, Katargam and Godadara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-make-ve-patients-names-public/articleshow/74954775.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi-Rajdhani passengers put on alert, crew quarantined at home||RANCHI: The Ranchi railway division has home quarantined the crew that operated the Ranchi Rajdhani Express that departed from New Delhi on March 16 and reached the state capital the next day. A Malaysian woman, who travelled on the train, tested positive of Covid-19 in Ranchi on Tuesday, becoming the first coronavirus case in Jharkhand. The Rajdhani crew, including on-board caterers, attendants, technicians and train ticket examiners, are being monitored by doctors of Ranchi divisional hospital in Hatia. So, far, no one have developed any symptoms of the novel coronavirus, railway officials said on Thursday. "Most of the crew members are from Ranchi while a few are from Kanpur. All of them have been home quarantined. Teams of doctors are keeping a watch on their health," chief public relations officer Niraj Kumar told TOI. The Malaysian woman, who was in Ranchi as a member of Tablighi Jamaat with 16 other foreigners and five guides from Jharkhand and other states, had travelled from New Delhi in the B1 AC 3-tier coach. After she tested positive, the Ranchi district administration asked the railways for the list of passengers' on the coach. The division handed over a list of 60 passengers. Of them, two were identified and quarantined in Ramgarh on Wednesday. "We are still tracing the others," Ranchi sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra said. The division on Thursday also sent out messages to 75 passengers of the adjoining B2 coach to be alert and visit nearby hospitals in case they show symptoms of coronavirus. “There is a possibility that they have been infected. We cannot take any chances," a senior divisional officer said. Meanwhile, in a statement issued on Thursday, South Eastern Railways said all its divisions have begun manufacturing masks and hand sanitizers for its frontline staff. "The employees engaged in freight movement are in urgent need of protective material. So far, over 15,000 masks and 2,500 litres of sanitizers have been produced," the statement read. The Ranchi division, which operationalized a sanitizer plant on its yard premise in Hatia, said it has produced and distributed 600 liters of sanitizers for distribution among its staff. Women constables of RPF, who know how to stitch, have been roped in to produce masks, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-rajdhani-passengers-put-on-alert-crew-quarantined-at-home/articleshow/74957099.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Highway garages, dhabas in Hazaribag to open for truckers||HAZARIBAG: The district administration has decided to open roadside dhabas and garages along National Highways 2 and 33 falling in its jurisdiction, despite the nationwide lockdown, to facilitate smooth movement of heavy vehicles carrying essentials to the Hazaribag region. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said the decision was taken after they came across problems faced by long-distance truck drivers ferrying essential commodities. He said, “Many essential items like food, medicine and other commodities are being transported to Hazaribag from northern parts of the country. Drivers of a few trucks which arrived recently talked about the problems they faced on the way. Apart from facing hunger and thirst, the drivers had to face problems when their vehicles broke down as there were no functional garages. Hence, we decided to allow opening of eateries and garages on the highways in our jurisdiction.” He, however, said the administration, through respective police stations, will keep a tight vigil to prevent leisure trips to the dhabas. On ensuring safety and maintaining hygiene in the eateries, Singh said, “I have directed respective block development officers and in-charge of police stations to oversee that the highway dhabas are properly sanitised and follow government advisories related to social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/highway-garages-dhabas-in-hazaribag-to-open-for-truckers/articleshow/74957125.cms||Abhijit Sen
April 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||Deepotsav on Ramnavami to thank Covid-19 warriors||JAMSHEDPUR: This year’s Ram Navami, which was celebrated sans pomp on Thursday in the Steel City due to the nationwide lockdown, turned into a festival of lights to show solidarity with the corona warriors. In the wake of the district administrations not giving permission to the akharas and temples to organise the Ram Janmotsav programme in a grand way, the temple committees and akhara samities only illuminated their premises with diyas in large numbers as a thanksgiving gesture for the doctors, paramedics and others who are fighting to defeat the pandemic. “As requested by the Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti, the temple committees and akhara samities agreed to organise a ‘Deepotsav’ to make Ram Navami memorable this time,” said Ram Babu Singh, a functionary of Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti, which is the umbrella outfit of puja committees. Several families, too, lit earthen lamps at their doors. “This year, Ram Navami lacked festive enthusiasm due to the lockdown but by way of lighting diyas we have made the event different and memorable,” said 51-year-old K N Mishra, a teacher in a private school and resident of Kadma. The akhara samities claimed that it is for the first time in 100 years that the Ram Navami procession is not being taken out. “Since the mid-1920s, the procession marked the culmination of Ram Navami festival in the city,” said Hindu Utsav Samiti functionary Arun Singh. Police, on the other hand, kept strict vigil across the city to ensure that the orders of the administration are observed by the puja committees. However, many devotees had turned up at the markets during the morning rush hour on Thursday to purchase puja materials. “This year, I bought a small-sized saffron flag bearing the image of Lord Hanuman at Rs 150,” said an entrepreneur, Rajesh Singh, suggesting that the lockdown led to a jump in the price of puja items. In Hazaribag, too, even though there was no procession for the first time in about a century, the entire city was decked up with saffron flags. President of Ramnavami Maha Samittee Rajesh Yadav said, “It’s true lakhs of Ram bhakts stayed indoors this time but we allowed the akharas to deck up town areas to celebrate the day.” (With inputs from Ashiwani Kumar in Ranchi and Abhijit Sen in Hazaribag)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/deepotsav-on-ramnavami-to-thank-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/74957073.cms||B Sridhar
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||10 Jamaat members trying to enter Bengal via Damodar caught||Sindri: Sindri police on Thursday detained ten members of Tablighi Jamaat while they were trying to enter West Bengal’s Purulia district by crossing the Damodar river. They were sent to an isolation centre for 14 days after tests were at Dhanbad’s Patliputra Medical College and Hospital. Both Jharkhand and Bengal have sealed their state borders in view of lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Sindri OC Raj Kapoor said, “All the 10 are residents of Palaunja village in Purulia and were living in various mosques at Govindpur locality in Dhanbad for the last month.” Between March 21 and April 1, all of them were living at Sahraj mosque in Govindpur and could have come in contact with a few Tablighi preachers who returned from Delhi, Kapoor said, adding, “They are believed to have attended several Jamaat preaching sessions and were brought to Govindpur by Alam and Sabir Ansari of Purulia’s Kukurtanga village.” “They were brought to Sindri on bikes arranged by Alam and Sabir and were in touch with Khurshid Ansari from West Bengal, who was sending boats for their return from the other side of the Damodar. These 10 were spotted by villagers when they were standing on the river bank for a long time. After we received information, a team was rushed to the spot and they were taken into custody.” Meanwhile, the Dhanbad district administration heaved a sigh of relief after all 22 swab samples sent to Rims in Ranchi tested negative. This samples included that of 10 Indonesian nationals and two preachers from Maharashtra who were residing at the Asanbani mosque in Govindpur. DC Amit Kumar said, “Despite testing negative, they will continue to be in the isolation centre till the lockdown period ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-jamaat-members-trying-to-enter-bengal-via-damodar-caught/articleshow/74956951.cms||Anil Ashutosh
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||JBVNL proposes steep power tariff hike for most sectors||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd. (JBVNL), the state-owned power-distribution company, has proposed a steep hike in power tariffs for the new 2020-21 fiscal. The JBVNL tariff proposal is currently being examined by the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC). Once vetted, the commission would begin a series of public consultations, before determining the tariff. According to a notification put up by JBVNL on its official website on Wednesday, the discom has proposed a hike in tariff from the present Rs 6.25 per unit to Rs 7.5 per unit for urban domestic consumers. The monthly fixed charge, which is currently Rs 75, has been proposed to be doubled to Rs 150. At current tariff, a consumer is paying Rs 700 for using 100 units of power, including Rs 75 as fixed charges. If the JBVNL proposal of a hike in tariff is accepted, consumers would need to shell out Rs 900 per month, a quantum jump of Rs 200 per month in energy bills. For rural domestic consumers, energy tariff has been proposed to be hiked from the present Rs 5.75 per unit to Rs 7 per unit. The fixed monthly charge has also been proposed to be hiked from the current Rs 20 to Rs 75. Rural consumers, using 100 units a month, would see a jump in their monthly energy bills from Rs 595 to Rs 775, an increase of Rs 180 per month. For commercial establishments in urban areas, using less than 5 KW a month, the tariff has been proposed to be hiked from the present Rs 6 per unit to Rs 7.5 per unit, while the monthly fixed charge might increase to Rs 150 per month from Rs 40 a month. Urban commercial establishments using more than 5 KW per month have been proposed to be charged at Rs 7.5 per unit, compared to the present Rs 6.25 per unit along with a hike in the monthly fixed charge from the present Rs 150 per connection to Rs 300 per KW per month. Commercial establishments located in rural areas might see a jump in tariff from Rs 6 to Rs 7 per unit, with a hike in the fixed charge from Rs 40 to Rs 75 a month. A pleasant surprise awaits industries using high tension power supply, as their tariff has been proposed to be reduced from the present Rs 5.5 per KVA (kilo volt ampere) to Rs 5 per KVA, though their monthly fixed charge might go up from the present Rs 350 per KVA to Rs 500 per KVA. However, for industrial units using low tension supply, energy tariff has been proposed to be hiked to Rs 6.5 per KVA from the present Rs 5.75 per KVA, with a corresponding hike in the fixed charge from the current Rs 100 per KVA to Rs 300 per KVA per month. Railways and military engineering services, too, have been favoured, with a reduction in tariff from Rs 5.5 per KVA to Rs 4.25 per KVA. However, for both these two categories of consumers, the monthly fixed charge has been proposed to be hiked from Rs 350 to Rs 500 per KVA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jbvnl-proposes-steep-power-tariff-hike-for-most-sectors/articleshow/74957050.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi doctors on Covid-19 duty to get food from Hotel Taj||NEW DELHI: Doctors treating the Covid-19 patients at Guru Tegh Bahadur and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in east Delhi have been provided temporary stay at the city's Hotel Leela in Karkardooma for the next few days. The medical staff treating the Covid-19 patients at all government facilities and the patients will also get food from Hotel Taj now. Delhi government had earlier booked 100 rooms in Hotel Lalit at Barakhamba Road for the doctors working at Lok Nayak and GB Pant hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-doctors-on-covid-19-duty-to-get-food-from-hotel-taj/articleshow/74958274.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Surat||Surat: ‘I won! I defeated the coronavirus’||SURAT: “I won, corona is defeated,’ said 45-year-old Kumarpal Ramniklal Shah after he came out of isolation ward of New Civil Hospital (NCH) here on Thursday evening. Shah, city’s third Covid-19 survivor, was the first positive case of local transmission admitted at the NCH on March 21. Kumarpal, an employee of a diamond company and a resident of Nanpura, had come in contact with the first COVID-19 positive patient who died at Mahavir Hospital on March 22. His close friend, Kaushik Mehta, insisted that he should visit the NCH for a routine test subsequent to which he tested positive for the virus on March 21. “The first COVID-19 patient was my boss and I was working in his diamond firm at Mahidhapura. A day before he was admitted in the hospital, I had gone to his house to deliver a diamond parcel where I had a brief meeting with him. When the health authorities declared that he was COVID-19 positive, my friend Kaushik Mehta insisted that I should go for the test at the NCH. I went to the NCH where my test confirmed that I was COVID-19 positive.” “I feel like I am born again. I had no symptoms whatsoever, not even cough, cold or fever. The doctors had given only two medicines and a syrup. The hospital staffers were very supportive and caring,” said Kumarpal, whose wife and two children are in government quarantine facility at Samras hostel on VNSGU campus. “I have only one message to COVID-19 patients and general public. Don’t panic, stay at home and follow government guidelines. Our country will win the fight against the deadly virus,” added Kumarpal. “For the last 14 days, I have missed my two small kids — Ratnam, 12, and Padmam, 6, — besides Pooja, my wife. I am told their health is fine and they may be released from the quarantine facility on Friday,” said Kumarpal. When he arrived at his residence on Thursday evening, he received a warm welcome from his neighbours and other members of the housing society. “They had prepared food and offered hot water to drink. I am lucky to have such kind neighbours,” Kumarpal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-won-i-defeated-the-coronavirus/articleshow/74954839.cms||Melvyn Thomas
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 31,000 foreign, 1,085 Delhi returnees identified so far||VIJAYAWADA: The state officials have shifted their focus to tracing the missing foreign and Delhi returnees. Several foreign returnees, who arrived in the state after February 10, have gone missing in several districts. For example, about 58 foreign returnees are yet to be traced in the Vijayawada police commissionerate limits alone. Moreover, 30 foreign returnees from West Godavari district. This is partly attributed to the address changes and people not coming forward to report themselves. Even though the health authorities have been asking the foreign returnees to self-report and strictly self-isolate, the callous attitude of a few people has become a major concern for the state officials. According to the official statistics, about 31,000 foreign returnees have been so far identified in the state. Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Kadapa and Guntur districts account for the majority of the foreign returnees with each district having at least 2,500 foreign returnees in the last 45 days before the airlines stopped their operations. Home isolation is applicable to all foreign returnees and their contacts, or symptomatic cases.  It has been made mandatory for all incoming international passengers to self-quarantine for a minimum period of 14 days. Meanwhile, officials have also been tracing a few missing Delhi returnees and their contacts. According to official statistics, about 1,085 from Andhra Pradesh attended the Delhi religious congregation and several people are untraceable. State nodal officer A Srikanath said nearly 1,085 persons were at the Markaz, headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat. “We already collected samples from 758 Delhi returnees. We have details of all the prayer meeting participants from Andhra Pradesh. The officials in the districts have been tracking the details of others,” said Srikanath. As a majority of the cases in Andhra Pradesh have Markaz links, the officials are taking extra care to identify the missing Delhi returnees. This is mainly because it is believed that they are not only at the risk of contracting the virus, but also have the potential of spreading it among people who they come in contact with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-31k-foreign-1085-delhi-returnees-identified-so-far/articleshow/74955254.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Horticulture crops rot due to lockdown||ONGOLE: Farmers of horticulture crops such as papaya and pomegranate are badly hit due to the lockdown across the country. Fruits are drying up in nurseries in thousands of acres in Prakasam district. Moreover, big merchants, including exporters from Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra, were unable to visit the fields to purchase the stocks. They usually bring their vehicles and shift the stocks. But prices have nosedived as local traders are picking up small quantities as they are facing troubles shifting the stocks to the markets. Mandals such as Yerragondapalem, Tripuranthakam, Pullalacheruvu mandals are arid region and farmers need irrigation facility to grow cash crops. The delay in completion of Veligonda major irrigation project, designed to irrigate the upland areas, prompted a few farmers to change over to horticulture crops in the region. After seeing them succeed, a substantial number of farmers followed in their footsteps and started cultivating horticulture crops. The decision was necessarily wrong as they reaped rich dividend from the horticulture crops in the last two years. Exporters thronged the remote areas of Prakasam district. Moreover, with a considerable demand for fruits, especially in urban areas, exporters offered decent prices to farmers. However, the nationwide lockdown has changed the game. No trader has turned up in the last three weeks. “Fruits are completely ripe and falling off the trees as we cannot pick them due to shortage of workers and absence of trader,” rued a farmer Venkateswara Reddy of Yerragondapalem. Although, the Centre has relaxed restrictions on shifting of agriculture commodities, the merchants from northern states are reportedly not keen to make a trip for fear of facing police harassment at the state borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/horticulture-crops-rot-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/74955263.cms||Samdani MN
April 3, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh on right track to check spread of Covid-19, say experts||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the sudden jump in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state, experts in the health sector say that the state could succeed in containing the spread of the virus as it had already tested almost all the Delhi returnees and their primary contacts and shifted the positive cases to the hospital. Since over 30,000 foreign returnees were also under close observation in home isolation, the situation is thus far well managed, they noted. The government acted fast in identifying those who attended the Delhi congregation soon after getting reports about chances of a spurt in the cases and brought majority of the Delhi returnees to quarantine homes. In fact, it completed the testing of almost all Delhi returnees and their primary contacts within two days. Although, the trend of positive cases among the Delhi returnees looked relatively high, completion of tests will help containing the spread of the coronavirus, a senior official said. The government had launched a massive hunt to track down every suspected case of Covid-19 with a comprehensive door-to-door survey by field-level staff. The huge exercise—covering nearly 1.5 crore households, irrespective of foreign returnees and Delhi returnees—is expected to be completed by Friday. Meanwhile, the state government has already shifted nearly 1,100 people who attended the Delhi Jamaat to isolation centres and collected their samples. According to state-level Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Arja Srikanth, about 91 of the 758 Delhi returnees and 20 of their primary contacts tested positive for Covid-19. “There is nothing to panic about the rise in the positive cases as it happened chiefly due to the increased testing of samples. The positive cases might increase further in the next three to four days before stabilising,” said a senior official. He, however, said that extra caution need to be taken in the implementation of containment plans to prevent the spread of the virus to new areas. While the rate of positive cases among Delhi returnees is around 12 per cent, it is just 4 per cent among their immediate contacts. At this rate, experts believe that the chances of Delhi returnees spreading the virus to more areas are remote. Moreover, the positive cases rate among the foreign returnees is less because all of them were not tested as in the case of Delhi returnees, said an expert. There is nothing to panic about the rise in the positive cases as it happened chiefly due to the increased testing of samples. The (number of ) positive cases might increase further in the next three to four days before stabilising||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-on-right-track-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-say-experts/articleshow/74955275.cms||Samdani MN
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh gets two more sample testing labs||VIJAYAWADA: With the state witnessing a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh has got two more virus research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDLs) in Guntur and Kadapa. While the Guntur one will become operational on Friday, the Kadapa VRDL will start functioning from Saturday after a quality test. The state government had already set up four 24x7 VRDLs in Tirupati, Vijayawada, Kakinada and Anantapur with a combined testing capacity of 450 samples a day. The two new laboratories will increase the capacity to 570 samples a day. Meanwhile, the state government has placed an order for equipment required to set up one more laboratory in Visakhapatnam. Other than sending the first 10 samples for cross-checking, these special labs will give the results in about seven hours after receiving the samples. In a recent government order, the director of medical education was instructed to depute scientists, research assistants and lab technicians available in medical colleges where VRDLs are not available to these laboratories. Meanwhile, special chief secretary (medical, health and family welfare) KS Jawahar Reddy on Thursday conducted a review meeting on the personal protective equipment (PPE) being provided to medical personnel treating Covid-19 patients. He spoke to the suppliers of 90 GSM non-woven fabric, which is used for making the PPEs, and checked a few samples. He asked them to provide 2,500 PPEs on a daily basis to the four state-level Covid-19 hospitals besides supplying 1,000 PPEs to the district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-gets-2-more-sample-testing-labs/articleshow/74955286.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: No liquor! Demand for toddy on a high during lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: With the non-availability of liquor, the demand for toddy has increased bringing relief to the beleaguered toddy tappers in the state. In Akumarru village of Gudur mandal in Krishna district, villagers throng to buy toddy from the local store early in the morning almost every day since the lockdown was announced. Social distancing goes for a toss as a long queue can be seen outside the shop. Meanwhile, local villagers remain wary of the sight of several unknown persons all the way from Bandar coming to the village to taste toddy. Normally, toddy tappers climb palm trees once a day to gather their production for their daily business. Now, they claim that they have to do it three times with the rising demand. “Normally, toddy demand is during the summer season, till May. Initially during the lockdown, we barely saw any business. But, now we are seeing an increase in the crowd to buy toddy,” Kalyan Ram, a toddy tapper said. This naturally brewed liquor has been a popular beverage across Krishna, Guntur, West and East Godavari districts. While some of the toddy businesses have remained open, by and large, most of the outlets across these districts continue to remain shut due to the lockdown. Andhra Pradesh Kallugeeta Karmika Sangham (Toddy Tappers Association) have already placed a demand with the government seeking compensation for the losses caused by the pandemic. “Business has been good in the last few days as people have bought around 20 to 25 litres of toddy within hours. However, we fear that soon restrictions would be in place for this as well,” Ram added. Officials point out that toddy collection does come under the essential supplies category as it is part of agriculture which is permitted to continue. However, crowd gathering at any place without appropriate precautions does stand as a violation of National Disaster Management Act 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-liquor-demand-for-toddy-on-a-high-during-lockdown/articleshow/74955306.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Staff crunch forces eateries to shut shop||VIJAYAWADA: Though restaurants can keep their kitchens open for takeaway and food deliveries during the nationwide lockdown, most of the restaurants in Vizag, Vijayawada and a few other big cities and towns in Andhra Pradesh have stopped takeaway services due to staff crunch and restrictions from police and other departments. With the number of Covid-19 positive cases increasing in the state, restaurants owners are struggling to find workers to operate their restaurants. In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, dine-in arrangements in the restaurants across the state have been closed from March 22 to April 14 following the lockdown imposed by the Centre. The restrictions do not apply to home delivery and takeaway orders. The hotel and the restaurant industry in major cities in the state is reeling under a shortage of under-skilled and unskilled manpower. Vizag city alone has over 600 restaurants. “However, only 20 to 30 restaurants are offering takeaway and food delivery services (through various apps) while the remaining restaurants aren’t as cooks and supporting teams to the chefs have stopped showing up to work due to the coronavirus scare,” said T Satyanarayana, the president of Andhra Pradesh Hotels Association (APHA). The situation in Vijayawada is worse. Out of the 250 restaurants in the city, less than 10 restaurants are offering takeaway and food delivery services, that too only at a few locations. The Union government had issued an order that allowed restaurants to operate and offer takeaway and food delivery services, without needing any extra permission. “However, police have forced some restaurants to shut down and stop takeaway services saying that owners had to obtain permission from the police to operate. Due to this, over 95 per cent of restaurants in Vijayawada have stopped takeaway and food delivery services,” said Sanjay Kumar Mehta, secretary of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/staff-crunch-forces-eateries-to-shut-shop/articleshow/74955315.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mobile app screens patients based on cough sounds||VISAKHAPATNAM: With a paucity of Covid-19 test kits in the country, it has become a tedious task for health authorities to screen thousands of people and then prioritise candidates for PCR testing. In an effort to reduce the number of people requiring advanced testing, a mobile app called ‘kAs’—a screening and monitoring tool based on cough sounds—has been developed. The condition of individuals with respiratory symptoms or those in identified clusters who haven’t been confirmed to have tested positive can be monitored through the app. kAs multiplies the reach of screening, condition monitoring at large, especially the potentially at-risk populations. The places for monitoring include temporary hospitals, quarantine centres, temporary shelters and hospitals. The app—developed by Salcit technologies, a Hyderabad based start-up in partnership with Zensark technologies private limited, an IT firm—is in the process of pursuing various certifications and approvals under the classification of a medical device. “The technology has been granted an Indian patent— ‘A system for analysing risk associated with cough sounds’—and has undergone CTRI registered clinical trials,” said Narayana Rao, founder of Salcit. He added that they have also applied for an international patent. Speaking to TOI on how the app works, Manmohan Jain, CEO of Zensark, said, “The subjects cough into the mobile app which then sends the cough sounds to Swaasa, an artificial intelligence (AI) platform. The AI is able to do an audiometric analysis and comes up with a composite risk score combining Covid-19 symptoms and the audiometric analysis of cough sounds.” “The risk score can be tracked over time. Subjects can be asked to submit cough samples as many times a day for as many days as necessary. Based on the samples, we track the risk level including variation in dry cough count of each individual over time. Any time a subject is found to be breaching a threshold risk score, it can be automatically highlighted to the public health officials on their dashboards,” Jain said, adding that the system is a tool to manage the pandemic based on objective information. Doctors and healthcare organisations have used it as part of health camps and wellness screenings. For instance, it was used in public health screening by an NGO at Kothuru and was used for corporate respiratory wellness check at a co-working office building in Hyderabad, Jain said. “The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked us to explore how this can be used and improved. We have requested if they can provide us cough sounds of patients who tested positive for Covid-19 as that can help us improve the algorithm,” Jain added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mobile-app-screens-patients-based-on-cough-sounds/articleshow/74955324.cms||Reshma Jain
April 3, 2020||Goa||46 in Goa who attended Jamaat meet identified and quarantined||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday that his government has identified 46 people in the state who attended the markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month. All of them have have been quarantined, he said. Sawant said that none of the 46 are Goans, and that all of them will be tested in the next two days. “Their test results will decide if Goa is in safe zone or in danger zone,” he said. Sawant said that nine of the 46 stayed in Ponda, 16 in Fatorda, 13 in Vasco, and others in Old Goa and Bicholim. He also said that all of them entered Goa before March 15. The CM also said that nine of those identified stayed at a mosque in Goa for the past 10-12 days, but the government wasn’t informed. Thamin Ansari from the organisation’s headquarters in Delhi told TOI that between March 7 and March 9, around 25 people from Goa visited Nizamuddin to attend its religious congregation. Meanwhile, the CM appealed to Muslims to inform police if anyone who belongs to the Tablighi Jamaat or attended its meeting has not been quarantined or is staying in a mosque. “We are searching to see if there are more members of the Tablighi Jamaat, including maulanas, in Goa,” he said. “Our Muslim brothers have to cooperate with police to identify them. This issue is not related to any religion.” Sawant also emphasised on the need for an inquiry to know the reason behind their visit to the state. He also issued a general appeal to the people to inform police or helpline if they know of anyone who has recently come from outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/46-in-goa-who-attended-jamaat-meet-identified-and-quarantined/articleshow/74957843.cms||Murari Shetye
April 3, 2020||Surat||Surat: This shop owner turns food deliveryman for the hungry||SURAT: Satish Soni, popularly known as Lal Badshah, and his friends have been providing daily freshly cooked food to about 2,000 people in City Light, Ghod Dod Road, Althan, Vesu and Piplod areas of the city. Poor people have been bearing the brunt of the lockdown announced nationwide to combat the spread of COVID-19. Soni, well-known for his social services among the underprivileged, has become the pointsman between the needy people and those willing to help them in these difficult times. The 52-year-old shop owner arrives on a motorcycle wearing red clothes and a cap. He would stop at crossroads and starts speaking about the importance of lockdown into a megaphone that hangs on his shoulders. Security guards, construction workers and poor people soon gather around him and he hands over to them food packets comprising ‘dal, rice, roti and sabzi’. "Is there anyone in this locality who could not come?" he asks before moving towards another area.  "The food is cooked and supplied by those who are willing to help poor people. I don't have to spend money on food, my role is to take the food packets to the needy. I along with a few friends ensure that no one sleeps hungry due to the restrictions during lockdown," said Soni, who runs sales and service for plumbing work. Soni has been doing social work for children from underprivileged class for the past 17 years. He earned the moniker Lal Badshah for his love for red colour and welfare work. Soni has got this embroidered on his red shirt pocket and painted on rear tyre’s red mud flap of his bullet motorcycle. "We know when he comes because he makes announcements over his megaphone at multiple spots. We just have to wave our hands and he will come close and hand over the food packets,” said Jitendra Singh, a security guard. Soni tries to reach each and every security guard working in the area claiming they are doing the most important job during lockdown. Further, he gets information from them if anyone needs help in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/this-shop-owner-turns-food-deliveryman-for-the-hungry/articleshow/74954870.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Kalladka tea is lockdown beverage in Kudla||MANGALURU: Even as the whole world is going crazy whipping up the flamboyant Dalgona coffee during the lockdown and sharing it on Twitter and Instagram, in Mangaluru, caffeine lovers swear by Kalladka tea or KT. Some have started preparing KT as a lockdown challenge. A few days ago, Dalgona coffee, which gets its name from a Korean spongy toffee, went viral as a lockdown drink. Many people prepared the drink and uploaded the same on social media. However, Mangalureans who are attached to KT, started a campaign to promote the homegrown innovation. The campaign became a lockdown challenge. Praveenchandra Shetty, an insurance surveyor, who has thrown the challenge open to his friends to prepare KT, and upload the same on social media, said that his challenge was accepted by 16 friends so far. “It’s a friendly challenge. Now, ‘accept the challenge’ is the new slang for, do it yourself and learn,” says Praveenchandra, who has been preparing KT since 1991. “I have been preparing KT since 1991. Tea makers from Kalladka taught me to master making KT, when I went there for a survey.” Shetty has made the recipie for KT available on his social media account. “Along with how to prepare it, I have written about the science behind it,” he said. While normal tea has a frothy creamy layer of milk atop the tea, KT has a one-fourth layer of thick tea decoction sitting atop thick milk. KT originated in a small eatery near Kalladka at Hotel Laxmi Nivas, which dates back six decades. Food blogger Laxmi Shenoy said that Dalgona coffee is visual delight, but KT is a real beauty. “Dalgona coffee is a visual delight, but we Mangalureans already have the beautiful KT from Kalladka. The tea is in ombre with a frothy top, with the decoction at the centre and a milky bottom, and has been a delight for whoever has tried it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kalladka-tea-is-lockdown-beverage-in-kudla/articleshow/74955270.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru firm creates mobile app to track Covid-19 quarantine patients||MANGALURU: City-based Internet of Things (IoT) services company I-Search has built an app that will help in tracking the potential or suspected asymptomatic carriers of coronavirus if they leave their quarantine zone. Developed in record 48-hours, the Covid-19 Beat Tracker app helps beat police constables and Asha/ANM workers tasked with monitoring suspected carriers of the virus track their movement and send reports to the war-room. With an extended trial conducted in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, I-Search is confident that the app can be scaled up to cover the state in future. “With our app, the district or state war-rooms need not wait for a specified period to generate reports. They will receive the reports in real time,” said Aravind Bhat, director, I-Search. Bhat told TOI that the app will provide officials tasked with surveillance of home quarantined people with much needed support system. “We have mapped phone numbers of beat constables and the health workers and the onsite surveillance activities they undertake reflects in the war-room that Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja has set up,” he said. Covid-19 Beat Tracker app can be scaled up for the entire state in maximum of 48-hours, he said adding he will suggest the app to the chief minister and state health department for a state wide roll out. “The app entails features to record health status of quarantined patients for symptoms too. Respective district heads can have log in and monitor quarantined patients from their district war rooms,” he said. The app captures geographic location of those quarantined by examining the data logs. If the area has poor connectivity, the recorded data gets uploaded to server once they come into network coverage area, Poonja said. ****** Manipal Group develops selfie-based tracking app A selfie-based app built by Vijña Labs, part of the Manipal Group is helping Pune Police track home quarantined individuals. The new app uses ‘fool-proof’ Artificial Intelligence-based technology for real-time home quarantine monitoring. According to Dr Murali Kota, co-founder of Vijña Labs, the new app enables an individual to register themselves with their name, phone number, selfie and other relevant information. The individual then uploads his/her registration details using the app, following which the details are verified against the existing master list of quarantined individuals. Once registration details are verified, the app is automatically activated for an individual to upload their quarantine attendance in the form of a selfie along with location tagging. This information is then sent to a private cloud-based AI server, which analyses the face and geo location information in real-time agaisnst the registered individual’s information. When the face and location data match against the database records, an affirmative quarantine attendance record is made into a live dashboard. ***** Pic Caption Aravind Bhat (left), director, I-Search and Harish Poonja, Belthangady MLA launching the App to track patients in Covid 19 home quarantine on real time basis in Belthangady.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-firm-creates-mobile-app-to-track-covid-19-quarantine-patients/articleshow/74954561.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Baby’s case puzzles doctors as mother tests negative for Covid-19||MANGALURU: The case of a 10-month-old baby boy contracting Covid-19 continues to baffle the health authorities here. While the child is undergoing treatment at the designated hospital in Deralakatte, the fact that the infant’s mother and grandmother, designated as primary contacts, tested negative for the coronavirus, has perplexed the medical fraternity. The infant is stable, and is recovering. Dubbed P56, the infant was the sixth positive Covid-19 case in the district, that as on date has seen 9 positive cases so far. With no prior history of travel to Covid-19 affected countries, the authorities surmise that the infant contracted the disease when the family from Sajipanadu in Bantwal taluk, recently travelled to Kasaragod, a Covid-19 hotspot. The infant suffered from severe acute respiratory infection. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the infant is doing well in isolation, and doctors attending to the baby have maintained that the district’s youngest Covid-19 patient is stable. “We are following standard testing protocols for its mother and grandmother, and the child as well. The infant will be discharged to be placed under home quarantine for the remainder period of the mandated quarantine period, if its swab results come out negative,” she said. A source in the health department said the infant, its mother and grandmother are healthy. If the mandated swab reports taken on the 14th or 15th day come out negative for Covid-19, the child will be discharged. The treatment protocol also mandates just as in the case of HIV positive cases of mother and child, that the infant stays with the mother for biological reasons, the source said. Health workers will follow up on the infant’s progress during the remaining quarantine period at home, daily. On the possible reason for the infant’s mother and grandmother not contracting the disease, the source said it depends on an individual’s immunity. Describing this as a possible case of sub-clinical infection, where a close contact, despite exposure to a coronavirus positive patient (infant in this case) remains asymptomatic, the source said all Covid-19 patients in Dakshina Kannada are in a stable healthy state, and are being treated for their symptoms as per treatment protocols mandated by WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/infant-covid-19-patient-perplexes-medical-fraternity/articleshow/74954689.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka man hires ambulance to reach his village, booked||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police booked a person for posing as a patient and using an ambulance to reach his home, in Bellare police station limits, on Wednesday. He boarded the ambulance at Kundapur. The accused is Vijayakumar, and he has been booked for violating the lockdown. According to police, on Wednesday, villagers of Panja were taken aback when they saw an ambulance. They initially thought that health officials had come to check for coronavirus cases, but they were surprised when Vijaykumar, a resident of that village, got down from the vehicle. Villagers learnt that Vijaykumar, who worked in Raichur, managed to reach Kundapur after the lockdown. He was staying at his friend’s place in Kundapur, and there was no way to reach his home at Panja. Therefore, he booked an ambulance, so that he could get into the district unchecked. This angered villagers, who called the village panchayat PDO and informed him about the same. A complaint was registered against Vijaykumar at Bellare police station for violating the lockdown, and he was subjected to a medical check-up at Wenlock Hospital. Police said that the accused showed no symptoms of coronavirus, and that he has been directed to remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-hires-ambulance-to-reach-his-village-booked/articleshow/74955340.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops wary of snooping on 25,000 under quarantine||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s move to hand over close to 25,000 mobileImage used for representational purposenumbers of people under quarantine to the city police for surveillance has raised privacy concerns. The government on Tuesday handed over 11,084 phone numbers of people who have foreign travel history and those who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive cases. Another 14,345 numbers were given on Wednesday. The surveillance is meant to check whether these people are adhering to quarantine norms. While warning against a possible misuse of such a massive list, police sources said a verification of the numbers should be conducted and the monitored data should be in the hands of a high-ranking official. Across the globe, many commercial entities, particularly those in the telemarketing, healthcare and insurance sectors, have been accused of trying to get their hands on such data, which apparently hold a high value in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis. Cops to obtain call history, locationPolice sources said unless a particular case required deep surveillance, the numbers were not to be put on “interception” — under which the target’s phone conversations are taped. This also requires the approval of the police brass and home ministry. What police are going to do is obtain things like call history and locations. Delhi Police, it has been learnt, will monitor these numbers through an electronic map which will record a person’s movements using geotagging and other features. This will ensure that quarantine norms are adhered to. “To obtain someone’s mobile location, the police just have to feed the number into their system, which is synced with the telecom service provider, to get limited data such as the person’s last cell tower location. This gives only a broad area where the person is located. People whose movements are found to be outside their designated area will be intercepted physically,” said an officer. The police are also likely to go for other advance electronic checks which will ensure that the target doesn’t try to hoodwink the cops by moving around while keeping the phone at home. “Such mischief can be caught and the person will face strict legal action,” said an official. The sources also cautioned against the possibility of phone numbers of people outside the quarantine list being sneaked into such a massive list, something that has been a headache for the police brass for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cops-wary-of-snooping-on-25000-under-quarantine/articleshow/74958328.cms||Raj Shekhar
April 3, 2020||Mumbai||Sealed Worli worries essentials may run dry||MUMBAI: With Worli Koliwada and its adjoining areas cordoned off for yet another day, the supply of essential items, like milk and LPG cylinder, was affected on Thursday. Taking cognisance of the problems faced by the residents, local MLA Aaditya Thackeray late on Wednesday tweeted that the authorities are setting up a system to deliver essentials to people's homes. While civic officials said that they are working on resuming all essential services as soon as possible, local residents fear that the few shops that remain open will soon run out of stock. "People are crowding the few shops that are open. But what will happen after they run out of stock as no vehicles are allowed to enter the area," said Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society. In a series of tweets on Wednesday night, Thackeray said Worli Koliwada saw 15 Covid-19 cases in the last 72 hours, due to which the area was sealed off and movement restricted. While Koliwada has 10 positive cases, the adjoining areas of Janta Colony and Adarsh Nagar have 3 and 2 cases, respectively. Also, a 60-year-old died of Covid-19 on Monday. On Thursday, the local ward office @mybmcwardGS tweeted that 160 high- and low-risk contacts of the 15 patients from Worli Koliwada have been shifted into the quarantine facility at M A Podar Hospital. They will be provided with "care and other essentials", Thackeray tweeted. He added that as most shops are shut, the authorities are setting a home delivery system, including for gas cylinders, so that people don't have to stand in queues. "Milk had been delivered yesterday to most homes. Today too milk was delivered. Medical shops open," Thackeray tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sealed-worli-worries-essentials-may-run-dry/articleshow/74958334.cms||Richa Pinto
April 3, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: 4 Jathedars to decide on Baisakhi function today||BATHINDA: Amid the country-wide rise in corona cases and curfew in Punjab, the Jathedars of Takhts (temporal seats of Sikhs) will hold a video conference on Friday to decide on whether to go ahead with the Baisakhi celebrations at Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo town of Bathinda. As Baisakhi falls on April 13-14, it will coincide with the lockdown declared till April 14. Traditionally, thousands of people visit Takht Damdama Sahib to pay obeisance on Baisakhi, but this time the coronavirus crisis has put a question mark on the religious event. Damdama Sahib is the place where Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Sikh master, prepared the full version of the Sikh scriptures, Sri Guru Granth Sahib. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Punjab Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa have already urged the Akal Takht Jathedar not to allow congregations on Baisakhi as these may cause spread of the virus. Takht Damdama Sahib Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also holds the charge of Akal Takht jathedar. If Baisakhi function not held, will be a firstTakht Damdama Sahib Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh told mediapersons on Thursday that preparations were being made but big gatherings are not allowed due to the Covid-19. If the celebrations are not held this time, it will be perhaps the first time that such a thing will happen in decades, say old-timers. Baisakhi festival is also associated with the wheat harvesting. Talwandi Sabo resident Karnail Singh said Baisakhi celebration at Takht Damdama Sahib is the biggest event. People from far off converge here and political parties hold conferences. Apart from this, community kitchens are set up on roads leading to Talwandi Sabo and other gurdwaras in the city are decorated .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-4-jathedars-to-decide-on-baisakhi-function-today/articleshow/74958352.cms||Neel Kamal
April 3, 2020||India||Centre revokes visas, will deport Tablighi members||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Thursday blacklisted and cancelled the 'tourist' visas of 960 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members for having violated their visa conditions by engaging in 'missionary' activities here. It also asked the states and Union territories where these foreigners are present, to take necessary legal action under the Foreigners Act, which sources said was likely to involve their deportation after payment of a $500 financial penalty, as well as under the Disaster Management Act. The blacklisting order against the 960 foreign Tablighi Jamaat visitors will debar them from entering India for at least two years. Announcing the action on Twitter, home minister Amit Shah stated: "Home ministry has blacklisted 960 foreigners found involved in Tablighi activities on a tourist visa and also cancelled their Indian visas". "Home ministry has also directed the states DGPs and Delhi Police commissioner to take necessary legal action against the 960 foreigners for violation of provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and Disaster Management Act, 2005," he added. As per financial penalties laid down under the Foreigners Act rules for various visa violations, indulging in Tablighi activities while on a tourist visa attracts a US$ 500 penalty. Sources added that 960 foreigners linked to Tablighi Jamaat activities in India could be deported back to their respective countries as and when they complete the quarantine/hospitalisation period and international flights resume. In case international flights are not available at the end of the quarantine period, they may be shifted to detention centres during the interim period. While Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act provides for imprisonment of up to one year or fine for violation of an order issued by due authority under the Act, which can further extend to up to two-year jail if such violation results in loss of lives, it was not clear if this clause will be invoked against the foreigners. "Why bear the unnecessary burden of putting them on trial here," said one officer. Sources meanwhile said the Tablighi Jamaat authorities will henceforth be told to strictly maintain a register of all foreign visitors along with their correct passport and visa details as well as activities undertaken by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-revokes-visas-will-deport-tablighi-members/articleshow/74958362.cms||Bharti Jain
April 3, 2020||Amritsar||Farmer with four acres, offers 1 acre for coronavirus hospital, research centre||BATHINDA: A farmer in a Punjab's Bathinda district has offered to donate one acre from his four acres to the Punjab government to build a hospital to treat patients of novel coronavirus or such pandemics. Sixty-six-year-old Buta Singh of Bibiwala village, nearly eight kilometres from Bathinda town, farms on his four acres of land and follows the annual wheat-paddy cycle. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Amarinder Singh are making appeals for donations to deal with the situation and I have decided to give a portion of my land for the service of the humanity." Speaking to TOI, Buta Singh said "as coronavirus has spread across the world and there are no signs to contain it as even most developed country, the United States of America is finding it hard to stop its spread and has been devastated. I thought that if government is willing to build some hospital or research centre for tackling such viruses I can offer one acre of land for it." Buta Singh said his two sons and children of his eldest son who died some years ago are all settled well." I have already divided land among the three families and now am left with little less than 4 acres, which is more than sufficient for me and my Nasib Kaur, 63. I farm on this land and if and whenever the government asks me, I will vacate it"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmer-with-four-acres-offers-1-acre-for-coronavirus-hospital-research-centre/articleshow/74958373.cms||Neel Kamal
April 3, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: HD Kote, Chamarajanagar roads to Kerala open; legislators plan to move SC||MYSURU: Movement of essential commodities from Karnataka to Kerala began on Thursday, with the checkposts at Gundlupet in Chamarajanagar and HD Kote in Mysuru district allowing vehicles and crew to pass after medical examination. Legislators opposing the decision said they will move the Supreme Court to prevent spread of Covid-19 from neighbouring Kerala. On Wednesday, Kerala high court ordered the Centre to get the blockades on national highways connecting the two states removed to allow vehicles carrying patients. The order came on a public interest litigation seeking opening of the roads connecting Kasaragod in Kerala and Mangaluru in Karnataka, which had been closed by Karnataka in view of the lockdown to check the Covid-19 outbreak.  On March 27, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raising the issue of blockade of the Thalassery-Kodagu state highway, saying essential supplies were not reaching his state during lockdown.  Border villages in Kodagu had enforced the blockades following a spate of coronavirus cases in Kerala's Kasaragod and Kannur districts. "The border areas were closed by the people as they are wary of contracting the infection from the worst-hit districts. They want to be safe and there is nothing wrong with that," said BJP's Virajpet MLA and former speaker KG Bopaiah. He added: "There is no reason for the state to allow traffic between Kerala and Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada districts. This will cause panic among the people in border areas. We will approach the apex court..."  Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar said only goods vehicles were being allowed to pass. "We never closed the road for goods vehicles," said Chamarajanagar DC MR Ravi. "The drivers are allowed to transport vegetables only after following the safety protocol, including sanitisation of vehicles."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-hd-kote-chamarajanagar-roads-to-kerala-open-legislators-plan-to-move-sc/articleshow/74958388.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 'Intellectual property theft allegation baseless'||CHANDIGARH: In response to allegations of intellectual property (IP) theft by PGIMER-based doctors against Mahindra and Mahindra, the company issued a statement through its spokesperson on Thursday. The company spokesperson said Mahindra has no intention of making profit from the manufacture of respirators and does not intend to continue manufacturing them after the end of the pandemic as it is completely unrelated to its mainstream businesses. "In addition, as soon as our design is approved, we will make our design 'open source', which means any individual, institute or company can start making them in the future as a for-profit business should they so desire. This is why it is so unfortunate that allegations of IP violation are being made in this context. Particularly since we have only used information in the public domain and our own capabilities and skills in designing our respirator prototype," the spokesperson stated. According to him, the company was approached for collaboration and later defamed. "While our internal development work was underway, we were flooded with numerous requests by individual developers to contribute to our efforts. We evaluated these. One such offer was received from Akash Gaddamwar, who represented a team from Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and PGIMER, Chandigarh. They claimed to have developed technology for which an application for grant of patent was filed a few months earlier. We had a telephone conversation with them on March 23 during which they claimed to have a working prototype and said they would like Mahindra to buy or join financially. Two e-mails and a WhatsApp followed that call. A few photographs and a link to their earlier video on YouTube were shared. We had significantly progressed in our own efforts by that time and had a working prototype ready by March 23. A video of this was tweeted on March 27. We have subsequently come to know that the same persons who offered to work alongside us are now unjustifiably defaming us." On April 1, Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) PGIMER said Dr Rajeev Chauhan, assistant professor, department of anesthesia, PGIMER, Chandigarh, has been working on an innovation for the last one year. They said he filed an application for patent with the Indian Patent Authority on December 22, 2019. The Institute Ethics Committee gave approval for the device on October 15, 2019. Association members alleged that Mahindra copied their innovation in a span of 48 hours in the name of national emergency. They said, "This is not at all acceptable to us and ARD PGIMER stands with Dr Rajeev Chauhan. We are starting a social media drive and will appeal to the PMO as well as other senior officials to intervene and protect the interests of the young researchers and innovators of our country from the claws of these big sharks. This is against patent laws and demoralising for young innovators and researchers of premier institutes of the country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-intellectual-property-theft-allegation-baseless/articleshow/74958390.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag man tests positive for coronavirus after return from Asansol||HAZARIBAG/RANCHI: A 52-year-old man from Hazaribag district tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday evening, taking the total count of confirmed cases in Jharkhand to two. While he has no history of foreign travel the man, a casual worker with a private transport company in Asansol, West Bengal, returned to his home in Bishnugarh town in Hazaribag district, on March 29, Hazaribag deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said. Singh said, “The man suddenly fell ill in Asansol and his employer arranged a private vehicle for him to return home. His car was stopped near Badogar in Giridih district for violating the lockdown. From there, he walked about 15km, before he was spotted by the police and referred to medical team, which sent him to Hazaribag sadar hospital for isolation for check-up. On Wednesday, his swab samples was sent to Rims for tests along with those of 15 others." Singh added that the man has been shifted him to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital and officials are tracing all those who came in contact with him. Talking to TOI on Thursday evening, state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) chief Dr Praveen Karn said, “The patient was symptomatic and was taking medication for cold and cough. We had received 16 samples from Hazaribag, of which 15 others turned out to be negative.” Karn said that the man is likely to have come in contact with an infected person in Asansol, where positive cases are more. The man’s family and others who he came in contact with since his return to Hazaribag will be quarantined and tested for the virus, Karn said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-man-tests-positive-after-return-from-asansol/articleshow/74956768.cms||Abhijit Sen
April 3, 2020||Ranchi||Woman dies of ‘hunger’ in Ramgarh district, admin denies||Ramgarh: A 70-year-old ailing Dalit woman allegedly died of starvation in Gola block of Ramgarh district amid the lockdown on Thursday. District officials, however, said that the deceased, Upaso Devi, died of old-age related ailments and that their team, which went to her house, found foodgrains. Police have sent her body for post mortem. Local sources said the woman, a resident of Sangrampur village in Gola, was not getting ration regularly either from the local PDS shop or the panchayat and had not received her old-age pension for many months. Denying hunger as the cause of the woman’s death, Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh said, “The 70-year-old woman was suffering from various ailments. When our team visited her house, foodgrains were found in her house. It is wrong to term it as a case of starvation death.” Singh, however, did not comment on her pending pensions and ration. Gola BDO-cum-officiating circle officer, Kuldeep Kumar, who visited her house along with a team of officials after receiving news of her death, also said the woman died of age-old related ailments. Jagan Nayak (50), son of the deceased, and his wife Sanju Devi told local media that they were daily wagers and had been depending on their relatives and neighbours since the lockdown. Jagan said, “We have visited Gola block office several times to get subsidized rice but to no avail. We have stopped receiving it since 2017. My mother also didn’t receive old-age widow pension since the last eight months.” Seema Devi, mukhiya of Sangrampur panchayat, said the family never approached her for help. She said the government has provided Rs 10,000 emergency fund to each rural body to help such families. Local PDS dealer, Umesh Mahto of Hulu village, said he has not received any stock for distribution to non-ration card holders. He said, “My PDS shop has not received any emergency foodgrains from the government as yet. Hence, I could not distribute any to non-card holders.” Ramgarh MLA Mamta Devi of Congress, who also visited the village, said, “It will be early to call it as hunger death. But the administration has to be more sensitive to ensure supply of emergency foodgrains during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-dies-of-hunger-in-ramgarh-district-admin-denies/articleshow/74956765.cms||N K Agarwal
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||34 Covid-19 active cases in West Bengal, toll stays 3: Govt||KOLKATA: There are 34 active Covid-19 cases in Bengal, with three deaths till date, the government said on Thursday evening. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha gave these figures at 6.10pm, two hours after a government-appointed medical experts’ panel held that the number of Covid-19-positive cases till date was 53, with seven deaths, of whom four died in the last 24 hours. Sinha started from the figure of 53 given by the experts’ panel. He explained that three of the 53 Covid-19-positive patients returned home after they were cured. “Another nine tested negative in the second test,” the chief secretary said, bringing down the active cases to 41. The state has also not yet accepted the death of four of these 41 affected people as Covid-19 fatalities. “These four had been admitted to hospital with co-morbid ailments such as heart and kidney problems. They were later found Covid-19-positive. The state is yet to confirm that these four patients died of Covid-19. Test reports of two such patients reached after their death. We can’t say for certain that they were Covid-19 victims,” Sinha said. Sinha, thus, took away the four deaths from the total of 41 cases and brought down the number of active patients at 37. He again removed the three dead from the list of positive patients, saying the total number of Covid-19 cases, till date, was 34. He added that of these 34 patients, a total of 20 came from five families. His statement firmly backed chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s, who had said on Wednesday that there were three Covid-19 deaths in the state, and offered the “clarification” to modify the figures placed by the experts’ panel. The medical experts’ panel had put the death figures at seven, with four deaths during the last 24 hours. According to the panel, the cumulative Covid-19-positive figure is 53. The panel stated that another 16 patients tested positive on Thursday, against 10 on Wednesday. There was, however, a dip in the collection of swab samples on Thursday. A total of 104 samples were collected, when the figure was 116 on Wednesday. The medical experts’ panel said three Covid-19-positive persons had been cured, while four died in the last 24 hours, taking the death tally to seven. Bid to streamline management protocolThe medical experts’ panel had put the death figures at seven, with four deaths during the last 24 hours. According to the panel, the cumulative Covid-19-positive figure is 53. The panel stated that another 16 patients tested positive on Thursday, against 10 on Wednesday. There was, however, a dip in the collection of swab samples on Thursday. A total of 104 samples were collected, when the figure was 116 on Wednesday. The medical experts’ panel said three Covid-19-positive persons had been cured, while four died in the last 24 hours, taking the death tally to seven. The state government has released a state protocol for clinical management of Covid-19 cases. It aims at streamlining the management protocol of patients across the state and has been prepared by the expert committee appointed by the state government. It mentions the protocol for identifying Covid-19 patients, lays down and recommends drugs to be used and mentions a high-risk group. According to the protocol, those above 60 years of age, cardiovascular patients, including those suffering from hypertension, immunocompromised, chronic lung, kidney and liver disease patients were included in the highrisk group, apart from cerebrovascular patients. If two samples test negative at least 24 hours apart, then a patient could be discharged, it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/34-active-cases-in-state-toll-stays-3-govt/articleshow/74958006.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Kolkata||Overnight lockdown removal may fuel 2nd wave of infection: Experts||KOLKATA: A phased withdrawal of lockdown, instead of a sudden and complete one, will help to ensure that Covid 19 transmission is not renewed through a second wave thus negating the benefits of the 21-day shutdown, believe experts. Unrestricted access to public places, if granted overnight, will inevitably lead to overcrowding and could prolong the pandemic, they warn while advising a partial revival of emergency services followed by a staggered reopening of the rest over the next 3-4 weeks. According to IPGMER professor of oncology Diptendra Sarkar, the pandemic is still raging and a sudden withdrawal of curbs could be disastrous. “While theatres, malls and public transport should remain shut, emergency services could be revived in a restricted manner from April 15, if the situation permits. There is a two-fold danger in throwing everything open at one go. First, transmission will get renewed at a far greater pace since the pandemic is on and we are yet to develop herd immunity and so the entire population is vulnerable. Second, the lockdown-induced restrictions would make people hungry to go out throwing caution to the winds, which will fuel transmission,” Sarkar said. Immunologists agree that only emergency services should be allowed, perhaps with extended hours from April 15, because a second wave of transmission is inevitable if all sectors are allowed to function normally. “We are at a very critical stage now and are about to reap the benefits of lockdown. It will definitely bring the numbers down but throwing everything open in two weeks would be self-defeating. We have seen from some instances that gatherings can lead to rapid transmission. If it has to be checked, lockdown withdrawal must be phased and slow,” said virologist Amitabha Nandy. There are high chances of a second wave of the virus spreading like wildfire if lockdown is revoked entirely, he argued. “If we check the statistics of H1N1 which spread in 2009, we will find that this was exactly what had happened. As soon as it was contained and people went back to their normal lives, there was a second wave,” he added. Nandy said the 21 days of quarantine would be absolutely futile unless people are educated about what exactly is to be done on Day 22. “Or else, there is a possibility of another lockdown being declared. We definitely don’t want that. We need to act wisely and use our common sense by doing the most basic things. So, don’t go partying on Day 22 and try to follow all the instructions as you did for the last four weeks and please don’t forget that this is not the end of the virus. This is only the beginning of the end,” he said. According to virologist Amitabha Nandy, only a vaccine or herd immunity can fight the virus effectively. “Since 60% of the population has not been affected, herd immunity is absent. A vaccine is yet to be developed. So, we will remain just as susceptible to the virus on April 15 as we are now. The existing restrictions need to be in force even as we gradually revive a few emergency sectors,” he said. While essential services like bank and grocery stores should be allowed extended hours, the frequency of public transport should be minimal, said the virologist. “After a week, the frequency can be increased after monitoring the effects of the spread and the public shall be urged to avoid assembling in large numbers and practice social distancing. Public places like theatres, malls, parks shall be the last on the priority list,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/overnight-lockdown-removal-may-fuel-2nd-wave-of-infection-experts/articleshow/74958014.cms||---
April 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||No food for 2 days, these 200 families in Ghaziabad wait for help to reach||GHAZIABAD: The last time Dindayal Sahi, a construction worker, and his family ate was on Tuesday night. “I have no work and no money to buy food. Have not received any help from the administration either, despite dialling the government helpline number. We will soon starve to death if no help arrives,” said Sahi, a resident of Sihani Gate’s Bombay Colony. Sahi and 200 other families, who came to Ghaziabad some 10 years ago from places like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Allahabad and settled down in Bombay Colony, are now making desperate appeals to the district administration to immediately provide them with ration and other essential items for survival. Similarly, 33-year-old Sushila, a widow who lives in the colony and works as a domestic help in a highrise society in Raj Nagar extension, said she would soon run out of cash. “My husband died in an accident two years ago and I have two children, a 12-year-old daughter and a nine-year-old son, to feed. But we are running low on money. I am really worried,” she said. Saleem, a specially abled man who runs a tea stall in Sihani Gate area, said most shopkeepers in nearby areas are selling essential items at inflated price, taking advantage of the Covid-19 crisis. “We can’t afford to buy such costly items and right now we don’t have money to sustain because the tea stall is closed for the last 10 days.” Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP of Ghaziabad, said that the district administration and the police helpline numbers are different. “We respond to 112. Cops are supplying food to every person dialling 112. Residents are also calling on the personal mobile numbers of police officers and getting help,” he said. Though Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, could not be contacted, despite repeated attempts, another district administration official said that “we are helping people calling us”. “These 200 families will also soon get help from us. Moreover, a probe will be ordered to find out why these families were not offered any help, despite dialling our helpline number,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/no-food-for-2-days-these-200-families-wait-for-help-to-reach/articleshow/74957782.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
April 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ex-rally champion goes the extra mile to fight Covid-19||Having excelled in a sport where quick thinking and reaction time are crucial, former national rally champion Vikram Mathias has put his sporting instincts to good use when the nation is battling Coronavirus. The 44-year-old, who lives with his wife Anushri and their two children in Bokkapuram, a hamlet on the foothills of the Nilgiris near Masinagudi, made sanitizers and distributed them among forest guards and policemen. It all started on March 23, the eve of the country-wide lockdown. Mathias was heading to Ooty to buy essentials and asked some police personnel if they needed anything. Their unanimous reply was sanitizer. “One of the police officers pointed out that they meet a lot of people throughout the day and there was a shortage of sanitizers. In Ooty, with great difficulty, I managed to buy two small bottles. While we were worried about going into depression and claustrophobia, the officials were out in the open all day, meeting hundreds of people,” Mathias told TOI. At a time when sanitizers are in high demand and short in supply, Mathias swung into action, deciding to make them at home for forest guards, police and other officials who man the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. He has already made 10 litres of an WHO-compliant sanitizer so far and distributed it. He is planning to manufacture more. “I researched online and found that WHO had put out the formula to prepare hand sanitisers. I needed three ingredients -- isopropyl alcohol, hydrogen peroxide and glycerol. I got down to calling our friends who have hospitals, clinics and pharmacies in the state asking them how to source the ingredients. In Coimbatore I managed to source all three ingredients,” Mathias said. As the lockdown was in place, police helped Mathias with the transportation of the ingredients. It took him a day to understand the process. The family used old shampoo, hand wash and sanitizer bottles to pour the product into. They also printed labels with the ingredients. “We had 10 litres of sanitizer. I met police officials and with them went to three check posts along the Mudumalai-Bandipur border and distributed it,” Mathias||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-ex-rally-champion-goes-the-extra-mile-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/74958404.cms||Manuja Veerappa
