April 4, 2020||Agra||Alert station master rescues Aligarh teen from freight train||AGRA: An alert assistant station master of railway, helped authorities rescue a teenage boy of Aligarh, who boarded a Delhi bound freight train while along with his friends. The incident took place on Tuesday evening around 4.30pm, when a 60 wagon-long freight train was passing Mahrawal station, and the on-duty station master Rupendra Kumar spotted the 11-year-old kid, shouting for help while holding the metal door of one of the wagons. Speaking to TOI, Rupendra Kumar said, “Since the train was in high speed, I couldn’t see the wagon number, but counted the remaining number of wagons which were behind it and informed the control room about the kid’s presence in one of the wagons. As soon as the train reached Danwar station, the freight train was brought to halt. Danwar station master John Singh Meena and RPF men alighted the boy.” “They consoled the boy, sanitised him and offered him snacks,” said Rupendra. SHO Khurja railway protection force, Nawal Kishore said, “The teen claimed that he was playing along with his three other friends in the freight train which was standing at Aligarh junction. When signal went green, his friends managed to alight from the train, but he got stuck. After coordinating with assistant traffic manager Tundla, Sanjay Kumar, we handed the boy to Aligarh civil police.” The teenage boy was identified as Vinay, resident of Masudabad of Bannadevi police jurisdiction, Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/alert-station-master-rescues-aligarh-teen-from-freight-train/articleshow/74974837.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 4, 2020||Goa||Lockdown was tough in Kashmir, Goa is much easy: Brian||PANAJI: Brian Mascarenhas was ready in the dressing room with his Real Kashmir FC teammates and waiting to run on to the pitch for their home game against TRAU FC when the I-League match was called off just before kickoff on March 14. The coronavirus pandemic has forced many countries, including India, into a lockdown. To combat the deadly virus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, while the All India Football Federation (AIFF) suspended all footballing activities. Just before the national lockdown when everything came to a standstill and people were forced to stay indoors, Brian had fortunately packed his bags and had safely returned home. While it is a huge test for most Goans to stay indoors, Brian is used to such a situation after spending two seasons in Kashmir where he weathered not only snow storms but also unprecedented curfews during the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. “During that period, we didn’t have internet connectivity or anything. We were not allowed to even step outside the hotel premises. It was hard to train or contact my family,” Brian told TOI. The midfielder moved to ply his trade outside the state for the first-time last season after six years at Salgaocar FC. The 28-year-old, however, doesn’t regret his decision, although his playing time is restricted. “I knew it was going to be difficult, but I was ready for the challenge and still signed for Kashmir. This is a common situation in Kashmir, but it is very difficult to stay home in Goa. We are simply not used to this here. I try to do some workouts and spend my time with family,” said Brian. During heavy snow-fall, the team could train off the field and had to mostly rely on indoor stadiums. Moreover, there were difficulties in even breathing. Mohun Bagan have already secured their second I-League title but Real Kashmir still have five matches remaining. However, it is highly unlikely the I-League will continue given the current situation. Players have to make a lot of sacrifices to play in Kashmir, but it is not deterring Brian, who is already committed to spending his third season in the valley next season. “The situation there (Kashmir) is very unpredictable and one can’t guarantee what can go wrong. The club faces lot of difficulties too, but they take best care of the players in a professional manner,” said Brian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-was-tough-in-kashmir-goa-is-much-easy-brian/articleshow/74975427.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 4, 2020||India||Govt reserves jobs in J&K for domiciles; amends April 1 order||NEW DELHI: The government amended its two-day-old order on Friday night and reserved all jobs in Jammu and Kashmir for the domiciles of the Union territory - people who have stayed there for at least 15 years. On Wednesday, while laying down the rules for domiciles, the government had reserved jobs up to group 4 only. However, following angry reactions from local political parties, an amended gazette notification, titled the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order-2020, was put out, reserving jobs for the domiciles of the UT, which was formed in October last year after the Centre withdrew the special status of the erstwhile state and announced its bifurcation. "Any person who fulfils the following conditions shall be a domicile of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for the purposes of appointment to any post under the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir," the revised notification said. "....no person shall be eligible for appointment to any post unless he is a domicile of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir," the amended Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act, which is a part of the notification, said. In the April 1 notification, the jobs were reserved only upto group 4 in the government, which is equivalent to the rank of constable in police parlance and multi-tasking staff in government offices. Under the domicile law, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the Union territory is a domicile. Anyone who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will also be deemed to be a domicile. The children of all-India services personnel, who have served there for 10 years, also come under the category. Others who can be deemed to be a domicile include the children of those central government officials, all-India services officers, officials of PSU and autonomous bodies of the central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, central university officials and those of recognised research institutes of the central government, who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for 10 years. The children of those who fulfil any of the conditions or the children of such residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment or business or other professional or vocational reasons, but their parents fulfil any of the conditions provided in the sub-section, are also considered domiciles, the notification said. The move had evoked a sharp reaction from political parties, including the newly-formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, which had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah last month. The party had questioned the timing of the order, saying it was most unfortunate that such an important order was issued at a time when the country was battling for its survival and was under a strict lockdown to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus. "Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts and attention should be focused on the COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised," National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah had said in a series of tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-reserves-jobs-in-jk-for-domiciles-amends-april-1-order/articleshow/74975470.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hackers-use-corona-lockdown-to-target-remote-workers||Hackers use corona lockdown to target remote workers||As the novel coronavirus continues to spread across the world, hackers are using this crisis to gain access to sensitive and personal information. If you are working from home, you could be at risk too, without your company's cyber security and firewalls to protect you. Recently, the Delhi Police shared an advisory, informing people how cybercriminals are exploiting COVID-19 fear. Aneesh Roy, DCP, Cybercrime, Delhi Police says, "We have issued the advisory as a precaution. If people are aware and just keep some basic security steps in mind like keeping a strong password, an updated anti-virus system, sharing sensitive information only after verifying credentials, etc, they'll be safe." Stay safe online while working from home - Aneesh Roy, DCP, Cyber Crime, Delhi Police, shares some tips with us: Beware of too-good-to-be-true data pack offers:If you are working from home, you are bound to use more data. Hackers have found a way to exploit it. The number of spam text and WhatsApp messages with data pack offers have increased. These messages often have shortened URL. Any shortened URL should be seen with suspicion. Use popular, trusted apps:If you have to use a video calling or conference calling app for meeting, ensure you are using a safe app. It is important to check the credentials of the app. Go for trusted options used by renowned companies. Be cautious while sharing your screen:You should be cautious of impersonators, using emails of colleagues to gain access to your screen. Before approving screen-sharing, crosscheck the details of the person. Switch on the ‘do not disturb’ option if it’s Mac and ‘no notifications’ option if it is Windows to maintain privacy. Close all tabs with personal info. Use a strong password and updated anti-virusThere are a few basic steps which people often ignore. If they are accessing corporate data from laptops and PCs, they should ensure that their system has updated anti-virus and a strong password. Watch out for scams when looking for corona-related info:You may have noticed a surge in emails related to COVID-19 in your inbox. These emails could have malicious attachments in the form of PDF files. Unless the email is from a trusted website, do not open the link. Hackers have cashed in on the surge in search regarding COVID-19 and created fake information domains. The Delhi Police has shared a list of such domains. What to do if you’re a victim of cyber fraud:1. Report the crime at cybercrime.gov.in. The complaint is then transferred to your district police. They will get in touch with you, or you can contact them. 2. If your bank account or your card has been compromised, block the account first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hackers-use-corona-lockdown-to-target-remote-workers/articleshow/74973568.cms||Niharika Lal
April 4, 2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Let identified vendors sell essentials, says Centre||NEW DELHI: The urban affairs ministry has advised state governments to allow identified street vendors to sell essential items during the lockdown, a move which would not only save their livelihood and facilitate supplies virtually at doorstep, but also prevent crowding in markets and thus serve the dire need of social distancing to check Covid-19 spread. There are about 18 lakh identified street vendors across the country and almost 13 lakh of them have valid identity cards. Sources said the ministry issued the advisory after the pan-Indian urban vendors’ association approached it citing the plight of street vendors after loss of livelihood due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus spread. Tweeting the letter sent to states, Union housing urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, “In order to ensure the livelihood of street vendors and encourage home delivery of essential items, we have issued an advisory that street vendors carrying valid identity card/ certificate of vending, may be allowed to sell essentials like groceries, fruits and vegetables.” The minister told TOI that the call has to be taken by the local authorities and the Centre has issued the advisory to protect the interests of vendors. “We have specifically said that identified vendors should be allowed to carry on their business of selling essential items subject to restrictions by the district authorities.” Currently, only six states and UTs, including Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, have given one-time financial help to street vendors. Odisha and Bihar have announced one-time financial assistance of Rs 3,000 to each vendor while UP, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have announced one-time assistance of Rs 1,000 per vendor. Sources said as per the advisory, the vendors cannot sell any cooked food and they will be allowed to sell only specific items during lockdown besides ensuring that their carts are clean and they maintain personal hygiene and follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/let-identified-vendors-sell-essentials-centre/articleshow/74975732.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 4, 2020||India||2 more deaths in Delhi, one a Tablighi Jamaat man; 93 new Coronavirus cases reported||NEW DELHI: The toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi touched six on Friday, with two more deaths being confirmed by the state health authorities. One of the deaths is linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation even as the authorities reported 25 more positive cases in the capital linked to the event. On Friday, Delhi government reported 93 new cases of which 77 had attended the Jamaat function last month. These include the 52 admitted to AIIMS Jhajjar, about whom TOI had already reported on Thursday. A member of the Jamaat, who was evacuated from the Nizamuddin mosque three days ago and shifted to AIIMS Jhajjar, died two days ago. The authorities said on Friday that his test results have now come positive for Covid-19. The other coronavirus-linked death in the capital isn’t connected to the Jamaat, they added. “A 78-year-old man with known co-morbidities, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital in east Delhi. He wasn’t connected to Tablighi Jamaat,” said an official. On March 27, Delhi’s Covid-19 count stood at 72. Within a week, the number has jumped to 386, mainly on account of the explosion of new cases linked to Jamaat. More than 3,000 Tablighi members, including some foreigners from countries affected by Covid-19, participated in religious congregations at the Nizamuddin mosque last month. Of the 386 cases reported in Delhi, 67% (259) are Jamaat members, Delhi health officials said. The number may go up further as reports of many members of the organisation, who are quarantined at various hospitals and isolation facilities, is awaited, sources said. At least eight Covid-19 patients, mostly Jamaat members, admitted in various hospitals in Delhi are on ICU support and two are on ventilator support. Five others – four at Lok Nayak hospital and one at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) – are on oxygen support, the state government said. Covid-19 cases linked to Tablighi members have been reported from 14 states (and Union territories) Andaman and Nicobar, Delhi, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said on Friday. “If we see the rise in cases in the last few days, it has primarily been due to an increase at a particular level,” he added, in an apparent reference to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Aggarwal said because of the lockdown and “our efforts to promote social distancing, cases are were being reported but there was no sharp rise”. Meanwhile, the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases has put the health infrastructure under duress. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital in West Delhi, where 38 Covid-19 positive patients are admitted, one nursing orderly were found positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday. All his contacts have been asked to self-quarantine and report about symptoms such as fever or dry cough. Two nurses at Delhi State Cancer Institute, which was temporarily shut on Wednesday after one of the doctors there tested positive for Covid-19, have also tested positive for the coronavirus, triggering an alarm over spread of the disease among hospital staff. One doctor at a private hospital in west Delhi has also been found positive for Covid-19. Across country, around 50 medical professionals – who may not be essentially involved in Covid-19 management – have been found positive Covid-19 till date. On Thursday, a senior resident doctor at AIIMS and his wife, who is in advanced stage of pregnancy, tested positive for Covid-19. More than 10 colleagues who were in touch with him are being screened for the infection. The doctor was using a DTC bus arranged for the hospital to commute from his home to AIIMS for the past few days and it is suspected that some of his co-passengers may also been infected, triggering a scare among healthcare workers at the premier medical institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-more-covid-deaths-in-delhi-one-a-tablighi-jamaat-man-93-new-cases-reported/articleshow/74975751.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 4, 2020||India||Coronavirus: 16 die in a day; Tamil Nadu records 102 cases as India total tops 3,000||India reported 16 Covid-19 deaths on Friday — the highest single-day death count since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country — taking the toll to 85, even as the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 3,000-mark at 3,082 with more than 500 new cases being reported from the states for the second straight day. The toll included three deaths in Maharashtra, two each in Delhi and Telangana, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka and Gujarat. At 502, the number of confirmed cases on Friday was only a shade lower than the previous day’s figure of 544, which is the highest single-day count so far. At least 280 of the day’s confirmed cases being those of Tablighi Jamaat delegates who attended the Nizamuddin congregation or their contacts. Health ministry officials said at least 647 of Covid-19 cases in the last two days reported from 14 states and Union territories are linked to the Jamaat meet and indicated that the event lent a major blow to the gains made from lockdown and social distancing measures. “If we see the rise in cases in the last few days, it has primarily been due to an increase at a particular level,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said in an apparent reference to the TJ congregation. “We are dealing with infectious disease management and one slip or failure to comply with the rules takes us back and all our efforts are wasted,” he added. The positive cases linked to Jamaat were reported from Delhi, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, UP, Andaman and Nicobar, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Jharkhand. The highest number of cases on Friday was reported from Tamil Nadu – 102. As many as 100 of these are linked to the Nizamuddin congregation. Of the total 80 cases reported by Telangana (five of them were reported late Thursday night), 78 were linked to TJ while 42 of UP’s 48 cases were linked to the Nizamuddin meet. Delhi reported 93 cases, though 52 of these included Jamaat delegates admitted at Jhajjar which TOI had reported a day earlier. Telangana reported 80 cases in the last 24 hours – its highest single day tally since the outbreak of the disease. With two deaths reported on Friday, the toll in the state has gone up to 11. However, with 25 deaths and 490 confirmed cases, Maharashtra continues to top the chart. The southern states and Delhi are the worst affected by the Jamaat meet. While 116 of the total 229 cases in Telangana are linked to the event, in the neighbouring Telugu state of Andhra Pradesh, 140 of the total 161 cases are linked to the congregation. In Tamil Nadu, of the total 411 cases, 364 are linked to the Tablighi meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-16-die-in-a-day-tamil-nadu-records-102-cases-as-india-total-tops-3000/articleshow/74975802.cms||---
April 4, 2020||India||Coronavirus has spread to 30% of India's districts||BENGALURU: Managing Covid-19 will be more challenging for authorities as SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing it, has spread to 30% of the country’s districts. Union ministry of health data shows that the government has been able to ascertain cases in 211 of 720 districts in the country, with some big states reporting more than 60% of districts as infected while many have over 30%. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThis number is likely to increase as the ministry has only accounted for district-reporting of 1,965 positive cases, while the total number in India is over 2,000. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsExperts say the continuing spread of the virus across states could hamper their efforts as they may face shortages of testing kits and lack of medical facilities, among other challenges. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates“The endeavour is to contain the spread in districts that have already reported. The lockdown has helped to an extent, although initial movement of people hurt us,” a senior official in the Karnataka government said. As per district-wise projections by Santosh Ansumali, professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), and Aloke Kumar of IISc, India may require more than 16,000 respiratory pumps and nearly 50,000 ventilators to treat patients by April-end. The health ministry says there are more than 6,000 ventilators and over 2,000 ICU beds will be ready across the country. But more than 100 dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities, but most are in district headquarters or big cities. Among the 17 states and one Union Territory that have more than 20 districts, 11 have more than 20% of districts affected. Toby Simon of think tank Synergia Foundation said: “Local authorities at the district and tehsil levels have to review preparedness, identify gaps and strengthen core capacities in surveillance and isolation, while prioritising testing and supporting the healthcare system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-has-spread-to-30-of-countrys-districts/articleshow/74975863.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 4, 2020||India||Govt launches mega cash transfer to fight Covid-19||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The government on Friday launched one of the largest-ever cash transfer schemes, including the deposit of over Rs 30,000 crore into the account of woman Jan Dhan account holders as well as Rs 5,000 crore into the linked accounts of eight crore poor households with LPG connections provided under ‘Ujjwala’. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageOn Day 1 of the PM Jan Dhan transfer scheme, Rs 500 was deposited into the accounts of 4 crore women, with the government ordering banks to ensure that the dormant accounts were reactivated to ensure that no beneficiary was left out. The mega exercise, which will see deposits based on the last digit of the account number, saw several thousand account holders visit their bank branches and nearest ATMs, although business correspondents have been pressed into service to ensure door-step delivery of benefits. All accounts are to get the funds by April 9. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhile banks said they had made all the arrangements for orderly withdrawal, there were instances of overcrowding. Some branches also faced pressure because it coincided with pensioners coming to collect their monthly pension. Similarly, the transfer of funds for purchase of three free cooking gas cylinders for April has begun. State-run fuel retailers will transfer funds by the fourth of May and June as advance so that beneficiaries can buy LPG cylinders under a Rs 1.7 lakh-crore relief package for the poor, which includes free cooking gas cylinder for three months. The Ujjwala consumers will have the option of getting three regular refills of 14.2kg or up to eight cylinders of 5kg, commonly known as ‘Chhotua’. Ujjwala has established itself as a major vehicle of social change and will again emerge as a key player in India’s fight against coronavirus, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the ground leaders implementing the scheme as he started a series of interactive sessions through video-conference with over 700 ‘district nodal officers (DNOs)’. In case a Ujjwala consumer does not take all the three cylinders by June, she can use the money to buy a refill anytime till March 2021. Pradhan told officers of IndianOil, HPCL and BPCL to ensure delivery of the ‘free’ LPG cylinders to Ujjwala consumers without affecting the overall supply rate. The three government fuel retailers are delivering 60 lakh cylinders daily, or 15% more than usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-launches-mega-cash-transfer-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/74975904.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||Shashi & team keep city clean||PATNA: At a time when people have stocked up essential commodities, including hand washes and sanitizers, and locked themselves at their homes, Shashi Raj (30) and his team of sanitation workers are busy maintaining cleanliness in the city in a bid to keep coronavirus at bay. Shashi, who supervises a team of 30-35 sanitation workers, said even though they have been told to cover an area of 3km, the radius extends up to 16km as they have to move around several colonies. “Starting from Shivaji Park to Jagdish Sai Hospital via Defence Colony, CA Colony, Rainbow Park, Kankarbagh Thana and Lohia Nagar Park, we move around several colonies and roads to do the sanitation work,” he said. Shashi starts his work at 6am and continues till 2pm. “On certain days, we work till 6pm and get meal once at 1pm. These days, several meetings are held for creating awareness about Covid-19 pandemic. However, we have been using the same masks and gloves since the last 10 days,” he said. Shashi is now the only bread earner in the family as the others are unable to go to work due to the lockdown. “I have two brothers, who work in private firms. However, they are on leave without pay due to the lockdown. Hence, I work day and night to run the family,” he said. He lamented that even though sanitation workers are risking their lives by performing duty amid coronavirus outbreak, they are not being recognised by the government unlike health workers, doctors and police personnel. “The government should look at the work we do for the welfare of the society. There are only few people who are risking their lives for others and we are definitely one of them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shashi-team-keep-city-clean/articleshow/74972779.cms||Archi Rani
April 4, 2020||Patna||First four test reports found negative at DMCH||DARBHANGA: The report of four samples tested on the first day at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for Covid-19 were found negative. Accordingly, the four patients, who were admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital, were discharged on Friday. The testing facility for Covid-19 virus at DMCH was made functional on Thursday and 40 more samples were received for tests on Friday. Altogether 23 samples came from Purnia, 11 from Madhepura and six from DMCH on Friday. Officials said the testing centre has the capacity to test 12 samples at a time and remaining samples are kept in kits for the next slot. As per the prescribed guidelines for conducting the tests, results are first to be communicated to India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state health department and then the hospital from where samples have been received. DMCH officials said the commencement of testing facility at the hospital has proved beneficial for suspected cases from Mithilanchal and Seemanchal belt, as their reports can come within 10 hours. Earlier, the results of Covid-19 tests used to come after 24 hours. Ten suspected patients, whose samples were sent to Patna on Wednesday, were also released on Friday, after their reports were negative. DMCH superintendent Dr R R Prasad said, “Stay of suspected patients will reduce with timely testing and this will further reduce the expenditure in keeping such patients in the hospital. All seven floors of the BSc Nursing Hostel located on the premises of DMCH have been converted into isolation wards. A flue corner has also been set up in the hospital, from where, suspected patients are forwarded to the hospital for testing, after initial screening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-four-test-reports-found-negative-at-dmch/articleshow/74973045.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||Nearly 50% foreign returnees yet to be traced||PATNA: Several hundred people, who recently returned to Bihar from foreign countries, are yet to be traced for mandatory Covid-19 test as directed by the state health department. According to data shared by state chief secretary Deepak Kumar, out of 3,500 people, who have returned from abroad, only 1,650 have been traced so far for the test. As per the data shared by state chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Wednesday, state had got a list of around 3500 such people who came from foreign countries and need to be screened for Covid-19. A health department official, seeking anonymity, said they were facing problems in tracing the foreign returned natives. “Some have changed their address, others have changed their contact numbers and in a few cases we have just got the passport number and have to find out the details,” the official said. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar on Friday said, “More than 50% of such people have been traced. We have got the list from the bureau of immigration and it is of people, who came to India with Bihar's address in their passport. It is not necessary that they came to Bihar too,” said Sanjay. On March 29, the health department came up with a fresh directive to not just screen but test for coronavirus all those who have come to Bihar March 18 onwards in reverse order, starting from March 22. Earlier, only screening was being done and only those who were symptomatic were tested for Covid-19. But after this fresh directive, state has been able to trace 11 Covid-19 positive foreign-returnees in three days, majority of them have returned from the Middle-East. Many, in fact, were asymptomatic but tested positive for the virus. Sanjay Kumar said to date they have traced those who entered Bihar till March 20. “Today we are tracing those who came here on March 18 and 19,” he added. Meanwhile, a fresh list of 394 people, who were present at Nizamuddin during the religious congregation, has been provided to the state government for verification. A senior police officer said, “The fresh list doesn’t mention the names of the people under surveillance. Only mobile numbers have been provided to us to trace them,” adding, of the 394, only 345 were from Bihar. The list has been prepared on the basis of location of tower of the mobiles on the particular day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nearly-50-foreign-returnees-yet-to-be-traced/articleshow/74972944.cms||Ramashankar
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||Fire brigade officials, cops at loggerheads||RAJKOT: Rajkot Fire Brigade personnel had threatened to go on a strike on Friday after the two wheeler of one of their staffers was detained by the officials of Aji Dam police station on Thursday night. Police had allegedly detained the vehicle belonging to Sajid Makwana, who serves as the driver of an ambulance with the Rajkot Fire Brigade. After completing his duty, Makwana was returning back his residence in Kothariagam on the outskirts of Rajkot on his two wheeler when the cops stopped him and detained his bike as Makwana allegedly did not have the papers of the vehicle. After Makwana complained to his department on Friday, his fellow colleagues got angry and said they would go on a strike to protest against this incident. “However, we realized our mistake and requested Makwana to take his bike back. We assured the fire brigade personnel that such incident would not reoccur, after which the anger of staffers in the fire brigade subsided and they called off their decision to go for strike,” said an official from Aji Dam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-brigade-officials-cops-at-loggerheads/articleshow/74974777.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Birlas donate Rs 500 crore to fight virus||Mumbai: Aditya Birla Group has contributed Rs 500 crore towards Covid-19 relief measures, of which Rs 400 crore will be towards the PM CARES Fund. SBI also said it will donate Rs 100 crore to the PM’s fund. The bank’s employees will contribute two days’ salary. Of the balance of the Birla group’s relief initiative, a grant of Rs 50 crore has been made to Ficci-Aditya Birla CSR Centre for Excellence, while another Rs 50 crore is going towards supply of 1 million N95 masks, 2.8 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) as well as ventilators. Rajashree Birla, chairperson of the Aditya Birla Centre for Community Initiatives and Rural Development, said, “Given the severity of the disruption, there is a compelling need for a multi-pronged response that includes financial and material support, healthcare assistance and community responsibility.” Crop protection products manufacturer UPL too has pledged Rs 75 crore to the PM CARES Fund, in addition to providing PPE units to help with the safety of the frontline healthcare and sanitisation personnel. UPL said it is also supplementing the government efforts by engaging 200 modern mechanical spraying machines (Falcons) and 225 staff members to assist local administrations in spraying disinfectant at various public and private spaces like hospitals, streets, police stations and railway stations. Employees of defence PSU Bharat Electronics (BEL) have contributed one day’s salary amounting to Rs 2.7 crore to the PM’s fund. The company itself has contributed Rs 10 crore. Siemens India has committed Rs 20 crore towards providing critical medical care equipment such as ventilators & analysers to several healthcare facilities across India, and 40,000 PCR test kits to be delivered to Indian Council of Medical Research. The money will also be used to set up a test lab at the National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar, Haryana, which is converting an 800-bed hospital into a Covid-19 critical care centre, create isolation units at select Siemens’ facilities, and support migrant and temporary workers. Palo Alto Networks CEO Nikesh Arora tweeted about setting up a Covid relief fund. He said the company’s management and board would contribute $4 million. He also said the company would give four times the amount employees contribute. “Foregoing salary to contribute,” he tweeted. Aditya Birla Group said, given that Covid-19 presents an unprecedented challenge to the nation, this crisis calls for an even stronger and concerted action from corporate citizens to join the national effort and help the government in the fight against the pandemic. The group is also activating a 100-bed Covid-19 facility at Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai, in partnership with BMC. This initiative is being spearheaded by Neerja Birla. It has also earmarked more than 200 beds for Covid-19 patients across locations including Ujjain, Pune, Hazaribagh, Rayagada, Solapur and Kharach. The group has also commenced production of 1 million triple-layer surgical masks and 1 lakh coverall garments with the support of the textiles ministry. Besides, it is involved in community and self-help groups in home production of lakhs of masks across several locations. UPL said it has kept on standby the premises of its educational institutions like Gyan Dham School and Sandra Shroff Rofel College of Nursing, in Vapi, with necessary arrangements to operate them as quarantine centres when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birlas-donate-rs-500-crore-to-fight-virus/articleshow/74975504.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||10-yr yield up on high govt debt plan||Mumbai: Yields in the government bond market have started rising again as bond dealers fear an increase in government borrowing to finance the stimulus packages and other expenses due to the spreading coronavirus pandemic. As a result of the extra outgo, they feel the actual borrowing is likely to overshoot the planned one, according to the calendar announced on Tuesday, market players said. On Friday, the first day of trading in the bond market since the borrowing calendar was announced, the benchmark 10-year yield shot up to 6.32% from 6.14% on Tuesday and closed at 6.30%. Since bond yields and their prices are inversely related, the prices of government bonds fell on the first day of trading in the new fiscal. As the benchmark is one of the main determinants for lending rates by banks, rising yields are not very comforting for both lenders and businesses. On Tuesday, the government said that it would borrow Rs 7.8 lakh crore through gilt auctions in fiscal 2021, and an additional Rs 1.4 lakh crore through treasury bills. Of the total borrowing through bonds, 62.6% — or about Rs 4.9 lakh — is planned in the first half. All these plans are in line with the borrowing trend in the past few years, bond dealers said. In comparison to the government’s Rs 4.9-lakh-crore borrowing, in the next three months, the government will also repay gilts worth nearly Rs 1.4 lakh crore, RBI data showed. This should keep the rising yield under check, at least till June, bond dealers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/10-yr-yield-up-on-high-govt-debt-plan/articleshow/74975495.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mysterious fire reduces 45 seized vehicles to ashes in Nagpur||NAGPUR: At least 45 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were gutted in a fire at Ajni traffic police zone office near Tukdoiji Cancer Hospital on Friday morning. No casualties were reported and police are clueless about the cause of the fire. According to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) fire and emergency services department officials, the mystery fire broke out around 10.30am in an open space between Ajni police quarter number 5 and traffic zone office. It was brought under control after half an hour of firefighting efforts with the help of water stored in police quarter number 5, traffic zone office and aid of one fire tender. “Though CCTV was installed there, the traffic police could not see footage to ascertain the exact cause of fire,” said senior PI (traffic) Manohar Kotnake, ruling out any foul play. He said an offence would be registered by Ajni police, who will investigate to find out the exact cause of the fire that engulfed around four dozens of seized vehicles parked on the premises. As the seized vehicles were parked closed to each other, these quickly caught fire and the flames spread to the vehicles. Most vehicles — two wheelers and two autorickshaws — were completely gutted. However, most of the burnt vehicles had been gathering dust in the traffic police zone since 2016 and were reduced to scrap already. The senior PI said the damaged vehicles were confiscated and parked at the zone office by the traffic police in connection with various violations, mostly people riding two-wheelers under the influence of liquor, as evidence. Occupants of adjoining police quarters expressed anguish over the fire. They claimed that Ajni traffic police zone has reportedly converted a huge open space in the Ajni police quarter colony for dumping seized vehicles. “In the past too, we had raised the issue of confiscated vehicles being cramped on our police quarter premises with the seniors in the police department, but in vain. Had the fire occurred at night, the blaze would have engulfed the adjoining police quarters,” they said. “Currently, over 1,000 seized vehicles are cramped on our campus that also become home for reptiles,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mysterious-fire-reduces-45-seized-vehicles-to-ashes/articleshow/74975152.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||‘Yamraj’ takes a jeep tour of Fala||Rajkot: Yamraj is busy these days. Sitting on the bonnet of a jeep, he’s been visiting Fala, a hamlet 26km away from Jamnagar on the Rajkot-Jamnagar highway, preaching hygiene and scaring people of his newly appointed angels “corona” who he has given the task to take away ‘bad’ humans who violate the lockdown rules. For the 6,000-odd population of this village, this is a primitive attempt at humour for its drone-camera using high-tech villagers, but they are taking Sarpanch Kamlesh Dhamsania’s attempt to tickle them with a clip from 1990s popular Kadar Khan starrer Taqdeerwala’s dialogue, “Yam hai hum!” The village Panchayat tried to send out the ‘stay at home’ message in an innovative way which will also provide them entertainment too, said Sarpanch Dhamsania. “I have seen on the television how police are singing patriotic songs to entertain people locked up inside their homes. I also decided to do something innovative and therefore came up with this idea to pass the information about the spread of coronavirus and also try not to panic them,” he added. Thus, Yam sits on the bonnet and with the traditional demonic laughter addresses the people talking to them about Karma and how bad karma like violating lockdown rules will incur Yamraj’s wrath, who will send his angels named corona to infect them and they will all go to “hell”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/yamraj-takes-a-jeep-tour-of-fala/articleshow/74974713.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||City’s blood banks to run dry from want of donors||Rajkot: While the lockdown has definitely affected lives of people, the worst hit are the blood banks which are facing acute shortage right now. Take the instance of Rajkot Civil Hospital, which had to get 65 bottles of blood all the way from Bhavnagar, around 200km away, to tide over an emergency on Thursday.With the lockdown, blood donation camps have stopped and so has the flow of free blood from such donors. According to rough estimate, blood banks are facing nearly 50 percent blood shortage of blood they require every day. Even with the provision of pick and drop facility for donors, the trickle is too thin to suffice the needs, they rue. There are six blood banks in the city including the civil hospital. According to blood banks managements, Rajkot city requires 90 bottles of blood per day but they are now able to get hold of 45 to 50 bottles only. All planned surgeries are being postponed but the major requirement of the blood is for the thalassaemia patients, dialysis and for pregancy-related treatment. The head of the pathology department of PDU medical college, Gauravi Dhruva said, “We are sending our van to different places, where we collect blood from only 10-12 donors by maintaining lockdown protocols of social distancing and other hygiene. There was a meeting with collector on Friday, in which it has been decided that private blood banks will be allowed to provide pick up and drop facility to the donors.” According to the doctors a woman sometimes require 7-8 bottles (one bottle is one unit) of blood in two three days after delivery, if there is excessive bleeding. In the same manner, in case of cardiac arrest patients too, there is immediate requirement of blood. All the blood banks have joined hands and created thalassaemia Jan Jagruti Abhiyan Samiti to tide over the current situation. Convener of the samiti, D V Mehta said, “While the requirement has been reduced in the past week by 50%, collection of blood has also dropped to 10%. The blood banks now share different areas and collect blood from the donors. We have prepared a sheet towards that purpose and getting registrations of donors through mobile app.” While at the moment all planned surgeries are on hold, after April 15, demand of blood will increase rapidly, he said. President of Rajkot branch of Indian Red Cross Society, Deepak Patel said, “Every month we provide 150 bottles of blood to thalassaemic children. The donors are afraid to come to our banks due to the lockdown and so, we are sending our van to residential societies even if there are only only 10 donors there.” Patel also added that if the situation will not improve soon, we may face acute shortage of the blood. Quality manager of life blood centre, Dr Nishit Vacchani said, “There is requirement between 60 to 80 units of blood every day against which we are being able to manage only 30 to 35 units during the lockdown.” In a late development, education institutions have set a target to collect 5000 bottles of blood in the next 10 days. Syndicate member of Saurashtra University, Mehul Rupani said: “We have set a target to collect 5000 bottles from Saurashtra university campus, self-finance colleges, private universities, government and granted colleges, nursing and physiotherapy colleges and Ayurveda and homeopathy colleges. These blood units will be provided to the blood banks of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/citys-blood-banks-to-run-dry-from-want-of-donors/articleshow/74974631.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 4, 2020||Business||Covid-19: Ex-IL&FS execs get bail||Mumbai: A special lockdown court on Friday granted interim bail to former IL&FS Financial Services chief Ramesh Bawa and VC of IL&FS, Hari Sankaran, who were arrested last year in a fraud case. The court granted them the relief for 75 days in light of the pandemic and said they were to surrender before the expiry of that period. “Considering the medical history of the patient as well as considering the prevailing situation in the country of Covid-19, the temporary bail application is allowed,” judge P R Sitre said. The court also considered their age while granting them temporary bail. The interim bail was granted on a surety of Rs 30,000 each. The court said that they were not to leave the jurisdiction of the court without prior permission and also directed not to threaten witnesses or tamper with the prosecution evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-ex-ilfs-execs-get-bail/articleshow/74975525.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Over 4cr women get Covid-19 payout on day 1||Mumbai: Over 4 crore women Jan Dhan Yojana accountholders have availed a monthly payout of Rs 500 as part of the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana — a relief package in view of the lockdown following the coronavirus outbreak. Over the next few days, the over 20 crore women will receive the same amount as part of the package in their basic bank accounts. To ensure social distancing and a phased withdrawal by the beneficiaries, the ministry said the government has prepared a schedule for withdrawal from banks based on the last digit of the account numbers. Many rural branches had placed markers outside branches to ensure accountholders maintained distancing. While banks said they had made arrangements for orderly withdrawal, there were instances of overcrowding. Some branches also faced pressure because it coincided with pensioners coming to collect their monthly payment. Several public sector banks made the use of business correspondents or ‘bank mitras’ to help disburse the relief amount. “Rural Development Ministry is releasing the lump sum amounts of Rs 500 per woman to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account holders for April 2020 and the same have been credited to the designated accounts of individual banks on April 2, 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/over-4cr-women-get-covid-19-payout-on-day-1/articleshow/74975605.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||Cops ensuring lockdown attacked in Rajkot, Porbandar villages||RAJKOT: Policemen trying to ensure complete lockdown in wake of coronavirus spread are at receiving end of peoples’ anger. Two cops were injured after they were attacked by the people who were caught breaking the coronavirus lockdown order in Rangpar village of Padadhari taluka in Rajkot district and Untadi village of Porbandar taluka in the past 24 hours. A total of six persons including a woman were arrested in the Ranpar incident. In Rangpar village, a group of 10 people hit a constable with Padadhari police station with iron pipes after the cops asked them not to sit on their bikes. “There were five persons stitting on their bikes parked by the roadside in Rangpar village. After they did not pay any heed to the cops’ orders to disperse, the cops started detaining their bikes. At this, they entered into an altercation with them. Soon, the a mob of around 15 gathered at the spot and started attacking the police party,” said M N Rana, inspector with Rajkot rural local crime branch. The constable injured in the attack was identified as Vimal Vekaria (26). Police arrested Dalpat Ratadia, Vashram Dhangia, Punja Ratadia, Shaka Ratadia, Verashi Ratadia and a woman on the complaint of Waqar Arab, assistant sub-inspector with Padadhari police station. Meanwhile in Untadi village of Porbandar taluka, Rohit Dhandhal (25), a constable with Madhupur police station of Porbandar town, was injured after he was pelted with stones by a group of 10 people including four women. “I was in a police jeep when the attack took place. The accused were standing outside their houses, and when we asked them to go inside, they got angry and started pelting stones at us,” said Dhandhal. Police have booked Hari Vaghela, Ajit Vaghela, Bhupat Vaghela, Jesa Vaghela, Bipin Vaghela and five of their unidentified aides for the crime on the complaint of Dhandhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-ensuring-lockdown-attacked-in-rajkot-porbandar-villages/articleshow/74974651.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||CAA-NRC protesters now feeding poor||NAGPUR: Several organizations which had been staging protest against CAA-NRC until the lockdown, are now engaged in relief work in slums areas across the city where the poor are facing hardships. The organizations are daily distributing hundreds of ration kits enough for a family of 4-5 for a week. Some of them are also supplying masks and gloves to police, besides food packets for labourers. According to Dr Anwar Siddiqui, president of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), all of them were earlier fighting for the common man and poor of the country, and even now working for them only. “Those now carrying out the relief work are Taj ka Langar, Asra Foundation, both sects of Jamiat Ulema, Noori Mehfil and others. These were major organizations during the CAA, NRC protests,” he said. Dr Siddiqui said the organizations are collecting donations from Muslim community only but helping all. “We have covered areas like Tajbagh, Pardi, Wanjara as well as shelter homes.” The JIH on its own is distributing 120 ration kits every day, and 1,500 food packets were given to daily wagers. “So far, 600 kits have been given to needy families,” he said. Jamiat Ulema Nagpur district (Arshad Madani) president Masood Ahmed said that 450 ration kits containing grains, cereals, grams, spices, onions, sugar and tea packs were distributed in slum areas. According to Jamiat Ulema Nagpur district (Mehmood Madani) president Siraj Ahmed, since lockdown they have distributed 850 ration kits in Pittesur, Suraj Nagar, Gorewada, Borgaon, Gittikhadan slums, Godhani, Bagdadi Nagar, Manjiri, Yashodara Nagpur, and Chikli. “Each kits has a week’s ration,” he said and added that distribution will be done every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/caa-nrc-protesters-now-feeding-poor/articleshow/74975516.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 76-year-old, 8 others set to be discharged||KOLKATA: A 76-year-old Covid-19 patient who also had several other medical conditions, is likely to be among four patients who will be released from Beliaghata ID Hospital on Saturday. The woman is the oldest Covid-19 patient in Bengal to have recovered. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday indicated that nine patients were on their way to recovery and were likely to be discharged very soon. According to treatment protocol, samples must test negative in consecutive tests conducted within 24 hours. For some of these patients, the results of the second confirmatory tests are expected late on Friday.The septuagenarian from Egra had tested Covid-19 positive on March 28, along with a 56-year-old relative. Both women were relatives of the 66-year-old Nayabad Covid-19 positive patient who died at a private hospital two days ago. All three had attended a wedding in mid-March. Doctors said that despite her age, and multiple pre-existing health conditions, the 76-year-old had mild symptoms from the beginning. When those symptoms started subsiding, the doctors decided to send her swab sample for a test. It came back negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. “Her symptoms were not severe and she responded well to the treatment without getting any kind of complications despite the age and co-morbid conditions,” said a doctor at ID Hospital. The 22-year-old London-returned management student from Ballygunge, his family’s 20-year-old domestic help and a 55-year-old Alipore resident are among the four patients likely to be discharged on Saturday. Doctors are also hopeful of discharging more patients soon as many have tested negative for the disease in the first round of testing. “All the Covid-19 patients, including the three children, are doing well. All are recovering uneventfully,” said an official at ID Hospital On March 31, three persons — a 53-year-old businessman, father of the 22-year-old expected to be released on Saturday, a 23-year-old Habra resident and a 18-year-old Oxford University student — were released. Among them, the 53-year-old had several co-morbid conditions, including diabetes. The recovery of the 76-year-old East Midnapore woman, however, has brought a cheer among doctors striving to treat the high-risk elderly population. Older people are at a higher risk from the coronavirus infection because of their low immunity level and associated co-morbid conditions, like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney ailment, chronic pulmonary obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and compromised lungs. A few of these patients, now on ventilation, were admitted to hospitals with problems of pneumonia. Incidentally, the 66-year-old Nayabad resident, a former Coal India employee, who died on Wednesday was infected in the same cluster. He was put on anti-retroviral drugs used in the treatment for HIV. “The treatment regime for the elderly is the same as that of adults. But due to lower immunity and pre-existing conditions, treating them becomes trickier. Though all of them might not need ventilation support, we need to put in extra effort as some of them might develop multi-organ failure,” said Susruta Bandyopadhayay, critical care specialist at AMRI Hospitals, Salt Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/76-year-old-8-others-set-to-be-discharged/articleshow/74975157.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No arrest yet for attack on doctors, cops in Munger||PATNA: No one has been arrested for attacking doctors, paramedics and policemen at Hasratganj under Kasimbazaar police station in Munger district on Wednesday when they tried to take six persons of the locality for isolating them as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Four named and more than 100 unknown persons had been made accused in the FIR in this connection. A senior police officer, preferring anonymity, said the entry and exit points of lane number 15 of Hasratganj were sealed because a Covid-19 positive person belonged to that area. “An 8-year-old girl, who was neighbour of the Covid-19 patient, had also died there. Her body was buried with utmost precaution. On Wednesday, the team had reached Hasratganj to actually take her parents and four siblings to an isolation centre when people of the locality attacked the docs and cops,” he said. He said the positive patient is an ambulance driver, who had taken the man from Munger to Patna for treatment. “That patient had died at NMCH before his test report tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. The officer said the driver’s two children, his wife and mother had already been isolated. Meanwhile, in Madhubani, two more were arrested on Thursday in connection with the attack on police team near a mosque under Andhrathadhi police station for urging people to maintain social distancing. SHO Amrit Lal said six persons had been arrested and raids were on to nab the other accused. “It seems the incident was pre-planned as large number of stones and bricks were kept there. Someone had intentionally informed authorities about the gathering,” Lal said, adding 40 persons were named accused in the FIR lodged in this connection. Lal said Madna panchayat mukhiya’s husband Mohammad Kamru Zaman was the mastermind of the incident. He is evading arrest. He said four women and two male constables were injured in the attack. In Nawada, police had so far arrested four persons, namely Mohammad Islam, his brother Mohammad Ehsaan, Islam’s son Mohammad Sonu and one Mohammad Guddan for attacking a police team at Mansagar Patori village under Rupoh police station on March 25 night. SHO Santosh Kumar said 36 persons were named accused. “Raids are on to nab others. We had asked people assembled outside their homes to either go inside or maintain social distance.While returning, we were attacked. Islam was the mastermind. They had also attempted to snatch our weapons but some elderly villagers intervened,” the SHO said, adding four policemen, including himself, were injured in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-arrest-yet-for-attack-on-docs-cops-in-munger/articleshow/74973009.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Speed up transfer of Rs 1,000 to ration card holders, said CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the state government officials to accelerate the speed of transferring Rs 1,000 in the bank accounts of the ration card holders. As per the government decision, Rs 1,000 was being transferred in the bank accounts of ration card holders under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) as part of the state government’s move to minimize the miseries of poor people in the wake of nationwide lockdown. While holding a meeting with the top officials to review his government’s steps taken in the wake of Covid-19, Nitish further asked the officers to also expedite the work of seeding of Aadhaar number with each ration card to ensure hassle-free transfer of money in the beneficiary bank accounts. He also asked them for accelerating the speed of testing of suspect cases of coronavirus at different testing centres in the state. “Testing of all those suspects who have returned from other countries should be done on a priority basis,” the CM said. Earlier, chief secretary Deepak Kumar briefed the CM about the steps being taken by different departments to minimize the miseries of poor people and migrant workers in the wake of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speed-up-transfer-of-1000-to-ration-card-holders-nitish/articleshow/74972737.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: Flyers reluctant to book tickets||PATNA: Even as airlines have started accepting online bookings for domestic flights after April 14, the response of flyers is far from satisfactory. People are so scared of coronavirus that even lower airfares on different routes have failed to enthuse them. While a trip from Delhi to Patna from April 18 till May 31 will cost only Rs 1,900-Rs 2,100 per passenger, the average airfare on Delhi-Patna route is between Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,000, according to travel websites. Similarly, the airfare on Patna-Mumbai route has come down to Rs 3,384 post lockdown period. Aviation experts said people are refraining from booking flight tickets fearing extension of lockdown and further spread of coronavirus. “Even though we are not able to track the number of bookings as they are being made online, we have received several emails regarding queries,” a SpiceJet executive at Patna airport said. Travel agents said people are mainly making queries about resumption of flight services. “Most enquiries are from businessmen and students,” said Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, owner of a travel agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flyers-reluctant-to-book-tickets/articleshow/74972709.cms||Archi Rani
April 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gaya doctor quarantined for 14 days||GAYA: A doctor deputed in the Covid-19 ward of the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) has been quarantined for 14 days in a designated hotel in Bodh Gaya. In another development, three of the four corona patients admitted to ANMMCH have been shifted to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna. ANMMCH superintendent Dr Vijay Krishna Prasad confirmed the quarantine of the doctor and shifting of three patients to NMCH, Patna. The patients shifted to Patna are the first three positive cases reported in Gaya. They are from the same family comprising the ward boy of a Patna-based private hospital, a resident of Paharpur area on the southern outskirts of the town. A fourth Covid-19 patient is a woman living in the Gurudwara Road locality, who recently returned from Dubai. Meanwhile, gearing up for any emergency, the district administration, on Friday acquired three Bodh Gaya hotels to notify them as quarantine centres. The hotels are Sidharth International, Hotel Delta and Imperial Hotel. Besides these hotels, Bhutipalo Hospital and Meditation Centre has also been identified as a backup facility to quarantine Covid-19 suspects. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh and SSP Rajiv Mishra on Friday inspected the proposed quarantine centres and directed the hotel management to follow the protocol and ensure that the hotel towels are not used. Meanwhile, one new suspect was admitted to the isolation ward of the ANMMCH. With this, the total number of suspects has gone up to 94. Four of the inmates have tested positive. Report is awaited in respect of 18 isolation ward inmates. The inmates who tested negative have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-doctor-quarantined-for-14-days/articleshow/74972918.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Youth offers Rs 2 lakh bounty on Facebook to kill Darbhanga DM||PATNA: Darbhanga district magistrate SM Thiagarajan has received a threat on his official Covid-19 Facebook page where he had made an appeal to people, who had returned from coronavirus affected places, to voluntarily come for testing. The threat was posted by a youth identified as Mohammad Faisal, who wrote in one of his comments on the DM’s Facebook post announcing a bounty of Rs 2 lakh to anyone who shoots the DM. “Jo Darbhanga DM ko goli marega main usko do lakh inaam dunga,” he wrote in Hindi roughly translating to “Whoever kills the Darbhanga DM will receive Rs 2 lakh from me.” Earlier this week, a Rohtas youth was arrested from Ludhiana in Punjab for posting a similar threat on his social media profile where he had announced a Rs 25 lakh reward for killing CM Nitish Kumar. “The district police have been informed and they are investigating it to trace the person who made the comment. An FIR is being lodged. It may be possible that the person is a mentally unstable,” the Darbhanga DM told TOI over phone. He added, “The post on which the comment was made related to creating awareness among people on Covid-19.” The DM had appealed to residents of Darbhanga through a post on his official Facebook page to for medical testing if they had come from abroad after March 18, or from outside the state in the past few days. He had also mentioned that those who had been associated with the Tablighi Jamaat living in town area would be medically screened by a district-level team and would be quarantined after a door-to-door survey. Darbhanga Sadar SDPO Anoj Kumar said, “Efforts are on to trace the youth who had made the comment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-offers-rs-2l-bounty-on-fb-to-kill-darbhanga-dm/articleshow/74972900.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Startup makes face shields for DK’s rural hospitals||Mangaluru: Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the biggest concern the world over has been the supply of personal protection equipment (PPE) and masks for front line warriors fighting this disease. In India, the government on several occasions has been quick to convert public health centres and nursing homes into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, within a short span. This has left doctors and healthcare workers, especially in rural areas,worried, as many of them are not able to procure N95 masks. This lockdown period has prompted Fracktal Works, a Bengaluru based startup, centered on 3D printer manufacturing and product development, incubated at Manipal Institute of Technology (MAHE) in 2015, to study the problem and contribute towards helping health workers. The Fracktal Works core team, including co-founders Vijay Raghav Varada and Rohit Asil, who are MIT alumni, and Raghav Sridhar from Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, who have collaborated with Vaibhav Hegde, founder Hatch Bengaluru, along with other entrepreneurs, to produce face shields primarily for healthcare professionals serving in rural areas. The first consignment of 600 face shields will be donated to the doctors serving in 88 rural hospitals in the coastal belt. Rohit Asil said: “Two weeks ago, we were speaking to a few doctors, and trying to assess how we can be of use during this hour of need. Our general business is shut. We looked at the 3D printing industries world over, and are now producing face shields and auxiliary components. We intensified our research after speaking to doctors,” he said. The team decided to produce face shields after an interaction with a doctor from Dakshina Kannada. The doctor, from a rural health centre, was assigned the duty to check on quarantined patients every day. His worry was not about him contracting the virus due to lack of equipment, but was about the hospital not having a doctor to treat him, in the possibility that he himself tested positive for Covid-19. “This was a powerful statement, and a turning point, which enabled us to quickly research the problem on why we should capitalise on shields instead of masks. A mask does not cover the eyes, which are a gateway for pathogens. The culture of wearing goggles is not popular in India, even in private hospitals. A face shield would add an extra layer of protection, which was also suggested by World Health Organisation (WHO), Center for Disease Control and Prevention, US, as well as other international agencies, and would help prolonging the use of N-95 masks,” said Raghav Sridhar. They intend to reach out to 88 public health centres in the coastal belt. A crowdfunding campaign was launched on Sunday. Within 10 hours, they reached the target of Rs 1.5 lakh, to produce 1,000 face shields. Overwhelmed with the response, they extended the target to Rs 2.5 lakh to produce 1,500 face shields, and right now the campaign is aiming to collect Rs 5 lakh for 3,000 face shields. “These face shields will be donated to specific hospitals that are away from cities, where there are no proper logistics, are difficult to reach and there are less doctors. We have also received calls from Gwalior, where a small nursing home has been converted into a Covid-19 relief centre. The face shields will be shipped by Tuesday,” said Rohit. The 3D printer was used to make the first 500 face shields. They have now shifted to injection moulding. The current capacity is to produce 5,000 face shields per day, in case we receive funding, he said. Fracktal works are willing to produce more face shields if they receive funding from the state government. PC: Fractal Works team with face shields produced by them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/startup-makes-face-shields-for-dks-rural-hospitals/articleshow/74973069.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 4, 2020||Patna||May 15 deadline for drain cleaning work||PATNA: Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal inspected several drains in the city on Friday amid coronavirus outbreak and asked the agencies concerned to complete the pre-monsoon drain cleaning work by May 15. He also asked the officials to use drones to monitor the flow of water in the drains in inaccessible areas. Learning a lesson from unprecedented waterlogging in the city last year, Agarwal asked Patna municipal commissioner to prepare an action plan for cleaning of all drains by May 15. He also asked the officials concerned to ensure proper maintenance and repair of sump houses. “Thorough assessment of the present condition of the drainage network should be made so that corrective measures can be taken on time,” Agarwal said. The divisional commissioner also instructed the agencies concerned, including Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), to ensure that the waste material collected from the drains do not pile on the roads. Agarwal, who inspected two nullahs at Mandiri and Rajiv Nagar, found that waste water was not flowing smoothly. The embankments of the nullahs have been protected with sand bags and water is being drained out with the help of four pipes. At Rajiv Nagar Nullah, cleaning work has already been initiated. Agarwal ordered removal of illegal bamboo bridges (chachari pul). He asked the officials concerned to remove soil from some places along the drains in order to widen them. Agarwal also asked the officials concerned to ensure cleaning and repair of manholes and catchpits before the advent of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/may-15-deadline-for-drain-cleaning-work/articleshow/74972985.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Eight peacocks found dead in Dhari farm||RAJKOT: Four peacocks and as many peahens were found dead in a private farm of Dhari taluka in Amreli district on Friday. The forest department suspects that the birds were poisoned and have registered an offence under the Wildlife Protection Act. The forest team was informed about the carcasses of the birds in a firm in Morzar revenue area of Dhari round of Gir-east division. There were four peacocks and as many peahen of whom one is adult and others are sub-adults. Talking to TOI, chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) DT Vasavada said, “Postmortem confirmed that they were poisoned. We are investiging if they were intentionally killed or accidentally died after drinking water mixed with pesticide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-peacocks-found-dead-in-dhari-farm/articleshow/74974782.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||IndusInd promoters seek stake hike||Mumbai: IndusInd Bank said its promoters — IndusInd International Holdings — have sought permission from the RBI to increase their holding in the lender to 26% even as ratings agency Moody’s warned of a downgrade. “On a fully diluted basis the promoters of the bank have a holding of 14.68%, which is very close to the current regulatory cap of 15%,” the bank said in a statement to stock exchanges. IndusInd Bank’s statement comes at time its shares have been hammered in the stock exchanges. The bank’s scrip closed 8.5% down at Rs 313. At current prices, shares of the bank are down 82% from its 52-week-high of Rs 1,822. At current market prices, a 10% stake in the bank is worth a little over Rs 2,200 crore. Earlier this year, the RBI allowed Kotak Mahindra Bank’s promoters to hold a higher stake than it had earlier after the lender agreed to cap promoters’ voting rights. Responding to reports the bank was looking to raise capital from private equity investors, the lender said, “As a policy, we do not comment on market speculation. The bank is well capitalised with tier-1 ratio of 15% and capital adequacy ratio of 15.43%. There is no specific transaction under consideration by the board of the bank at this stage,” it said. The bank added it was committed to evaluate alternatives from time to time that may benefit its stakeholders. Meanwhile, Moody’s on Friday placed IndusInd Bank’s ratings under review for downgrade and cut its outlook on ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and IDBI Bank by a notch due to asset quality concerns in the current challenging times. The ratings agency also affirmed the deposit ratings of ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and IDBI Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indusind-promoters-seek-stake-hike/articleshow/74975621.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Police hit boy for defying lockdown||Secunderabad: A video of a mother asking police to not hit her son has surfaced on social media. The video was shot when a family of three were allegedly travelling on a bike, violating lockdown norms. They were stopped at Malkajgiri after which a tiff ensued between the family and police. “They were asked to stop at Moula Ali checkpost as three people were travelling on a two-wheeler. But when the rider did not stop, a cop used the lathi to stop them,” said a cop from Malkajgiri police station. In the video, the woman is seen trying to stop officers from taking her son into the police van. According to police, when a constable hit the boy with lathi, the family attacked him. “The officer sustained injuries on his hands and fingers,” added the official.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-hit-boy-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/74975510.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Rajkot||Palanpur transporter ends life||Palanpur: A man in Palanpur town of Banaskantha district allegedly committed suicide inside the house on Friday. The man Vinod Chorasiya, who was a native of Palanpur, hanged himself to death, police sources said. Police and district administration officials said that Chorasiya was asked to stay in home quarantine after he returned from Morbi. However, the 14-day home quarantine period had ended 4-5 days ago and the primarily it looks that he committed suicide due to some other reasons, said police."Chorasiya was engaged in transport business and lived in Palanpur. However, he was a frequent visitor to Morbi for business purposes. His home quarantine period had also ended many days ago," said VD Zala, police inspector, Palanpur.Zala said preliminary questioning of neighbours points to domestic squabble, but detailed investigation is still on. His body was sent for postmortem at Palanpur Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/palanpur-transporter-ends-life/articleshow/74974679.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: IRCTC begins online booking of train tickets||PATNA: Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), which handles online railway ticket operations, started its online bookings services earlier this week for both mail and express trains for April 14 onwards after the lockdown ends Though booking of tickets at railway counters is still not being done. Officials said that though most of the bookings are being done for Patna-New Delhi and Patna-Mumbai but berths are available in many trains on all routes. Railways has cancelled movements of all long distance mail, express and passenger trains from March 22 till April 14 following the nationwide lockdown. Siddharth Singh, PRO, at the New Delhi headquarters of IRCTC said, “Any passenger can now book his or her online journey tickets for mail and express trains running from April 15 onwards. However, in the given situation, everything will depend on the advisory of the Railway Board, whether it will be feasible for railways to restore train services from April 15 or not.” ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said that no advisory or directive has come so far from the Railways Board, whether train services will be restored from April 15 onwards. “ECR continues to shut all its passenger reservation system (PRS) counters in all five divisions and journey tickets are not being issued from any PRS counters falling under the ECR jurisdiction,” he said. Sources on the other hand said that railways is likely to face a tough task to provide confirmed berths to passengers in Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Pune and Mumbai-bound trains from Patna and elsewhere in Bihar after lockdown ends. “Most people, who had returned in panic following Covid-19 pandemic, may find it difficult to get confirmed berths if there is a sudden rush. However, journey by trains has of late proved more potent for passengers to get exposed to infection. Thus, railways will review overall situation first before restoring train services after lockdown,” a Railways Board official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irctc-begins-online-booking-of-train-tickets/articleshow/74972676.cms||Kumod Verma
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Building plan poses problem, move to turn Medical College into Covid-19 treatment unit shelved||KOLKATA: The state has shelved its plan to set up 300 isolation beds at Medical College Hospital’s new superspeciality building after the G+8 structure with central air-conditioning and huge glass windows posed a challenge in creating negative-pressure rooms, which are required to treat patients with airborne infectious diseases.  The MCH will now have a 15-bed critical care unit (CCU) with ventilation support for critical Covid-19 patients. According to health department officials, the MCH plan did not fit in with the WHO and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) stipulations for Airborne Infection Isolation (AII) rooms, also called negative-pressure rooms. The officials said it was also explored whether breaking down the glass panes would help in creating ventilation. However, this idea was dropped after doctors pointed out that working in heavy PPEs for long hours without central air-conditioning may pose a practical challenge. Breaking windows, experts said, would necessitate a longer time-frame for repairs. This, however, was only part of the problem. The more significant issue was disposal of bio-medical waste. “Donning and doffing of PPEs is also critical in such facilities. There is a protocol on how to wear the PPEs and their subsequent disposal, for which specific units must be earmarked. Since the new building wasn’t designed for infectious disease treatment, attending doctors, nurses and other staff would have had to take the stairs to reach the units. This would have posed a risk of infection to others,” a source said. In successive meetings, experts were also informed about some other problems. Though some non-critical patients at MCH were discharged on March 24 and 25, to discharge all patients and accommodate those needing medical attention to other hospitals was a problem, sources said. “Firstly, all medical college and hospitals are scaling up their isolation facilities. Given the situation, it would be logistically impossible to immediately shift a few hundred patients to these hospitals. Secondly, discharging patients would require an approval from the attending doctors, which may differ from case to case,” a doctor said. It was also pointed out that MCH is situated in a congested locality, which may pose law-and-order challenges given the amount of fear the disease has generated among people.  “Considering all these issues, the state has decided to put on hold the proposal to covert MCH into a 300-bed Covid-19 hospital. But to make use of the expertise of the medical staff in MCH, a separate CCU is being set up,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/building-plan-poses-problem-move-to-turn-med-col-into-ncov-treatment-unit-shelved/articleshow/74975165.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 4, 2020||Business||Hero Motocorp incurs of Rs 200 crore expense per month during lockdown||CHENNAI: Hero Motocorp is incurring an ‘expense’ of Rs 200 crore per month during the Covid-19 lockdown.  The company will however not cut workforce but will put its capacity expansion and other expenses on hold to tide over the current crisis. Its chief financial officer (CFO) Niranjan Gupta said, “With the country under lockdown, there are no dispatches currently. To keep the basic facilities and operations running, therefore, we incur certain expenses, which are not more than Rs 200 crore per month. We will defer some of the planned expenses such as capacity expansion.” Hero Motocorp’s current liquidity “is at a level of Rs 4000 crore although our reserves are much higher,” said Gupta. “Being a debt-free company for several years and with a robust balance sheet, we are better placed than many others to weather this situation,” he said. The company also disbursed the full salaries for the month to all contractual workers. Among the expansions that could be deferred is the expansion spend on the company’s new factory in Andhra Pradesh. Hero MotoCorp lined up capex of Rs 1,500 crore in FY19-20 on the new plant and on upgrading its range to BS6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hero-motocorp-incurs-of-rs-200-cr-expense-per-month-during-lockdown/articleshow/74975055.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Day after father’s death, daughter discharged||VADODARA: Second Covid-19 positive patient in Vadodara has been discharged from the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital. The 27-year-old female, who was admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital on March 21, was discharged late on Friday night by the hospital authorities after re-test of her samples tested negative of COVID-19. The female is daughter of the 52-year-old male Covid-19 positive patient who had succumbed to the virus infection early on Thursday morning. Her father had traveled to Sri Lanka as part of a group. But the female, who was not part of the group, had got infected after coming in close contact with other members of her family. Three other family members are still admitted at the hospital. Their condition is stable. It is second instance where a coronavirus patient in Vadodara got discharged after recovery. Earlier, a NRI-based in Spain was discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/day-after-fathers-death-daughter-discharged/articleshow/74974859.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Special squads raid 3 premises for unfair trade practices||NAGPUR: The flying squads comprising five agencies of the state government, along with the crime branch, on Friday raided three premises where alleged unfair trade practices with essential commodities were under way. The combined team consisting officials from public distribution system (PDS), Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), weights and measurement and consumer protection cell, along with unit no. two of crime branch, raided a shop at Poonam Mall and seized 37 bottles of hand sanitizers. The sanitizers were being sold at rates more than what the state government has decided. An offence was registered against the manager of the shop at Bajaj Nagar police station. The team also raided a medical shop at Dattawadi where products were sold with manipulated weights. Later, the team seized around 65 tins of refined soyabean oil worth more than Rs1.16 lakh from a shop in Mirchi Bazar at Itwari. Apart from the flying squad, Koradi police too registered an offence against Ramesh Suje for spreading rumours about his coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. Suje, working under a contractor at Koradi thermal power station, created panic in the company stating that his relative, with whom his three-year-old daughter was staying, has been tested positive. He triggered panic after his relative tried to share an ‘April fool’s’ joke with him stating that his wife too was tested positive for Covid-19 after coming in contact with the confirmed patient at Jaripatka. In the daylong action to de-congest roads, city police registered 169 cases for violating order of section 144 and also other offences related to restrictions imposed due to coronavirus outbreak. Traffic police have decided to propose cancellation of registrations and licence of the owners whose vehicles would be seized during checking for flouting the norms. On Friday, traffic police, under DCP Vikram Sali, registered offences against 73 vehicle owners and also seized 73 bikes, two cars and equal number of trucks. Sali said they are keeping a close watch on the city roads through 3,500 CCTV cameras and action is being initiated on the basis of manual checking against the ones found violating rules through the captured footage. Zonal DCP Neelotpal said he has stepped up announcements at the slums to create awareness among the residents. City police continued efforts to reach out to the needy with food packets and ration kits at different places through NGOs and ‘police kitchen’ based at crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spl-squads-raid-3-premises-for-unfair-trade-practices/articleshow/74975435.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||RBI halves market hours for forex, government securities||MUMBAI: The RBI has restricted operating hours for all the markets that it regulates from 10am to 2pm until April 17. The shorter hours will not impact retail bank customers as all their regular banking services — including Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) and e-Kuber facilities — will continue to be available according to extant timings. The move, which will result in halving the trading hours in forex, government securities (Gsecs) and money markets, is expected to help the RBI manage volatility and maintain orderly conditions in these markets. They are usually operational between 9am to 5pm. These markets include trading in commercial papers and certificates of deposits. “The unprecedented situation created by the Covid-19 outbreak has necessitated lockdowns, social distancing, restrictions on the movement of people and non-essential activities, work-from-home arrangements and business continuity plans. The resultant dislocations have adversely impacted the functioning of financial markets,” the RBI said in a statement. The central bank said that the reduced hours were needed because staff and IT resources have been severely affected, posing operational and logistic risks. “The thinning out of activity is impacting market liquidity and increasing volatility of financial prices. To minimise these risks and to ensure that market participants maintain adequate checks and supervisory controls, while optimising thin resources and ensuring safety of personnel, it has been decided to revise trading hours for various markets,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-halves-mkt-hours-for-forex-gsecs/articleshow/74975464.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Besides food, slums also get sanitizers, hand washing booth||NAGPUR: Khushal Dhak has dedicated his life to teaching and grooming drug addict and underprivileged children from city’s slum areas. Now, he is also lending a helping hand in raising awareness about cleanliness and distributing daily need items in shanties of Rahate Nagar Toli, Jogi Nagar, Bheem Nagar etc. He has distributed rice, dal, potatoes, sanitizers, masks and onions to over 400 houses in different slums so far. “I paid from my own pocket to purchase masks, sanitizers, hand wash etc. I took up this initiative right after the first Covid-19 patient was detected in the city. Raising awareness in these backward areas is a must,” said Dhak. Dhak first created awareness among them about the virus and also urged them to stay at home and be safe. “Slum dwellers are not much aware about the risk of exposure to the virus and take it lightly. I am trying to see that they don’t venture out in the gullies or children don’t play outside,” he said. Looking at this efforts, many others too have come forward to lend their support. The Rotary Club has provided rice, dal, vegetables etc in slum areas. Dhak has developed a shower set-up under which can one can stand, press the button and get sanitized with disinfectant made from mixture of natural ingredients like rose water, nilgiri oil and camphor. He installed the set up with the help of others in slum areas. “It’s a good way to keep one clean,” he said. He also came up with an innovative idea for raising awareness about washing hands. He rented a hand washing booth from a decorative item supplier. He took the unit to Bheem Nagar and Jogi Nagar, and demonstrated how to wash hands properly. “When outside, people knowingly or unknowingly touch several things. I kept the unit on the street so that those coming out for some work can clean their hands right there,” he said. The slum area children fondly call him their teacher. So, he considers it his duty to make them aware of the current situation. Now, he plans to install the hand washing booth in other slum areas too and wants to distribute food to more number of people in other slums.  “It is about taking the first step to help the needy,” he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/besides-food-slums-also-get-sanitizers-hand-washing-booth/articleshow/74975482.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Fake Covid-19 information lands man behind bars||LUDHIANA: The police arrested a 22-year-old resident of Janakpuri on Friday afternoon after he called up on 112 police helpline and said that three people have died in Mangli Neechi village due to coronavirus. The information was later found to be false. Ishwar Colony police post in-charge ASI Surjit Singh said, “After receiving the call of Sandeep Bhat, 22, the police investigated the claims and found them to be false. We have lodged an FIR and arrested Sandeep.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fake-covid-19-info-lands-man-behind-bars/articleshow/74974066.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Poaching and trade of jackals rampant: Study||NAGPUR: India’s efforts in countering wildlife crimes have generally focused on large, iconic species. But lesser-known, less-charismatic and relatively abundant species like golden jackals may form a large part of illegal wildlife trade. Another conservation concern is the use of wildlife in religious and superstitious practices. It has given rise to national and international online markets. In a new study, scientists from the Wildlife Conservation Society–India, University of Florida (USA), Ashoka Trust for Ecology & Environment, Wildlife Conservation Trust, National Centre for Biological Sciences, James Cook University (Australia) and Conservation Initiatives find that golden jackals in India are threatened by poaching and trade, driven by religious beliefs in sorcery and superstition. Scientists collected publicly available information from government seizure data, news reports, social media posts, blogs and e-commerce platforms to create a repository of jackal hunting, poaching and trade incidences from 2013 to 2019. The findings revealed that 126 skins, 8 tails, more than 370 jackal horns, 16 skulls and two live jackals were seized by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The analysis brought to light a widespread demand for a talisman that appears to be derived from the jackal skull known as ‘jackal horn’ in English, ‘siyar singhi’ in Hindi and ‘nari kombu’ in Tamil/Kannada/Telugu. The ‘jackal horn’ trade is fuelled by extensive online endorsement and unsubstantiated claims made by religious practitioners. The demand, based on superstitious and ritualistic beliefs, points to a largely ignored threat to India’s wildlife that similarly targets monitor lizards, pangolins, leopards, musk deer, snakes, owls and other species. “Our preliminary assessment is an important first step to understanding the type and nature of poaching threats to a relatively common but often overlooked species. The data base of open source reports could fill knowledge gaps related to the jackal trade in India,” said Malaika Mathew Chawla, the lead author of the study. Co-author Arjun Srivathsa explains, “Many aspects of the trade like demand and supply chains remain unknown and require further investigation and research. The illegal wildlife market, driven by sorcery and superstitious practices, potentially threatens a wide range of rare as well as common wildlife species.” The study titled — ‘Do wildlife crimes against less charismatic species go unnoticed? — a case study of golden jackal poaching and trade in India’ was conducted as part of the Wild Canids – India Project and published in a Journal of Threatened Taxa. The study also showed that jackal meat is consumed by several communities in the north-eastern states and parts of western, central and southern India. Jackal body parts such as head, skin, tail and teeth find use in traditional and cultural practices in southern India and jackal organs are believed to have medicinal properties in Central India. The scientists said poaching and trade of skin, teeth, tail and hair have been documented in media reports from several Indian states. The sale of jackal horn appears to be common place in Indian trade markets as evidenced by advertisements on social media and popular online retail outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poaching-and-trade-of-jackals-rampant-study/articleshow/74975456.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 4, 2020||Business||NBFCs write to FM for 3-month moratorium||MUMBAI: Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have written to the finance minister seeking relief under the three-month moratorium scheme announced by the RBI for businesses that are hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. While borrowers from NBFCs can opt for a three-month moratorium on their loans, banks are not extending the same facility on loans to the finance companies. While the RBI has not barred banks from extending the stay on collecting loan instalments for NBFCs, the Indian Banks Association said finance companies have been kept out of the scheme. The Indian Banks Association in its FAQs for the moratorium said NBFCs, microfinance and housing finance companies are not being considered under the scheme. According to RBI data, bank loans to NBFCs stand at Rs 7.03 lakh crore — an increase of 16% over the previous year. Credit to NBFCs is nearly 8% of overall lending by banks. It pointed out that the RBI has made available financing to banks that invested in bonds issued by well-rated finance companies. The targeted long-term repo operations allowed banks that invested in debt issued by NBFCs obtain cheap funds from the RBI for three years. “Banks will be able to supports NBFCs/MFIs/HFCs under this window and we do not foresee liquidity squeeze for these financial intermediaries,” the IBA said. The Finance Industry Development Council, an association of finance companies, in a letter to the finance minister said NBFCs are financial intermediaries who borrow from banks and through money market instruments, and has sought the moratorium be applicable on bank loans to NBFCs. The council also said that NBFCs should be allowed to give their borrowers a few months more than the three-month moratorium to pay deferred interest through easier instalments rather than a lump sum.Banks with a large exposure to NBFCs say that a moratorium might be necessitated to avoid a credit freeze to sectors that are being served by non-banks. In the past, there was a demand from finance companies to obtain direct funding from the RBI. Bankers said the purpose of providing indirect support through targeted long-term repo operations was to ensure that only the well-performing NBFCs get the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-write-to-fm-for-3-month-moratorium/articleshow/74975474.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 4, 2020||Patna||Lockdown hits immunization campaign as AES threat looms||PATNA: With immunization drive coming to a halt owing to the health department’s focus on fighting coronavirus, the threat of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) and Japanese Encephalitis (JE) is looming large over the state. A health official associated with immunization drive said the exercise would be expedited after the end of lockdown. “Vaccination was in full swing in the state before the outbreak of coronavirus. We postponed our outreach immunization programme to deal with the present situation. However, children are still vaccinated at our health centres,” the official said. The Union ministry of health and family welfare had asked all the states last week to stop outreach immunization programme. Hence, the campaign for JE vaccination in state was also stopped. Even ‘Global Polio Eradication Initiative’ has stopped door-to-door polio vaccination campaign in the present scenario. However, institutional deliveries, especially for high-risk pregnant women and immunization at health centres are still on. According to a state health department official, the outreach immunization for JE was carried out in 26 districts before the lockdown. “The remaining 12 districts will be covered after the end of lockdown,” the official added. State Health Society (SHS) executive director Manoj Kumar said, “It is not possible for us to carry out immunization campaign under the present circumstances. These vaccines are administered at anganwadi cnetres and schools which are closed.” Another SHS official said JE vaccines were administered to 7.89 lakh children in three vulnerable districts – Muzaffarpur, Vaishali and East Champaran – before the announcement of lockdown. “Over 10.14 lakh children were administered JE vaccine in Sitamarhi and 1.79 lakh in Sheohar,” he added. UNICEF health specialist Dr Syed Hubbe Ali said planning for the left out 12 districts was ready and the vaccination process would start after the situation normalises. Over 150 children had died due to acute encephalitis syndrome in Bihar last year. “AES is a syndrome and JE is part of it. All kids being given JE vaccine may not be protected for AES, but it works in around 35 to 40% cases,” Dr Ali said, adding since door-to-door polio eradication campaign is carried out thrice a year in January, July and December, it will not be affected by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-immunization-campaign-as-aes-threat-looms/articleshow/74972748.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Patient praises facilities at isolation ward||Vadodara: While he is battling the deadly bug, this 56-year-old male is not unmindful of the efficiency of the staff and the facilities that he has been provided with while waging the war against COVID-19. He is the latest who has been declared infected by the deadly COVID-19. The Delhi resident had landed in Vadodara along with his friend who had come from London to undergo ayurveda and yoga treatment at a private facility in the city. But as ill luck would have it, his friend developed fever and was taken to Gotri hospital. “While my friend remained hospitalised, I was shifted to special quarantine facility along with two others who were in my contact,” he said while talking to TOI on Saturday. “Since, my friend requires dialysis three times a week, they have equipped the hospital with dialysis machine, got an RO plant ready and overnight a water pipeline too was put in place to ensure that the dialysis machine functions properly,” said the patient who can’t stop appreciating the hospital staff and the efficiency of the government machinery. “Amid the initial setback with the events that were unfolding rapidly, I was pleasantly surprised and also comforted by the speed and efficiency of the staff and also facilities vailable at the hospital. We were given individual rooms, bedding, toilet accessories similar to any hotel along with proper breakfast, lunch and dinner that was loaded with fruits,” said the man, who is now admitted in the isolation ward of Gotri hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patient-praises-facilities-at-isolation-ward/articleshow/74972785.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||People back PM Narendra Modi’s call to light candles, diyas in Patna||PATNA: People from cross-sections of the society have supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call on Friday for switching off electric appliances and lighting earthen lamps (diyas), candles and mobile phone flashlights at 9pm for nine minutes on April 5 to show unity across the country against the Covid-19 pandemic. Residential societies, shopkeepers, domestic helps and others have decided to add to the strength in the 9-minute activity. Dinkar Chauhan, secretary of a residential society, said he has asked all residents to participate in the candle lighting activity on Sunday. “An announcement was made to the people to stay indoors and follow the directives of PM, while maintaining social distancing,” he said. “Just like the ‘janata curfew’, lighting of lamps and candles will help us prepare for the next few days of the lockdown. Hence, the society members have decided to distribute candles among the residents as we don’t want them to go out to buy anything during the lockdown,” said Shridhar Sharma, secretary of a residential society near Saguna Mor. Residents also said they would stay at home and participate in the activity. Rajan Sinha, a teacher by profession, said this is not just an activity but a way to encourage common people facing the lockdown. “My family and I have decided to stand in the balcony and light candles to show that we are together,” he said. “At this point of time when we have been in the lockdown for around two weeks and have lost motivation, a step like this was required to inspire people into believing that we can fight the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Kankarbagh resident Anup Gaurav, who works at a private firm. Psychologists, on the other hand, said the activity might not cure the disease but will definitely give a ray of hope to the people. Nodal officer and associate professor of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) de-addiction centre, Santosh Kumar, said the nine-minute activity will involve everyone into coming out from the ‘home arrest’ feeling. “More than anything, the act will engage everybody and give a kind of motivation people need,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-from-all-walks-of-life-back-pms-call/articleshow/74972733.cms||Archi Rani
April 4, 2020||Patna||Modi fails to address burning issues: Oppn||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to people to light candles or ‘diya’ on April 5 to display India’s collective resolve to defeat coronavirus evoked sharp reaction from opposition parties in the state on Friday. The RJD said the PM failed to address the country’s burning issues like how to help poor families and migrant workers who have been hit hard due to lockdown in his address. “Modi’s speech disappointed the poor and migrant workers. He did not come up with any plan to help these people. Modi’s speech once again proved that he has neither any vision nor a plan to fight the disaster,” RJD’s national vice-president and former minister Shivanand Tiwari said. Tiwari added the PM should have explained how the poor who generally reside in single-room huts could maintain social distancing, as five to seven people live together in a hut. RJD chief Lalu Prasad elder son Tej Pratap Yadav also took a swipe at the PM. “People can light even a hurricane lantern,” he said. The hurricane lantern, for the record, is the election symbol of RJD. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha said instead of “meaningless” things, the PM should have talked about the Centre’s plan to end the acute shortage of personal protection equipment, surgical kits, masks and ventilators in the hospitals. “He should have also talked about the rehabilitation of the poor and migrant workers,” he said. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said Modi was trying to divert people’s attention from real issues. “The PM should explain to the country as to why he delayed the decision of lockdown by a month. Was it not because his priority was to welcome US President Donald Trump?” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-fails-to-address-burning-issues-oppn/articleshow/74972878.cms||Madan Kumar
April 4, 2020||Patna||60 isolation centres in Patna district: DM Kumar Ravi||PATNA: Altogether 60 isolation centres along with community kitchens are being operated by the district administration and Patna Municipal Corporation in the district to provide two-time meals to the poor and migrant workers amid the lockdown. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said more than 400 persons are staying in 45 such centres in rural areas. “Altogether 6,060 persons were supplied food on Thursday at 15 centres in urban areas alone,” he said. The shelter-cum-community kitchens are located in Government High School at Gardanibagh, College of Commerce, Miller School, Bakipur Girl’s High School, Government High School near Mangal Talab, Government Girl’s Mahavir School at Patna City and some other other places. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Rai said the PMC was running night shelters at Kankarbagh, Mcdowell roundabout, near Science College, Gai Ghat and SK Puri community hall. “Altogether 225 people are there in these shelters,” he said. 4,000 people in Purnia camps, says DM: Over 4,000 people, mostly migrant workers, who returned from other states after March 15, have been kept at isolation camps in Purnia, DM Rahul Kumar said. He said they were identified on the basis of information shared by their neighbours or villagers through phone calls and messages. “Though no Covid-19 positive case has been identified till date, the administration has made all preventive arrangements both in urban and rural areas for supply of essential items, medicines, sanitisers, masks and soaps,” the DM said. In other measures, members under Jeevika programme have prepared 35,000 masks. Prisoners in the Purnia jail have also made about 20,000 masks in a week, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/60-isolation-centres-in-patna-district-dm/articleshow/74972806.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Sensex dives 674 points on rising cases||Mumbai: Rising fears about the spread of the coronavirus around the world and its growing impact on the global economy pulled the sensex down by 674 points to below the 28k mark at 27,591 on Friday. The Nifty on the NSE also dropped 170 points to below the 8,100 level at 8,084. Additionally, since Monday is a trading holiday because of Mahavir Jayanti, some traders were unwilling to keep their speculative positions open and sold during the day, which aggravated the slide, market players said. The lower closing on Friday marked the seventh consecutive week of slide for the indices, a first since June 2008, a note from Motilal Oswal Financial Services pointed out. In these seven weeks, the index has lost a third of its value. Additionally, the Bank Nifty has lost 44% over the last six weeks, recording its biggest six-week fall ever, the note said. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services head (retail research) Siddhartha Khemka, with fresh cases of coronavirus infection rising by the day, concerns over a looming economic recession are keeping investors jittery. “According to ADB, India’s economic growth rate will slip to 4% in the current fiscal. Thus, markets would continue to be highly volatile and would track global cues along with the trend in coronavirus cases globally and locally,” he said in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-674-points-on-rising-cases/articleshow/74975491.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Varanasi||1 of two Covid +ve cases come out -ve in re-test in DDU||Varanasi: The city received a good news on Friday as one of the two Covid-19 positive patient admitted to isolation ward of DDU district hospital tested negative in re-test of his samples on Friday. “In the laboratory re-check of samples of the two Covid-19 positive patients, one of them was tested negative. We will discharge him soon,” said chief medical officer Dr VB Singh on Friday. The CMO said that two Covid-19 positive patients were admitted to the hospital. Another positive patient is also recovering and both of them are being given general medication. “Presently, as many as 23 Covid-19 suspects are there in isolation ward of the hospital,” he said adding that the teams of health department along with the district administration are working for screening and testing the suspects and putting them in quarantine or isolation. The first case of Covid-19 in the district came to light on March 21, when a 30-year-old youth of Chitaura village in Pindra tehsil was tested positive. He was working as a cook on a cruise in UAE and had returned on March 18. He went to DDU district hospital for check up on March 19. Samples of six members of his family were also collected, but they were tested negative. The second positive case of Covid-19 was detected on March 28. The youth (30), resident of Chhatripur locality in Shivpur area, was also working at a call centre in UAE since June 2019. He had returned to Varanasi on March 20 and remained in home quarantine till March 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/1-of-two-covid-ve-cases-come-out-ve-in-re-test-in-ddu/articleshow/74973877.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Mosques’ helping hand reaches out to needy||LUDHIANA: The Muslim community has joined hands to help the needy in this time of crisis. After Jama Masjid started reaching out to the city’s poor, now other mosques have come forward to do their bit. Jama Masjid has so far helped more than 1,000 families of all religions. Shahi Imam of Punjab Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi said, “We cannot close doors on the needy. We have circulated our contact numbers and after receiving a request, we deliver grocery at doorstep. Mosques on Chandigarh Road, Tibba Road and in other localities have also joined the cause.” Maulana Usman Rehmani from Jama Masjid said, “We have asked about 76 mosques in Ludhiana district to help the needy in their areas. We do not get pictures clicked with those whom we help.” While sharing an episode he said, “A few days ago, we received a call from a Kakowal Road resident. He said he approached us for help as we do not get pictures clicked with the beneficiaries. There are many such middle-class people who hesitate in seeking help. We only take a copy of their Aadhaar card as a proof and give them grocery.” The grocery they provide includes wheat flour, rice, pulses, refined, sugar, black gram, spices like salt, red pepper, turmeric, among others. Only 5 offer Friday prayers in mosque In Jama Masjid, only five people offered namaz on Friday and others were told to offer it at home. The step aims at maintaining social distancing to prevent spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mosques-helping-hand-reaches-out-to-needy/articleshow/74974056.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Swiggy, Zomato to sell essentials from Marico||Times News Network Mumbai: Marico has partnered with Swiggy and Zomato to distribute some of the essential products from its portfolio, termed ‘Saffola Store’, directly to consumers. This comes at a time when customers are finding it difficult to get essential items in grocery stores. The initiative enables consumers to order such food items as oats and oils under Marico’s Saffola brand on the food-tech platforms. This service is available on Zomato in Delhi NCR and Bengaluru, and it will be activated in other cities such as Mumbai, Kolkata, Chandigarh and Ahmedabad next week. The company said Swiggy stores have started the delivery in Gurgaon and the service will be extended to rest of Delhi NCR, Bengaluru and Mumbai this weekend. Marico COO (India sales & Bangladesh business) Sanjay Mishra said, “As India grapples with the unprecedented global pandemic, it is incumbent on every one of us to come together and extend our support. As one of India’s leading consumer companies, we are working towards ensuring the availability and easy access of essential food items to consumers. In an effort towards this, we have partnered with Swiggy and Zomato to provide Saffola and Coco Soul products to individuals’ doorstep in a safe manner.” Supply chains have been disrupted due to shortage of workers and trucks in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On-demand delivery platforms too face a manpower crunch due to the 21-day lockdown. Swiggy COO Vivek Sunder said, “Through our partnership with Marico, Swiggy will leverage and engage its extensive delivery fleet to ensure that essential products such as cooking oil and oats reach consumers quickly and in a safe manner.” Zomato COO (food delivery) Mohit Sardana said, as an essential service provider, “it is important we find ways to utilise our expertise to fight against this pandemic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-zomato-to-sell-essentials-from-marico/articleshow/74975615.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Forex reserves jump on gold prices||Mumbai: An increase in gold prices has helped push the value of Reserve Bank of India’s foreign exchange reserves by $5.6 billion to $475.6 billion. The country’s forex reserves rose even as the rupee weakened to close at 76.19 against the dollar on Friday. The rupee fell as the greenback gained against all major Asian currencies during the week. According to RBI data, during the week ended March 27, the foreign currency assets (FCA) increased by $2.5 billion to $439.6 billion. In the week ended March 20, the reserves had fallen by $12 billion to $469.9 billion. Gold reserves, which form part of foreign currency assets, increased by $3 billion to $30.9 billion in the week ended March 27. It is not clear what triggered the increase in FCAs by the numbers factor in the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US currencies like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/forex-reserves-jump-on-gold-prices/articleshow/74975586.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Patna||Two more Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar||PATNA: Two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Friday, taking the total number of such cases to 31 so far. A 35-year-old man from Siwan and another from Gaya tested positive for the virus on Friday, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said. He said the Siwan man had returned from Bahrain to his native place on March 21 while the 37-year-old Gaya man had returned from Dubai. Kumar said the Gaya man’s wife had earlier tested positive for the virus on April 1. The couple had returned to Gaya from Dubai on March 22. Till now, six Covid-19 positive cases have been identified in Siwan district and five from Gaya and all of them have travel history from foreign countries, mostly the Middle-East. While first Covid-19 positive case in Siwan was identified on March 27 and had come from Dubai, four others were identified on March 31 with travel history from Muscat, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain. On Thursday, five Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in the state with three having travel history. As per the press release shared by state health department on Friday evening, 6,681 people with travel history either from other places in the country or abroad had been enrolled for observation and 512 of them completed their 14-day quarantine period. So far, 1,973 samples have been collected for testing, of which 30 were positive and four got rejected, while others were found negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-in-bihar/articleshow/74972726.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||24 people who attended Tablighi meet in Delhi quarantined: KSE||Shivamogga: Twentyfour people—21 from Shivamogga and three from neighbouring districts—had attended the Tablighi congregation in Nizamuddin in Delhi and have been quarantined, said RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa. Speaking to reporters on Friday, he said there is no need to make a big issue over it. The restriction on sale of chicken meat and eggs due to bird flu has been relaxed on Friday, he added. Due to large quantity of milk collection by farmers, one litre milk is being distributed to the poor including the slum dwellers. There are 56 officially declared slums in Shivamogga city. Milk is distributed free of cost to the families. The city has approved the sale of vegetables in 43 carts and approximately 30 vehicles have already been approved by the horticulture department to transport vegetables. Twenty vehicles have been approved for fruit distribution, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/24-people-who-attended-tablighi-meet-in-delhi-quarantined-kse/articleshow/74972868.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Hello doctor, I returned from Canada, do I have corona?’||LUDHIANA: An elderly person from Old City recently called up a doctor in the health department, complaining of high fever. A middle-aged resident from a posh area called up in a state of panic, asking if he could have coronavirus as he had returned from Canada about one-and-a-half months ago. Another young professional from Dugri has been regularly in touch with a city-based psychiatrist, worrying if shortness of breath without fever and cough could be a sign of Covid-19. The doctor has been frequently checking his temperature. These are not isolated cases. Doctors are getting many such calls which they attribute to anxiety or panic because of curfew. The experts say the current scenario has badly reflected on the mental health of residents of all age groups. “Several residents have been calling us in panic, suspecting that they may have got coronavirus. Even for a mild fever or cold, people are becoming jittery. We advise them and explain the symptoms,” says Dr Rajesh Bagga, Ludhiana civil surgeon. He adds he has been getting around 30 such calls in a day. Experts say there is a huge jump in anxiety and depression cases. “I rarely got calls related to anxiety before the start of this pandemic in India. But now I get around 50 such calls daily. The anxiety symptoms are seen across all age groups, but mostly prevalent among the elderly people with men being more susceptible. However, the phenomenon is not seen among children below 10 years of age,” says Dr Ranjive Mahajan, head of the department of psychiatry at DMCH. He adds that their symptoms include lack of sleep, breathlessness and irritability. Experts say besides these normal people, those with mental illness history are experiencing worsening of their health. “Many patients of anxiety and depression are finding the current situation difficult to handle. In some cases, we have increased the dosage of anti-depressants,” says Dr Anshu Gupta, a city-based psychiatrist who has been daily getting four to five calls related to corona fear and lockdown. He adds he advises the patients to set a daily routine and follow it, do meditation and spend quality time with family. Besides, they are advised to maintain a healthy sleep routine, do physical exercises, listen to their favourite music, indulge in some religious activity and play with children.  ‘Flu also causing panic’ Experts say because of changing weather, people contract common flu, which has symptoms similar to Covid-19, leading to panic. The lockdown was also leading to anxiety, and mental illnesses will continue in near future. Experts say forced lockdown has made people, mostly elderly, irritated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hello-doc-i-returned-from-canada-do-i-have-corona/articleshow/74974085.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC traces 27 Nizamuddin attendees||Ahmedabad: The ground surveillance teams of the civic body and the local urban health centre of Dariapur had contacted local community leaders to locate the 27 people — most from UP — who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz event. The authorities persuaded the people to get quarantined. This was confirmed to TOI by a senior health official who was monitoring the cases. The details of the 27 people isolated on Friday were not part of the mobile phone data provided by the Union home ministry.Three of the 27 showed some symptoms and were taken to SVP Hospital at Ellisbridge on Thursday. One case was confirmed. “We feared for the safety of these people as they had been staying together for quite sometime and moving around,” said the official. “We persuaded these people to move to Sola Civil and they did on Friday. As a precaution, we are testing them.”Interestingly, several community leaders have come forward to help the AMC to locate more people who had attended the Delhi event. Of the 1,300 people whose mobile phone data was shared, only six Ahmedabad residents had attended the event, according to the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-traces-27-nizamuddin-attendees/articleshow/74975059.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Varanasi||3 Jamaat members test +ve for coronavirus in Azamgarh||Varanasi: Three members of Tablighi Jamaat, who had attended the Nizamuddin meet, were found COVID-19 positive on Friday in Azamgarh district. All the three were admitted to the isolation ward of Chakrapanpur hospital. The district administration swung into action to sanitize Mubarakpur locality, where these persons along with others were staying. The borders of Mubarakpur were also sealed for screening of people. Azamgarh district magistrate NP Singh said that the samples of 16 persons were sent for testing on Thursday, out of them three tested positive. One of them is from Ghaziabad, while two others are from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. During investigation it came to light that after attending the Tablighi Jamaat these people had arrived Azamgarh on March 21, and were staying at a madrssa in Mubarakpur without informing the local authorities or reporting at hospital for screening. The police raided the madrassa on Thursday and took them under custody and gout the test conducted. The DM said that the others have been quarantined and the entire Mubarakpur area has been sealed and sanitization work is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-jamaat-members-test-ve-for-coronavirus-in-azamgarh/articleshow/74973897.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Drones to keep check on curfew violators||Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Ashwani Kapoor said Ludhiana Police will use 10 drones to keep a check on curfew violators. These drones will be used in residential areas to check those who come out of houses without a valid reason. FIRs will be lodged against them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drones-to-keep-check-on-curfew-violators/articleshow/74974096.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala readies three-stage plan for Covid-19-only treatment centres||KOCHI: Ramping up its response to the coronavirus pandemic, the state health department has devised an extensive plan for conversion of hospitals—both government and private—into centres to treat Covid-19 patients. This will be done in three phases, depending on the spread of the infection. Though private medical colleges and hospitals have been asked to ensure that they have space ready to treat Covid-19 patients, they will be roped in only in case of a community spread. “As the epidemic is progressing, there is an urgent need to be fully prepared to provide the best healthcare to patients,” says government’s reference guide for converting hospitals into dedicated Covid hospitals. The state government has maintained that there is no evidence of clusters forming in the state, yet. “Everything is being ramped up and we are trying to ensure that systems are in place. But, it is important for people to ensure that they don’t break the lockdown law and invite crisis. Virus doesn’t know religion or class, the only thing it knows is distance. Therefore, social distancing and personal hygiene are crucial,” said Dr Amar Fettle, nodal officer (public emergency) and currently in charge of anti-Covid-19 efforts in the state. There are 1,286 centres under the health services department and 10 government medical colleges. The private sector has 1,307 hospitals and 19 medical colleges. According to the plan, that has been shared with all healthcare facilitators, hospitals have been divided into Covid-care centres, Covid first-line treatment centres and Covid hospitals. While the first two will comprise government hospitals and government medical colleges, Covid hospitals will include private hospitals and private medical colleges. “All private medical colleges are trusts and it is our responsibility and duty to support the government during such a crisis. We have informed the government that our facilities and staff are available for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Fazal Ghafoor, former president of the Kerala private medical college management association. However, the health department plans to use private facilities only in case of a symptomatic outbreak among contacts or when there is evidence of community spread and bed occupancy in the government hospitals reaches 50%. They have been asked to list out the number of ICU beds and amenities, such as oxygen, infusion pump, ventilators and monitors, they can spare to treat Covid -19 patients. “In all our hospitals, a separate space is being created to admit Covid-19 patients. We will ensure that non-Covid patients don’t come into contact with Covid patients. The staff is also being trained to handle Covid-19 patients,” said Kerala private hospital association president Dr P K Mohamed Rasheed. Kannur: The virology laboratory at Central University of Kerala (CUK) in Kasaragod has become operational, and has started testing samples on an experimental basis. Another lab at Kannur Government Medical College, Pariyaram would start functioning from April 8. The laboratory at Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC) in Thalasseri has already begun operations. The laboratory at CUK tested 10 samples but in the coming days it will be scaled up further, said Rajendra Pilankatta, head of the biochemistry department and dean of school of medicine and public health, department of biochemistry and molecular biology. TNN As of now, the facility has two machines, of which one has become operational but in the coming days the second machine would also be used. Apart from Pilankatta, two more teachers, R Aswati Nair and VB Sameer Kumar, are also part of the team, which also comprise five research scholars and one lab assistant. “We would be able to run two machines, as they are all trained in testing the virus, but we are expecting two more machines in the next few days and once those are here, more people would be needed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-readies-three-stage-plan-for-covid-19-only-treatment-centres/articleshow/74972901.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Admin yet to zero in on system to track quarantined||LUDHIANA: Even as the Ludhiana district administration has home quarantined 5,172 persons so far, it has no system to keep a track of them. As a result, the administration has requested residents to complain to it against those flouting home quarantine orders. On Friday, a Dehlon man lodged a complaint with the police that a couple of their area, who had recently returned from Dubai, goes for a walk in the locality even as they had been home quarantined from March 23 to April 8. “The administration has also pasted a notice outside their house,” he added. Regional Transport Office secretary Damanjit Singh Mann, who is also keeping a check on home quarantined people, said, “As many as 5,172 people have been home quarantined in the district till now. These people have been stamped and a poster pasted outside their houses, so that their area residents can identify them. Other than this, there is no system to keep an eye on them.” “Ideally, those who have been home quarantined should follow the orders as it is for the safety of everyone. The administration has provided helpline numbers and asked their neighbours to complain if they break quarantine. On receiving such complaints, cops visit those areas to ensure compliance. The administration might consider tracking the cellphones of the quarantined,” Mann added. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “The police will register cases against those ignoring home quarantine under sections 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. Residents can lodge complaint against them.” On its official Facebook page, Ludhiana Police on Friday asked residents to inform them about quarantine violators. Covid-19 helpline/compliant numbers 9115601159 9115601160 9115601161||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/admn-yet-to-zero-in-on-system-to-track-quarantined/articleshow/74974102.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 33 Muslims with Delhi connect test negative||NAGPUR: Reports of 33 Muslims who were tested for Covid19 on the directives of the home ministry were negative. They were part of the 197 who were traced, examined and quarantined — as they had digital footprints in 3km radius of the Nizamuddin Markaz where the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) was held last month — over the last three days. According to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the NMC received a list of 335 people from the ministry. 61 were from Nagpur rural, 10 from other districts, 33 from other states and 47 were repeat names. Thus, 184 were shortlisted for the city. The NMC had already quarantined 137 persons on Wednesday and Thursday. All were residents of the city. Many of them were non-Muslims but had presence around the Markaz in February-March. All were asymptomatic as per NMC. The reports of 104 are awaited. On Friday, the NMC quarantined 60 persons (including 10 women) — 30 from Gandhibagh Zone, 19 from Mangalwari Zone and 11 from Ashi Nagar Zone. All are TJ members but none of them are city residents. As per NMC officials, a few of them were residing in mosques and the remaining as guests of local residents. 19 people could not be traced. Mundhe said that all who had digital footprints in Nizamuddin will be kept under quarantine for 14 days even if they test negative. “It’s always better to be cautious. We have managed to control Covid-19 by taking quick containing measures till now,” he said. The TJ members were quarantined in two batches of 30 each at MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan. They came to Nagpur in 6 batches from February 28 to March 17 and were stranded in the city after the nationwide lockdown was announced by PM Narendra Modi. The sixth batch of 8 TJ members arrived on March 17 from Jabalpur. Rest of the 52 came via Delhi in five batches. A batch belonging to Manipur and another 8 Myanmmar nationals came via Delhi. All were in the city on March 7 effectively ruling out that they had participated in the Nizamuddin meet. As per Nagpur Markaz, only seven TJ Nagpurians officially attended the March 7 meet and returned on March 10 and March 11. “Three persons had attended the TJ event out of turn but they got medical tests done at Mayo on Thursday,” said Abdul Bari Patel, the secretary of TJ’s Nagpur unit. Bari also claimed that the 60 non-Nagpurians themselves requested to be quarantined and tested for Covid19 on the request of community members. “These TJs were camping at different masjids and had shifted to local homes and dormitories after social distancing was prescribed,” he said, adding that all details were submitted to the police as well as NMC. Of the remaining 30, two TJ groups were at Palloti Nagar Masjid and a rented flat in Mankapur under Mangalwari zone. “One was at a local home at Bunkar Colony in Teka under Ashi zone,” said Bari. The joint team drove the three buses to these venues and took the 30 to Ravi Bhavan. “The 30 from Gandhibagh zone were quarantined at MLA hostels,” he added. Ruling out their connection with the Nizammudin Markaz, Bari said, “As per Islamic practice, they are on 40 day dawah (propagation) tour during which they can't go anywhere else than the place assigned to them. All 52 coming via Delhi were in Nagpur only to discharge their religious work.” 28 of the 40 admitted in the GMCH Yavatmal’s isolation ward are those who had attended the TJ. Their samples were sent to the IGGMCH over Thursday and Friday, said district collector MD Singh. “All are in good health,” he said. The Chandrapur district administration has detected no coronavirus symptoms in the 11 TJ preachers who were staying in secret in a mosque there. They were picked up by the police following intelligence inputs on Thursday evening. District collector Dr Kunal Khemnar claimed all members had arrived here on March 9 but none of them had travelled to the Nizamuddin Markaz. They were brought to the Chandrapur GMCH for a complete medical check-up. “No symptoms were found. All have already completed the virus incubation period of 14 days since their arrival,” said Khemnar, adding that the 11 have been asked to stay put in the same mosque till the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/33-muslims-with-delhi-connect-test-negative/articleshow/74975089.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Ban on movement in five Palwal villages||GURUGRAM: A day after the three Bangladeshi nationals tested positive in Palwal, its health department on Friday created containment zones in five villages for two weeks. No movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic is being allowed in and out of Mathepur, Hunchpuri, Mahlooka, Durenchi and Chhainsa villages. Six other nearby villages have been declared buffer zones, where a door-to-door survey is being carried out by teams from the department to trace suspected cases. The department has identified 88 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, which took place early last month in Delhi’s West Nizamuddin area. As many as 647 Covid-19 positive cases found in 14 states in the last two days are linked to the congregation, the Union health ministry said. “We currently have 534 people under surveillance in the district. We’ve collected samples of 46 people who are showing Covid symptoms,” Brahmdeep Sandhu, Palwal chief medical officer, said. The travel history of 10 persons who reached Palwal on March 17 from Delhi has been traced. The health department said 226 persons in the five villages, which fall in Hathin subdivision of Palwal, came in contact with these people. “A team of 75 people is conducting door-to-door surveillance and we’ve covered a total of 1,000 houses so far,” Sandhu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ban-on-movement-in-5-palwal-villages/articleshow/74975522.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Biryani tops patients’ demand list at Gandhi hospital||HYDERABAD: Doctors at the Gandhi hospital have approached the state health authorities regarding the behaviour of some Covid-19 patients housed in the isolation ward as they are demanding for special food items like biryani to be served to them. “They are constantly crowding in the isolation wards and not following any orders,” said Dr Hemant, TJUDA president of Gandhi unit. Meanwhile, junior doctors of the hospital have alleged that the patients are not being given the appropriate high protein diet. “Gandhi hospital does not have any dietician and as a result, the food being given to the Covid-19 patients is not the proper scientific diet required. Although non-vegetarian food is not recommended, they do need a high protein diet. The food being served to them is a regular diet with curries, one banana and dry fruits. For having proper proteins and antioxidants they require a range of fruits to be included in the diet,” said Dr G Srinivas, president, Resident Doctors Association. Some patients have also complained of the quality of food being poor and said they should be given a better diet. “We do not feel sick nor do we have fever, give us a better diet or let us go," one patient was quoted as saying by a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biryani-tops-patients-demand-list-at-gandhi/articleshow/74975529.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Civil hospital stares at resource, manpower shortage in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: While battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the civil hospital is staring at shortage of resources and manpower. “The problem of shortage of staff and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, among other things, will aggravate in civil hospital in the coming days,” said a doctor. The authorities have already made a proposal for increase in staff strength in accordance with the 150-bed isolation ward that will be set up in the Covid-19 wing of the hospital. Dr Hatinder Kaur, senior medical officer, anti-retroviral therapies, said, “We are rationalising wards and would require doctors, staff nurses, Class IV employees, lab technicians and sweepers for sanitisation. The CMO has promised to earmark staff for Covid-19 wing. Some of the staff nurses have been sent to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital to train in operating ICUs.” The hospital authorities have also sought adequate supply of consumables and non-consumables, like sanitation equipment, for the isolation centres. At present, the hospital is procuring computer systems for registration, two oxygen cylinders and consumables at the local level to be ready with a backup of a week. Meanwhile, ahead of principal secretary, health, Anurag Aggarwal’s visit to the civil hospital on Saturday for inspection, deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, nodal officer of facilities management Sanyam Aggarwal and civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga examined the facilities at the hospital on Friday. Aggrawal told the TOI that efforts were being made to increase the capacity of Covid-19 wing at civil hospital to 150 beds from the existing 100. “That’s why the emergency and the OPD wards have been shifted from the building, which is now a Covid-19 wing,” he added. Besides, there are nine other buildings with dedicated isolation centres. Sanyam Aggrawal said, “There are 100 beds at Urban Community Health Centre,Vardhman, and 50 beds each at community health centres in Koom Kalan, Manupur, Hathur, 1,100 beds in PAU, 800 at Meritorious School and 500 at Kular College of Nursing.” The proposal of using Nirankari Bhawan for putting up isolation beds was found unviable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hosp-stares-at-resource-manpower-shortage/articleshow/74974107.cms||Mehak Jain
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||No church congregation, Palm Sunday mass to be streamed live||KOLKATA: City Christians are preparing themselves for the Holy Week, which starts on Sunday, without church congregations, for the first time in their lives. The spiritual leaders of the two major churches will hold Palm Sunday mass online. It will be streamed live from the Archbishop House for the Roman Catholics and from the Bishop House for the different churches assembled under the Church of North India (CNI). While the online mass for the Catholic church would start at 8am, that of the CNI would start at 10 am. “This will be the first time when we will have Palm Sunday without the symbolic palm leaves because churches are closed and everyone will be joining the archbishop from home,” said vicar general Dominic Gomes. The other significant days of the Holy Week, Holy Thursday (April 9), Good Friday (April 10), Easter Vigil (April 11) and Easter Sunday will also be webcast and the parishioners have been informed about the timings. The hymns and the rest of the prayers have also been distributed in advance so that all parishioners can pray aloud, along with their respective leaders. Bishop Paritosh Canning said that his address on Palm Sunday will draw parallels between traditional Biblical references and the ongoing pandemic. “Through the Holy Week, I am asking all families to pray for 15 minutes from 6pm for the struggle that we are facing. For Easter Sunday, I might try to hold my service at the St Paul’s Cathedral. This, too, will be webcast because we will not allow any congregation,” Bishop Canning added. People of the community said that this would be a very low key Easter without families and friends gathering at each other’s homes for traditional meals and games. Some bakeries are taking orders for plain cakes, Easter eggs, bunnies and chocolates, though not in a large scale. “We are taking 50% less orders compared to other years…we cannot allow crowding in our shop,” said Debbie Saldanha of Saldanha Bakery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-church-congregation-palm-sunday-mass-to-be-streamed-live/articleshow/74975061.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,282 from state traced, Gujarat HC told||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Friday told the Gujarat high court that it had received a list of 1,350 persons from Gujarat who had visited Nizamuddin, Delhi, and out of them 1,282 persons have been traced. Of these people, 84 persons have been found to have attended the religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 1 and March 23, where they might have come in contact with the novel coronavirus positive persons. However, only one of these 84 persons has been found Covid-19 positive, but other 83 persons have been placed under quarantine. The government said that the search for the remaining 68 persons is under way. The authorities have their contact numbers, but their locations are not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1282-from-state-traced-hc-told/articleshow/74975063.cms||---
April 4, 2020||India||Rs 56cr for innovations to combat Covid-19 pandemic||NEW DELHI: The science and technology ministry on Friday approved setting up of a body, the Centre for Augmenting War with COVID-19 Health Crisis’ (CAWACH), at a total cost of Rs 56 crore to scout, evaluate and support innovations and start-ups that address Covid-19 challenges. The Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, a technology business incubator at IIT Bombay, has been identified as its implementing agency. “CAWACH’s mandate will be to extend support to potential start-ups by way of requisite financial assistance and fund deployment, targeting innovations that are deployable in the market within next six months,” the ministry said. “CAWACH will identify up to 50 innovations and start-ups that are in the area of novel, low cost, safe and effective ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gears, novel solutions for sanitisers, disinfectants, diagnostics, therapeutics, informatics and any effective interventions to control Covid-19,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-56cr-for-innovations-to-combat-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/74975928.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Alternative medical systems too rely on social distancing as protection against Covid-19||NAGPUR: With more positive cases of Covid-19 getting detected every day and modern medicine is still to discover vaccine or drug on novel coronavirus, people are now searching whether alternative systems of medicine like ayurveda, homeopathy, Unani, and naturopathy have any cure to offer. While speaking to TOI, doctors of these alternate systems have it clear that their focus is still on preventive medicines only. No medicine to treat Covid-19 has yet proved/demonstrated its success in any of these systems, so people have no option but to follow social distancing practices. “Popular immunity boosters in ayurveda can certainly be beneficial for immune system, but that does not mean it will provide 100% immunity to current epidemic,” said Vaidya Swanand Joshi. “Till date, there is no such proven drug from ayurveda or any other system for coronavirus. Therefore, for current scenario, maintaining hygiene, sanitizing hands/feet/clothes, maintaining isolation along with these immunity boosting measures can be best precaution,” he added. Senior homeopathic practitioner and president of Orange City Homeopaths Association (OCHA) Dr Manish Patil said that homeopathy also believes that prevention is better than cure. The AYUSH Ministry had issued an advisory for Covid-19 infection back in January in which it has given a list of medicines in Unani system effective for symptomatic treatment of fever, throat infections due to the virus. “As symptoms of infection are quite similar to common cough, cold, fever and bodyache, Unani practitioners may try some of our proven remedies,” said Dr Ajmal Khan, who represents Unani faculty in MUHS academic council. Naturopath Sameedha Deshpande said that some simple tips can safeguard people from getting infected. “First and foremost, follow social distancing and personal hygiene. Keep yourself fit in changing weather by having seasonal fruits, ample water and fresh food,” she said. Yoga trainer Praful Hatgaonkar suggested sarvangasana, vajrasana, dhanurasana for maintaining digestive system. “For mental peace, you can sit in sidhhasana, padmasana, yogamudra, gomukhasana, and meditation. Pranayama options include kapalbhati and anulom vilom. Half an hour of yoga daily will can keep you fit, especially during the 21 days of lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alternative-med-systems-too-rely-on-social-distancing-as-protection-against-covid-19/articleshow/74975072.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Down and out in the time of lockdown||Chennai: The lockdown has been a double whammy for those who live in the city’s slums. Their daily routine militates against social distancing – they are forced to crowd around for everything from toilets to the water tanker that turns up every two days. And now they can’t go out to work either – most are dailywagers.  In Annai Sathya Nagar, which houses close to 2,500 families, less than 10% homes have toilets. Most residents walk a km to a public toilet with eight stalls each for men and women. A local trust distributed one batch of sanitizers to residents; these are running dry. “When the water tanker arrives, there is absolute mayhem. Crowds of women swarm in, pushing and pulling each other. They have always squabbled for water, and it’s gotten worse since the lockdown, says Annakili, a social worker. She and other social workers complain that many slum dwellings inside narrow bylanes get left out when the government disinfects crowded neighbourhoods. Home remedies come handy — a brew of neem leaves and turmeric sprayed outside their doors. Rampant drug addiction and alcoholism that plague urban slums also lead to blatant violation of the lockdown. In Korukkupet, youth go on a rampage every evening. “They’ve managed to find bootleggers and assemble in large numbers to drink, putting themselves and others at risk,” says social worker M Loganayaki. At a slum on sixth avenue, Ashok Nagar, groups of men stand at street corners and discuss an uncertain future. “I have exhausted my savings. So I have requested a money lender to loan me Rs 10,000. But he’s demanding huge interest,” says R Mayilvaganan, an autorickshaw driver. “No one is willing to lend us money, because they feel we can’t return it,” says D Venu, a watermelon vendor. Most of the people work as vendors, drivers, sweepers, and domestic help. With no jobs and empty pockets, they are at the mercy of moneylenders. “I have taken a loan of Rs 7,000 from a moneylender on the condition that I will pay him Rs 800 a month for a year – starting one month from now,” says V Selvakumar, a car mechanic from a slum in Kamaraj Nagar. “I have three kids, a wife, and an old mother. I have no other option,” he says. “A day before the shutdown, my brother, his two kids and wife came home. There are now nine people living here,” says Selvakumar. Most of these people used to earn about Rs 500 a day. Now they are lucky if they make Rs 100. For many slum families, their turn for the free ration and dole of Rs 1,000 is still ten days away, and supplies are running out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/down-and-out-in-the-time-of-lockdown/articleshow/74975531.cms||Aditi R
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Allegations of inaction surface||Hyderabad: Three days after Gandhi Hospital staff were attacked by two Covid-19 positive patients, allegations of police inaction at the time of incident surfaced. Policemen deployed at hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were seen wearing PPE covring themselves from head to toe. After Hyderabad police tweeted about it by uploading a photograph, health minister Eatala Rajender commented on it. The junior doctors have been demanding police to intensify security, so that they are protected from physical attacks by patients and their attendents. Considering the emergency situation, Hyderabad police have beefed up security and policemen are deployed at each floor, where Covid-19 patients are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/allegations-of-inaction-surface/articleshow/74975537.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: FIRs against 34 who returned from abroad for ignoring directive||VARANASI: As many as 34 out of 40 foreign returned people were booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC for not turning up for Covid-19 screening at DDU Hospital despite repeated warnings. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that those who had returned from foreign trips after March 10 were appealed to get screened at the DDU district hospital by March 31. Out of 191 such persons 40 including six children did not turn up to the hospital till Thursday evening. FIRs were lodged against 34 persons at 13 police stations including Bhelupur (6), Lanka (5), Dashashwamedh (4), Ramnagar (4), Cantt (2), Chetganj (2) Mirzamurad (2), Chaubeypur (2), Shivpur (2), Jaitpura (1), Cholapur (1), Sarnath (1), and Sigra (1) for ignoring the directive and putting the lives of others in danger. The police teams would be sent to houses of these people to bring them to the hospitals for health screening. The administration has been asking the people who returned from abroad to reach hospitals for screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/firs-against-34-who-returned-from-abroad-for-ignoring-directive/articleshow/74973912.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fair price shop owner booked for cheating, 1 held||AHMEDABAD: An autorickshaw driver, Jayanti Thakkar, 46, a resident of Meghaninagar, lodged a complaint against a fair price shop owner Punamchand Shah, and one Dilipkumar Shah of Meghaninagar, on Thursday for allegedly giving less than prescribed quantity of grains — chana dal and sugar — to several customers from his shop in Asarwa. According to the FIR, Thakkar is a BPL and an APL card holder and is entitled to free wheat, rice, chana dal, salt and sugar, according to the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the lockdown period. On April 2, he went to the fair price shop. According to the FIR, the manager of the shop wrote in his ration card that he had been given 35kg of wheat, 15kg of rice and 1kg of chana dal. However, when he lifted the bag he felt that the stuff in the bag weighed much less than what was written in his ration card. “He went to the manager of the shop Poonamchand Shah and told him to weigh the stuff once again, but the manager declined,” said a police official. A government official, Jeetendrakumar Patel, deployed at the shop to keep a watch, came there and asked the manager to the weigh the ration he had given to Thakkar once again. “Surprisingly, he found that the ration was much less than what was written in the ration card. Patel then checked it with few other customers. Their ration was also found to be much less than what was written in their cards,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fair-price-shop-owner-booked-for-cheating-1-held/articleshow/74975070.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 35 staffers of Dum Dum hospital in home quarantine||KOLKATA: Around 35 staffmembers at a private hospital in Dum Dum, including doctors, nurses and other workers, have been sent to home quarantine after a 48-year-old nursing superintendent there was admitted to the isolation ward on the suspicion of being Covid-19 positive on Thursday. The latest case came barely five days after a doctor of a Colonel rank, posted at Alipore Command Hospital in Kolkata, had tested positive for Covid-19. Two more Covid-19 suspects are still undergoing treatment in the same hospital at Nagerbazar in Dum Dum, where the nursing superintendent has also been admitted in the isolation ward. The hospital authorities, however, said that the three patients, including the nurse, were recovering. The nurse, a resident of Madhyamgram’s Michelnagar near the airport, has been working with the hospital for a couple of years. “She used to look after all patients as a senior and superintendent of nurses. Even her husband tested negative for Covid-19. The exact cause behind her infection couldn't be ascertained so far,” sources said. “She fell ill with fever and slight breathing trouble on Tuesday. So, she was admitted in her hospital's isolation ward. Her swab samples were collected on Wednesday and sent to NICED. She is a Covid-19 suspect," sources added. “We are working on to set up an isolation ward with adequate infrastructure to combat Covid-19. The trio, including our nursing superintendent, are stable now. We hope all of them will be released soon,” a senior doctor of the hospital’s emergency department told TOI. Panic, however, gripped the residents of Michelnagar in Madhyamgram as the news of a Corona suspect from their area spread like wildfire. Subodh Chakraborty, chairman of North Dum Dum Municipality, who led a municipal team to sanitise the area, said that there was no reason for locals to be scared of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/35-staffers-of-dum-dum-hosp-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/74975067.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||All five positives women from Shimlapuri with no travel history||LUDHIANA: With the 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri testing positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday, the count of positive cases in Ludhiana district has reached five. All five are women with no travel history. The first was a 55-year-old from Gurdev Nagar who tested positive on March 24 and was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. The second patient is a 72-year-old Jalandhar woman admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. The third patient, a 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla, was referred to Rajindra Hospital on March 30 and passed away the same day. Her 72-year-old neighbour is the fourth case. The reports of the fifth case came late Thursday evening. The Shimlapuri woman stayed with her relative in Mohali from March 17 to 31. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of the 52 samples sent on Thursday, one tested positive. The source of infection is yet to be traced.” On the woman’s travel history, Dr Bagga said, “On March 17, she commuted by bus to her niece’s house in Mohali. She started showing symptoms of cough and breathlessness on March 23. From there, she took an ambulance all alone and got herself admitted to Fortis Hospital here on March 31.”  Fortis Hospital medical superintendent Dr Shelly Deora said, “Her throat swab sample was sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Wednesday evening. We are waiting for an official report from the civil surgeon’s office.” She said she was on non-invasive ventilation and her health was stable. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The health department is keeping a check on her family. Her locality was sealed after she tested positive. Police force has been deployed there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-5-positives-women-with-no-travel-history/articleshow/74974122.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Online food delivery apps come as a boon||LUDHIANA: For people not getting vegetables, fruits and grocery, online food delivery applications have come as a blessing. As restaurants and fast food outlets are closed, the apps have now started delivering essentials, excluding medicines. As of now, two private players, Swiggy and Zomato, are offering the services by levying nominal delivery charges and have completed several thousand orders. At present, the option is limited as all areas are not covered, but the companies said new vendors were being added daily. On Friday, the Punjab government also announced that soon residents would be able to order essentials through its official coronavirus alert app COVA. Speaking to the TOI, Jaspreet Dhanoa, a resident of Atam Nagar, said, “These food delivery apps have saved us in this crisis situation, as for the past few days very few vegetable vendors were coming to our area and with high demand their entire stock was sold within minutes. With these mobile apps, we are not only getting good quality vegetables and fruits, but also at the time of our choice.” Abhinav Sehgal, a Model Town resident, said, “Besides fruits and vegetables, we are using the mobile apps to get fresh milk and cheese too. Some of the dairy outlets are also registered as vendors on these apps. The best part is that it only takes 15-30 minutes for the delivery and it’s relatively safe to order from the delivery boys who are well aware about the precautions to be taken.” Sachin Kapoor of Pakhowal Road said, “We prefer to order stuff through mobile apps as not only they are of good quality, but considering the current situation when hard cash is exhausting fast, we can make the payments through digital modes.” Delivery feature in COVA app About the addition of home delivery feature in the COVA mobile app of the Punjab government, additional chief secretary Vini Mahajan said, “The government has expanded the app to cover essentials’ supply amid complaints that many of the delivery contact numbers were found to be unavailable, busy or invalid. The vendors were also finding it difficult to deal with the high number of orders. The app, available on android and iOS, will facilitate delivery of groceries and other essentials as notified by the government through local vendors. This module will require the vendors to register themselves and enlist their delivery executives for passes. The district administration can approve or reject a vendor, and also act as a monitoring authority if a complaint is registered for overpricing or adulteration. The citizens only need to select their location and the app will populate nearby vendors. They can place an order on the app and pay post-delivery.” Over 9k deliveries According to Harpreet Singh, operations manager of Swiggy, “So far, we have delivered 9,365 orders in Ludhiana ever since the start of this service on March 26. As of now, more than 350 delivery executives are on the job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/online-food-delivery-apps-come-as-a-boon/articleshow/74974136.cms||Mohit Behl
April 4, 2020||Allahabad||Drones to check violators in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: With Prayagraj residents refusing to learn a lesson and continuing to violate rules during the lockdown, police have constituted 10 special teams which will use five drones to maintain vigil in narrow bylanes of the Old City. Led by a deputy SP-rank police official, these teams would keep an eye on areas like Attarsuiya, Kareli, Mutthiganj, Kydganj, Rajapur, Ganga Nagar, Teliyarganj, Karelabagh, Dariyabad, Meerapur, Karelabagh, Bahadurganj, Salori and Baghara. More than 30 persons were booked for allegedly flouting regulations during the lockdown enforced to curb the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Police have also arrested 12 men after lodging seven FIRs under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with violations of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “We were receiving reports of Old City residents frequently violating lockdown rules. We will now use five drones to keep an eye on localities in Old City.” On Thursday midnight, police launched a search operation in Khuldabad, Kareliabagh, Atala, Dariyabad, Rajapur, Cantonment and adjoining areas and caught many people sitting outside their homes. They were asked to stay indoors and given a strict warning. Most Muslims preferred to offer Friday namaz at home. Extra police force was deployed to ensure there was on unrequited movement on streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/drones-to-check-violators-in-city/articleshow/74973967.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Will give free food to poor regardless of ration cards: Govt||Ahmedabad: The state government on Friday told the Gujarat high court that it will deliver free food baskets to each and every poor person across the state for the month of April due to the nationwide lockdown regardless of whether he/she has got a ration card. Nobody will require any proof of identification for this free food.The state government lists nearly four crore persons under various schemes who require assistance during the lockdown. The government has expanded its schemes following the demands made in various PILs that those who do not have ration cards should not be left out. Now people having all types of ration cards as well as those without them are eligible for food baskets, which contain grains, pulses, salt and sugar of specified quantities.The HC was told that 36.44 lakh persons are covered under Antyoday Anna Yojna, 284.80 lakh persons of Priority House Holds, 128.62 lakh BPL are covered under the National Food Security Act, 14.92 lakh are not covered under NFS Act, 155.98 lakh APL-1 and 19,859 under APL-2 – all are entitled to free food basket.Besides, those who are poor, labourers and those who do not have any ration cards or any other proof of identification have been covered under the Anna Brahm Scheme.The government has told the HC that people from different categories were given tokens and they were asked to come to PDS shops to collect food baskets on particular days so that there is no crowding. Some litigants complained about it, but the HC said that social distancing is a responsibility equally observable on part of the people.The HC was informed that the government will give aid of Rs 1,000 to all ration card-holders including 6.32 lakh construction workers registered with Building and Construction Workers Board (BOCW) quantified at Rs 620 crore through direct benefit transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-give-free-food-to-poor-regardless-of-ration-cards-govt/articleshow/74975078.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hubballi||Pneumonia claims engineer’s life||Dharwad: A 30-year-old engineer from Dharwad, who was suffering from pneumonia, died at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi on Friday. Raju Nayak, who was working in Pune, had come home following the lockdown. According to his father Chandrakant Nayak, Raju was unwell and was taken to a private medical college hospital in Sattur. But the doctors there referred the case to KIMS for testing. KIMS doctors sent his blood and swab samples for testing to a laboratory in Shivamogga. Even as they waited for three days to get the test reports, Raju was diagnosed for jaundice. He breathed his last on Friday morning. Raju got married just nine months ago, according to a family member. Social activist Basavaraj Korawar blamed the doctors at the both the hospitals for allegedly not providing timely treatment to the patient. Their negligence led to the engineer’s death, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pneumonia-claims-engineers-life/articleshow/74972916.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Varanasi||Kites spread corona awareness across the sky in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Flying kites has become a favourite sport of children and elders alike during the lockdown period as outdoor games are out of question. Interestingly, many residents of Gorakhpur are using the sport as an awareness tool by writing messages relating to precautions to be taken against coronavirus. Sangita Jaiswal of Tiwaripur area said, “Yesterday evening, I found a kite on my terrace with messages like ‘wear mask’, ‘maintain social distancing’ and ‘follow the lockdown rules as life is precious’. I also wrote few awareness messages on a kite and gave it to my son to fly.” Similarly, Mohd Ibrahim of Jafra Bazar area and Syed Farhan of Ghasikatra area found kites with similar messages on their terrace. “I always touch and fly kites after using sanitizer,” added Farhan. When asked about the possibility of the spread of Covid-19 through kites, Dr RN Singh, chief campaigner of encephalitis eradication movement, said, “There is no data with regard to the spread of coronavirus through kites but it is possible that a person may get infected after touching a kite which has been touched by a corona positive person as the virus can stay active on paper for five days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kites-spread-corona-awareness-across-the-sky-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/74973931.cms||Arjumand Bano
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation allows Janata Hospital, 2 diagnostic centres to reopen||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has reportedly given permission for reopening of Janata Hospital, Jaripatka, Dhande's Panorama MRI Centre, Shankar Nagar, and Rainbow Medinova Diagnostic Centre at Ramdaspeth. All three were shut down for sanitization after two patients who visited here were found Covid-19 positive later. Dr Shirish Dhande told TOI, "NMC allowed reopening of two diagnostic centres. They started services from Friday. NMC did sanitization before closing down. We are also doing the same every day. A technologist and helper of Panorama MRI Centre who came in contact with patient has tested negative and is under quarantine," he said. Charitable Trust Janata Mandal, which runs 70-bed Janata Hospital, in a press release said, "All services of hospital will begin from Saturday morning. We have done extra sanitization on Friday. Of total 150 staff, 31 were exposed to the patient. All were tested and found negative. Still, all are in institutional quarantine," Mandal said. This hospital is considered lifeline for Jaripatka and adjoining areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-allows-janata-hosp-2-diagnostic-centres-to-reopen/articleshow/74975079.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 4, 2020||Chennai||PDS shops denying, ration, promised dole: Perumbakkam locals||Chennai: Chaos prevailed at the tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) in Perumbakkam on Friday after fair price shops in the locality refused to provide the entitled free ration for family card holders. K Malar, a resident, said the fair price shop failed to distribute 5kg of wheat. “We received only 15kg of rice but wheat was not provided on Friday. However, we got a SMS stating that all the ration, including wheat, was issued to our family card,” she said. The homemaker said the ration was essential as her husband, a mason by profession, couldn’t take up jobs due to the lockdown to fight Covid-19. This is, however, not the first time such an issue has cropped up, Malar said. “This has been the case at this particular fair price shop for several months now. We cannot understand why the employees refuse us the promised ration when the government has ensured adequate stock, especially during such crisis.” The civil supplies and consumer protection department kick-started the distribution of free ration — 15kg of rice, 5kg of wheat, 2kg of sugar, 1kg of tur dal, 1L of palmolein oil for April, besides a dole of Rs 1,000 for every family card holder, as assistance during the lockdown. The TNSCB blocks at Perumbakkam has six fair price shops with each shop accounting for about 1,500 family card holders. Muthukrishnan, another resident of Perumbakkam, complained that employees of fair price shops are compelling cardholders to buy things such as soap and tea packets, costing anywhere between Rs 60 and Rs 100, while distributing the dole of Rs 1,000. Only if the commodities are bought are the cardholders given the dole, Muthukrishnan added — a complaint made by many residents of the tenement. When contacted, official sources with Sholinganallur zone of civil supplies and consumer protection department said staff have been directed to distribute the entire free ration to beneficiaries. “We have not received any complaint but we will follow it up,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pds-shops-denying-ration-promised-dole-perumbakkam-locals/articleshow/74975538.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Two arrested in Bhadohi for spreading rumours||VARANASI: The police, on Friday, arrested two persons in Bhadohi district for circulating objectionable contents and rumours about Covid-19 preventive measures on social media. According to reports, the police came to know that two persons were spreading rumours on WhatsApp instigating people not to cooperate with the medical professions and police. Taking a serious note of it, the crime branch and Kotwali police were assigned to arrest the people behind it. The police arrested Akmal Ansari and Abdul Motallib at Bazar Salawat Khan. Crime branch in-charge Ajay Singh said that the arrested persons were booked under sections 268 (public nuisance), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and 66 of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-arrested-in-bhadohi-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/74973923.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||GACL partially restarts units at Dahej and Vadodara||AHMEDABAD: State-run Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited (GACL) has partially resumed operations at its manufacturing facilities in Dahej and Vadodara. The company took the decision to meet the requirements of various municipal corporations and other essential industries. The units have been restarted after obtaining necessary permission from the concerned authorities. “The company has started partial operation of caustic soda, hydrochloric acid (HCl), phosphoric acid, sodium hypo and chlorine filling facilities at Dahej complex,” GACL on Friday informed the stock exchanges. The state PSU has also begun manufacturing caustic soda at the Vadodara complex. “The poly aluminium chloride (PAC) and hydrogen peroxide plants will start after a few days. Based on the requirement, the company may start operations at other plants,” added the company, which had completely shut down all its plants following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown to curb the Covid-19 outbreak. GACL’s share on BSE surged 13% to close at Rs 253 on Friday as against its previous close of Rs 224.20. Another state PSU, Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) had announced a few days ago that it will restart some of its plants at Vadodara from next week onwards. GSFC has already restarted its manufacturing unit at its Sikka, Jamnagar, which produces DAP. “The other plants will be gradually started based on the situation prevalent given the Covid-19 pandemic,” the company has informed the exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gacl-partially-restarts-units-at-dahej-and-vadodara/articleshow/74980941.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||GACL partially restarts units at Dahej and Vadodara||AHMEDABAD: State-run Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Limited (GACL) has partially resumed operations at its manufacturing facilities in Dahej and Vadodara. The company took the decision to meet the requirements of various municipal corporations and other essential industries. The units have been restarted after obtaining necessary permission from the concerned authorities. “The company has started partial operation of caustic soda, hydrochloric acid (HCl), phosphoric acid, sodium hypo and chlorine filling facilities at Dahej complex,” GACL on Friday informed the stock exchanges. The state PSU has also begun manufacturing caustic soda at the Vadodara complex. “The poly aluminium chloride (PAC) and hydrogen peroxide plants will start after a few days. Based on the requirement, the company may start operations at other plants,” added the company, which had completely shut down all its plants following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown to curb the Covid-19 outbreak. GACL’s share on BSE surged 13% to close at Rs 253 on Friday as against its previous close of Rs 224.20. Another state PSU, Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) had announced a few days ago that it will restart some of its plants at Vadodara from next week onwards. GSFC has already restarted its manufacturing unit at its Sikka, Jamnagar, which produces DAP. “The other plants will be gradually started based on the situation prevalent given the Covid-19 pandemic,” the company has informed the exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gacl-partially-restarts-units-at-dahej-and-vadodara/articleshow/74975084.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fear of community spread subsides in Pothencode||Thiruvananthapuram: Health workers and revenue authorities in the district heaved a sigh of relief on Friday as the first set of results of eight persons in Pothencode panchayat has turned out to be negative. These samples were part of the swab test conducted among people in Pothencode panchayat to check the possibility of community spread. The question over community spread arose after the death of Pothencode-native Abdul Azeez, who was the first victim of Covid-19 in the district, on Tuesday. Minister Kadakampally Surendran said there is no threat of community spread in the panchayat. “The first batch of test results of the samples taken from the people who had direct contact with this person has come as negative. This is a relief and makes it clear there is no immediate threat of community spread,” he said. Though the health department could not identify the source of infection, sources said that there was presence of NRIs in places where Azeez had visited. “The details of his visit to Juma Masjid for prayers, a PTA meeting and a marriage are being taken,” said sources in health department. The department had collected swabs of 35 persons on Wednesday and 96 on Thursday. These persons had come into contact with Azeez since March 1. Of these, first set of results of eight are negative. The remaining results in the first set of 35 will arrive on Saturday, said sources. S V Sajith, member of Pothencode town ward, said that the results of close contacts of Azeez were earlier found to be negative. “The results of his wife, daughter and two grandchildren were found negative earlier,” he said. The district administration enforced strict lockdown and quarantining of all families in Pothencode panchayat on Tuesday following the death of Azeez. However, the restrictions were diluted later as the government was against the stricter regulations. On Friday, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that there was no co-ordination between minister-in-charge of the district Kadakampally Surendran and the district collector. “Collector will say one thing and minister Kadakampally Surendran will tell the opposite. This is not happening for the first time. Last month, collector had ordered for closure of malls in the district to check spread of covid-19. This was rejected by chief minister in the evening. Now collector ordered for closure of all shops in Pothencode and Kadakampally lifted it,” Chennithala alleged. District Congress Committee president Neyyatinkara Sanal said that the closure of shops in Pothencode panchayat and nearby areas for 21 days is a mysterious move. “Only district collector, who has judicial powers, could declare restrictions or control in specified areas. However, minister Kadakampally Surendran announced restrictions within hours after death of the Covid-19 patient. The health department has not declared community spread in the area,” Sanal said. He added that the minister should explain why shops in the areas were closed down for 48 hours, creating panic among the people. BJP district president V V Rajesh, in his facebook post, said that decision for closure of the shops were taken without taking care of the needs of the people. He mentioned that a patient who needed dialysis was denied treatment after a private hospital learned that he was from Pothencode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fear-of-community-spread-subsides-in-pothencode/articleshow/74972953.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers too must get essentials at PDS shops: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to distribute Covid-19 relief material including essential commodities to guest workers, community drivers, construction workers and others in unorganised sectors through fair price shops in respective areas. A bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar passed the order on Friday, after the state government informed the court that relief material would be distributed to such workers through the district collector offices. On Friday, state additional advocate-general P H Arvindh Pandian said, “The state passed a GO on March 22 for distribution of 15kg of rice, 1kg dal and 1kg edible oil as a one-time food aid to people who do not have ration cards but are residing in the state.” Recording the submission, the court said, “We are of the opinion that it would cause unnecessary inconvenience for people employed in unorganised sector to approach district collectorates to get the food supplies. It may breach the norms of social distancing because no time slots are fixed for them.” Therefore, the state should distribute the essentials to such people through fair price shops just as is the case with ration card holders, the court directed. The issue pertains to a PIL moved by P Arularasu seeking a direction to the state government to provide relief material to guest and unorganised sector workers who do not possess a valid ration card. He wanted the relief material to be given on the basis of other identity cards, such as Aadhaar and driving licence. The bench further stated that a separate record of such workers can be maintained by the centres, which can be passed on to the district collectorate concerned daily to avoid the same person getting the aid multiple times. The court then directed the state to file a compliance report of the order by April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-too-must-get-essentials-at-pds-shops-hc/articleshow/74975547.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Court notice to state on interim bail in non-heinous crime cases||Chennai: The Madras High Court Advocates Association (MHAA) president G Mohanakrishnan has approached the high court seeking to grant interim bail to prisoners who have moved bail applications and others in prisons not charged or convicted of heinous offences, in order to decongest prisons in view of Covid-19 outbreak. When the plea came up for hearing, a bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice R Suresh Kumar directed the additional advocate-general P H Arvindh Pandian to get instructions from the government. The bench also passed similar order on another plea seeking to constitute a high power committee to determine class of prisoners who can be released on parole or interim bail in view of the virus outbreak. The bench has directed Pandian to inform the stand of the state by April 8. According to Mohanakrishnan, due to the nationwide lockdown in view of Covid-19, all courts across the state have been directed to suspend services. As a result, prisoners who are entitled for bail or parole, including mandatory bail, are facing difficulties in approaching courts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-notice-to-state-on-interim-bail-in-non-heinous-crime-cases/articleshow/74975556.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Sailor is sixth Covid-19 positive case in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of Covid-19 cases increased to six on Friday after a 53-year-old Goan with travel history tested positive for the virus. The man, a sailor by profession, had arrived in Goa by a domestic flight on March 19. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said he had a travel history to Mozambique and Kenya and was admitted in the isolation ward of Goa Medical College since March 30. “He is being shifted to ESI hospital in Margao,” said Jose D’Sa, director of health services. A health official said he had stayed at a hotel at Porvorim after returning to Goa and did not visit even his parents in another village in North Goa. North Goa district collector R Menaka has directed the hotel management at Porvorim to immediately close the hotel for 14 days. The closure order was issued after it was discovered the person detected as Covid-19 positive on Friday had stayed in the hotel, an official said. The hotel management and all the staff have also been directed to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the sailor had come in contact with five persons and all of them have also been quarantined. “The tests will be conducted on Saturday on all five persons, who have come in contact with the new patient,” he said. Sawant said of the six Covid-19 positive patients, five have travel history and one is the brother of a Covid-19 patient. “All five coronavirus patients have come from foreign country, four from ship and one from the US and the sixth patient is the brother of one of the patients,” he said. A 19-year-old boy, who tested positive, is the brother of a traveller who had tested positive last week and was under home quarantine. A health official said the boy and his mother were asked to be under home quarantine in the island village. “The village is being watched closely after two persons from one family contracted coronavirus,” he said. Sawant said at least 1,000 people have been home quarantined, of which some people have completed the required number of days under quarantine. “Those who have not completed the home quarantine period should not come out of their homes,” Sawant said. He also tried to allay fears over foreigners and said there is misconception that coronavirus is spread from foreigners and people should not unnecessarily harass them. He also said that 173 people have been quarantined institutionally. “If their test comes negative, then they would be kept under home quarantine,” he said. Sawant said only three persons have been kept under isolation at GMC. Since last week, four suspects of coronavirus have died but all later tested negative for the virus. A 62-year-old British tourist was the latest to die. He was admitted in the isolation ward of GMC for coronavirus symptoms. But he died of pneumonia on Friday and has tested negative for Covid-19, a GMC doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sailor-is-sixth-covid-19-positive-case-in-state/articleshow/74975562.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: 8,705 prisoners released on interim bail, parole so far||PRAYAGRAJ: In compliance of the directive of the high-powered committee set up on the direction of Supreme Court, the district courts across the state have taken immediate steps and released as many as 8,705 prisoners — 7,816 on interim bail and 889 on parole. The process of release is still on and the figure of released prisoners is likely to increase. The Supreme Court while keeping in view the outbreak of coronavirus (Covid-19) had on March 23, 2020 issued directions to all the states to consider releasing some prisoners either on bail or parole to reduce overcrowding in prisons. Following the direction of the Supreme Court, a high powered committee was set up in each state to determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or interim bail for such period as may be appropriate. This committee was to work in consultation with the State Legal Service Authority (SLSA) for deciding on the release of prisoners. As per the order, prisoners convicted or charged with offences having jail term of up to seven years were to be given either bail or parole. In Uttar Pradesh, in compliance of the apex court’s order, a high powered committee was constituted under the chairmanship of Justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal, senior judge, Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court, which decided the modalities for the release of prisoners. The modalities were communicated to all the courts subordinate to the High Court for taking necessary steps in the matter. Registrar protocol, Ashish Kumar Srivastava ,informed TOI that this is the latest tally available so far. However, the process to release prisoners as per direction of apex court will continue in each district of the state. Hence, in this backdrop of the situation, there are chances that the number of released prisoners may increase in the time to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8705-prisoners-released-on-interim-bail-parole-so-far/articleshow/74974004.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pradipsinh Jadeja urges people to co-operate with cops||GANDHINAGAR: Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja has appealed to people to co-operate with the police in implementing the lockdown. Jadeja made rounds of Ahmedabad city and also visited control centre at the police commissioner’s office. The department has installed over 1,100 CCTV cameras on roads through which monitoring is being done round the clock. Besides, the police have been using drones to monitor movement of people during the lockdown. City commissioner of police Ashish Bhatia said that on an average, around seven to eight cases of violation of the notification through geo-tagging and aerial surveillance are lodged daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jadeja-urges-people-to-co-operate-with-cops/articleshow/74975092.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Our mitigation activities are bearing fruit, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed confidence in the manner in which the state has gone about achieving its target of checking the spread of the novel coronavirus. As many as 14 persons were discharged on Friday after successive tests returned negative. This includes the elderly couple from Ranni, who were admitted to the Kottayam Medical College Hospital, and the nurse who treated them. The Congress leader from Idukki has also been discharged from hospital. With nine new cases added on Friday the total state tally has gone up to 295. This includes three persons who attended an event at the Nizamuddin markaz. Seven cases were reported in Kasaragod and one each in Thrissur and Kannur. Currently, 251 persons are undergoing hospital isolation. Of the total 295 cases, 206 are persons who had travelled from abroad while seven are foreigners. At present, 1,69,997 persons are under observation in the state of which 706 are in designated isolation wards. Of the 9,139 samples sent for testing, 8,126 have come out negative. The CM said when compared with developed countries, which are feeling the brunt of the pandemic, Kerala is sitting pretty with its multi-pronged virus-mitigation activities. “So far, we have been successful in checking the social spread and also in quarantining people who have come from abroad,” said Vijayan. He said there are reports of the movement of trucks bound for the state being affected. This has resulted in a spike in the prices of vegetables and other essential commodities. The government has taken note of this and has stepped in. The legal metrology department conducted raids at ration shops following widespread complaints of irregularities in the distribution of PDS items. The government has urged all hospitals and clinics to cater to persons with other ailments. There have been several such reports from rural areas, Vijayan said. The chief minister said the 997 Neethi medical stores in the state will soon launch home delivery of medicines. In addition to this, Consumerfed has decided to launch home delivery of essential commodities from its stores across the state. The CM also urged employees working in various sectors — state public sector undertakings, central government offices in the state, central PSUs and those in the private sector — to be part of the salary challenge initiated for contributions to the chief minister’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/our-mitigation-activities-are-bearing-fruit-says-cm/articleshow/74972990.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||May extend lockdown, says health minister; Maharashtra sees 67 new cases, toll 26||MUMBAI: On a day 67 Covid -19 cases were reported in the state, of which 80% or 53 cases were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and 43 from within the city itself, health minister Rajesh Tope said the nationwide lockdown, which ends on April 14, may be extended in some parts of Maharashtra, especially in cities like Mumbai where the number of cases is high. Tope said this was his personal opinion. The state also confirmed six deaths—four from the Mumbai metropolitan region, taking the toll to 26. It has also emerged that the 56-year-old from Dharavi who died on Wednesday had come in contact with a bunch that had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. He said the decision would take into account the number of cases in the state and select cities at that time. “Lockdown in cities like Mumbai may not be lifted completely on April 14. It may be extended by a few weeks,” he noted. The state on Friday recorded six deaths, taking the toll to 26. The state tally reached 490 cases, of which over 50% cases (278) are from Mumbai alone. The state’s tally has more than doubled in the past four days. The number of positive cases on March 30 were 220, with 10 deaths. Of six new deaths reported by the state on Friday, four were from MMR and one each from Pune and Jalgaon. Of these six deaths, four were earlier reported by TOI. The ones not reported were one from Jalgaon and one from Badlapur. Eleven CISF personnel posted at Mumbai airport have tested positive. While 5 tested positive on Thursday and are at Kasturba Hospital, 6 among those quarantined at MGM hospital in Kamothe tested positive on Friday. It has also emerged that the 56-year-old from Dharavi claimed by Covid-19 on Wednesday had come in contact with a bunch of people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in mid-March. Five women who arrived in the city on March 22 from the markaz had stayed in his flat and he had interacted with them, said authorities. The Jalgaon patient who died on Friday was a 63-year-old man who was in contact with other positive patients in Jalgaon. He was a diabetic, had hypertension and had been operated for angioplasty a month ago. He succumbed at a government hospital. The death reported from Badlapur was of a woman admitted in a private hospital. She had been bedridden for a while with complications like hypertension and a fractured spine; she did not have any travel history. Among other deaths reported by the state on Friday was that of a 68-year-old Vasai man with no travel history, who died at a private hospital in Nalasopara on Thursday. He was admitted to a private clinic on March 29 after he complained of chest pain. Residents of the building where he lived have been home-quarantined and the area sealed off. The other deaths previously reported by TOI were of a 62-year-old Saki Naka man who died at home on Tuesday. The man had a history of cough, fever and gastritis. Another death was of a 65-year-old Malwani resident who had a history of kidney problems. He passed away at the Bal Thackeray Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari. Mumbai on Friday reported 43 cases, which included 14 cases tested positive in the metropolis between March 24 and 30. A young couple from MHB colony in Gorai, Borivli, tested positive on Friday, triggering panic in the colony housing nearly 80 families. The wife showed symptoms of Covid-19, after which she underwent a series of tests at a private clinic. The civic authorities sent her and the husband to Bhabha hospital, said former corporator Shivanand Shetty. The area has been sealed off. Local residents said the state administration’s move to relocate over 30 families from Mahul, near Chembur, to a transit camp near MHB colony may have aggravated the problem for the locals. “There was no need for authorities to relocate 30 families,” said MNS functionary Prasad Kulapkar and Shetty. A family of three, including a child, in Charkop were found to be suspects. A BEST employee has been detected positive, ringing alarm bells for the undertaking, and officials have stepped up precautionary measures especially for 5,500 drivers and conductors who ferry essential services staffers daily. The employee who was found positive works as a foreman in the electricity supply division of BEST in the island city. Around 10 new cases were detected from outside of Mumbai. After a 66-year-old man from Kalyan was found positive, the health team from KDMC on Friday sent his five family members, including a six-months-old grandson and another six-year-old grandson, to a private hospital in Mumbai for a test. The other three members were his wife, son and daughter-in-law. Sources said the 66-year-old man did not have any travel history but had been to his village in Jalgaon, from where he had returned to Kalyan on March 6. Health minister Rajesh Tope said so far, over nine lakh people in the state have been surveyed for symptoms under the state government’s cluster containment action plan. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said vehicles found plying on the roads without any reason will be seized. “The government has repeatedly appealed to the public not to be be on the streets without any reason. If they do not listen, we have no choice left,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/may-extend-lockdown-says-health-min-state-sees-67-new-cases-toll-26/articleshow/74975561.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Goa bans eggs, chickens from other states||PANAJI: The state government has banned the entry of poultry and poultry products, including eggs, into Goa from neighbouring states in view of the confirmation of avian influenza (H5N1) in chickens in some southern state regions. An order issued by the department of animal husbandry and veternary Services stated that the flu was prevalent in chickens in west Kodryathur and Kozhikode in Kerala, and in Mysore. Accordingly, the department requested for chicken, either live or dressed, to be banned from entering the Goa checkposts at the state boundary. Prior to this, on March 21, the district magistrate, North Goa, banned transportation and entry of birds from Karnataka and Kerala in view of the outbreak in the two states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-bans-eggs-chickens-from-other-states/articleshow/74975555.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Popular Bengali serials make a comeback on TV screens||Kolkata: Bengali private television channels, including Zee, Colors Bangla and Star Jalsha, have followed in the footsteps of Doordarshan and brought popular serials back on the small screen. From April 6, Mimi Chakraborty’s ‘Gaaner Oparey’ will be telecast every evening. This is in addition to the rerun of serials including ‘Ek Akasher Niche’, ‘Agnipariksha’, ‘Amar Durga’, ‘Deep Jwele Jai’, ‘Goyenda Ginni’, ‘Bhutu’, ‘SaReGaMaPa’, 'Manasa', ‘Mirakkel’, ‘Bojhena Se Bojhena’ and ‘Songsar Sukher Hoi Romonir Gune’. Psychologists say this will help deal with the severe anxiety levels of homemakers who have suddenly plunged into depression following the no-show in the evenings. Chakraborty is nostalgic with the news of the rerun of Rituparno Ghosh’s ‘Gaaner Oparey’ on Star Jalsha. “It was my first work but I couldn’t watch it because I would be busy shooting for it. People had praised it so much. Some would even ask if there would be a part two of ‘Gaaner Oparey’. Apart from some songs from the serials on YouTube, I had not watched it. After almost 10 years, I will be getting to watch it. I think, this is the best time to sit and watch it,” said the star-turned-MP. A still from 'Goyenda Ginni'Speaking about this initiative, Samrat Ghosh, cluster head (East) of Zee Entertainment, said: “I am hopeful that the cult shows will surely bring back strong nostalgic values and take viewers back to their good old days. They will enhance quality family time and help them sail through this difficult phase.” Star Jalsha is also showing a rerun of the dubbed version of ‘Mahabharat’. Not to be confused with the Doordarshan ‘Mahabharat’, this serial was last shown on Star Jalsha in 2013. Many homemakers believe it will help them reclaim their familiar space at home. During office hours or early evenings, they had the entire house to themselves with husbands and children away for work or school/college. The domestic helps would handle the chores. Evenings were meant for relaxing in front of the television sets. A still from 'Manasa'The corona outbreak changed this entire routine. Husbands doing work-from-home and staying-at-home children are encroaching on their space. In the absence of domestic helps, the load of household chores has increased. The absence of serials has only added to their sense of unease. While Doordarshan is reruning ‘Ramayan’, ‘Mahabharat’, ‘Byomkesh Bakshi’ and ‘Circus’, language is still a barrier for viewers in strictly Bengali-speaking households. The decision to rerun the Bengali serials has come as a boon for them, said Sudipa Chatterjee, who anchors the popular cookery show ‘Sudipar Rannaghor’. “These shows and soaps have become an integral part of their daily lifestyle. They entertain the elderly people and homemakers who seldom go out. New episodes were supposed to be aired from Monday. But now, I shot fresh promos at home for the rerun of the old episodes,” she said. A still from 'Ek Akasher Niche’Seventy three-year-old Bithika Mitra stays alone at her Ballygunge residence. Apart from meeting her friends in the apartment, television is her only medium of entertainment. The lockdown has completely jeopardized the daily schedule.  According to her psychologist son Sabyasachi Mitra, she is happy with the rerun of ‘Amar Durga’. “Both in terms of micro and macro nature, society is going through extreme uncertainty in all parameters. It will be of immense help if one can provide some ray of certainty and familiarity to these viewers,” Mitra said. A still from 'Bojhena Se Bojhena'Besides, the rerun of the serials will bring them back to a familiar zone. “The ending is known to most of the viewers. Watching these serials will relieve them from the tension of watching news and debates on various channels that are painting a grim picture otherwise,” Mitra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/popular-bengali-serials-make-a-comeback-on-tv-screens/articleshow/74975094.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Sanitizers from distilleries to hit market soon||NAGPUR: Amid a heavy demand for sanitizers following Covid-19 threat, a couple of country liquor makers in the city have turned to making the product by using alcohol available with them. This was following an appeal by the state’s excise department to the distrilleries. Ethyl alchohol used to make liquor is also the main raw material for making sanitizers. The products that will be sold at government controlled rates are expected to hit the chemists’ shelves in a day or two. Sanitizers made by the distilleries are expected to be a game changer due to their low pricing. But a shortage of containers is proving to be a bottleneck. The lockdown has hit the supplies of containers especially of smaller size meant for the retail market. Jagtar Singh Sethi, proprietor of Nagpur Distilleries, said, “following the appeal by state’s excise department we decided to take up manufacture of sanitizers. There is enough stock of alcohol in our unit that can be used for making the product.” Sethi said the unit also got expertise from Bacardi with which it has business links. Nagpur Distilleries has been able to make sanitizer as per WHO standards. Sethi said they were making 1500 litre a day and have dedicated 20,000 litres for government use through divisional commissioner. Another 5,000 litres have been sent to Mayo Hospital and GMC. Prince Uppal of M/s Uppal Surgicals, agency distributing the product, said one litre bottle would be supplied at Rs 300 with GST added. The smaller bottles will flaps and nozzles were not available due to shut down. The one litre container is supplied at Rs 300 and has MRP of Rs 500. The product will reach chemist’s store by Saturday, he said. Hetal Thakker, secretary of Nagpur Chemists and Druggists Association, said there was enough supply of the product from the regular sanitizer makers too. It is being made available at government rates of Rs 500 a litre. Pramod Jaiswal of Royal Drinks, the other distillery that has taken up sanitizer making, said even as the stock was ready it is very difficult to procure containers and even labels for bottles. “Despite the difficulty, we have been able to make 90 ml, 180 ml, one litre and five litre packs. The product is expected to be in markets in a day,” he said. “Reaching the product to the consumer has its own challenges. The cost of containers has gone up by three times due to the demand. Since this is a different trade altogether, we are not well-versed with the market too,” said Jaiswal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanitizers-from-distilleries-to-hit-market-soon/articleshow/74975091.cms||Shishir Arya
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur schools take to online teaching amid lockdown||KANPUR: A few private schools in the city are running classes online to ensure that students do not lose touch with their studies due to the corona lockdown. Teachers of Allenhouse Public School and Cetral School IIT are availing online platforms to teach students. Principal of Allenhouse School Khalasi Line branch, Ruchi Seth, said, “Online classes will be held till April 14 and if the lockdown extends, online teaching will also continue. Three branches of Allenhouse—Khalasi Line, Ruma and Panki—are using online platforms.” Vice principal Purnima Das stated, “Teachers prepare online content and share it with students. Creative worksheets are given online as classwork.” Central School has also been running online classes for students from class III to XII. Two classes of one hour each are held daily. Principal of Central School IIT branch, RN Wadalkar, apprised that all classes were being held in compliance with the directives issued by the Central School Organization. “Teachers use Zoom app. The class teachers prepare a group of students and add the group to the app. A timetable is followed so that students are well aware of the class timings,” said Richa, a teacher at Central School IIT branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-schools-take-to-online-teaching-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74974116.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||6 linked to Tablighi Jamaat test positive in U’khand||Dehradun: Six person tested positive for novel coronavirus in Uttarakhand on Friday taking the hill state’s tally to 16. While all the new cases are people associated with Tablighi Jamaat, the health department has sought early reports of people associated with the Islamic organization after nine of its members were found Covid-19-positive in the past 48 hours. Director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti said that among the six new cases, five are from Dehradun district while one is from Baajpur area of Udham Singh Nagar. “We are continuing the screening of members of Tablighi Jamaat. As many as 144 new samples were sent for tests at AIIMS-Rishikesh and Susheela Tiwari Medical College on April 3. We have tested a total of 835 people till now. Of whom, 671 tested negative while 16 cases were found to be positive. We are awaiting results of around 138 samples,” she added. According to the health department officials, the cases of those having attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin are being considered on priority and every person, who is showing even mild symptoms related to novel coronavirus, is being tested. “The state had barely five active cases till March 13 and our tally reached three-fold of that in the past two days – after all the new cases were found to be associated with Tablighi Jamaat. We have asked the labs to take samples of people associated with the Jamaat on priority and hasten tests, so that immediate treatment can be started,” they said. Meanwhile, the three Covid-19 patients reported in Kashipur on Thursday were moved to Haldwani’s Susheela Tiwari Medical College on Friday. The state has put 296 people from Jamaat in institutional quarantine while 152 people are placed under hospital isolation till Friday. Also, to strengthen their hands in fight against Covid-19, the Uttarakhand health department has issued orders stating that all medical students, who have passed final-year exam in March 2020, will commence their internship immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-test-positive-in-ukhand/articleshow/74974207.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 samples to be sent to SGPGI in Lucknow for test||Kanpur: As many as 12 districts, including Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat will collect and sent samples of the suspected coronavirus cases to SGPGI Lucknow, as per the new arrangement made by the state government. The government has authorized five medical colleges of the state to examine the samples of Covid-19 suspected cases which are LLRM Medical College, Meerut, JN Medical College AMU Aligarh, KGMU Lucknow, SGPGI Lucknow and IMS BHU, Varanasi. Samples from Kanpur Nagar & Dehat, Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur , Barabanki, Ambedkar Nagar, Sultanpur,Amethi, Auraiya, Raebareli and Pratapgarh districts will also be sent to SGPGI. In the advisory issued by V Heckaly Jhimomi secretary UP government the categories of high-risk persons has also been defined. Any person having symptoms of Covid-19, returned from international travel within 28 days, persons who had developed symptoms after contacting suspected person of Covid-19, residents of the house of Covid-19 infected person, patients having severe respiratory problems and being treated at private nursing homes, participants of Tablighi Jamaat who had attended the jamaat within 28 days, health workers who are working without security gear and international travellers having serious symptoms come in high risk category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-samples-to-be-sent-to-sgpgi-in-lucknow-for-test/articleshow/74974188.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Allahabad||Three Jamaat members test +ve for corona in Pratapgarh||Prayagraj: Adding Pratapgarh to the list of novel coronavirus-hit districts in Uttar Pradesh, three men who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi in March tested positive for Covid-19 in Pratapgarh on Friday. SP (Paragraph) Abhishek Singh said, “The three were among a group of 11 delegates who had arrived in Pratapgarh on March 18 after attending the Tablighi congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West area.” “After reaching Pratapgarh via train, they stayed in two different mosques in Narsinghgarh and Raniganj,” he added. Chief medical officer (Pratapgarh) Dr AK Srivastava said, “The three Jamaat members are aged 35, 23 and 38. They are residents of Uttarakhand.” After the Pratapgarh police got to know about their presence in the district on March 31, they initially took the group of 11 to a primary health centre and later shifted them to the district hospital. They were later quarantined at the hospital. On April 2, health department officials collected the swab samples of all 11 Jamaat members and sent it to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow for testing. “Of the 11, three members tested positive for novel coronavirus,” the SP added. Meanwhile, Prayagraj health department officials are still waiting for reports of four Jamaat members, who were found hiding in a local mosque on Tuesday. The department had sent 11 samples to KGMU for testing. While seven had tested negative for Covid-19, the test results of the remaining four were still awaited till this story went to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-jamaat-members-test-ve-for-corona-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/74974045.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad chemists’ body promises home delivery of medicines||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayag Chemists and Druggists Association launched an online service to deliver medicines at the doorsteps of customers who cannot visit stores, in the wake of the lockdown announced because of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Retailers in areas like Sohabatiyabagh, Nakhas Kona, Balson Crossing, Lowther Road, Sulem Sarai, Indian Press Crossing and Lukerganj are urging clients to upload their prescriptions on WhatsApp and the former will ensure that the medicines are delivered within 45 minutes. Organising secretary of Prayag Chemists & Druggist Association (retail) Nikhil Malang said, “Retailers have been giving customers their WhatsApp numbers and promising to deliver medicines at their homes.” “It would be a win-win situation for everyone. People can easily stay a home in compliance with the lockdown rules and there would be no unnecessary crowds at medicine shops and pharmacies,” he added. The staff working at chemist and surgical shops were applying special suits, gloves and masks while working. Owners of these shops are ensuring that both their staffers and clients are sanitising their hands and are practising social distancing. Welcoming the step by the traders’ body, Civil Lines resident Harsh Mehrotra said, “I appreciate the effort. I have sent my doctor’s prescription to my retailer and managed to get medicines at my doorstep within an hour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/chemists-body-promises-home-delivery-of-meds/articleshow/74974076.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Indore||Indore: Demand for protective gear keeps rising, supply still low||INDORE: With increasing number of Covid-19 cases and growing health concerns, enquiries for protective gears have jumped with high demand pouring in from health workers in interior districts to security agencies. Demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and gloves has risen multifold with local bodies such as municipal corporations, police, health workers in interior districts and security agencies exploring options to get supplies. The state government has ensured supply of protective gear through a centralized chain at Bhopal after procuring materials from various sources within state and outstations, but lack of timely availability and shortage faced by officials and health workers in interiors have forced many to sought supply directly from manufacturers. A manufacturer engaged into manufacturing of PPE kits said, “A doctor from Sagore called us for PPE kits as they had none and was ready to make personal payment. Many paramedics posted in interiors are placing orders for kits as they do not have sufficient gear to treat patients. Many have offered to pay on their own until they get supplies from Bhopal.” The manufacturer said he has demand from police and municipal corporations too. According to official sources, daily requirement of PPE kits in state is about 6,000-7,000 kits per day as against daily manufacturing capacity of around 4,000 kits per day as of now. Government is working on enhancing production capacity to around 5,000 per day by involving local textile mills and calling raw materials from outstations. Another manufacturer of PPE kits said, “Senior officials from districts are approaching us with their requirements of masks, gloves and PPE kits.” A few industries of Pithampur and Sanwer road have also distributed PPE suits to health workers. Harinarayanchari Mishra, DIG, Indore said, “We have received around 500 PPE kits and will get around 10,000 more from Bhopal for the security of police personnel as they accompany doctors everywhere in epicentres, containment areas and hospitals.” Districts nearby Indore are also anticipating fresh supply of PPE kits. Dewas collector Dr Shrikant Pandey said, “We have sought protective gear from state government. Meanwhile, we have roped in self-help groups to make masks and have distributed over 12,000 so far.” Ujjain collector Shashank Mishra said, “We have assessed our requirements a week in advance and put orders.” Manufacturers and suppliers of PPE said security agencies and banks among others are also enquiring for kits. Pankaj Jain, owner of Jigyasa Security Services Pvt Ltd said, “I have a fleet of 300 security guards and with increasing number of patients, I am trying to purchase PPE kits. Waiting period is over 15 days at most places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/demand-for-protective-gear-keeps-rising-supply-still-low/articleshow/74975097.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
April 4, 2020||Goa||Virus paralyses Margao’s pre-monsoon work||Margao: With hardly two months to go for the monsoon to set in, the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to have an adverse impact on the pre-monsoon works of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC). As is the practice, the MMC engages a large number of workers during this time of the year for pre-monsoon works to ensure that all the tasks are completed well ahead of the monsoon. This year, however, as the migrant workforce is unlikely to be available for work in view of the lockdown situation as they will be unable to come to Goa, sources in the municipality said that the MMC was mulling engaging local labourers to carry out the works.The pre-monsoon works include cleaning of drains and gutters, desilting of nullahs, cutting and trimming of tree branches, identifying low-lying areas prone to flooding and clearing illegal hutments, preparing plan for accommodating people affected by monsoon calamity, etc.MMC chief officer Ajit Panchwadkar when contacted, acknowledged the scarcity of labourers, but dismissed all concerns. “All pre-monsoon works will be carried out in time. We will soon chalk out a plan of action,” he said.Meanwhile, the director of urban development has issued a circular to all the civic bodies to carry out some of the pre-monsoon works departmentally instead of inviting tenders for the purpose.The civic bodies have also been asked to consider engaging labourers housed in government shelter homes for the tasks.Sources in the MMC, however, expressed apprehensions over engaging labourers from the labour camps. “As it is, none of the labourers housed in the shelter homes are municipality workers. Besides, these labourers earn daily wages anywhere between Rs 600 and 800, whereas the municipality has to pay the wages as per the Minimum Wages Act which is far less. Besides, as they are housed in government shelter homes, engaging them for pre-monsoon works could turn out to be a risky proposition in the event their safety is somehow compromised,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-paralyses-margaos-pre-monsoon-work/articleshow/74975569.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 lockdown puts gaushalas in a fix as fodder stock depleting||NAGPUR: When every activity to fight the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) is moving around humans, one of the areas that needs attention are the gaushalas (cow shelters) on whom acute fodder crisis threat looms large. Stock of fodder is drying up at several protective shelters for cows in the city leading to appeals for donations to feed the cattle by procuring vegetables from markets. The prime reason for the crisis is restrictions on transportation. Mahendra Kataria, president of Ujjwal Gorakshan Trust, Bahadura on Umred Road, said, “Due to the lockdown, there is drop in number of ‘gaurakshaks’ who were regular visitors to the shelter to feed these homeless cows. The daily donations have also dipped causing problems.” “Secondly, supply of fodder extracted from gram and rice waste, corn silage etc is not coming because of the curfew. The feed, procured from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, has stopped. We are relying on unsold vegetables from Kalamna Market now,” said Kataria. For this, the trust, which is running the shelter for the last 26 years, has also appealed for donations. Due to prompt police action, there is spurt in inflow of seized cattle from butchers, who either steal cows from rural areas or procure smuggled cattle from Chhattisgarh and MP, he said. “Our daily feeding expenses for 500 cows is Rs7,000. Even if a group of three persons — each donating Rs2,500 — comes forward it would be of great help. Each mini truck of unsold vegetables costs Rs2,500. We have list of brokers who have assured supply of vegetables,” said JP Sharma, trust secretary. Similar is the plight of a ‘gaushala’ run by Shambu Patel near Pardi on Bhandara Road. “I have 500 stray cattle. With police help, I managed to arrange two truckloads of fodder from Bhandara. One truckload of silage is stranded in Narsinghpur in MP due to lockdown. I’m trying to see the transport is allowed with MP police help,” said Patel. “We require 13 tonne fodder for 15 days. I have stock for three days and if rules are not relaxed for transport of cattle feed, it will be a matter of survival of the animals that have already got a new lease of life by escaping slaughter,” Patel said. Gorakshan Sabha in Dhantoli too has fodder stock just for eight days. The sabha has one more cow shelter housing 250 bovines at Pendhri in Pachgaon on Umred Road, but due to waste produce available from its own farm, there is no fodder problem as such. “At Dhantoli, we have 200 cattle. The animals are mostly fed crop silage, but due to transportation restrictions the material is not available. We procure fodder from Surat, Hyderabad and Indore. Due to the lockdown, we too are relying on vegetables now, though feeding only vegetables may cause dehydradation. The police should allow movement of trucks carrying fodder,” said Mohan Kolvatkar of Gorakshan Sabha. The national secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Ashok Dalmia admits main problem is regarding transportation of essential commodities. Police are restricting movement of loaded trucks and also stopping empty trucks going for loading of essential commodities. “Unless empty trucks reach the factory or godown, how the movement of goods will start? This issue must be sorted out to ensure availability of essential commodities. Many trucks carrying commodities are stranded on inter-state borders. They must be allowed to move and no empty trucks should be restricted at borders,” said Dalmia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-lockdown-puts-gaushalas-in-a-fix-as-fodder-stock-depleting/articleshow/74975095.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Couple, aged 93 & 88, beats Covid-19 in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: In what could be a good news for all those who have been tested positive for Covid-19 across the world, an elderly couple in Kerala, who were critically ill after contracting the virus, recovered and were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, on Friday. They had tested negative for Covid-19 earlier this week. The medical board met on Friday afternoon and decided to discharge Thomas, 93, and Mariamma, 88, who had contracted the disease from their close relatives who had arrived from Italy. On getting discharged, they left for their home at Aythala in Ranni in Pathanamthitta. They are the oldest patients to overcome Covid-19 in the country. Considering their age and other underlying health issues, the couple were in the high-risk category, said health minister K K Shailaja. They had diabetes, hypertension and cardiac issues. They were initially admitted to the VIP room in the medical ICU where they started showing uneasiness as both were kept in separate rooms. Following this, they were shifted to transplant ICU where both could see each other. Later, the health condition of the 93-year-old man deteriorated and he was put on ventilator. He also suffered a cardiac arrest during this period. They both also had urinary infections which was later cured. Once their health condition improved, test was conducted and both were found negative. According to the nurses who looked after the couple, they sometimes insisted on going home and even refused to take food. However, the nursing staff pacified them through their friendly interventions. Incidentally, one of the staff nurses who was tested positive for Covid-19 after attending to the couple, was also discharged on Friday. Shailaja has lauded the medical team at the MCH for bringing laurels to the state by curing the aged couple. Covid-19 was confirmed in the couple on March 8. They were shifted to Kottayam MCH from Pathanamthitta general hospital on March 9 based on the health minister’s directive. Along with the seven-member team of doctors, 40 medical staff, including 25 nurses, actively took part in various stages of their treatment. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan lauded the health workers in the state. “In Kottayam, the elderly couple who has been cured was discharged today. A nurse who was infected while attending to them has also been discharged. This shows the excellence of our healthcare system and workers. Let's congratulate the health workers profusely,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/couple-aged-93-88-beats-covid-19/articleshow/74972996.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 4, 2020||Kochi||After long trek, group stopped at border||Kochi: A group of nine Malayalis who hitchhiked and walked all the way from Koppal in Karnataka, around 500km, to a spot 30km away from Kerala border is currently stuck at Gundlupet as both the states are not allowing their transit. Muhammed Ilyas, one of the members of the group said that though they could get a tempo traveller which had a permit to reach Mysore, the rest of the journey using available modes of transport and walking deserted roads was tough. “We reached a spot 30km away from the Kerala border yesterday and my cousins were waiting with a vehicle at Muthanga. But Wayanad collector informed that permission to enter Kerala could not be granted,” said Ilyas. They were taken to a camp arranged by Gundlupet city police on Thursday. “We were taken for a medical examination at a hospital and none of us have any symptoms including fever,” said Ilyas. Ilyas along with eight others - Subair, Rasheed, Rahoof, Shuhaib, Moideenkutty, Marshook, Musthafa and Khalid hail from Thirurangadi in Malappuram. “We have three bakeries in Huligi in Koppal and initially thought of staying back during the lockdown period. But this became very hard after three to four days,” he said. According to them they faced a lot of discrimination on the way. “Since we are from Kerala some shops did not even allow us to enter,” he said. Ilyas said they are ready to undergo quarantine if they can enter Kerala. “We are all exhausted and want to get home at the earliest. Here we need to walk 4km to get food and there is no tap water. The eldest among us Moideen Kutty, who is close to 60, is diabetic,” he said. Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdulla said in a lockdown situation announced by the Prime Minister, they are supposed to be where they are. “They cannot travel. That is the stand of both Karnataka and Kerala,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-long-trek-group-stopped-at-border/articleshow/74973000.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||88 cops under home quarantine in Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: While trying to make people stay indoors due to the outbreak of Covid-19, police officers too have been facing the risk of contracting the disease. During the past one month, as many as 88 policemen under the city police have gone under home quarantine after coming in primary or secondary contact with people suspected to be carriers of the virus. Those who have gone into home quarantine include DCP (admin) Mohammed Arif and six others from the City Police Commissioner's office. They are three police officers, including a gunman and driver and three ministerial staff in his office. They had gone into quarantine following the death pf Covid-19 positive patient at Pothencode. A close relative of the deceased is a staff at DCP’s office. The woman had even turned up for work on Monday, a day prior to the death. From Tuesday, the officials went into self isolation. The DCP's office was fumigated following this. Other quarantined officers include a sub-inspector and a junior sub-inspector. The sub-inspector attached to Thampanoor police station had come in contact with an NRI who had just returned from a Gulf country. From airport he reached Thampanoor and enquired the sub-inspector about availability of trains. Following this, the sub-inspector and two civil police officers who were with him, went into quarantine. The junior sub-inspector attached to Sreekaryam police station went into quarantine along with a few other civil police officers after they helped a group of people, who had preliminary symptoms, to get transport facility to reach their home in Idukki. City police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said fortunately none of them have been tested positive so far. The officers are being checked periodically for symptoms. “If any of them display any symptoms, we will immediately take measures to provide them better medical care,” he said, adding that the department has sufficient manpower to replace them and hence, their work has not been affected. “Various other wings in the department have lent us their manpower. This includes the vigilance and anti corruption bureau, city traffic and armed battalions. We have not fielded our entire men on duty. We have kept enough manpower on reserve so that we can last till the end of lockdown period,” Upadhyay said adding that despite so many men being taken off from duty, police have only intensified their vigil. They have opened more checkpoints near city borders to prevent unnecessary roaming by motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/88-cops-under-home-quarantine-in-capital/articleshow/74972998.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 4, 2020||Goa||Goa cop hits the road with a microphone, becomes viral star||VASCO: The sight of a policeman singing, entertaining and enlightening the public from middle of deserted roads has attracted plenty of attention. Police Sub-Inspector Diego Gracias is winning hearts with his song on coronavirus, modelled on the popular Mog tuzo kitlo ashelo (how much I craved for your love). In just two days and 15 ‘appearances’ across deserted roads in Vasco, the PSI attached to the Vasco police station has become a hit with people clapping for him from the balconies and verandas of their home. Chief minister Pramod Sawant uploaded the song on his social media pages, while his superiors are delighted that the innovative method of keeping people indoors during the lockdown has worked. “I’ve been singing for a while, but the songs written by me were all personal. This is the first time I have written a song on a social theme. All this happened due to motivation of Vasco police inspector Nilesh Rane who told all of us to reach out to people differently,” said Gracias. Gracias, 40, joined the department in 2006 but his singing fame didn’t extend beyond his village of Goa Velha and the police stations where he has been posted. He has participated in tiatrs in Goa Velha and doesn’t lose an opportunity to entertain everyone whenever functions are organised at the police stations. Gracias follows in the footsteps of DySP Sammy Tavares who has also penned an informative song on the coronavirus. His song has been doing the rounds of social media for a while now and the police department may soon record these songs and play them on loudspeakers across the state. “I really appreciate the efforts taken by PSI Gracias in writing and singing this song. This is a very good medium of reaching out to the people”, said South Goa Superintendent of Police Arvind Gawas. Gracias came up with an innovative idea of reaching out to the people, knowing that staying at home for long spells could turn out to be boring. He not just wrote the lyrics of the song – modelled on a song from ‘Mog Moipas’ – but also decided to sing it himself out in the streets. The song pleads with people to remain indoors and not venture out, explaining the dangers of taking the virus home and risking the lives of their loved ones. “The song has been presented in 15 different places so far. We plan to cover more areas. Wherever we have gone, the response has been really good”, said Rane. The Vasco police station has been in the forefront of innovative campaigns in its quest to handle the lockdown in an effective manner. From placards that said, “We are on duty for you, you stay at home for us”, to cops roaming with loud-speakers asking people to co-operate, and now the song. “Coming from a police officer, this song has brought much bigger awareness than all the news bulletins, advisories put together. He has touched the right chord among the common man with his meaningful lyrics and out-of-the-box awareness campaign”, said Konkani author Daniel de Souza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cop-hits-the-road-with-a-mic-becomes-viral-star/articleshow/74975566.cms||Ruvina Khan
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Boy gets head stuck in steel pot, rescued||Chennai: Fire and rescue services personnel rescued a two-and-half-year-old boy after his head got stuck in a steel pot in Avadi on Thursday. On Thursday, while his family was having lunch, S Divyan slipped away to play and got his head stuck in a steel pot. The family, which was startled to see the pot moving were alarmed on seeing the toddler’s head stuck inside. Despite efforts by his father and uncle for an hour, the pot couldn’t be removed, following which fire and rescue services personnel were called in. Six personnel arrived. They applied a lot of coconut oil and slowly pulled the pot out, in about 20 minutes. It was ensured that the toddler could breathe well. “Divyan is extremely naughty. Three months ago, he had locked himself up in a room and a door and windows had to be broken to rescue him,” his uncle Karthik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/boy-gets-head-stuck-in-steel-pot-rescued/articleshow/74975568.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||New Jr docs’ team takes command at Covid-19 hosp||Kanpur: A new team of junior residents, including those who have yet to complete their post-graduation studies, took the charge of Covid–19 hospital of LLR hospital on Friday. This new team of junion doctors has replaced an old team, comprising 24 junior residents and 26 non-PG junior residents, which was handling the Covid-19 hospital work for last seven days. All these junior residents and non-PG junior residents have been sent on two weeks' rest. But they are not allowed to move in their homes and would be accommodated in hotel rooms which have been taken for the purpose. Prof R K Maurya, head of the team, said that the junior residents had been working for seven days and they, too, needed rest. As some suspected cases have reached the hospital the team members would stay in quarantine. The nursing staff, who were assisting the junior residents, have also been put in quarantine at the school of nursing, while class four staff members have been asked to stay at JK Cancer Institute. Arrangements have been made to ensure that they would get healthy diet in quarantine. For quarantine purpose the medical college administration has booked as many as 540 rooms at Vijay Villa, Hotel Regenta and Hotel Bliss. Prof Arti Lal Chandani, principal, GSVM medical college, stated that the expenses for fooding, lodging and maintenance would be borne by the state. Meanwhile, the police quarantined 13 'jamaatis' of other states after their medical examination. Pheelkhana police got information that 13 'jamaatis' were staying at Mir Mahmood Mosque in Patkapur. The police took all of them to UHM hospital and got them medically examined. When they were found fit and healthy the police quarantined all of them at the mosque. Satish Chandra Sahu, inspector, Pheelkhana said that all 'jamaatis' had reached the city on February 19 last. They had tried to return to their states on March 25, but could not do so due to the lockdown. Of them, eight belong to Haryana, two to Maharashtra and one each from Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/new-jr-docs-team-takes-command-at-covid-19-hosp/articleshow/74974140.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra government yet to set up testing labs at GMCHs||NAGPUR: Come Sunday and it would be two weeks since the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed the Maharashtra government to set up coronavirus testing laboratory in Government Medical Colleges ad Hospitals (GMCH) at Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Yavatmal. However, no progress has been made in this regard so far. Additional government pleader Deepak Thakre confirmed that the government hadn’t submitted any reply till Friday. “I’ve talked with the collector and conveyed the HC’s directives. I need to submit an affidavit in this regard in the next hearing scheduled on Wednesday,” he told TOI. Divisional commissioner told TOI that he had no idea of this particular directive from the court. He, however, said that the process to set up testing laboratories in GMCHs of Akola and Nagpur as declared by the Maharashtra government is under way and soon both would start functioning. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote, on April 23, had also asked the respondents, including central and state governments along with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to provide kit to protect them from hazardous material (Hazmat) for the doctors, nursing staff and other health workers required to treat Covid-19 patients within a week. However, there is no progress in this regard as well. The medicos are complaining of shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks which are essential for these frontline warriors to fight against the virus. Else, there is every chance for them of getting infected. On Thursday, TOI reported how doctors are forced to work with raincoats due to shortage PPEs and masks. The judges had also directed to set up isolation wards at all central jails in Vidarbha for the prisoners within a week so that they can be kept there if tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-yet-to-set-up-testing-labs-at-gmchs/articleshow/74975103.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Fraudsters defraud tipplers of Rs 1 lakh in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Cyber fraudsters are cashing in on the desperation of tipplers by offering home delivery of liquor and in the process are siphoning off money from their bank accounts. Two people, in the past two days, have lodged complaints with the city cyber crime sleuths stating fraudsters siphoned off Rs 1 lakh from their bank accounts by promising to home-deliver liquor . A private employee from Yousufguda lodged a complaint stating that on Thursday, he saw a post on social media offering home delivery of liquor from a shop in his neighbourhood. The fraudster, posing as a representative of Sri Sai Wine Shop, posted the message on social media with a mobile number to contact. “When the victim contacted the fraudster, the accused assured him that whiskey bottle will be delivered for Rs 2,000 and asked for an advance payment of Rs 1,000. The victim agreed to pay and the fraudster sent him a QR code to scan on his e-wallet app. When the victim scanned the QR code Rs 50,000 got transferred from his bank account,” ACP KVM Prasad said. Another victim from Gowliguda came to the police station on Friday with a similar complaint. He said he also lost Rs 50,000 to the fraudster, who promised to deliver liquor at his door step. “After defrauding the victims, the accused switched off their phones,” the ACP said. Police received another complaint from the representative of Bagga Wines stating unknown fraudsters have put up photos of their shops on Facebook and gave mobile numbers offering home delivery of liquor. Police registered cases under relevant sections of the IT Act and launched an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudsters-defraud-tipplers-of-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/74975590.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 4, 2020||Indore||Indore: PPE kits may be given to all health workers of civic body||INDORE: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) is planning to start giving personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to all its health department workers. As many as 700 workers of IMC’s health department are engaged in works like sweeping, garbage collection and sanitization work in areas that have been declared as epicentres and containment areas. Of these, around 50-100 workers are engaged in the same work in colonies, where positive cases were detected. While corporation has been providing PPE kits to staff engaged in different works at colonies, where positive cases of Covid-19 were detected, other health department workers were not given the kits. This has prompted these staff to raise a demand for the same. Officials said that all health department workers are given masks, hand gloves and sanitizers and PPE kits are available only for those who go in colonies with suspected cases. “We issue PPE kits to staff engaged in sanitization and waste collection work of epicentres and a proposal for issuance of PPE kits to other staff, who have to move in containment areas, has been submitted on basis of demand from workers,” said department in charge Akhilesh Upadhyay. He said that once sanctioned, they will start giving PPE kits to other workers of health department. “Workers engaged in civic services in containment areas will be given preference,” he added. IMC at present requires around 50-60 PPE kits every day, and this would go up to 600-700 kits per day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ppe-kits-may-be-given-to-all-health-workers-of-civic-body/articleshow/74975102.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Amid crisis, Ashraf helped repatriate 6 bodies from UAE||Kozhikode: Ashraf Thamarassery, who has dedicated his life to repatriate the mortal remains of expatriates who died in the UAE, is continuing his mission even during the time of Covid-19, amid the mass grounding of international passenger flights. Ashraf helped repatriate six bodies of Keralites, who died in the UAE recently due to accidents and non-Covid-19 ailments, in cargo flights to Nedumbassery and Thiruvananthapuram airports last week. Now, the 45-year-old is busy with the paperwork to repatriate around 20 more bodies-—including 12 Indians— apart from those hailing from Nepal and Bangladesh. He said four more bodies are set to be repatriated through Nedumbassery airport, via cargo flights, on Saturday. “Having no flights to send bodies back home is a nightmare. It is something which I haven’t encountered during the past two decades after I started repatriation of bodies. When I sought help over social media last week through a video, Rafeeq, a Thalassery-based businessman agreed to take the bodies in a cargo flight being chartered to bring vegetables from Kerala,” Ashraf said over the phone from UAE. “The mother of a 26-year-old youth, who died due to electrocution in the UAE, had called me from Kerala and asked me if I could help her see her son one last time. We managed to send the body in a cargo flight and after the funeral she sent me images of the last rites over WhatsApp. There is no greater help other than facilitating the return of the mortal remains of their loved ones back home,” Ashraf added. “The stand of some health officials at Thiruvananthapuram airport mandating a 48-hour prior intimation before bringing dead bodies in flights, a non- existent rule, delayed repatriation on Thursday. With the intervention of Norka officials and MLA K V Abdul Khader, we got clearance to repatriate four bodies to Kochi on Saturday,” he added. Ashraf, who is the first point of contact for lakhs of NRKs in the event of death of an expat, has helped repatriation of 5,680 bodies to 39 countries. In 2015, he was honoured with Pravasi Bharatiya Samman by the Centre for his service. Repatriation of bodies from UAE is a complex procedure involving issuance of at least seven certificates from various authorities and Ashraf has been ensuring that the procedures remain hassle-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/amid-crisis-ashraf-helped-repatriate-6-bodies-from-uae/articleshow/74973006.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Grocery shops remain closed in Quepem||Quepem: A request from the Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) fell on deaf ears as grocers, vendors and others continued to keep their shutters down due to unavailability of stocks on Friday. The municipal authorities had requested local businessmen to keep their shops and stalls open. QMC market inspector Andrew Fernandes went around the town to request grocers, vegetable and fruit vendors to open their shops, but to his surprise, not many of them were around. According to a shop owner, during his recent trip to Margao to buy stock in bulk, he was surprised to hear that rates of essentials had been hiked and that stock was limited. “They refused to deliver our stock. If we bring the stock by rented vehicles, the cost will rise. We could lose our customers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grocery-shops-remain-closed-in-quepem/articleshow/74975573.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government fastens purse strings to fight Covid-19||KOLKATA: From banning purchase of vehicles, computers, water coolers, furniture, IT accessories and AC installations, the state government has put on hold all kinds of renovation, decoration and furnishing of government offices to meet the unforeseen expenses needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The state has also asked all the departments to suspend all recruitments for the time being. In a notification issued by the finance department, the state government has announced a series of financial measures that need to be followed during this emergency-like situation. The finance department also made it clear that no existing schemes will be enhanced unless it is approved by it. In a detailed notification, the state has not only stopped any kind of hiring of vehicles from outside but also advised all the government officials to travel according to their entitlement. In case of air-travel, the government officials will have to opt for economy class. The refreshment cost will also have to be kept bare minimum. The ‘house building advance’ for All India Service Officers (IAS, IPS, IFS) has been postponed. Withdrawal from general provident fund has been streamlined and will be allowed only for marriage, education and treatment. However, the finance department has made it clear that any kind purchase or renovation and repairing of buildings for the purpose of combating coronavirus will be given priority but for that, the department’s permission is a must. Moreover, it has also made clear that all matters related to the control of pandemic will have to be approved by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-fastens-purse-strings-to-fight-ncov/articleshow/74975106.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rapid testing to begin from Pothencode||Thiruvananthapuram: The rapid test for suspected Covid-19 cases will begin in state capital soon. For this, 1,000 testing kits were handed over by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to the district administration on Friday. Rapid tests will be performed among the people in Pothencode region who have been put under high risk category. Vijayan who handed over the kit to collector K Gopalakrishnan, congratulated Shashi Tharoor for using his MP fund for this and making these kits available for the district administration. “These kits will help the authorities to get the results in two-and-a-half hour. However, we cannot claim it as a final result,” he said. The blood samples of people here will be taken to check whether there have been any spread of the virus in the panchayat. This is being done since a 69-year-old person from this panchayat was tested positive and he later died in the hospital.. He neither had any travel history nor had he been in the direct contact list o any positives. The final procedure on sampling and testing protocol will be decided in the technical committee meeting scheduled to be held on Saturday. The meeting will be chaired by the collector and attended by DMO Dr P P Preetha, health and revenue officials. Rapid test will help find out the presence of virus in blood through a simple testing procedure that will take only 45 minutes for results. The first set of the kits reached the state capital from Pune-based Mylabs. This was purchased using the MP fund of Shashi Tharoor. Another set of 2,000 kits will be reaching the district on Sunday. Meanwhile, the district administration and the city corporation authorities continued the disinfection activities in the Pothencode panchayat area and also in the city areas like Karimadom Colony and East Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rapid-testing-to-begin-from-pothencode/articleshow/74973020.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Indore||Scared, yet proud to be at frontline, says health staff||INDORE: Just like fatality in the frontline is demotivating for warriors in the line of fire, doctors and paramedics working in Covid-19 isolation wards say that it’s very disturbing when they hear news of fellow health workers getting infected with corona while discharging their duties. Health workers including two doctors, one resident doctor and one male nurse were tested Covid-19 positive and are undergoing treatment at facilities in city. TOI on Friday talked to some health workers at Covid-19 isolation wards of MRTB and SAIMS to know their experiences and feelings. Dr Sheru Singh, department of respiratory department has been on duty in Covid-19 isolation ward of MRTB, on his birthday on Friday. He was on duty in the ward when the report was filed and couldn't be contacted. MGM resident doctor Dr Harsh Mahajan, who has been working for last 13 days in the ward said, “It is very disturbing to hear about any of the health worker getting infected with this disease. We are treating patients using all precautionary measures but unluckily a few get contaminated.” It is very tough to work in Covid-19 facility after wearing PPE kits. “We can’t even drink water or use toilet once we begin duty. This is mainly because if we remove the PPE kits, we are making us vulnerable to contamination,” said Mahajan. The mental dilemma is more exhausting. “We are more scared for our families. I have one baby girl and a wife at home. In order to prevent them from being infected, I have separated my room,” added Mahajan. Dr Ravi Doshi, HoD of respiratory department of SAIMS said, “We are working with positive mindset among these patients in Covid-19 isolation ward. The patients are counselled about their issues.” “We are telling the patients, if you follow our advice for next 14 days you can go home defeating the disease. Meanwhile, they are given all kinds of treatment available at the moment,” added Doshi. Dr Nandini Bhatt, resident doctor, who put a patient on ventilator in isolation ward said, “Fear do come to our minds. But, it is a mixed feeling of pride and fear as we are the only one capable of treating patients in such a high risk zones,” said Bhatt. Dr Karthika Devi, resident doctor in anaesthesia department said, “I asked posting at isolation ward and was allotted in the first batch. I asked for it because, I think being a doctor, it’s our duty to serve the patients.” Staff Nurse Teena Gupta said, “It is risk to treat patients in Covid-19 wards but we are performing our jobs very responsibly. It is very difficult to do our jobs in these isolation wards. There remains a high risk of getting infected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/scared-yet-proud-to-be-at-frontline-says-health-staff/articleshow/74975109.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur citizens honour sanitary workers, offer tea and snacks||KANPUR: People are not only honouring the sanitary workers for their work but are also offering them tea and snacks. In ward 55, Bhojpuri Samaj welcomed the sanitiary workers and garlanded the squad of sanitary workers led by sanitary inspector Dayanand and others and also offered them tea and snacks. Similarly, residents of ward 105 Munshi Purwa garlanded sanitary supervisor Brijesh Kumar and his team. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi greeted the honoured sanitary workers and said that they have a big responsibility to keep the city clean. He said that the Kanpur Municipal corporation selects the best cleaned garbage dump house every day and rewards its cleaning team. The KMC officials had selected six well cleaned dump houses in six zones of the city. Jakhai Baba Tiwaripur garbage dump house in zone -2 was adjudged as best cleaned on Friday. Sanitary inspector Surendra Singh and Sanitary Nayak Ram Kumar were felicitated. Meanwhile, Raghav Mahila swayam Sahayata group of Rajeev Nagar in Yashoda Nagar prepared 5,000 masks and 200 pieces of PPE kits. Meanwhile KMC team, on Friday, fed stray animals at 45 places of the city. And around 68 people were benefitted by Tele-medicine scheme. The control room of KMC received total 1,222 complaints on Friday and as many as 1138 complaints had been disposed off, said authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/citizens-honour-sanitary-workers-offer-tea-snacks/articleshow/74974244.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||50% Jamaat members tested, waiting for results: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state has tested 23 samples of Tablighi Jamaat members and their results are awaited. The remaining 23 samples would be taken on Saturday, he said. There are 46 members of Tablighi Jamaat who have been quarantined, of which four are Goans. “We have a capacity to test 20 samples per day,” he said. Sawant said of the 46 Tabligahi Jamaat members, some have been quarantined at the state facility, while others were under home quarantine. He said, as per his information, eight members had attended the Nizamuddin markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat in February. “They were not present at the function held after March 20. Only two persons attended the March 11 congregation,” Sawant said. He said the state was testing them to ensure that they weren’t Covid-19 positive, as they “have come in contact with the people of the state”. “Once the test is done, we will conduct an inquiry to find out the reason behind these people coming to Goa,” Sawant said. He said there are around 2,500 families belonging to Tablighi Jamaat residing in Goa and they are not directly connected with Delhi, but connected with Bengaluru centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-of-jamaat-members-tested-waiting-for-results-cm/articleshow/74975570.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: For first time, holy week without the congregation||PANAJI: For the first time in recent memory, Catholics will mark holy week this year without many of the traditions and ceremonies usually associated with it. Palm Sunday, for instance, won’t see the distribution of blessed palms. Maundy Thursday won’t have the washing of the feet ceremony, and there will be no home blessings for Easter. All masses and services will be celebrated without a congregation, livestreamed to the faithful. The archdiocese of Goa has called for these modifications in view of the coronavirus pandemic sweeping the globe. In the Catholic church, holy week celebrates the mysteries of salvation accompanying Jesus Christ during the last days of his earthly life, from his triumphal entry into Jerusalem (Palm Sunday) to his last supper (Maundy Thursday), passion (Good Friday) and resurrection (Easter Sunday). “This has never ever happened in my lifetime, and in the 49 years of my priesthood. For the first time we will be conducting the holy week services without a congregation of the faithful,” said Fr Bernardo Cota from the Saligao seminary. The 74-year-old priest, however, agreed with the Church decisions, “given the grave situation”. The archdiocese has instructed priests to inform devotees about the time of celebration, transmission or livestreaming, and exhort them to participate with devotion and decorum. While celebrating mass in private, priests should maintain social distancing from each other and follow hygiene and sanitation protocols, the archdiocese said. The Chrism mass scheduled for April 2 was postponed and priests have been requested to continue using holy oils blessed during the last Chrism mass until further instructions. On Palm Sunday, the branch of a palm or any other tree available in the church compound can be blessed. “This will ensure the branch is free of any contamination,” state the guidelines issued by the director of the Diocesan Centre for Liturgy, Fr Afonso Mendonca. “The blessed branch is not to be distributed. It is to be preserved in the parish church for making ashes for Ash Wednesday of the following year.” On Maundy Thursday, apart from the omission of the ceremony of washing of the feet, the archdiocese has also said that the blessed sacrament, after mass, will be placed directly in the tabernacle, without the procession. Priests in the archdiocese have also been instructed not to take holy communion to the home-bound during holy week. However, it said that the viaticum to the very sickly should not be refused. On Good Friday, Catholics have been asked to observe fasting and abstinence, and to partake in the celebration of the passion at 3pm. The archdiocese has also sent out special prayers to be inserted relating to coronavirus — for those suffering, those feeling lost, those who have died, as well as for scientists to quickly find a vaccine to combat Covid-19. “On Easter Sunday, priests may celebrate masses without a congregation as indicated in the Roman Missal,” the archdiocese said. “Home blessings stand suspended for the moment, till further directives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-first-time-holy-week-without-the-congregation/articleshow/74975572.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Cops attacked for stopping Friday prayers in Kannauj||KANPUR: A group of namazis, who had gathered at a house in Qaziyan locality of Kannauj to offer Friday prayers defying lockdown norms, attacked and injured police and local intelligence unit (LIU) personnel when they told them to vacate the premises. Reports said on Friday afternoon, a police team on routine patrolling in Mohalla Qaziyan under the limits of Kotwali police station received information that a group of more than two dozen men has assembled in a house to offer Friday prayer. The team reached the house and urged the gathering to abide by the lockdown orders and vacate the house and maintain social distancing in the view of the surging coronavirus cases in the country. However, a few among the gathering, not paying any heed to the requests, entered into an altercation with the police and resorted to stone pelting in which LIU personnel Rajveer Singh, police out-post in charge and SI -Anand Pandey and constable Saudan Singh were injured. The mob also damaged the motorcycle of LIU personnel. The team somehow managed to escape from the site and alerted senior officers after which SDM (Sadar) Shailesh Kumar, CO (City) Shrikant Prajapati, ASP Vinod Kumar and Inspector Kotwali Saudan Singh reached the site. However by then the trouble-makers had fled. Many attackers from the locality have reportedly fled after this incident. However, the police claimed to have picked up four suspects and is monitoring the entire area by drone cameras. SP Kannauj Amrendra Prasad Singh said, “The situation is now under control. Searches are being conducted to nab those involved in the attack. The entire area is now being monitored by drone cameras. Four suspects have been picked up for questioning while the injured personnel have been admitted to hospital. All those absconding will be arrested soon and no one will be allowed to violate lockdown rules.” On March 26, a group of men had assembled at a mosque in Mainpuri district and attacked the policemen for asking to avoid mass prayers (namaz) in the view of nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-liu-team-attacked-by-namazis/articleshow/74974167.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Russians, French to fly home today||T’puram/Kochi: The second passenger flight from Trivandrum International Airport after lockdown will be operated on Saturday. The charted flight arranged by the Russian consulate is operated to evacuate its stranded citizens in Kerala. As many as 207 Russian citizens have registered for the travel. The flight service will be operated by Ural airlines. The Russian nationals are staying at Varkala, Kovalam, Amritapuri Ashram in Kollam, Marari Beach, Kochi and Vakkom and will be brought to Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday morning. “Tourism department in association with police department will arrange transportation of tourist from other districts to Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. The health checkup will also be conducted before arriving at the airport. The tourists will be brought to airport in groups. There are around 50 people who expressed interest to stay back,” said honorary consul of the Russian Federation and director of Russian Cultural Centre in Thiruvananthapuram Ratheesh C Nair. Similar relief flights will be operated by Ural Airlines to evacuate Russians from Chennai. “The airport is set to operate the flight service. The terminal facility is ready to handle the passengers,” said C V Ravindran, Trivandrum airport director. On Thursday, French embassy officials wrote to Kerala chief secretary to facilitate operation of special flight from Kerala to Paris to evacuate French nationals from the state. “The flight will take off from Kochi at 8am on Saturday. There will be 151 passengers including 136 from Kerala and 15 from Tamil Nadu,” an official said. While the UK government too plans to evacuate their citizens, but they haven’t initiated formal procedures in this regard so far. On Wednesday, nine tourists from Malaysia who had been touring Kerala, were taken to Trichy from where they boarded flight to Kuala Lumpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/russians-french-to-fly-home-today/articleshow/74973104.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Coronavirus to hit defence production this fiscal||NAGPUR: The lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has brought defence production to a standstill. There are fears that the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) may not be able to meet targets for this financial year on account of the 21-day closure, said sources. OFB supplies a wide range of items ranging from rifles, howitzers, tanks and rockets to the defence forces. Prior to the lockdown, when local authorities across the country had issued restrictive orders, OFB had planned to continue operations at 50% of the manpower that included production workers too. However, eventually a complete shutdown was observed in line with the general order from the government. Even though production of defence items has been stopped, some factories are now making sanitisers, gloves, masks and other protective gear needed for Covid-19 fight. This was following a call by the government for the OFB to step in. Vidarbha has three factories at Nagpur, Chandrapur and Bhandara engaged in different processes of making heavy ammunition used in tanks, artillery and rockets. At Jabalpur, in Madhya Pradesh, the Gun Carriage Factory (GCF), which recently bagged the order to make the indigenous version of 155mm howitzers based on the Swedish Bofors, has also closed. Sources, including those in the top management, accept the lockdown will affect target achievement this fiscal. In some factories, unions have demanded that the month of April should also be included in financial year so the target can be achieved. However, recently the first batch of 1500 litres of sanitiser was issued from the Ordnance Factory Aruvankadu in Tamil Nadu. Hindustan Latex Ltd has been nominated as the nodal agency and it has placed an order of 13,000 litres sanitiser. The factory at Shahjahanpur in UP is enaged in making masks and the Hazratpur factory also in the same state will join, said Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh. The factory at Avadi in Tamil Nadu is making overall protective gear and the parachute factory at Agra is making tents that are also needed during the crisis, he said. Singh said workers have donated their two days’ salary for relief work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-to-hit-defence-production-this-fiscal/articleshow/74975114.cms||Shishir Arya
April 4, 2020||Goa||Bumper harvest, but no ‘market’ for Parra’s melons||Calangute: There has been a bumper harvest of watermelons this year in Parra, but with the lockdown in place most of the produce is likely to go waste. In an effort to revive watermelon farming in Parra, the panchayat has been distributing free seeds to farmers in the village, once famous for its sweet watermelons. This year too, the panchayat, helped by corporate sponsorship, had distributed seeds in November. The seeds are planted in the first half of December and the harvest lasts for around two months from mid-February to April. With more farmers planting the seeds, this year has seen the highest yield, according to farmers. But with the lockdown and markets closed, most of the harvest is likely to go waste. A large number of ripe watermelons are lying unpicked in the fields, farmers said. The national lockdown is in place till April 14 and Parra sarpanch Delilah Lobo said there is not much the panchayat could do as India battles against the coronavirus pandemic. “I’ve told them to sit by the roadside to sell the watermelons. What else can we do?” asked the sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bumper-harvest-but-no-market-for-parras-melons/articleshow/74975580.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Shoot those spreading coronavirus, says MLA||DEHRADUN: Reacting to the allegations of alleged misbehaviour by some members of Tablighi Jamaat who have been quarantined in hospitals, BJP MLA from Udham Singh Nagar, Raj Kumar Thukral said that those who are miebahvaving with doctors and nurses in Uttarakhand should be slapped with National Security Act (NSA) as has been proposed to be done by UP CM Yogi Aditynatah in his state. He added that government should pass orders to “shoot those who are spitting at places spreading the virus.” Meanwhile, in Uttarkashi, ten people who defied lockdown guidelines to gather for prayer were booked by city police on Friday. They had gathered at a house situated in Indira Colony of Uttarkashi town. Soon after getting information, a police team reached the spot and arrested all ten people for flouting guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mla-shoot-those-spreading-virus/articleshow/74974250.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 4, 2020||Indore||Silawat: Seal Indore with paramilitary forces to stop spread||INDORE: Paramilitary forces should be deployed in Indore and borders of the city completely sealed, said former health minister Tulsiram Silawat on Thursday. “Borders of all nearby districts of Indore should be completely sealed while paramilitary forces should be deployed there to prohibit movement of people. Besides, service of the doctors of nearby areas should be availed to deal with the situation,” Silawat told TOI after holding a meeting with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The former health minister, who quit Congress before BJP returned to power in Madhya Pradesh, said that he has urged the chief minister to provide PPE kits to all health staff and employees of other departments serving in the field to safeguard their lives. “Health professionals are the real heroes for serving tirelessly in such adverse situations. The state government should take strict measures to ensure their safety while the society should also show respect towards them,” he said adding that incidents like that reported in Taat Patti Bakhal should not be repeated. He added that this is not the time to highlight any flaw in the system or society but to resolve growing demand of health services and drugs, shortcoming of doctors and smartly managing the situation. “During a meeting with CM, I urged him to ensure strict implementation of lockdown and also meet the demand of PPE kits and other required safety gear,” Silawat said adding that Chouhan is taking all required steps, including strictly confining people inside their homes to break the chain of virus spread. Indore, which is known as ‘Mini-Mumbai’ and the state’s business capital, attracts a large number of people for working, studying and other purposes. This is the reason that movement of people is very high here as compared to neighbouring districts and so the threat of disease spread, Silawat explained. He added that 21-day lockdown is the best possible solution taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/silawat-seal-the-city-with-paramilitary-forces-to-stop-spread/articleshow/74975119.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||Users struggle to buy, repair key tech items||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Sampats, an ailing elderly couple from Thane, are facing the lockdown heat, quite literally, after their air conditioning unit suddenly conked off. The Ratnam family from Malad is in a similar predicament after their TV and microwave stopped working last week. Thousands of families across the nation are facing a hard time due to their gadgets malfunctioning at the ‘wrong time’. With lockdowns in place, neither can anyone take a damaged good to a repair shop nor can a technician come home. It’s not only household goods that are causing distress. With work from home becoming the norm in the era of social distancing, many services that were broadly seen as “non-essential” till some time back, are now defining the new-age work culture.Repairs of laptops, printers, refrigerators, ACs, smartphones and even TV sets are an absolute necessity when you are confined to your house under emergency conditions. Even hospitals and government offices are finding it difficult to repair or replace goods. It’s near impossible to carry out any repair work swiftly without an emergency pass. D Vinayak, a senior professional with a media company in the Delhi-NCR region, is extremely worried as his laptop—the only way he gets connected to his office and manages to carry out his assignments from home—has crashed. On contacting the manufacturer, the staff at the helpline tried to sort out his problem over phone, but it turned out to be an issue with a specific part that needs replacement. “But movement of our repair staff is not allowed at residential societies. So, we cannot do anything,” he was told. Worried that he may not be able to contribute to his office, he tried to buy a new laptop. “Sorry, but there are no deliveries that are happening now, and our retail stores are also closed,” was the answer he got. Dahisar resident Neela Joshi has been trying to call up technicians after the discharge pipe of her washing machine was damaged but in vain. “My daughter, son-in-law and grandchild have moved in with me till the curfew lasts and the laundry basket overflows on most mornings. With no chance of getting a new discharge pipe anytime soon, I’ve been trying to plug holes in the existing one with cello tape,” she said. In Chennai, Neelima Sharma, a home-maker whose refrigerator stopped working, has posted an appeal in the local WhatsApp group, requesting anyone with “even a small spare refrigerator to lend/lease” it to her for some days. “Provision of these services is an absolute essential in such times. People are literally under house arrest and the only way we can drive productivity is through work-from-home. But if the repairs cannot be carried out, you not only end up wasting crucial man hours, but it’s also a loss for the country’s GDP,” Nitin Kunkolienker, president of IT hardware industry body MAIT, said. Kunkolienker said that having the freedom to work from remote locations—home in the case of Covid-19—serves the purpose of creating social distancing. However, he rues that enforcement agencies are not open to issuing even the bare-minimum passes. Vijay Kumar, director (customer support) at printer and scanner company Epson India, said while telephonic support is offered wherever its feasible, at least two passes should still be issued to the service personnel/centre to manage movement in cities. For critical complaints at hospitals and government offices, Epson said, “In such cases, we request the customer to send an email or provide a pass. This will be shown as supporting document by the engineers while commuting.” LG Electronics has major AC deployments across hospitals, but is finding it difficult to get curfew passes. “We have not been able to carry out service in a big way. For important calls, we are guiding through phone. We are facing a difficult task, and are now raising it up with our industry association as well as concerned state governments,” Vijay Babu, vice-president for home appliances and ACs at LG India, said. Such is the scale of the problem that a senior employee at Samsung India has been unable to replace the faulty laptop charging cable of his family member. “How do I get it done? I have no answer,” he said, requesting anonymity. An official with a top MNC computer maker said that their “service staff was beaten up by policemen” in the early days of the lockdown. “What do we do now? We can’t risk the safety and security of our support staff.” Manish Sharma, president of Panasonic India, said that his company has sought curfew passes for certain number of service staff to cater to critical installation such as in hospitals. “We are still not sure how it will be given, but are working on it.” Meanwhile, the Sampats are keeping their cool under the ceiling fan, waiting for the lockdown to get over. (Inputs from Nitasha Natu)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/users-struggle-to-repair-or-buy-key-tech-goods/articleshow/74975579.cms||Pankaj Doval
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Man arrested for spreading rumours||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Friday arrested a man for allegedly spreading rumours online about pilgrims in Vaishnodevi testing positive for coronavirus. Mohammed Abrar Sheikh, 35, was nabbed after the crime branch got information that he has shared a post regarding coronavirus threat. The police said that Sheikh kept a post on his Facebook on April 2 stating 400 pilgrims are stuck in Vaishno Devi and 145 of them have been tested positive for coronavirus. “Such posts cause panic among people. So Sheikh has been arrested,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. Sheikh has been booked under the Disaster Management Act too as its sections are stringent when it comes to spreading rumours when the country is facing disaster. Sheikh is a plumber by profession and stays in Wadi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/74972802.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Virtual board games help take boredom out of home||PANAJI: As the nationwide lockdown heads into its second week, traditional board games like Scrabble and Monopoly are making a comeback, but this time, in a digital avatar. Families in Goa are using these games to stay connected with loved ones and even make new friends during the coronavirus pandemic. With nothing to do as they remain locked at home, some others are turning to virtual board and card games to keep their mental juices flowing and have some fun at the same time. “We recently got to know of an app called Houseparty, on which you can play various games like Pictionary. You can see other people playing and talk to them, except that instead of playing in the same room, all the players are in their respective homes,” said Porvorim resident, Johan Braganza. He also keeps in touch with his brothers and friends by playing Scrabble. Up in Ahmedabad, Neel Shah and his family play the popular party game, Housie, using WhatsApp. “Our family, which comprises 50 members, plays Housie online on WhatsApp. Each of us pays Rs 30 through PayTM and then plays Housie on WhatsAapp,” Shah, who is proprietor of an agro industry in Valpoi, said. He also spends his time playing Uno, Ludo and Monopoly with four of his close friends in Pune, Delhi and Bengaluru. It’s not just the tech-savy who have discovered the joy of classic board games on their phones. In Cuncolim, 62-year old Idalina Carvalho never felt it necessary to have a Facebook account till she saw her 24-year-old son engrossed on his phone constantly testing his vocabulary at Scrabble. Now, Carvalho has a Facebook account and spends at least two hours a day pitting her words against other wordsmiths in the family. “My mum is overjoyed to play the game and now since she is on Facebook, she is also able to see what the entire family is doing, the pictures being uploaded and the amusing comments they receive,” her son, Pascoal, said. Bastora resident Nolan Fernandes started playing Scrabble online to learn new words but within a week, he managed to rope in all his family members to play with him. “It’s pretty entertaining. I play Scrabble with friends and relatives as it prevents boredom and also helps me to connect with my cousins. The game has its own chatbox,” Fernandes, who lives alone, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virtual-board-games-help-take-boredom-out-of-home/articleshow/74975588.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 4, 2020||Bareilly||28 booked in Kheri, Pilibhit for offering prayers in mosques||Bareilly/Pilibhit: A total of 28 persons were booked for offering prayer at mosques in Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit districts on Friday despite lockdown orders. Up to five persons are allowed to offer prayers at a mosque while maintaining proper distance but in Kheri, 18 people were found offering prayers at a mosque without maintaining social distance. At one place, a few of the devotees even misbehaved with police when they were questioned. The first incident was reported from Jama Masjid in Palia town while the other incident was reported from Lakhimpur city where 10 persons were found gathered for prayers at a mosque. Palia circle officer Rakesh Nayak said, “We have booked all the accused under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease). The sections are bailable so the accused were released after furnishing personal bond.” In Pilibhit, Kotwali police booked seven named and 3-4 unidentified local residents for offering namaz in mosque situated in Durga Prasad locality in a group on Friday. The Imam of the mosque has also been made accused in the FIR. Police have succeeded in nabbing all the named accused. Station house officer Shrikant Dwivedi said that the accused were booked under various sections of IPC and the Disaster Management Act and arrested subsequently. Meanwhile, police used drones for surveillance in various districts to keep an eye on gatherings during Friday namaz. Devotees were forewarned against mass gatherings for Friday prayers. In Sambhal, police hired drone-mounted cameras and continuously took rounds in the minority-dominated areas. Superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said that police were watchful and keeping a tab on all mosques and madrasas in the district to ensure no mass prayer was offered at any place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-booked-in-kheri-pilibhit-for-offering-prayers-in-mosques/articleshow/74974271.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||2 Afghan nationals, 4 others of Tablighi Jamaat test +ve||Kanpur: Six members of Tablighi Jamaat, including two Afghan nationals, have tested positive for coronavirus infection in Kanpur. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in Kanpur has reached seven now, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla said on Friday. The members of Tablighi Jamaat, who have tested positive have been identified as Abdul Raheem and Mehmood, both Afghan nationals, besides Mohd Hamid (57) of Gujarat, Naseem (27), Islamuddin (53) and Rauf Miyan (50), all natives of Delhi. “They all have been shifted to Isolation ward of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital for COVID 19 treatment,” said Dr Shukla,. The CMO said that on Thursday evening, a total of 31 suspected cases that included eight foreign nationals — four Afghani, three Iranis and one of UK origin, were shifted to an isolation ward at the Naraina Group of Institute from Ursala Horseman and Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. They all were detained by a team of health department and police from Cantt’s Golaghat area, Babupurwa and Baripal village in Sajeti area of the district. “A total 22 samples from LLR Hospital and nine from Ursala Horseman hospital, including of eight foreign nationals, were sent to Lucknow lab for testing on Wednesday. Report of 18, including that of four foreign nationals, came out negative. They all were then shifted to Naraina institute. On Friday morning, report of 11 more people including eight members of Tablighi Jamaat were received, of which six tested positive, while five others negative,” he tld TOI. “One report which also came out negative was that of a 60-year-old woman, who had died at Ursala Horseman hospital on Thursday morning. Report of five other members of Tablighi Jamaat is still pending and same is likely to reach here on Friday evening,” Dr Shukla added. To recall, city’s first corona positive case was reported from NRI City on March 23. The 70-year-old man, who along with his wife had returned from the US on March 18, is now undergoing treatment at Infectious Disease Hospital ward of the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital where his condition is improving, according to LLR authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-afghan-nationals-4-others-of-tablighi-jamaat-test-ve/articleshow/74974262.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||When the state forgot their stage artists||Thiruvananthapuram: In a unique protest against negligence towards the welfare of stage artistes, Samraj, a noted magician from Kerala, staged a single act magic performance in front of his house on Friday. Samraj, through his symbolic performance before empty chairs, depicted ‘the lost stages during the festival season, and life of artistes which has turned hollow’, owing to the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “Though other businesses hit by floods, cyclone Ockhi and outbreaks like Nipah and Covid-19 have the opportunity to overcome the crisis and restore their livelihoods, the stage artistes continue to suffer with lost opportunities and absence of any relief packages from the government,” he said. “The state government, which initiates several welfare measures for guest workers and even for street dogs and monkeys living on temple premises, should also consider the predicament of stage artistes who have been hit hard by the calamities over the past couple of years,” Samraj, who lives in Mavelikkara, said. “The festival season would have already got over by the time the lockdown is withdrawn. The stage artistes will not be able to seek other jobs as they will have to make preparations for the next season,” Samraj said. Apart from the stage artistes, others who earn their living from allied activities, which are seasonal, have also been forced to confront a miserable future, he added. Stage artists of various genres, including theatre, ballet, orchestra, magic, folk songs, mimics, kathaprasangam and ottanthullal, booking agents, light and sound system workers and panthal workers all have been hit by the series of calamities. “The state government and society should come forward to support these people who are trying to spread happiness in society,” Samraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/when-the-state-forgot-their-stage-artists/articleshow/74973049.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Housing societies suffer as netas control supply||Panaji: The state government’s strategy to outsource supply of essential items to local politicians has made things difficult for large house societies, whose committees are battling innumerable issues in reaching food to their members. In a faulty decision-making process, chief minister Pramod Sawant outsourced the home delivery process to MLAs and political bodies, which failed to provide succour, especially to those who do not vote in a particular constituency. This is where residents and volunteer groups stepped up to do the needful. At a time when government departments are doing their best to combat the novel coronavirus, they find themselves forced to step in to resolve conflicts revolving around food distribution. Sources said police officers have been called quite a few times in the past few days to settle disputes over distribution of groceries and essential items in residential complexes in the state capital. In one of Taleigao’s largest gated housing complex, political fault lines are clearly drawn with two competing groups taking it upon themselves to supply provisions to the residents. While one group is affiliated to BJP, the other has supporters among Aam Aadmi Party. “One of the groups had brought a truck with groceries and had asked the residents to make a list of what they want and then leave a bag with their phone number so that when their items are ready they can come and pick it up. However, the other group got jealous and called police,” said a resident on condition of anonymity. On the opposite side of the town, a resident who was unhappy with the housing society committee found an opportunity when a few volunteers decided to provide groceries to residents. The individual complained to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and local police officers about it. “We are just taking bulk purchases and giving it to residents at cost price. We are delivering groceries for the elderly without any earnings. Now someone is calling police and the authorities to force us to shut down,” said Amit Chopra, a resident at Milroc Retreat Ribandar. A team of Goa police officers paid a visit to Milroc to see what the complaint was about, while CCP asked Milroc Retreat Ribandar to take permission from the North Goa collector before continuing to provide groceries to residents. CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues confirmed that they had been called to intervene in one complaint against volunteers. “There are services that are being rendered by the managing committees of cooperative housing societies to their residents. While most of such activities have gone on smoothly, some rare rivalry or operations-related incidents have been reported,” Rodrigues said. He added that CCP will not get drawn into internal conflicts and would focus energies on other pressing issues in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-societies-suffer-as-netas-control-supply/articleshow/74975589.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 4, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi admin gears up for house-to-house mapping op||Jhansi: In a first, massive house-to-house mapping exercise will be conducted in Jhansi and the district administration will screen as many as 20 lakh persons in rural as well as city sectors to detect Covid-19 suspected cases. Apart from this, investigation is underway to zero in on people who have returned from abroad after March 13 and those who have come from outside the district after March 23. The entire operation will be headed by the municipal commissioner. The city has been divided into four sectors consisting 15 wards each. Each ward will have a sector magistrate to overlook the operation. Similarly, CDO will head the operations of blocks and gram panchayats while ADMs will take charge of the exercise in 15 Nagar Panchayats and Nagar Palikas.  Help is also being sought from various religious leaders and vyapar mandals. “Our modus operandi will be to acquire information about abroad travellers and those who came in contact with them, look for symptoms,” said Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi. Meanwhile, Jhansi CDO, Nikhil Tikaram Funde, said that 24 teams in rural areas and 12 teams in the urban areas are working on this project extensively to get a detailed output as early as possible. “Besides, special warning stickers are being put on the houses where suspected patients are under quarantine to alert others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-admin-gears-up-for-house-to-house-mapping-op/articleshow/74974282.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bareilly||'Killer' tiger captured, experts plan to shift it to zoo||Pilibhit:An adult tiger that is suspected to have killed a farmer and his aide near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve's Mala range was tranquilized and captured on Friday, near Rachhaula village under Gajraula police station. While, PTR authorities are in favour of shifting it to Lucknow zoo, a final decision is yet to be taken in the matter Wildlife experts have opposed the proposed move. They said it was not clear if the captured tiger was the killer cat. No effort had been made to find out whether it was ailing, forcing it to kill the two men who were sleeping merely 300 metres from the forest. According to PTR officials, with the latest killings, six people have fallen prey to tiger attacks in a span of two months in the area. Wildlife activist Kaushalendra Singh said, "The tiger has not been examined to find out if it has any permanent physical deformity or injury that restrains it from hunting its natural prey. The tiger cannot be held guilty of two killings as these occurred merely 300 metres from the forest." He added that Mala range has several tigers and the lone tiger cannot be blamed for all six deaths. Experts GC Mishra, Dr Sarita Subramaniam from Nagpur, and Kaleem Athar from Pilibhit also backed Singh. Principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey, and Project Tiger's PK Sharma said they were yet to take a decision on shifting the tiger to the zoo or releasing it in the wild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/killer-tiger-captured-experts-plan-to-shift-it-to-zoo/articleshow/74974287.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC ex-employee among three held for selling hooch||Kollam: In two separate incidents, three people, including a former KSRTC employee, were arrested for preparing and selling hooch under the Kannanalloor and Kilikolloor police station limits. While Kannanalloor police arrested Shynu, 42, of Thattarazhikathu House in Palliman Kizhakkekkara, Kilikolloor police arrested Dinesh, 25, of Puthuval Purayidam in Cantonment South and his friend Aneesh, 35, for selling them in the absence of Bevco outlets and bars. Shynu, a former KSRTC employee, was arrested when he was engaged in making the illicit liquor. Police recovered 500 litres of wash and 1.5 litres of arrack from him. The unit used for making arrack was also sealed. Police said he was selling illicit liquor for Rs.900 per litre. As possessing , selling and consuming illicit liquor is an offence his consumers’ details also have been collected for further action. Police said more arrests would be made in the coming days. He was produced before the Kottarakkara court and remanded. In the second case, Dinesh and Aneesh were making hooch at a rented house in Prateeksha Nagar on the outskirts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-ex-employee-among-three-held-for-selling-hooch/articleshow/74973076.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB begins collection of bio-waste||Secunderabad: In a big relief to foreign returnees, who are in house isolation, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has made special arrangements to lift biological wastage from their residences through a separate mobile van. To get the work done, the SCB is utilising services of a private agency. “Nearly 100 foreign returness stay in the Cantonment area and are quarantined. The mobile van is visiting the houses of the quarantined people and picking up the wastage,” M Devender, SCB senior sanitary superintendent (Solid Waste Management), told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-begins-collection-of-bio-waste/articleshow/74975616.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 4, 2020||Bareilly||Quarantined migrant workers to get counselling by psychiatrists in UP||Bareilly: The state government, following the Supreme Court’s (SC) recent directions, has directed chief medical officers (CMO) in Uttar Pradesh to ask psychiatrists and clinical psychologists for counselling of migrant workers who have been living in quarantine centres. There were cases of several such workers suffering from anxiety after their arduous journey from cities during the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown. A letter from Sunil Pandey, the state nodal officer for UP mental health, to chief medical officers and chief medical superintendent across the state said, “The Supreme Court has directed government to ensure that trained counsellors will visit the relief camps/ shelter homes and deal with any consternation that the migrants might be going through. This has to be done in all the relief camps/ shelter homes, wherever they are located in the country.” The letter further read, “In view of the SC order, it is requested to take the service of psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and psychologist social workers under National Mental Health Programme for counselling of people kept in temporary relief camp or shelter homes for 14 days.” He added that duty of psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and psychologist social workers should be deputed considering their access and security. “The counselling will be done according to the individual’s requirement. If any quarantined person is suffering from anxiety or depression, he or she will be counselled,” Pandey told TOI on Friday. In Bareilly, 178 migrant workers have been quarantined for 14 days at a college in Faridpur. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We will start the counselling of migrant workers as per the direction of higher authorities.” Health officials said a family of six people who have been tested positive for Covid-19 and are being treated at district hospital in Bareilly are undergoing counselling for anxiety. Counsellors said such patients are advised “deep breathing and meditation to deal with anxiety and negative thoughts”. Sub-divisional magistrate of Faridpur, Vishu Raja, said, “Since March 30, 178 migrant workers have been quarantined for 14 days at a college. Routine medical examination was conducted and if any symptoms appear, their samples will be collected for Covid-19 test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/quarantined-migrant-workers-to-get-counselling-by-psychiatrists-in-up/articleshow/74974306.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Travel worsens situation in Kadapa, south-coastal AP||Vijayawada: In the last three days, there has been a four-fold increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. Even with the surge in number of cases, there is a variation in the spread of the virus. The north-coastal districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram have not reported any Covid-19 cases till date, while some districts have over 20 cases. Kurnool has one Covid-19 case but neighbouring Kadapa district has 19 cases. The key differentiators are the number of foreign returnees and the attendees from the state at the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi. All the four Delhi returnees in Vizianagaram district tested negative for Covid-19 while Srikakulam does not have any Markaz attendees other than a few who went to Delhi for other purposes between March 14 and 22. The state government has tracked down nearly 31,000 foreign returnees who returned after February 10 through its network of ward/village volunteers, ANMs, Asha workers and other field-level staff. South-coastal AP districts and Kadapa account for the majority of the foreign returnees as well as the Delhi returnees, and have reported nearly 85 per cent of all cases. The Covid-19-free Vizianagaram district has only 488 foreign returnees, the lowest among all districts. Srikakulam also has fewer foreign returnees compared to the other districts. Speaking to TOI, Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said all four persons who attended the Delhi religious congregation have tested negative for Covid-19. “We also conducted tests on the three contacts of the Delhi returnees, which again turned out negative. All the 13 samples so far tested have turned out to be negative. About 250 foreign returnees have completed their home quarantine while the quarantine period for the remaining will be over in the next few days,” said Hari Jawaharlal. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said there are no Markaz attendees from the district. “The Railways has given us a list of 67 passengers who visited New Delhi for various purposes. Already 27 from the list have tested negative and the results of other samples are awaited,” said Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/travel-worsens-situation-in-kadapa-south-coastal-ap/articleshow/74974307.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Agriculture department to provide 2.5L seed packets for kitchen gardens||Thiruvananthapuram: Instead of spending idle hours at home during this lockdown season, one could spend the time effectively in the kitchen garden. Agriculture department has come up with an initiative to help people deal with lockdown blues. The department has proposed a programme ‘Veettil Irikkam Vilavuedukkam’, to effectively utilize the idle time spent at home in agriculture. As per the programme, agriculture department will deliver vegetable seeds and plant saplings to the houses for free during the lockdown period. Around 2.5 lakh seed packets will be distributed in the district. The seed packets will be delivered free of cost to the houses with the help of voluntary organizations, Kudumbashree, Asha workers, panchayat and corporation ward councillors. Vegetable seeds and saplings of lady finger, beans and red spinach are available for distribution, which can be cultivated in the kitchen garden. The seeds will also be distributed through ration shops. “The government is distributing free ration. And the seeds can be provided with the ration materials,” said Dr T V Rajendralal, principal information officer, Thiruvananthapuram. Vegetable and fruit promotion council under the agriculture department will provide the seeds and saplings. More seeds will be brought from the agriculture farm at Peringamala and banana farm at Palode in the coming days. People may contact nearest Krishi Bhavan office to request for delivery of seeds at house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/agri-dept-to-provide-2-5l-seed-packets-for-kitchen-gardens/articleshow/74973089.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||At home, cases of physical, emotional abuse on rise in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Cases of quarrels and disputes between couples, at times leading to domestic violence, have increased during the lockdown period in the city. According to city-based psychologists and counsellors, the number of calls about such issues has gone up tremendously. Tripti, who called a counsellor after getting the number from a neighbour, said her husband gets irritated at petty things like the TV volume or speed of fan and starts shouting at her in front of the children. On one occasion, she also raised his hand on her. Renuka, a 40-year-old homemaker, complained that her husband is a regular drinker who loses his temper often as he is not getting liquor during the lockdown. Radhika’s (36) is a working woman who has to do all household chores as well. She complained that her husband does nothing to share her burden and instead demands special dishes. A quarrel ensues if she refuses. For Sabina (38), every conversation with her husband—be it about TV channel or dinner menu—ends in a quarrel. Earlier, the couple would have pleasant evenings after work. Anupma (45) has been in an ‘abusive marriage’ for 20 years but the lockdown period revealed to her that her husband was having an extra-marital affair. Clinical psychologist and counsellor Swati Bhagchandani said that calls from women seeking advice on handling such situations had doubled in the past week. Counsellor and former professor at National Post-Graduate College PK Khatri said, “As couples are locked in houses for days, anxiety caused by the pandemic and fear of losing jobs, among other things, are leading to frustration.” Bhagchandani said, “We ask women to stay calm and counsel husbands on their behaviour. In extreme situations, we advise them to seek police help.” Aalima Zaidi of Association for Advocacy and Legal Initiatives also said that the number of cases of domestic violence had gone up in this period. “Some are seeking legal action but courts are shut right now,” she said. Khatri added, “Keeping in mind the situation due to lockdown, women should avoid confrontation and keep a physical distance from their abuser. They must have an emergency contact number or call the women’s helpline 1091.” (Names of victims changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/at-home-cases-of-physical-emotional-abuse-on-rise/articleshow/74975624.cms||Aditi Singh
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||Mild tremors in KR Nagar taluk||Mysuru: Mild tremors were felt in some parts of KR Nagar taluk on Friday evening. Most people, who were inside their houses due to the lockdown, rushed out. According to villagers, the tremors were felt in Saligrama, Mirle and Chunchanakatte hoblis at around 5.15 pm and lasted for five to six seconds. Due to the tremors, vessels and other such items in the houses fell to the ground and panicked people rushed out of their houses. Mysuru senior geologist Chowdary told TOI that according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) report, tremors were felt at Arakalagudu and KR Nagar border regions at 5.18 pm measuring 2.6 magnitude. C B Lokesh, a resident of Chikkakoppal village, said that all the items in the house including television set started to shake. “We ran out of our house. We found that cracks had appeared on the walls of a few houses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mild-tremors-in-kr-nagar-taluk/articleshow/74973108.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sudden spike in lockdown violations in Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: The state capital, on Friday, witnessed a sudden spike in the number of lockdown violations with the police registering 154 cases till 5pm. A total of 52 cases were registered under the new Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act. Police also recorded arrests of as many numbers of people in these cases. With 19 arrests, Vizhinjam police station recorded the maximum number of cases under this act. There were nine cases registered at Cantonment police station, six cases each at Museum, Peroorkada and Kovalam police stations and three each at Thampanoor and Vattiyoorkavu police stations. The remaining 102 cases were registered invoking sections under IPC and Disaster Management Act for violating lockdown. Most number of cases were registered at Vizhinjam, Fort and Karamana police stations. A total of 123 vehicles were also seized by the police. This include, 111 two-wheelers, eight auto rickshaws and four cars. Officers said more people were getting out of homes citing excuses of visiting ration shops and treasuries. On Staurday, ration card holders with number ending with 6 and 7 are allowed to visit ration shops for receiving essential commodities. Others must stay at home. Similarly, for pensioners, Saturday is reserved for those whose SB account number end with digits 4 and 5 only. For the beneficiaries of financial aids through Jandhan accounts, Saturday is reserved only for those whose account number end in digits 2 and 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sudden-spike-in-lockdown-violations-in-capital/articleshow/74973116.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||HC notice to Maharashtra over plea against prisoners’ release norms||PUNE: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Friday directed notices, returnable by April 8, to the state and others over a petition challenging “arbitrary norms” set by the high-power committee for extending interim bail relief to undertrial prisoners to decongest jails across Maharashtra in the wake of the Covid-19 scare. Two undertrial prisoners, facing prosecution under the MPID Act, stated in the petition that the committee’s impugned (under challenge) decision of March 25 in denying the benefit of the Supreme Court (SC) directive to all people prosecuted under the Special Acts — without looking at the nature, severity of offence and duration of sentence — was nothing but an “artificial classification”. The decision heavily waters down the parameters laid down by the SC, they said. Justice R G Avachat of the high court (HC) bench at Aurangabad heard the petitioners’ lawyer Pradnya Talekar and went on to pass a brief order stating, “Issue notice to the respondents. Learned APP waives service of notice for the respondent state. Stand over to April 8, 2020.” The Supreme Court in a suo-motu petition on March 23 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus in prisons directed all states and Union territories to constitute a high-power committee to determine which class of prisoners could be released on parole or an interim bail for such period as may be thought appropriate. Senior lawyer Satish B Talekar told TOI, “The high-power committee was supposed to take a decision in the light of the directions given by the SC. However, in its decision, it has imposed several conditions which are not found in the SC order. As a result, most prisoners stand denied temporary bail or parole benefit. The idea was to secure release of one-third of the total prisoners in jails.” The petitioners contended that the panel’s decision suffered from absence of a justification in disqualifying all people prosecuted for offences under Special Acts such as the MPID Act. The decision fell short of meeting the emergent Covid-19 situation, they said. The petitioners argued that maintaining social distance was an impossible condition in the prisons and the state was not in a position to provide the medical facilities in case the virus infected the prison inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hc-notice-to-state-over-plea-against-prisoners-release-norms/articleshow/74975628.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt extends online food deliveries till 8pm||Thiruvananthapuram: Government has relaxed the norms for online food delivery service during lockdown by extending the closing time to 8pm from the existing 5pm deadline, hinting at a staggered withdrawal of the restrictions imposed in state to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to an order issued by the government on Friday, ‘the online/door delivery of food items, including cooked food from takeaway counters of hotels, will be allowed up to 8pm in relaxation of the existing general order’ that allowed shops selling essential items, including takeaway counters, to function from 7am to 5pm. The new order said that shops selling essential items, including bakeries and counter supply from takeaway counters of hotels, should stop by 5pm. "These shops can operate online delivery till 8pm. Online suppliers shall stop their operations before 9pm every day," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-extends-online-food-deliveries-till-8pm/articleshow/74973123.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Lights out: Discoms fear fluctuations in supply||Amaravati: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights on Sunday night for nine minutes to show India’s solidarity in the fight against Covid-19 is creating ripples in power utilities as engineers are worried about the tripping of the entire grid due to the sudden reduction of load. Officials are working overtime to face the sudden reduction and surge in supply. Sources said power utilities have estimated that there could be fluctuation in the supply to an extent of nearly 300mw if all households followed the Prime Minister’s call. “We are taking measures to overcome the challenge. Appropriate instructions have been issued to all the authorities in both generation and distribution ends,” AP Transco CMD Dr N Srikanth told TOI. The Electricity Engineers’ Association has appealed to people to keep some load like ACs and refrigerators on to avoid sudden collapse of the system. “Already, there is no commercial consumption due to the lockdown. The supply lines are taking only 40 percent load and sudden switching off entire lighting might collapse the grid and supply network,” the association cautioned. The associaion said an electrical surge may also happen if loads differ suddenly and it would be difficult to ensure uninterrupted supply to key installations like hospitals and healthcare management systems. Sources said the State Load Dispatching Centre (SLDC) issued a circular to discoms and generation centres asking them to keep field teams on high alert. It also asked generation centres to be ready to generate power in such a manner that reactive power is absorbed to the limiting value of their capability curve. As a precaution, SLDC directed discoms to opt for phased power cuts from 8 pm to avoid sudden drop in supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lights-out-discoms-fear-fluctuations-in-supply/articleshow/74974349.cms||Samdani MN
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||Sibtainabad mutawalli for FIR against encroachers||Lucknow: After half portion of an arched outer gate of centrally protected monument Imambara Sibtainabad collapsed on Thursday, 'mutawalli' of the monument wrote to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for immediate assessment and restoration of the structure. The letter, sent to ASI Delhi and officials of the culture ministry, police and the district administration, also demands that an FIR be lodged by ASI against those who had encroached upon the gate leading to its collapse. “Many portions of the monument are still encroached upon and vandalized by local shopkeepers, squatters and businessmen, causing irreparable damage to the monument. Citizens of Lucknow are deeply hurt by the damage and are sharing their concerns on social media,” said 'mutawalli' of the monument Mohammad Haider. Documentation with the waqf committee shows that a letter from ASI was sent to LDA in 1986 to remove encroachments from the entire premises of the mausoleum and hand it over to ASI. Haider’s letter also states that Shia clerics Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, Maulana Kalbe Jawad, Maulana Agha Roohi, Maulana Yasoob Abbas, Maulana Abbas Irshad, Maulana Saif Abbas and Maulana Kalbe Sibtain Noori have also requested for immediate action and time-bound restoration of the monument.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sibtainabad-mutawalli-for-fir-against-encroachers/articleshow/74975629.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||PMC’s property tax income on first day of new fiscal plummets||PUNE: The revenue generation of the civic body’s property tax department on the first day of this fiscal dropped compared to its average income on the opening day of previous financial years. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) earned only around Rs2.5 crore on April 1 — the first day of the new fiscal. Every year, the PMC commences the new fiscal with an earning of around Rs12 crore. The spread of coronavirus and lockdown seem to have hit the civic body’s revenue generation. According to the PMC officials, the civic body offers discount to property owners if they pay tax before May 31. Discounts are also given to the taxpayers following environment-friendly practices in their properties, like usage of rainwater harvesting system, vermicompost or other green building norms. The discounts range from 5-10%, depending on the number of eco-friendly facilities a property owner uses. “Many people pay tax on the first day of the financial year to take these benefits. This time, the picture is different,” said a senior official of the PMC. The PMC administration joins hands with the postal department for the distribution of property tax bills. The arrangements are made in such a manner that the tax demands reach the property owners by April 1 every year. The property tax department recently decided to send the property tax bills online. The routine offline circulation of property tax bills was stopped to make sure the bills reached the property taxpayers on time even during the lockdown period. The bills were sent through emails and SMS. The citizens were asked to check the property tax website for getting the details about their property tax dues. “The civic administration has been promoting the payment of tax through the online system for the past few years. It has been showing good results. Many citizens have used this facility in the past. We hope that this year too, the citizens will use this system in large numbers,” said Vilas Kanade, the head of the PMC’s property tax department. According to the PMC’s data, the number of property taxpayers has gone up to 10.3 lakh after the merger of 11 villages in the municipal limits in October 2017. Nearly 2.5 lakh properties were added to the property tax net after the merger. The civic officials claimed that on an average 50-55% property taxpayers used the online facilities. The tax can be paid through the official website of the PMC or mobile application or various payment gateways. Even the netbanking can be used for making the payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmcs-property-tax-income-on-first-day-of-new-fiscal-plummets/articleshow/74975631.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gautam Adani employees contribute Rs 4 crore to PM fund||AHMEDABAD: After pledging Rs 100 crore last week, billionaire Gautam Adani on Friday announced a further contribution of Rs 4 crore by his group’s CSR arm to the Prime Minister’s relief fund to fight Covid. The latest contribution to Adani Foundation, the CSR arm of the infrastructure conglomerate, is by the employees of Adani group. Last week, the Adani Foundation, chaired by Dr Priti Adani, contributed Rs 100 cr to the PM’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund). “A day after the announcement, CEOs and HR heads from our businesses reached out to me stating that they were getting flooded with employees’ emails showing keenness to contribute to COVID-19 relief efforts,” Gautam Adani, the group chairman, posted on a professional networking platform. “It was a moving gesture.” He said: “I’m grateful to the Adani Parivaar, our workforce in India for contributing about Rs 4 Cr for the battle against COVID-19.” It is because of the solidarity demonstrated by the workforce of more than 17,000 people that the Adani Foundation could add another Rs 4 cr, collectively contributing another Rs 8 cr towards COVID-19 relief projects in India, he further said in his post. Adani Foundation has also contributed Rs 5 crore to Gujarat Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and Rs 1 cr to Maharashtra Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Alongside, women cooperatives aided by Adani Saksham have produced more than 1.2 lakh masks. The foundation has provided 100 ventilators to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. It has also given PPEs (Personal Protective Equipment) and N-95 Masks. The Adani GAIMS Hospital is the only hospital equipped to handle COVID-19 cases in Kutch, the group chairman said in his post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-employees-contribute-rs-4-crore-to-pm-fund/articleshow/74975161.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||City co joins race for Covid-19 vaccine||Hyderabad: City-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has joined the race to develop a vaccine for coronavirus by entering into an international collaboration with US-based vaccine maker FluGen and virologists at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. The collaboration is developing an affordable, intranasal coronavirus and influenza vaccine — CoroFlu — on FluGen’s flu vaccine candidate M2SR. Gene sequences from the SARS-CoV-2 virus will be inserted into M2SR so that the new vaccine can also induce immunity against coronavirus along with influenza. “M2SR is a unique form of the flu virus,” said FluGen co-founder, president and CEO Paul Radspinner. “It lacks a gene called M2, which restricts the virus to undergoing only a single round of replication in cells. The single replication means the virus can enter the cell, but can’t leave. So, it tricks the body into thinking it’s infected with flu, which triggers a full immune response. But since it can’t replicate further, you don’t get sick.” FluGen will transfer its existing manufacturing processes to Bharat Biotech to enable it to scale up production and make the vaccine for clinical trials, which are expected to begin by the fall of 2020. Bharat Biotech CMD, Dr Krishna Ella, said the company is investing around Rs 150 crore in creating capacities for producing 300 million doses per annum of CoraFlu at its Hyderabad facility. “We are going to modify M2SR by adding part of the coding region for the coronavirus spike protein that the virus uses to latch onto cells and begin infection. CoroFlu will also express the influenza virus hemagglutinin protein, which is the major influenza virus antigen, so we should get immune responses to both coronavirus and influenza,” said FluGen co-founder and senior virologist Gabriele Neumann.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-co-joins-race-for-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/74975633.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Panchmahal’s first Covid-19 patient dies in Vadodara||Vadodara: A 78-year-old elderly man from Godhra, who was the first Covid-19 patient from Panchmahal district, died at a private hospital in the city late on Thursday night.The patient who was brought to Vadodara in an ambulance on Tuesday night had tested positive for the deadly virus on Wednesday. His family had claimed that he had no travel history. He was admitted at a private hospital located on Waghodiya Road while his samples were tested at SSG Hospital.The deceased was a resident of Rabbani Maholla of Godhra and was involved in buying and selling of vehicles, which was his family business.He was brought with acute respiratory distress and relatives had claimed that he was at his home for 45 days before he was brought to Vadodara hospital. They had also claimed that he had not met any visitor nor had any outsider contacted him or his family members.“After he tested positive, we had alerted the district health officials of Panchmahal about his condition. We were informed that the health officials in Godhra have kept four persons from his immediate family in quarantine,” said Vadodara chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panchmahals-first-covid-19-patient-dies-in-vadodara/articleshow/74972860.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Scramble to fill specialist roles at govt medical colleges starts||Amaravati: Health officials in the state are working overtime to fill positions of specialist and super-specialist medical professionals at government colleges. With many specialists tied up with private corporate hospitals, senior professionals at government medical colleges are struggling to treat Covid-19 patients. For example, GGH superintendent Dr Babulal has been shifted from an administrative job to that of a troubleshooter at the newly-set up Covid-19 dedicated hospital in Vijayawada as he is the only available senior pulmonologist in the region. “We have been demanding that the assistant professor and associate professor posts in specialty wings be filled up for a long time. We are being made to walk on a tightrope due to the shortage of doctors,” Dr D Jayadheer, government doctors’ association president told TOI. He said that they have just around 600 professionals in specialties like pulmonology, general medicine and anesthesia who are troubleshooters in Covid-19 cases. “Is it possible for the government hospitals to manage five crore population with 500-600 specialists,” asked Dr Jayadheer. Government medical colleges in the state have the lowest intake for PG and super-specialty seats when compared to Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The ICU bed-strength in government hospitals is also inadequate to handle a crisis. No government medical college has a full-fledged department of emergency medicine. “Top officials in the government are not even aware of the fact that there is specialisation called emergency medicine,” rued a former principal of a medical college and said the government should focus on revamping medical colleges with new units and faculty recruitment. “Revamping doesn’t mean construction of new buildings and purchase of equipment for the sake of contractors. We need experts to handle the patients and machines,” noted a principal of a medical college. Sources said that specialists with MD, MS degrees and super-specialists are not joining medical colleges as assistant professors due to poor pay packages. The shortage of faculty members is also a reason for teaching hospitals being unable to get sufficient PG seats in the state. While the intake of MD candidates in government medical colleges in the state is 613, it is 758 in Karnataka and 1,089 in Tamil Nadu. Maharashtra has an intake of 1,694 while West Bengal has 852. The story is similar for DM super specialty seats as AP’s intake is 36 while Tamil Nadu colleges have 180 seats. DM seats in Telangana, at 76, are more than double the seats in AP. “AP is unable to get more seats only due to shortage of faculty in specialty wings,” said a HoD at Kakinada Rangaraya Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/scramble-to-fill-specialist-roles-at-govt-medical-colleges-starts/articleshow/74974411.cms||Samdani MN
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP making 61k lt sanitizer daily||Lucknow: Cane commissioner and principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy on Friday said that the government had not only expedited the production of hand sanitizers but was also sanitising government buildings and public places. He said that till date, more than 2.5 lakh litres of sanitizer had been produced in the state. The rate of production of sanitizer had touched 61,000 litres per day, Bhoosreddy said. The cane commissioner added that around 8,000 litres of sanitizers were being given to the front line workers by the district administration, police and other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-making-61k-lt-sanitizer-daily/articleshow/74975634.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Rs 198 crore property tax payment in PCMC via online mode||PIMPRI CHINCWAD: The property tax department of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) collected Rs 198 crore tax through the online payment mode, forming the largest component of total property tax collection of Rs490.11crore for 2019-20 fiscal. Smita Zagade, assistant commissioner, said that this shows the growing preference for online mode of payment. Owners of 1.60 lakh properties paid the tax online. The second largest component of annual property tax income of Rs159crore was received through cheques from 34,620 properties. Tax of 396 properties was paid through demand drafts (DD) amounting to Rs 12.21 crore. Tax of 266 properties was paid through NEFT amounting to Rs 5.57crore and of 52 properties using RTGS amounting to Rs 9.79crore. The civic body received only Rs 97.46 crore of property tax through cash, accounting for 19.88% of total annual property tax collection. A total of 5.27 lakh properties, including 4.47 lakh residential, paid tax this fiscal. The annual property tax collection of 2019-20 was Rs 18.01 crore more than that of the annual property tax collection in 2018-19, which was Rs 472.10 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs198cr-property-tax-payment-in-pcmc-via-online-mode/articleshow/74975635.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||Corona causes double trouble to farmers in the Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Corona crisis has doubled the woes of a large number of farmers across the state. Standing rabi crops are ready for harvest in most of the areas, but the farmers have no option other than watch helplessly due to non-availability of labourers. Every year in the month of March-April, large number of farm labourers arrive from Punjab and Haryana for crop cutting in various parts of Madhya Pradesh. At this time, thousands of labourers get employment. Rabi crops are sown in about 120 lakh hectares in the state; more than half of this accounts for wheat. Chana, pulses and mustard comprise other rabi crops.Though some of the farmers have already harvested their crops, a large number of those who had sown their crops 15 to 20 days late in October- November last year, are still waiting for an opportunity to do so. Beni Prashad, a farmer, said, “Initially, the crop cutting was delayed because of unseasonal rainfall and hailstorm earlier this month. Then came corona. How can I expect a labourer to come out in the fields and harvest the crops when I’m also staying indoors to protect myself from the deadly disease.” In large parts of the wheat bowls of Sehore, Vidisha , Hoshangabad , Harda and Ashoknagar , many farmers face the same problem. In Chattarpur district, a harvester is facing a different issue. “ A small part of my machine needs to be replaced, but it is available in Satna about 150 kms from Chattarpur. The administration is not allowing me to travel to get it. This would solve the problem of crop cutting of over 5000 farmers,” said Mohan Prakash, a seasoned harvester. Government officials, off the record, claim they can’t allow any movement on the roads- of labourers or harvesters. “There is only one man government in the state led by the chief minister only,” said a farmer, and added. “in the absence of an agriculture minister, there is no one to resolve the issue.” A senior government official, requesting anonymity, said, “ Protecting lives is of paramount importance at this moment from the spread of COVID-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-causes-double-trouble-to-farmers-in-the-state/articleshow/74975179.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Thalassaemia Patients Feel The Pinch||Hyderabad: With entire focus shifting to coronavirus cases and Covid-19 containment, thalassaemia patients have been hit hard. About 60% of thalassaemia and other blood disorder patients are being turned away by blood banks due to severe shortage of blood supplies. Each blood bank caters to 500-1,000 patients per month. But, they are struggling to meet the requirement and have resorted to rationing of supply and giving it to the most critical patients after they failed to get a voluntary donor. So much so, parents of kids with thalassaemia are left scrambling for donors. “The three blood banks I had called up said they do not have stock of blood and I was asked to arrange for a donor. After reaching out to every possible contact and appealing on social media, it was a challenge to get a donor who was in a position to travel to the blood bank on his own,” said M Vasudeva, parent of an eight-year-old patient. The negative blood group and AB positive are completely out of stock in most places and also, donors being comparatively rare. Veni Srinivas, parent of a 15-year-old patient with O positive which is generally easier to find, also found it challenging to get the supply. The situation is alarming, say blood banks. “We are not able to maintain any blood units in reserve. Instead of 70-80 units being given to thalassaemia patients each month, we could only supply 20 units this month. We are forced to ration blood supply. The units are being supplied based on a patient’s condition and emergency,” said Dr Malleshwar Rao, medical officer, Mother Teresa Blood Bank and Thalassaemia Centre. With colleges and clubs being shut and blood donation camps no longer being organised, the supply chain has come to a grinding halt, say the blood banks. From collecting and supplying 500 units a month, one blood bank was able to supply only 150 units this month. “We are getting desperate calls for blood from many parents after they were turned away by blood banks. We are reaching out to donors on social media and despite a substantial number of people showing interest in donating blood, they are not able to reach blood banks due to curbs because of the lockdown,” said Dhiraj Kaveri, blood coordinator, Arohi Blood Bank. He further said, “Most people who are willing to donate are asking for a pickup and drop due to restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thalassaemia-patients-feel-the-pinch/articleshow/74975189.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||12 Tablighi members holed up in Sadar mosque test +ve||Lucknow: The Sadar area that borders Lucknow Cantonment was sealed on Friday after 12 natives of Saharanpur holed up in a mosque in Qasaibada area tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning. Barring medical emergencies, movement of residents or vehicles even for essential services was barred by the district administration. At least 2km of Cantonment straddling Sadar’s virus hotspot has also been sealed. Police sources told TOI that presence of these 12 men at the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin area is being verified. Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) personnel have been deployed and the area is being sanitized on a war footing. At least six teams of health department are scanning residents for symptoms of flu or fever. Senior police officials, including the joint-commissioner of police immediately rushed to the area after the 12 men tested positive and began making announcements, ordering residents to stay indoors. “At least 12 members of Tablighi Jamaat had come from Saharanpur district and were holed up in the mosque at Sadar. We are probing whether they participated at the Nizamuddin event,” said Pandey. District administration officials said the area comprising 450 houses, 150 shops and kiosks has around 3,000 residents. Talking to TOI, Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said, Sadar has been turned into a sterile zone to prevent spread of coronavirus. He also said 250-strong police team has been deployed to enforce total lockdown. “We will not allow even essential services to operate in the area. Those needing medical help can contact police,” he added. Survey in charge at chief medical officer (CMO) office, MK Singh, said teams have been constituted to knock at every house and ask members if they came in contact with visitors at the mosque. “Then we will scan every family member for symptoms and quarantine or isolate them,” he said. Talking to TOI, Amit Mishra, chief executive officer, Lucknow Cantonment Board, said, “We have instructed all shops in the area open for essential services to down shutters and advised residents to stay indoors. The mosque is also closed and the area is being sanitised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12-tablighi-members-holed-up-in-sadar-mosque-test-ve/articleshow/74975640.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt will provide relief to the stranded: CM||Vijayawada: About 78,000 persons were stranded in various camps at their working places due to the lockdown and other restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh. The government-run 236 camps are providing accommodation to 16,000 members, while the remaining 62,000 persons are being accommodated through various NGOs, companies and other sources. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting on the measures being taken to control the spread of Covid-19 here in the camp office on Friday. The meeting deliberated on the need of continuing the supply chain of essential commodities and ensuring smooth agricultural operations. The CM asked the officials to appoint an officer and send them to places where Telugu people are stranded outside the state such as Mumbai, Gir, Varanasi, Goa, Ajmer and Tamil Nadu. Regarding the camps set up at various places across the state, the CM ordered the officials to make sure that migrant labourers, workers and others are given accommodation. The CM also reviewed the individual case of 2,976 people of Andhra Pradesh stranded outside AP, including in Varanasi, Ajmer, Gorakhpur, Kasimedu (Chennai), Goa, Veraval (Gujarat), Coimbatore and Versova (Mumbai). Reddy directed the officials to extend all possible support to the Telugu People and agreed to provide necessary funds for this purpose. The officials informed that most of the stranded Telugu people are migrant workers and fishermen from Srikakulam district, besides a few pilgrims. Special chief secretary, Satish Chandra, as state nodal officer has been in touch with his counterparts in other states to provide support to the stranded. Officials said two more Covid-19 testing centres are now functional in Guntur and Kadapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-will-provide-relief-to-the-stranded-cm/articleshow/74974451.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Watchman beaten up for misbehaving with woman, dies||PUNE: A 24-year-old watchman from Nepal was allegedly beaten up on March 10 for misbehaving with a woman in Sangvi under the influence of alcohol. He succumbed to his injuries on March 21. The Sangvi police registered a case of murder on Thursday. Senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable of the Sangvi police said, “After the thrashing incident, the watchman Dukhi Thapa, went to Taloja in Raigad district to meet his relatives. They admitted him to a hospital in the area on March 18 as he was not feeling well. Thapa was shifted to a hospital in Mumbai the next day after his condition deteriorated. He succumbed to his injuries on March 21.” Sable said that during his treatment in Mumbai, Thapa told the police there that a few youths from Taloja had beaten him up with bamboo sticks on March 18. “The Mumbai police referred the matter to the Taloja police and a probe by the latter revealed that Thapa had given false information. He was actually thrashed in Sangvi on March 10.” The Taloja police then transferred the case to their Sangvi counterparts, following which an FIR on the charges of murder was registered on Thursday. Sable said, “Thapa had started working as a watchman in a bungalow in Sangvi in March. On March 10, he had consumed liquor and teased a woman from the locality. Some youths in the area then beat him up. Later, the bungalow owner too thrashed him with a bamboo.” Thapa’s brother told the Taloja police that the watchman was injured since March 10. “When the police checked Thapa’s call record, they found out that he was in Sangvi on that day,” Sable said. “We are working on some clues. Our probe is on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/watchman-beaten-up-for-misbehaving-with-woman-dies/articleshow/74975641.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt seeks teachers’ help for corona battle||Vijayawada: The state government has sought the help of teachers on a voluntary basis to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. A circular was sent to all district education officers (DEOs) to inform the teachers coming under their purview. The notification asks the teachers who are willing to volunteer themselves to approach respective Mandal Revenue Officers (MROs) and offer their services. While the duty that would be delegated has not been mentioned, sources said that they would be utilised to conduct door-to-door surveys, organise awareness programmes and take care of other logistical works under the guidance of the MROs. The government however advised teachers who are suffering from any ailment to stay at home and take care of their health. The government had ordered all schools, colleges and other educational institutes to be shut across the state from March 19 till March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-seeks-teachers-help-for-corona-battle/articleshow/74974481.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man in net for illegally issuing SIMs to foreigners||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police recently arrested a shopowner from Navi Sangvi for illegally issuing SIM cards to foreign nationals. Police said the suspect, Dattatray Karande (35), would misuse documents of local residents to process SIM cards for foreigners. In the past two months, inspector Datta Chavan, sub-inspector Somnath Shedge and their team had arrested three Nigerians in drug peddling cases. “In all three cases, we realized that the Nigerians were using cellphones with locally registered sim cards,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. “The arrested Nigerians nationals showed us the shop in Navi Sangvi from where they had procured the SIM cards,” Singh said. At his shop, Karande sold vegetables and ran photocopy and SIM card services. On inspecting the shop, the police found extra photocopies of ID proofs of local residents and others. He misused the documents to issue SIM cards to foreign nationals, police said. The police recorded the statements of three persons whose documents were misused and then arrested Karande. The police invoked charges of cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-in-net-for-illegally-issuing-sims-to-foreigners/articleshow/74975645.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Helpline for disabled gets 209 calls for assistance to buy food||TRICHY: The district differently-abled welfare department’s helpline has received 209 calls from people with disabilities seeking assistance, mostly to purchase groceries and food, since March 27. The department has joined hands with the revenue department, NGOs and differently-abled welfare organisations to deliver essentials. Differently-abled department sources said that 60,674 people in the district were issued with disability identification cards, of which at least 10,000 reside in the city. As most of them are self-employed, the lockdown has affected them economically. The Commissionerate of the Welfare of the Differently-Abled since March 27 has been running a centralised toll-free helpline 1800-425-0111. Once a request is placed, the demands will be forwarded to concerned district differently-abled welfare department. In the last eight days, Trichy district has received 209 calls from the city, Musiri, Thuraiyur and Manachanallur. “Around 200 families of people with disabilities are being provided daily with groceries including rice, pulses and oil. We coordinate with the revenue department to deliver the essential commodities to PwDs in villages,” R Ravichandran, district differently-abled welfare officer said. Apart from the toll-free helpline, the differently-abled department has launched WhatsApp helpline 97007-99993 for people with hearing and speech impairment to make video calls for placing demands using sign language. The department has also been providing cooked food every day since the lockdown for 600 to 1,000 people and their families in Nagamangalam and Gandhi Nagar in the city outskirts. Welcoming the measures, people with disabilities have sought district-wise helpline to make the process simple. “Through the centralised helpline, it takes multiple calls to connect with the authorities. District-wise helpline can help everyone place the demands at ease,” said P Maarikannan, secretary of Trichy district differently-abled welfare association. Associations in the city through the funding support of good Samaritans are also coming forward to help them during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/helpline-for-disabled-gets-209-calls-for-assistance-to-buy-food/articleshow/74975191.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||Covid contagion: More than 10k prisoners released in a wk||Lucknow: The UP government has released 10,438 prisoners on interim bail and eight-week parole, following a Supreme Court directive to decongest jails in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last month, the apex court directed states and union territories to consider releasing convicts sentenced to seven years or less and also those awaiting trial entailing less than seven-year imprisonment. In a seven-day span, 2,110 convicts were released on parole and 8,328 undertrials on interim bail in consultation with the state government, said director-general of prisons and reform, Anand Kumar. The government had set a target of releasing 11,000 prisoners to declog jails. The prisoners, who are being ferried by state roadways buses to their home districts, have been provided with masks and pamphlets detailing ways to avoid coronavirus infection. Additional chief secretary (home, prisons) Awanish Awasthi told TOI efforts are being made to release more prisoners, including 238 juvenile offenders. A maximum of 428 prisoners were released from Agra district jail, followed by 328 from Lucknow. “All those released were given pamphlets and face masks for spreading awareness on the pandemic. The pamphlets include do’s and don’ts during the lockdown and how to shield against the virus,” said DG Prisons, Anand Kumar. A team of doctors was formed in each prison cell to conduct a thorough check-up of prisoners before letting them out. A report on each prisoner has been prepared and this will be checked after their return after 2 months, said prison officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-contagion-more-than-10k-prisoners-released-in-a-wk/articleshow/74975646.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Bhel designs light disinfection chamber with spraying facility||Trichy: Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (Bhel) in Trichy has designed a light-weight disinfection chamber, which can spray disinfectant on people walking through it, and fabricated it within a day.The disinfection chamber, measuring about 12ft X 5ft X 8ft, is fitted with a disinfectant storage tank and a pumping system to disperse the disinfectant as atomised mist through precision spray nozzles. People can enter and exit the chamber within 2-3 seconds. Disinfectants such as sodium hypochlorite solution would be sprayed to kill the virus. The chamber was developed at the high-pressure boiler plant and underwent a successful trial run on Friday. The trial run was inspected by R Padmanabhan, executive director, Bhel Trichy complex.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited sources said that the disinfection chamber is a prototype and will to be used for internal needs. Official sources said they are yet to decide manufacturing it for public use. Meanwhile, Perambalur district administration set up a makeshift disinfection chamber at the Perambalur uzhavar sandhai to disinfect people coming to the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bhel-designs-light-disinfection-chamber-with-spraying-facility/articleshow/74975196.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Banana prices plummet as lockdown hits trade||Vijayawada: Banana cultivators in Rayalaseema, Krishna, East and West Godavari and Vizianagaram districts are likely to suffer losses this season as prices fall and with lockdowns in place in importing countries in view of the Covid-19 panedemic. The fruit is at the harvesting stage and transporting it to local markets has become a problem due to shortage of workers and closure of major markets. The Ravulapaleml banana market in East Godavari district, one of the biggest banana markets in the state, is operating below capacity at present. Banana cultivators are also worried as demand has fallen and storing the perishable commodity poses an additional problem. The price of one tonne of banana was between Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,000 a month ago, which has now fallen to Rs 5,000 in local markets. The state government has started direct procurement and fixed the price at between Rs 6,000 and Rs 8,000 per tonne, and is supplying the produce to rythu bazaars and Covid-19 isolation wards. “With the closure of the hospitality industry, functions, institutions and big retail outlets on account of the lockdown, the demand for banana declined and the price if the fruit also decrease,” said commissioner of horticulture department, Chiranjiv Choudhary. “We harvested around two tonnes of bananas a couple of days ago. But due to lockdown, we failed to get remunerative prices for our produce. We sold a tonne at just Rs 5,600 against the normal price of Rs 12,000. If the situation continues, we will incur huge losses,” said B Trinath, a banana farmer in East Godavari district, adding, “We are waiting for buyers as the fruit is giving us bitter returns.” Banana cultivation in the state is spread over 1.2 lakh hectares with a production of around 64 lakh metric tonnes (MT). Kadapa district stands first in the state with a production of around 24 lakh MT. A majority of farmers grow Karpura Chakkerakeli, Tella Chakkerakeli, Budida Chakkerakeli, Amruthapani, red banana, Sugandhalu (Karpura), Karpuravali (Budida Arti) and Rasthalu varieties. The fruit is exported to Gulf countries, however, exports have fallen since the lockdown was announced. “No doubt banana farmers are not getting a remunerative price but we expect that exports will commence in the coming days,” said S Subbarayudu, deputy director of horticulture department, Rayalaseema region. The state government is facilitating marketing through meetings with traders, buyers and transport agents and is in talks with other state governments to allow market access. “We have also involved online marketing platforms,” said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/banana-prices-plummet-as-lockdown-hits-trade/articleshow/74974499.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Corona Care Fund set up to combat coronavirus||LUCKNOW: A Corona Care Fund was set up on Friday, a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced a fund-raising drive to battle the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The basic education department made the first donation to it of Rs 76.15 crore, on behalf of teachers and education officers of basic schools. The fund will be used specifically to improve and expand facilities for testing labs and purchasing equipment like ventilators, masks, sanitizers, personal protection equipment and essential medicines. The CM has said that he would like to build it up to at least a Rs 1,000 crore corpus. “Corporate houses will also be roped in to donate under corporate social responsibility while MLAs and MPs will also be allowed to contribute to it from their area development funds. Efforts will be made to provide corona testing facilities in every division and all 24 government medical colleges,” said a government spokesperson. The chief minister said, an action plan had been put in place to establish separate quarantine wards and manufacture of ventilators, N-95 masks and PPEs for which the fund was created. “Earlier we had only one testing lab at KGMU, but now we have managed to set up seven new testing labs in the state. In the next few months, all 24 government hospitals in the state will have testing labs,” he said. The CM has also directed officials to train anaesthetists, physicians and women and child specialists in treating coronavirus, if they are needed at a later stage. He sought a list of doctors in the private sector, who have expertise in management of covid-19 patients, and said they too should be roped in during exigency. A list of beds and ventilators available in private hospitals that can be used during an emergency should also be prepared, the chief minister said. The MSME department has also been directed to ensure production of essential commodities. Production of masks in the state will lower cost and increase availability, he said. “Reusable masks should be prepared using khadi and made by women’s self-help groups. This will promote khadi and also mobilise employment among women at the grassroots,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-care-fund-set-up-to-combat-virus/articleshow/74975654.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Trichy civic body’s assorted veggie bags sold out within hours||TRICHY: The assorted vegetable bag doorstep delivery facility launched by the corporation on Thursday was a big hit as it was sold out within hours. The civic body had arranged 1,000 bags, each priced Rs 150 and comprising 11 vegetables which were procured in wholesale from vegetable vendors at the Gandhi Market. The vegetables were moved to Ariyamangalam zonal corporation office for sorting, weighing, packing and distribution to other zones as well. “Around 40 of our employees weighed the vegetables individually before filling the bags. The traders from whom we purchased were identified after thorough screening to ensure the quality of vegetables,” said R Thirugnanam, assistant commissioner, Ariyamangalam zone. From Ariyamangalam zonal office, Srirangam, Ponmalai and K Abishekapuram corporation zones were supplied 250 bags each in a mini-truck. The assorted vegetables’ bags were received well by the locals, corporation officials added. Understanding the demand, the civic body has planned to gradually increase the number of assorted bags to 2,000 per day. The bags distributed on Friday contained brinjal, tomato, drumstick, green chilli, beetroot, potato, carrot, onion, chayote, coconut and raw banana. Trichy Corporation said that contents of the vegetable bags will be modified on a daily basis. Localities that are covered will not be covered by the mini-trucks in the ensuing days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-bodys-assorted-veggie-bags-sold-out-within-hours/articleshow/74975201.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Bharathidasan University puts off semester examinations||TRICHY: As the state extended the lockdown period for education institutions till April 14, Bharathidasan University has decided to postponed semester examinations indefinitely. The examinations were scheduled to start on April 22. In a message to the staffers and students on Friday, university registrar G Gopinath announced that the university has put off theory and practical examinations (both UG and PG) until further notice. A new schedule will be communicated by email from the university on a later date, the communication said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set the stage for the lockdown by announcing one-day Janata curfew last week. Nationwide lockdown was enforced the subsequent days to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. UGC came forward asking institutions to postpone examinations till March 31. BDU registrar G Gopinath told ToI that the decision to postpone even semester examination was taken after the directive from the state on extending closedown of higher education institutions till April 14 a couple of days ago. Earlier, the state had announced the closure of institutions till March 31 due Covid-19 pandemic. “The recent directive from state didn’t say anything about the conduct of semester examination. But the university had already scheduled to hold the examination from April 22 onwards. We have to put off the examinations due to the loss of working days. It is mandatory to have a minimum 90 working days to conduct examination,” the registrar said. “We expect that the university will be able to reopen on April 15 and then we will work out on the term days and decide on the dates for the semester examination in consultation with the controller of examination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-puts-off-semester-examinations/articleshow/74975220.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||VMC’s faux pas on an address||Vadodara: A resident of Gotri area had to face harrowing time after a team of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials came calling at his bungalow claiming that foreign nationals were staying at his residence. The incident took place on Wednesday and the businessman allowed the teams to search his residence. Officials had inquired at his residence about the foreigners earlier too. He eventually submitted a complaint to the Gotri police stating that someone had misinformed VMC so that he faced trouble. A list of 16 foreign nationals sharing the same address in Gotri has names of several members of the minority community too. The bungalow was the residence of a businessman having a unit in Manjusar in Savli. The VMC teams did not find anything out of place at the residence. It was an official who told the businessman that they had a list of foreign residents from Mongolia, Egypt, Taiwan, France and Greece staying at his place. A VMC official said that a faux pas seems to have caused the confusion. “It seems that this address was wrongly copied and pasted against names of several foreign nationals,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmcs-faux-pas-on-an-address/articleshow/74972875.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Pollution levels dip as roads turn deserted||TRICHY: There has been a considerable decline in the air pollution levels in the city over the last few days, according to the data from the Tamil Nadu pollution Control Board (TNPCB). While the levels of suspended particulate matter have dipped, experts attribute this primarily to less number of vehicles in the city. As people are confined to their homes for both work and leisure activities, use of vehicles has come down drastically. Combustion of fuel in vehicles contributes to high levels of nitrogen oxide and sulphur oxide. Besides this, density of particulate matter with 2.5 microgram (PM2.5) and 10 microgram (PM10) per cubic meter suspended in the atmosphere have also come down. “Having most vehicles off the road in the last few days has been the major reason for the fall in pollution level,” said environmentalist M Arun. “Furthermore, the burning of waste on the road sides too seem to have come down in recent days,” he added. “No doubt the lockdown has hugely impacted pollution levels, but during summer suspended particles mix with air at a higher altitude, which could also be a reason,” said C Ravichandran, associate professor, environmental sciences department, Bishop Heber College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pollution-levels-dip-as-roads-turn-deserted/articleshow/74975210.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||T bar council aids junior advocates||Hyderabad: The Bar Council of Telangana took the initiative to amend the existing bar council rules in order to enable itself to help poor junior advocates who are adversely affected on account of the sudden lockdown of courts all over the state. It prevailed over the leadership of the Bar Council of India and was able to get the rigid rules modified. “Soon we will invite applications from the eligible advocates after laying down the criterion for the same,” said A Narasimha Reddy, the chairman of Telangana Bar Council on Friday. He said that members will be informed about the procedure soon. He appreciated the efforts of Prime Minister and Telangana chief minister who are waging a relentless battle against the coronavirus pandemic. “It is time for the citizens of the country to extend their wholehearted support and solidarity with the leaders,” he said. The council chairman also called upon the advocates in the state to generously contribute to the Prime Minister’s relief fund to strengthen the hands of the PM. He said a dedicated account will be opened by the council for this purpose and all the money accrued into it will be sent to PMRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bar-council-aids-junior-advocates/articleshow/74975655.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 lockdown: Dehradun-based social groups support the needy||DEHRADUN: Several social organisations and resident welfare associations have come forward to help those in need of aid during the lockdown in the city. City-based NGO ‘Waste Warriors’ which works in the area of waste management has identified 600 families of rag pickers who had initially been left without food supplies when the 21-day lockdown began. These families are mostly settled in areas like Khudbuda, Bindal Chowk, Laxman Chowk and Chuna Bhatta. They have now been guaranteed supplies by the group for a month. The ration is being provided to the families in presence of local police. One of the beneficiaries, Sangeeta, a rag picker living near Bindal river, said, “Ever since the lockdown was announced we could not move out to earn money. Ration at home was only sufficient for two days. I am relieved after receiving the ration.” Outreach manager at Waste Warriors, Naveen Sadana, said, “We realised that it was tough for the administration to reach out to every person in need. Hence, we identified these families and now the ration is being provided with the help of police.” Another city-based group ‘Social Development for Communities Foundation’ which has installed plastic banks in the city has asked its workforce to distribute 2,000 food packets of cooked meals every day among the marginalised section. Founder, SDC Foundation, Anoop Nautiyal said, “Food packets are being prepared at Radha Saomi Satsang Beas, and then collected by staff members. The vehicles that we have been using for collecting plastic waste have now been converted into ‘food express’ after proper sanitisation. ”In addition, the resident welfare associations are doing their bit by collectively preparing dry ration kit for distributing it among the needy. The resident welfare association at Dalanwala has prepared over 200 kits. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon resident welfare front and a resident of Dalanwala, said, “This is only a small beginning. We have made 200 ration kits. We plan to prepare more in days to come. This is a time when daily wagers and homeless have nowhere to go and the ration must reach them immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-lockdown-city-based-social-groups-support-the-needy/articleshow/74974521.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CBSE exams only for compulsory subjects||Visakhapatnam: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to conduct examinations for only those subjects that are necessary for students to gain promotion and be eligible for applications to higher educational institutions. The board has decided that it will not hold examinations for the remaining subjects and that instruction for marking and assessment for such subjects shall be issued by the board separately. Earlier, the CBSE had postponed all board examinations scheduled between March 19 to 31 in compliance with directions from the department of higher education/school education and literacy. The board, in a recent release, mentioned that the new schedule shall be made available after reassessment of the situation. The board has also said that it will give a notice of nearly 10 days to all stakeholders before board examinations for classes 10 and 13 begin. The CBSE has also asked all affiliated schools to promote students studying in classes 1 to 8 to the next grade. Most affiliated schools had completed the examination process for classes 9 and 11 for this academic year. Schools that have not, have been advised to promote students to the next grades on the basis of school-based assessments like projects, tests and term exams conducted already. For students unable to clear the internal process, schools have been directed to provide remedial interventions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cbse-exams-only-for-compulsory-subjects/articleshow/74974528.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh shuts off phone after ‘threats from Russia'||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday switched off his mobile phone after allegedly receiving threat calls for the past four to five days. The former chief minister said he sent a complaint to the DGP but still the calls did not stop. The calls were coming from 14 or 15 phone numbers, most of them based in Russia. On Friday morning, Digvijaya Singh posted a list on his Twitter account of telephone numbers that were calling him along with his call data. He tweeted, “These are the phone calls that have been bothering me for the past 4/5 days. I have registered a complaint with MP DGP. I also spoke to the service provider but these calls did not stop. Sadly, under these circumstances, I have to shut my mobile number.” Digvijaya Singh on March 28 wrote a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar claiming that he was getting calls for help from Indian students stuck in a Russian university and urged the Centre to take necessary action through the embassy there. The Congress leader further tweeted, “For matters related to the Coronavirus lockdown, I will be available on my landline numbers in Bhopal.” The numbers given were: 0755-2441788; 0755-2441790 and 0755-2661550. Replying to Digvijaya Singh’s tweet, BJP MLA from Huzur Rameshwar Sharma tweeted, “The laws of creation is such that when we want to do good for the first time, such obstacles come in the way. But don’t be worried and switch off the phone in this time of crisis. Rather divert your calls to my number, I will help the needy and also deal with those who threaten.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-shuts-off-phone-after-threats/articleshow/74975229.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Religious leaders told to help identify symptomatic people||TRICHY: The district administrations in the central region have appealed religious leaders to educate the people in their community to cooperate with the government machinery in the fight against Covid-19, here on Friday. Meetings were organised in the presence of Hindu, Muslim and Christian religions leaders, in some cases separately, in Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam. The collector has asked them to inform them in case of spotting anyone with Covid-19 symptoms and also not to allow anyone in temples, churches and mosques. In the light of the incidences of health workers being chased away by people in a Muslims dominated Covid-19 affected area in Vaniyambadi, almost all the collectors sought the cooperation of the religious leaders to sensitize people on the need for containment of the disease. The leaders said that the people mistook the visit of the health team as enumeration for NRC. Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) state secretary M Jaffer Ali said, “The collector asked us to keep our people informed about the necessity for sanitizing the affected areas and checking the health of the people in the area. We agreed to extend full cooperation.” He also expressed concern over Tablighi Jamaat delegates being branded as ‘carriers of Covid-19’. SDPI district secretary of Trichy R Hassan asked the collector to inform them before health workers visited the affected area. “We assured the collector that we will educate the people that it is a preventive measure to protect us from the disease,” he said. SDPI also asked the Trichy collector to improve clarity on the status of infected Tablighi Jamaat delegates. “As per the information, 14 delegates have been separated after they had no symptoms. Since they are not allowed to go home, they are confused. The collector explained to us that a minimum 14 days of isolation is mandatory,” said Hassan. Muslim religious leaders also raised the issue of a blood sample taken from a TJ delegate using an expired kit at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/religious-leaders-told-to-help-identify-symptomatic-people/articleshow/74975232.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Two held for provocative message on WhatsApp in Jaipur||JAIPUR: City police arrested a youth from Galtagate for spreading fake news about coronavirus on social media and also for attempting to provoke people to attack the doctors who are conducting door-to-door screening of locals in Walled City area after 33 positive cases were found in Ramganj. On Thursday, 26-year-old accused Mohammad Moin had sent out a message to his contacts on social media provoking them to attack the doctors who were screening patients in Walled City area. Moin was part of a Whatsapp group whose admin, 24-year-old Abdul Wajid was also arrested in the same case. DCP Jaipur North Rajeev Pachar said, “The accused had spread fake news on social media regarding coronavirus. He had also messaged his contacts on Whatsapp asking them to not cooperate with doctors, but instead attack them while they were doing their duty.” As police got information about the provocative message, they immediately swung into action and arrested the accused under CrPC Section 151. After a Covid-19 positive case was found in Ramganj police station area, the authorities imposed curfew in Ramganj, Subash Chowk, Manak Chowk, Kotwali and all the areas under Galta Gate, Brahmapuri and Nahargarh police stations. Since the beginning of the lockdown, cops have been keeping a strict vigil on social media to prevent spread of fake news regarding coronavirus and at least a dozen people have been arrested for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-for-provocative-message-on-whatsapp/articleshow/74975660.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||13 more cases take Covid-19 positive to 40 in Central Tamil nadu||TRICHY: An additional 13 cases among the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) delegates from Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam and Karur took the total number of Covid-19 positive people in central Tamil Nadu to 40 on Friday. Of these, 36 were attendees of the TJ meet in Delhi. The latest bulletin from the ministry of health and family welfare showed that five cases each were reported in Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam while Karur recorded three cases. Tiruvarur collector T Anand said that of the five, three belonged to Mannargudi while two others hailed from Muthupettai. “We had already kicked off containment activities in those areas presuming that they might turn positive considering their symptoms,” he told TOI. A total of 48 TJ delegates in Tiruvarur have been identified so far. All of them have been kept in hospital quarantine pending results. The district already has eight positive cases of which seven were participants of the TJ meet. Nagappattinam joined the club with five Covid-19 positive cases all of whom were attendees of the TJ conference. The district had 29 suspects hospitalized as on Thursday. With Karur already having 17 Covid-19 cases of TJ delegates, three more residents of Pallapatti were added to the list. Trichittes were anxiously awaiting the results of Covid-19 suspects admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for the past few days. Friday’s bulletin, however, had no mention of the cases raising doubts about the credibility of the announcement. MGMGH said the hospital administration relied on the viral research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) at government medical college in Villpuram for the results of all the 110 patients as MGMGH was equipped only with the screening test facility. However, Trichy district administration has provided a couple of equipment worth Rs 12 lakh to MGMGH to carry out confirmatory tests. The lab finished the tests for some of the patients only but that have to be reconfirmed. TOI has learnt that the VRDL lab revealed the results of 29 patients including 28 from Trichy and one case from Perambalur on Friday. Sources said that 18 cases including the Perambalur patient tested positive. However, it was yet to be confirmed by the health ministry. MGMGH sources also said they will conduct the confirmatory test of 110 patients including the 29 patients. All the 126 people except around ten including the Covid-19 positive patient of Erode were delegates of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/13-more-cases-take-covid-19-positive-to-40-in-central-tn/articleshow/74975227.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||2.5 lakh workers who migrated to Uttar Pradesh identified||LUCKNOW: As the state government grapples with the influx of people who attended Tablighi Jamaat’s annual congregation at Nizamuddin West in Delhi, the rural development department has identified 2.5 lakh people who have migrated to UP villages from within and outside the state following the nationwide lockdown. Of them, 6,000 are those who have a history of travelling abroad, according to figures compiled by the department. Speaking to TOI, principal secretary, rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh said that they have prepared a data base of all these people and would forward it to the home and health departments. “These migrants need to be isolated and quarantined in community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) in rural areas,” he said and added that the process has already started. Singh said that the exercise was done after taking inputs from gram pradhans and village-level officials. Sources said that the department tapped village heads of over 90,000 revenue villages to identify the people who had returned their villages from nearby districts or from outside the state. The greater worry is from the 6,000 people who have a history of going abroad, he added. The work to identify people who managed to migrant to their villages was finalised about five days after the UP chief secretary's directives to ensure that migrant workers should be kept in 14-day isolation before being allowed to enter their villages. Meanwhile, official sources said that many of the people may have started migrating to their villages soon after the lockdown was enforced on March 25. With a few transport options available, thousands of people, mostly young labourers and their families, started commuting on foot to reach their villages. Four days after the lockdown was announced, the UP government deployed many public and private buses to ferry thousands of people who were stranded on highways mainly on the UP-Delhi border, to reach their destinations. At the same time, the Centre asked state governments and Union Territory administrations to seal state and district borders to check the movement of migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-5l-workers-who-migrated-to-up-identified/articleshow/74975657.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC gets more chemical spraying machines||Hubballi: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has procured special spraying machines to sprinkle chemicals in vulnerable and residential areas. The civic body had started the sanitisation programme using sewage cleaning vehicles, but could not cover narrow lanes due to their size. The HDMC then procured 24 spraying pumps for the sanitisation programme. R Vijaykumar, executive engineer, SWM department, HDMC, said the spraying machines have a capacity of 15 litres. Health department officials have been asked to chalk out their plan daily, he added. The additional procurement of spraying machines means that each zone under HDMC has four sanitisation devices. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the HDMC initiated the task to sanitise bus terminals, railway station and public places. Residents started demanding that the authorities extend the drive to residential areas. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that they are not leaving any stone unturned to protect people from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-gets-more-chemical-spraying-machines/articleshow/74973256.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Trains to resume service from Apr 15||Ludhiana: Northern railway will resume its service from April 15. Ferozepur Division of Northern Railway has been asked to make arrangements for restoring 23 trains, whose rakes are available at Amritsar, Jammu Tawi, Sri Vaishno Devi Katra and Ferozepur railway stations. Sources in railway department said, “Local railway officials have received directions from higher authorities to make necessary arrangements on Friday.” Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, chief ticket inspectors and in-charges of reservation and parcel offices have been asked to deploy staff on duty accordingly, said sourc The letter, which has been accessed by TOI, mentioned that authorities concerned should pitch in to ensure all safety and security measures are made. Firozpur Division has been asked to run as many as 11 trains. From Amritsar, Saharsa Garib Rath Express, New Delhi Express, Banmankhi Jan Sewa Express, Haridwar Express, Katihar Express, Jaynagar Saryuyamuna Express, Saharsa Weekly Jansadharan Express, Bilaspur Chhatisgarh Express, Darbhanga Jannayak Express, Dehradun Express and Pathankot Ravi Express. From Jammu Tawi, four trains — Begampura Express, Ajmer Express, Shalimar Express and Rajdhani — will resume services. From Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra railway station, Swaraj Express, Hemkunt Express, Uttar Sampark Kranti and Shri Shakti Express will be restored. Four trains that will be restored from Ferozepur Cantonment railway station include Hanumangarh Express, Chandigarh Express, Delhi Intercity Express and Sutlez Express. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “After getting instructions from higher authorities of the northern railway, we have asked the local officials to make necessary arrangements for smooth running of trains and ensure the safety and security of passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trains-to-resume-service-from-apr-15/articleshow/74975230.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaint filed against alleged communalisation of Covid-19||Hyderabad: A Telangana high court advocate has lodged a complaint with police against social media sites and several users for allegedly communalising Covid-19 in violation of the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines. The WHO, in its guidelines on Covid-19 issued on March 18, has made it clear that the disease should not be attached to any particular ethnicity or nationality. Khaja Aijazuddin on Thursday lodged the complaint with the cybercrime police and the Union ministry of home affairs against the social media sites for linking Covid-19 to a community and tweeting with hashtags ‘CoronaJehad’ and ‘BioTerrorism.’ Aijazuddin told TOI that he had sent copies of the complaint to Telangana DGP and Hyderabad police commissioner. He said social media sites had allowed messages demonising a religious group and describing them as terrorists. “When referring to people with Covid-19, do not attach the disease to any particular ethnicity or nationality,” he said, quoting WHO guidelines. He said the social media sites did not block the users despite abusive posts. “This is also against the Constitution. The messages and photos allowed by these sites are against the secular fabric of India. Such trends may result in disturbance of the communal harmony,” Aijazuddin said in his complaint. He urged MHA and Telangana police to intervene and issue directions to the social media sites to not allow messages and photographs against any social, ethnic or religious group. He said such communal posts could lead to mutual mistrust and enmity among different sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-filed-against-alleged-communalisation-of-covid-19/articleshow/74975248.cms||Syed Akbar
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Passenger aircraft begin ferrying goods||Hyderabad: In a first, a Qatar Airways passenger aircraft ferried a shipment of essential goods and medical supplies to and from the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, to service various parts of the world. This follows the DGCA’s move to permit cargo operations using existing passenger category aircraft, subject to guidelines issued by it. The flight was operated between Doha and Hyderabad on April 2. The aircraft carried 28 tonnes of essentials from Hyderabad to Doha and connected shipments to other areas, a release by GHIAL stated. “We are happy that DGCA has permitted cargo operations using passenger aircraft,” said SGK Kishore, CEO, GHIAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passenger-aircraft-begin-ferrying-goods/articleshow/74975675.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||275 units get permission for manufacturing essential items||JAIPUR: The industries department has given permission to 275 units manufacturing essential products and approved passes to over 1,600 employees who will be working in these factories. Besides, 647 mills have started operations for processing wheat flour, dal, oil and spices to ensure there’s no disruption in supply of essential commodities during the lockdown period. For a quicker application and approval process, the manufacturing and processing units can use the online platform. “The units coming under essential goods category need to apply with the district investment centres. If any company operates from more than one location, the permission will be given by RIICO,” said industries minister Prasadi Lal Meena. “In my meeting with the senior officials of industries department and RIICO, I directed them to issue orders for smooth operation of the industries while keeping in view the laws of the lockdown. The department will address the issues of any industry on a proactive basis so that the supply of basic commodities adequately flows to the market,” said Meena. The approvals are also made time-bound so that the applicant industries do not waste time. Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of industries, said, “We have issued orders to decide on approvals within six hours. That has helped the companies and their number is growing. We have given permissions to 275 companies which are into manufacturing of medical devices, intermediaries for drugs, packaging material for food processing and other products,” said Agarwal. Besides, passes have been issued to vehicles engaged in the operations. “We have issued passes to 41 vehicles for transportation in the districts, 13 passes for inter-state permit and three for outside state,” said Muktananda Agarwal, commissioner, industries. “However, all the companies have to strictly follow the lockdown guidelines, precautionary measures and sanitisation procedures. This is also applicable to the workers who are engaged in the operations,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/275-units-get-permission-for-manufacturing-essential-items/articleshow/74975665.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||PM’s appeal to light lamps fills country with new energy: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: The BJP has endorsed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the countrymen to light lamps on April 5 to display the nation's 'collective resolve' to combat coronavirus outbreak and asked the citizens to support the united effort. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that Prime Minister's message has filled he country with new energy. "Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has filled the people of the country with new energy through his message. It is extremely important to spread the light to fight the crisis like COVID19," tweeted Chouhan after Prime Minister's video statement. He further said, "Lighting a lamp will bring a sense of positivity among the public and the corona warriors, who are fighting the crisis devotedly." Prime Minister Modi in his message appealed to the people to display their collective strength and resolve to in the fight against COVID-19 while maintaining social distancing, which he said was the only panacea to jointly defeat the coronavirus. Modi also reminded the people that they were not alone and urged them to display their collective resolve by switching off lights at their homes and lighting candles, diyas or mobile phone flashlights on Sunday at 9:00 pm in a nationwide show of solidarity to fight the coronavirus. Reacting to the call, senior BJP leader Narottam Mishra said, "On the call of Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, the most popular leader of the world, I appeal to all the people and countrymen that even WHO has also praised his (PM's) efforts. The person whom the entire world bow down in respect about his duties, should be supported on April 5 by lighting lamps." BJP state president VD Sharma said, "By spreading the light on April 5, we have to challenge the darkness disseminated by corona crisis."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pms-appeal-to-light-lamps-fills-country-with-new-energy-cm/articleshow/74975245.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath’s ‘milk man’ doing yeoman’s service to Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has created a record of sorts by not only ensuring daily delivery of milk to the doorstep of about 23 crore population in the state, but it has also made arrangements for fodder to over five lakh cows and is ensuring that over 1.50 lakh street dogs and an equal number of monkeys in and around closed temples are fed daily. Principal secretary, dairies and the animal husbandry department, Bhuwanesh Kumar, is responsible for monitoring that the milk chain between rural areas and cities is not broken. He is also receiving hundreds of videos daily on his mobile phone from his field staff and NGOs engaged in feeding stray animals during the lockdown period. The CM has set up over 5,000 cow shelters to accommodate over five lakh cows. During his daily briefing with officers he never forgets asking about the well-being of cows from Kumar. His query: 'Gai theek hain' (Are cows fine) adds more responsibility on the shoulders of Kumar, keeping him on his toes round the clock. He has opened a 24x7 control room at the APC (agriculture production commissioner) office to supervise operations. With over one crore farmers, three-crore milching animals and production of eight crore-litre milk daily, UP is the highest milk producing state in the country having about 18 per cent share. It is also the largest milk producer in the world. With the country facing lockdown due to spread of Covid-19, Kumar faced an uphill task of ensuring that crores of litres of milk do not get wasted, leading to financial losses to people engaged in the dairy trade. Kumar is also known as a 'curfew expert' in the IAS cadre because of his role in defusing crisis situation in Aligarh, Muzaffarnagar and Meerut communal riots in the past. “My experience in handling such situations is now paying. I have seen how people suffer in the absence of essential commodities,” recalled Kumar talking to TOI on Friday. “From the day one of the lockdown I asked the home department and district authorities not to block the movement of people carrying milk cans on bicycles. This way I ensured that the milk supply chain from the village to dairy plants in the state capital do not break,” the officer added. Over 17,000 men, both in private and government sectors, are engaged in the doorstep delivery of milk in cities. There is no complaint of shortage of milk or its blackmarketing, he said. “True, the prices of milk have come down a bit, but mikmen have a huge relief that their produce is being sold in the market,” said Kumar who is also MD of the Pradeshik Cooperative Dairy Federation with the brand name of Parag. The PCDF along with private dairies is ensuring proper supply of milk in the state in this crisis time. Another challenge before Kumar is ensuring proper maintenance of 5,000 cowsheds accommodating over five-lakh stray cows, a project with which Yogi Adityanath is emotionally attached. He has already suspended several officers, including a district magistrate, for poor maintenance of cowsheds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogis-milk-man-doing-yeomans-service-to-state/articleshow/74975668.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Meet these 3 traffic marshalls who could stay at home, but chose to help cops||Ludhiana: It is not just police personnel, who are standing guard amid lockdown, but some civilians too are working selflessly the whole day — called traffic marshals, these men and women can be seen working dedicatedly at different chowks and roads of the city, stopping commuters, convincing them to stay indoors. TOI met up with three such traffic marshals — a homemaker, an owner of a hosiery unit and a worker with a hosiery unit. Thirty two years old Pooja is a homemaker. She lives with her family consisting her father-in-law, mother-in-law, husband (a labourer) and two children — a six-year-old toddler and one-and-half years old baby. Every day, this mother of two cycles from her Hussainpura village, which is nine kilometres away from city, to perform her duty as traffic marshal at Kapoor hospital chowk. “I joined as traffic marshal two months ago. The pastor of the church that I go to regularly, told me about this and made me fill the form. I have been able to work as a traffic marshal because of the support of my family. They are cooperative enough. It is them who take care of my little children,” says Pooja. As for working amid corona fear, Pooja says, “I take all precautions. After reaching home, I take a bath before I go near my family members. I feel fortunate enough that I got this opportunity to serve the society.” Earlier, Pooja used to work from 4pm to 6 pm. However, after lockdown, she has increased her duty hours. Now, she works from 7am to 6pm, taking a break in the afternoon for her lunch — langar, distributed by some NGO or the other. Her motivation, says Pooja, is her husband. “He says he is proud of me that in this time when everybody is indoors, I am helping the cops.” For Rohit Kumar, 32, a marketing department employee of a hosiery unit from Dolat Colony, this is a brand new experience. “I joined as traffic marshal 15 days before coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, I used to work for two hours, from 8am to 10am and them used to go to work. But now since factories are closed, I work the entire day,” says Rohit. Rohit is deputed at Basti Jodhewal chowk and he remains there from 10am to 9.30pm. “Not just my family but the factory where I work want me to stop doing this duty. My family wants me to sit at home. Even my employers are concerned for me. But I think not everyone gets this opportunity to serve society,” adds Rohit. Rohit says he gets great insights into people’s behaviour. “When we stop people on road, at times they listen but mostly they argue and behave rudely. They don’t understand that we are standing on road for their safety. Now I understand how cops must feel when civilians misbehave with them.” Owner of a hosiery unit from New Sundar Nagar area, Sanjeev Kumar, 32 is also deputed at Basti Jodhewal chowk as traffic marshal. Sanjeev is not only managing his family life but also his business, while serving as traffic marshal. Sanjeev is serving as traffic marshal for the last month and a half. Earlier, he used to work from 11am to 3pm. However, now he is working full day — from 9am to 8pm. Sanjeev says, “My family does not like it at all. They keep asking me to sit at home, as they are worried that i would catch the coronavirus. But I somehow manage to convince them. I also take all precautions while working here. I feel good that I could do something for the society, specially in this testing time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/meet-these-3-traffic-marshalls-who-could-stay-at-home-but-chose-to-help-cops/articleshow/74975241.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Tipplers now bank on sedatives to get through lockdown||Vijayawada: After a rise in consumption of toddy in the state, the consumption of sedatives also reported an increase, with tipplers visiting pharmacies for sleeping pills and painkillers, which contain nitrazepam. The hike in demand follows the non-availability of liquor in retail as well as black markets after the nationwide lockdown was announced Fearing that unregulated use of sedatives could pose health risks, pharmacies in the state have stopped selling sedatives and even cough syrups to people without a prescription. In some areas, owners of pharmacies are turning customers back claiming they have no stock. The joint director of Drug Control Administration (DCA), Andhra Pradesh, P Vinay Kumar said there are over 25,000 pharmacies (wholesale, retail and attached to hospitals) in the state. “They have not issued any orders related to banning orders on sedatives and have insisted on a valid prescription from medical professionals to sell some categories of drugs which largely include sedatives of all forms to mitigate the misuse of the sedatives during the lockdown,” he added. Sources said that Diazepam tablets, including Alprax, Alzolam and other varieties like Fortwin (painkiller) injections were the most commonly-used sedatives in Andhra Pradesh and a majority of users are the youth. Owners of some pharmacies said they are hesitating to procure stocks of sedatives following the surge in demand from tipplers. Minimum quantities, however, are in stock for customers who use the drugs on prescription, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tipplers-now-bank-on-sedatives-to-get-through-lockdown/articleshow/74974564.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 4, 2020||Trichy||TNDRF to help spread word on staying home||Trichy: Trichy city police have roped in Tamil Nadu disaster response force (TNDRF) to spread awareness on the importance of staying home after seeing people frequently walk out of theirs homes for petty reasons in the city. A total of 40 personnel led by a sub-inspector cadre officer of TNDRF of Chennai dished out pamphlets of awareness message on the necessity of staying home for staying safe from pandemic Covid-19 on Friday. Trichy police asked the TNDRF team to be stationed in the city as a preparatory measure to tackle any likely emergency. Since the situation was still under control with no domestic Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy, police used disaster response team to send home a message by intercepting the motorists on the road and advising them about the need for staying home and the danger of roaming outside. People are often seen roaming on the roads in Trichy. While some of them had genuine reason such as meeting doctors and buying essentials, several others were still out to have a look around the city. City police commissioner V Varadharaju distributed one 500 ml hand sanitizer and two masks each to 2,500 police department officials including police officers, personnel, special units, armed reserve police, Tamil Nadu special police battalion, TNDRF and ministerial staff of the city police on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tndrf-to-help-spread-word-on-staying-home/articleshow/74975246.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Poor who do not have bank accounts to get Rs 2,500 cash in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Social justice and empowerment department principal secretary Akhil Arora on Friday said directions had been issued to collectors to identify poor people who had been left out of the database and do not have bank accounts and distribute Rs 2,500 to these people. Social justice and empowerment minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal had on Thursday said an additional amount of Rs 1,500 (apart from Rs 1000 announced earlier) will be given to 30.81 lakh poor families in the event of coronavirus epidemic. “An additional amount of Rs 1,500 on top of the earlier announced Rs 1,000 will be given to all the poor families in Rajasthan. This is the second lot of relief amount. Hence, they will be given a total of Rs 2500,” said Arora. The ones who will be getting the amount through direct benefit transfer (DBT) include people belonging to the BPL category, state BPL category, Antodyaya and registered construction workers who are non-pensioners. “Nearly 30 lakh families are getting the money directly in their accounts. For the rest, we are giving money to the district collectors so that whoever is left out of the database and those who do not have bank accounts can get the money. The distribution will be done by collectors after conducting a survey to identify such people,” he added. These people include beggars, street vendors, rickshaw-pullers, cart pullers and others who do not have bank accounts. “For them, we are allowing cash disbursement of the amount. We have also stated in the directions that the cash amount can be given to the poor along with food packets and dry ration packets so that they don’t suffer for the next few days,” said Arora. He also said so far pension had been disbursed to 78.77 lakh pensioners amounting to Rs 700 crore. “The pension has already been disbursed for the first month. From today (Friday), disbursement for the second month amounting to Rs 700 crore has also started,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-who-do-not-have-bank-accounts-to-get-rs-2500-cash/articleshow/74975671.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Three-year-old molested by neighbour in Bharatpur district||JAIPUR: A three-year-old girl was allegedly molested by a youth in her neighbourhood under Bayan police station area in Bharatpur on Thursday evening when her parents were working in the fields. In their complaint, the parents said that they had caught the accused red-handed but he fled. Cops later detained the accused and launched a probe. Bayana SHO Madan Lal Meena said, “The parents registered a case of rape against the accused who is their neighbour. According to them when they returned home they found that the accused had taken the child to a room in their house and shut the door. When they entered, he jumped out of the window and fled.” “We got the girl’s medical examination done on Friday. According to the doctors, there are no signs of injury or bleeding in her private parts. It appears that there was no penetrative assault. We have detained the accused based on the parents’ complaint,” added the official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-yr-old-molested-by-neighbour-in-bharatpur-district/articleshow/74975666.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Decomposed body found in Dravyavati||JAIPUR: Police found the body of an unidentified man aged around 20 years in Dravyavati river at Shivdaspura police station area on Friday. Police said it is unclear if the youth committed suicide or was murdered. Shivdaspura SHO Indraj Marodiya said, “We received information around 10 am that a body floating in the river. We immediately went to the spot and informed civil defence officials. The team managed to take the body out of the river which appeared to be around 5-6 days old.” However, cops did not find any proof on identification on the body except for a tattoo on the right arm which is their main lead at present. The tattoo said ‘Mohan Jaya’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/decomposed-body-found-in-dravyavati/articleshow/74975672.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ajmer||Poor who do not have bank accounts to get Rs 2,500 cash in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Social justice and empowerment department principal secretary Akhil Arora on Friday said directions had been issued to collectors to identify poor people who had been left out of the database and do not have bank accounts and distribute Rs 2,500 to these people. Social justice and empowerment minister Bhanwar Lal Meghwal had on Thursday said an additional amount of Rs 1,500 (apart from Rs 1000 announced earlier) will be given to 30.81 lakh poor families in the event of coronavirus epidemic. “An additional amount of Rs 1,500 on top of the earlier announced Rs 1,000 will be given to all the poor families in Rajasthan. This is the second lot of relief amount. Hence, they will be given a total of Rs 2500,” said Arora. The ones who will be getting the amount through direct benefit transfer (DBT) include people belonging to the BPL category, state BPL category, Antodyaya and registered construction workers who are non-pensioners. “Nearly 30 lakh families are getting the money directly in their accounts. For the rest, we are giving money to the district collectors so that whoever is left out of the database and those who do not have bank accounts can get the money. The distribution will be done by collectors after conducting a survey to identify such people,” he added. These people include beggars, street vendors, rickshaw-pullers, cart pullers and others who do not have bank accounts. “For them, we are allowing cash disbursement of the amount. We have also stated in the directions that the cash amount can be given to the poor along with food packets and dry ration packets so that they don’t suffer for the next few days,” said Arora. He also said so far pension had been disbursed to 78.77 lakh pensioners amounting to Rs 700 crore. “The pension has already been disbursed for the first month. From today (Friday), disbursement for the second month amounting to Rs 700 crore has also started,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/poor-who-do-not-have-bank-accounts-to-get-rs-2500-cash/articleshow/74979948.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Kaba Sura Kudineerserved to villagers in Pudukottai||TRICHY: Around 1,000 people in a Pudukottai village, on Friday, were offered Kaba Sura Kudineer – a decoction suggested by ministry of AYUSH for the public, which helps in controlling respiratory symptoms and strengthening immunity. A group of people in Melaisivapuri village in Pudukottai took up the task to prevent their village people from getting infected with Covid-19. Over the last few days, people have been making beeline for the Kaba Sura Kudineer provided by the government Siddha hospital to protect them from getting infected with Covid-19. This has come in the wake of an advisory from Union Ayush ministry prescribing it as a means to boost immunity level. Kaba Sura Kudineer is an anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory prescribed regularly for treating fever, cold, cough, sneezing and sore throat. “The demand for Kaba Sura Kudineer chooranam has made it a scarce commodity, so, we decided to bring it from Ulavampatti of Sivagangai district where the chooranam is prepared,” said 43-year-old K P Senthil, a volunteer from the village. A kilogram of it costs around Rs 2,000 and the preparation of the decoction using the chooranam is a laborious task. Therefore, 10 of us will prepare the decoction in our village, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kaba-sura-kudineerserved-to-villagers-in-pudukottai/articleshow/74975243.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Health officials face ire of attendees, family members||Hyderabad: Officials are having a tough time in convincing the Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their family members to go for quarantine and in making them take the mandatory Covid-19 test to see if they are coronavirus-positive or not. At several places, the officials are forced to wait for two to three hours near the residences of the attendees or stomach verbal abuses from the members of their families. “In many of the households, there are at least 15-20 members in a family. When we tell them to cooperate with us and get into the ambulance, they refuse or object if we take away the person who had attended the Nizamudding meeting. They also argue that they do not have to come to hospital for a Covid check-up when they do not have any coronoavirus-related symptoms. We are at our wits’ end to convince them,” a senior health official told TOI. He further said, “Some times, they are testing our patience. We wait patiently outside their houses till the person emerges out to buy vegetables or groceries.” Sources said some attendees had gone to AP after returning from Delhi. “We passed on the information to AP government on their movements and they have been quarantined there,” he said. Officials have also hit another roadblock as ticket booking agents kept the names and phone numbers of attendees empty in the registers. “Tracking such people is taking a longer time,” an official explained. “Some are fearing social boycott if their house is under observation or they are taken away in an ambulance,” officials said. An Aasha worker was heckled and the register was taken away by locals when she was doing a survey to identify those who came in contact with Jamaat attendees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-officials-face-ire-of-attendees-family-members/articleshow/74975257.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Exam uncertainty looms large over Class 12 students in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The uncertainty over the lockdown period and the dates for board examinations is proving quite stressful for CBSE students of commerce stream. Class 12 students are now forced to juggle between preparing for their pending papers and competitive exams. Every year students could focus on preparing for various competitive exams in April, but this year they do not have the luxury. Students, who are spending most of their time attending online classes to prepare for various entrance exams, said that they are unable to focus on preparation owing to the uncertainty. “I wanted to join MA economics, a five-year integrated course, and applied to a few universities in the city and across the country. However, I am unable to completely focus on the entrance examination as I still have to appear for the Business Studies exam,” said K Rahul, a Class 12 student. He said that it would have been a little better if he knows when the rescheduled examinations will be conducted so that he can be prepared. Another student Nidhi M said, “While most of my friends are relaxing during the lockdown, I am forced to study as I have two papers remaining. I am also preparing for an entrance test for which I attend online classes.” Teachers, meanwhile, said that most students have kept aside their pending papers and are currently concentrating on competitive exams. “Majority of students are busy with competitive exams coaching. The problem is mostly faced by students from commerce stream as science stream students have no pending papers,” said Y Satish, a teacher working in a private school in the city. CBSE announced that it would conduct board examinations only for 29 main subjects that are required for promotion but did not announce the rescheduled date. They said that they would give adequate notice so that students will have enough time to be prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exam-uncertainty-looms-large-over-class-12-students/articleshow/74975255.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Rural police come forward to help the needy||TRICHY: Trichy rural police has been leading the way in public service by helping the needy with food, essentials and also taking them for medical check-ups in the last few days during the curfew. Thiruverumbur sub-division consisting six police stations has been ensuring that abandoned aged people and people with disability get the help they need. As many as eight beggars along the stretch of Thiruverumbur, Bhel and Thuvakudi were taken for a health check-up at the facility set up at the Toll Plaza to check for symptoms of Covid-19. It was not an easy task to take them for checking. “While a few of them agreed to come for the testing by my bike, I took the others in cars of volunteers. The testing revealed no one had symptom,” said Thiruverumbur SI D Nagarajan. They also supply roadside dwellers with food packs including tomato rice and curd rice, besides distributing masks. The police have also been providing kits with essential items in Devarayaneri, a residential area with over 3,000 people from the narikuravar community, who have to travel 3km to Thuvakudi town to buy essentials. “Since it will result in health consequences, we have joined with the revenue department and supplied the kits yesterday (Thursday),” said Thuvakudi inspector D Gandhimathi. In Manikandam police limit, the police on behalf of Red Cross Society provided food packets to 250 visually impaired people on Thursday. Navalpattu police helped the 15 students of Bharathidasan University by providing them rice and groceries on Friday. Appreciating their service, Trichy SP Zia Ul Haq said that good Samaritans also joined their team to help the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rural-police-come-forward-to-help-the-needy/articleshow/74975252.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Won’t tolerate hiding infection, abuse of health workers in Rajasthan: Raghu Sharma||JAIPUR: Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma on Friday warned against hiding, not disclosing information about coronavirus infection and misbehaving with health workers. Sharma said those who are infected or have come in contact with infected persons should come forward and get themselves examined. They should also provide information about people who they had come into contact with, to reduce the risk of community spread, he added. The minister expressed concern over the growth of corona-positive cases in the state in the last three days. He said if the infected persons had provided information about the infection and people exposed to them, it would have helped the government tackle the situation. Sharma said that it is criminal act to misbehave with those who are risking their lives to save the lives of corona-infected persons. He said law will take strict action against those who misbehave with health workers and doctors. The minister said that the state government has made better arrangements for the treatment of Covid-19. The chief minister has also instructed random sampling around religious and tourist sites, he said. The minister said the speed with which the graph has increased in the last three days is worrying. By Friday evening, the number of corona-positive cases in the state rose to 179. But he said, 21 of these cases have been recovered. Many of them have also been discharged. He said that although the medical department is working with full vigour and the government has made excellent arrangements for prevention and treatment of Covid-19, yet the common man should also understand their responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wont-tolerate-hiding-infection-abuse-of-health-workers-min/articleshow/74975681.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Three chinkaras poached in Jaisalmer, one held||JAISALMER: Under the garb of lockdown, poachers are on prowl again. Police on Friday arrested one person for poaching three chinkaras near Mava village under Ramdeora police station area in Jaisalmer. He was produced before the court which sent him to police remand till April 5. Search for two other accused is on. Wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani had on Friday tipped off the forest department about poaching of three chinkaras on Thursday night near Mava village of Pokhran field firing range of the Army. “On Friday morning, we got information about poaching of chinkaras near Mava area. Thereafter, a team raided accused Karnaram Bheel’s house and recovered the meat and other body parts of the animal,” forest department ACF Balraj Sharma said. Meanwhile, two other poachers Manohar aka Mania and Moola Ram are absconding. The accused killed the chinkaras by firing at them and efforts were on to recover the gun. Post-mortem of the carcasses was conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-chinkaras-poached-in-jaisalmer-1-held/articleshow/74975680.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Isolation coaches to ‘halt’ at city railway station||Ludhiana: Taking a crucial step in the battle against the outbreak of Ccovid-19, railway authorities of Firozepur Division have began the process of preparing modified isolation coaches for dedicated corona patients. Ludhiana railway station has been identified by the officials as potential “emergency hospital”. Northern railway authorities have been assigned the task of preparing almost 400 to 500 isolation beds by using coaches of trains for tackling Covid-19 at different cities. Railways officials said, “To facilitate isolation coaches, we have to remove middle berths from all nine cabins of the premium coaches and equip them with air conditioning system.” While lower berths will serve as the bed for the patient, upper berths can be utilised for storing patient’s baggage and one cabin nearby toilet will be used for medical department. Ladders for climbing up berths have also been removed. One toilet out of four has been converted into bathroom in each coach for patient’s convenience. “We are converting the existing toilet into bathroom by plugging the toilet pan and installing shower facilities. We are also hooking the coaches to grid for regular power supply. Bedding, including two bedsheets, a hand towel and a pillow with cover,. will be provided to patients,” said sources. Rajesh Aggarwal, divsional railway manager of Firozepur Divison, said “We will soon deliver these coaches at different stations. We have involved the railway engineers to prepare the coaches. These will play a crucial role in providing heathcare services to Covid-19 patients in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/isolation-coaches-to-halt-at-city-railway-station/articleshow/74975253.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Bird watchers take flight during lockdown||Kochi: Even as they languish in lockdown, birders have found a way to keep themselves entertained and engaged. Birdwatching enthusiasts in Kerala have kicked off a challenge asking birders to upload information on avian population in their neighbourhoods. “We have decided to use this lockdown period to our advantage. Since people are staying at home, we have developed a protocol to upload information directly on to the e-bird India website,” said Vishnu Priyan, one of the coordinators of Kerala Bird Count, which is organizing the birding challenge in association with Cornell Lab of Ornithology. He said the aim is to encourage people explore their surroundings and record the birds seen near their homes. “Do you see species you haven’t recorded before? Which are the species that are found in your city? What is the behaviour of the birds you see,” these are some of the questions the birders can ask themselves and they can upload the relevant information on to the website. The challenge was announced on March 27 and is expected to continue till the end of the lockdown. Bird enthusiasts have been asked to ‘look for birds for exactly 15 minutes, standing at the same spot (i.e ‘stationary protocol’) at fixed time slots every day (as in, early morning hours from 4-6am (optional) as well as 6-9 am, 4-7pm and 7-10pm (optional) “The purpose of watching them during pre-dawn hours and at night is to document early-rising birds and nocturnal species,” Vishnu said. Among the other instructions are that if one sees flocks of birds flying over (for example, towards their roosting sites in the evening) they need to mention the direction of flight in the comments. If they see birds feeding on a flowering or fruit tree nearby, the birders have to mention it also (including the species of the tree) in the comments. The relative lack of noise is a good opportunity to try recording some bird sound using a smartphone. Alternatively, one can record videos on camera and then send the audio separately. “Many of the resident birds have already started their breeding activities. Also, this will be the first time that we could probably get some information on night birds, especially in urban areas, as there is a dip in noise pollution in the cities. We will get to note if the lockdown is encouraging birds to be more relaxed and free, Vishnu said. Among the recognitions promised are that all those who manage to meet the specified targets will be named on this website, and one among them will be chosen at random to receive a small gift in appreciation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bird-watchers-take-flight-during-lockdown/articleshow/74973322.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Two discharged, seven test negative in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Amid growing count of coronavirus positive cases in the state, a cheerful news had poured out from Jodhpur. Out of 11 positive cases, seven have tested negative in follow up tests and two of them were discharged on Friday. According to sources, the two cases of Jodhpur city with history of UK visit and travelling to Jodhpur in the same cab, had tested positive and recovered following the treatment. “After repeated negative report, they were finally discharged from the hospital. Now, they will have to remain in quarantine for 14 more days at their homes,” said the source. Similarly, three more persons, who were among the first to test positive in Jodhpur and had a travel history of Turkey, have also tested negative in follow up testing and will be discharged from the hospital on Saturday, according to the source. Before this, one case from Pali district, has already recovered and was discharged from the hospital from Jodhpur on Thursday. He also had a travel history and had tested positive 3 days after his arrival. Besides this, one more local girl and 21 evacuees of Iran, have been isolated at the AIIMS, Jodhpur. Spokesperson of the AIIMS, Naveen Dutt, when asked about the condition of the girl, refused to comment stating that only CMHO was authorized to provide information. CMHO Balwant Manda, however, did not respond despite repeated attempts by the TOI correspondent. This girl, had travelled from Mumbai in the same railway compartment in which the family returning from Turkey had travelled. She had approached AIIMS for check-up and was tested positive, after which she was admitted in the isolation ward of the AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-discharged-7-test-negative-in-jodhpur/articleshow/74975690.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||In 48 hrs, researchers in city develop masks for clinicians||Hyderabad: Amid shortage of medical equipment, researchers at the LV Prasad Eye Institute’s (LVPEI) Center for Innovation have developed a protective face mask for its clinicians and front-line staff in less than 48 hours. A team led by Sandeep Vempati who is currently working as a project lead at the Centre for Innovation at LVPEI, Hyderabad decided to design a protective face mask made out of A3 sized lamination sheets. The lamination sheets are easily available in the market across the country. “Many colleagues expressed that they want a face mask that would help them screen patients without any risk. That’s when I decided to design this protective face mask. This mask shields a person from head to neck with absolutely no openings for passage of aerosol,” said Vempati. The team created a prototype in four hours, made a manufacturable version of it the same evening and contacted vendors the next day. Barely 48 hours later, the design of the product that has a production cost of Rs 50 per piece, was ready for use. “We used 3D printers from our innovation center to make the prototype. To scale up the production, we contacted our vendors who were able to do mass production, thereby reducing the cost drastically,” said Vempati. The design of the product is also shared as an open-source file far and wide with other organizations to replicate it. “We have received requests from other hospitals to make these protective masks for them. We have added vendors to our list whom the hospitals can connect with and place orders. A Hyderabad-based hospital recently placed requests for 500 face masks,” said Sandeep Vempati. Currently, 250 shields are being used by LVPEI doctors and its frontline staff. They have also coordinated with local vendors in Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh to make 150 shields for the military team there. Vendors have been identified in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Bangalore, Mumbai, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh for helping local hospitals and clinics manufacture these visors. Over one lakh pieces of the design have been manufactured and deployed (through our partners) in Mexico and regions in the USA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-48-hrs-researchers-in-city-develop-masks-for-clinicians/articleshow/74975274.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Not enough food supply, say MLA, councillors||Ludhiana: Congress MLA from north constituency, Rakesh Pandey said the civic body is not providing enough grocery to the councillors to distribute among the needy people during the curfew. He said more should be supplied at the earliest. The councillors too claimed that they have nothing left any more to distribute. MLA Pandey said, “We are doing whatever possible to help the poor people because at this time food must be made available for everybody.” He said some people contacted the councillors and some contacted him as well and expressed willingness to organise or sponsor food to the poor. Pandey said he had asked officials to ensure supply of items at least in the small shops in localities to avoid panic among peope. He alleged that the civic body did not pay heed to his suggestion. He said now the civic body has sent grocery to the councillors, but not sufficient quantity. Meanwhile, Congress councillor from ward number 83, Indu Thapar said, “For the last nine days, we are continuously serving langar to the poor and needy in the localities. We received calls from people complaining that they have no access to food. We told them to stay up and the food will be delivered to them.” Another Congress councillor from ward number 88, Manpreet Grewal said, “We are preparing food for 5,000 people in a gurdwara in Sekhewal in hygienic manner and then distribute it. Almost 2,00 people get in the morning and another 2,500 is covered at night.” According to him, the grocery items that the civic body had sent was enough to make langar once. He claimed that they have arranged for langar for at least the next 10 days so people will stay inside and maintain social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-enough-food-supply-say-mla-councillors/articleshow/74975256.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 500 deposit under PMGKS kicks off||JAIPUR: The women Jan Dhan accounts holders in Jaipur district will be able to withdraw the amount deposited in their account under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme in the first and second week of April. Lead bank manager S K Gupta said Rs 500 deposited in the Jan Dhan accounts would be deposited on the date fixed by the last digit of the Jan Dhan account number. He said the Union government is formulating a plan for the orderly withdrawal of this amount by the beneficiaries to avoid congestion at bank branches and ATMs. He said beneficiary women should check their account numbers and come to withdraw the amount on the prescribed day based on the last digit of their account. Even if the beneficiaries could not withdraw money for any reason on this fixed date, this amount could be withdrawn any time later. So, there is no hurry and one should not get out of the house unless required. Gupta has urged all the beneficiaries to take care of social distancing and cooperate with the bank officials in maintaining the system whenever they leave the house or stand in the line of withdrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-500-deposit-under-pmgks-kicks-off/articleshow/74975689.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Udaipur||People gather for namaz, 18 held in Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: Eighteen persons were arrested in Nimbaheda town of Chittorgarh on Friday for allegedly gathering for the prayer in violation of the lockdown restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus threat. Among the attested include few senior citizens and most in the age bracket of 25 to 40 years who had gathered at the old Masjid in Kaichi Choraha, SHO Harendra Souda said. An FIR has been lodged against them under sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. The accused were taken to the police station where they were sanitised and given masks to wear. Medical team was called to screen them and later the police quarantined them in their homes respectively after warning them to seriously observe the social distancing protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/people-gather-for-namaz-18-held/articleshow/74975687.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||‘Acceptance is the key, to get through lockdown period’||Nashik: Most of the state government counsellors have been instructing people with disabilities to accept staying indoors for 21 days, as it will help them get through the lockdown period. The Disability Commissionerate, Government of Maharashtra, Pune which is a Maharashtra State Mental Health Awareness Committee has appointed 10 volunteers to answer people’s queries. Approximately four to five people are calling counsellors every day out of which few are kept under quarantine by the hospital authorities. “People call to clarify many of their misconceptions. I had got a call where the caller wanted to know that if he is not going outside his house, how many times he should wash his hands? This is a common question and should be dealt with carefully,” said Nitin Vispute, a counsellor from Jalgaon. “It will become a psychological disorder if people wash their hands every half-hour even if they are not going outside the house,” Vispute told TOI. According to Vispute, it is the counsellors’ responsibility to convince those who are panicking due to staying indoors that they do not come out of their houses and start crowding in public places. “We have to make them feel positive about the lockdown and tell them it is for their own good,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/acceptance-is-the-key-to-get-through-lockdown-period/articleshow/74974590.cms||pragya jain
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Firm develops low-cost, portable ventilator||Hyderabad: With the country staring at a shortage of critical equipment in the face of the rapidly rising number of Covid-19 positive cases, Aerobiosys Innovations, a startup incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad’s Centre for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE), has developed a low-cost, portable emergency use ventilator that promises to ease the shortage of life-saving ventilators. Called Jeevan Lite, the commercial design for the manufacturing of the IoT-enabled ventilator is expected to be delivered by the first week of April Jeevan Lite, which is the brainchild of Aerobiosys co-founders Rajesh Thangavel and Cyril Antony, would provide isolation to the patient and protection to healthcare providers and family members. It can perform invasive and non-invasive ventilation across a comprehensive set of modes and settings and can be used for pediatric as well as adult patients. “It provides real-time display of waveforms. Each breath of the patient is recorded and transmitted to doctors via the app to enable telemedicine support. The device has a provision for attaching an oxygen cylinder and can operate on its own in ambient air,” the startup said. The startup is gunning for a production of at least 50 to 70 units per day in collaboration with an industry partner and expects to cater to around 1 lakh patients in the first three months, co-founder Rajesh Thangavel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-develops-low-cost-portable-ventilator/articleshow/74975703.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Over 180 teams deployed to carry out door-to-door screening in Kota||KOTA: Intensifying the fight against Covid-19, Kota administration has chalked out a plan to carry out door-to-door screening of people living in various police station areas falling under the periphery of Kota Municipal Corporation. Over 180 teams are set to be deployed for the task in its first phase to be started from April 4 (Saturday) in Udhyog Nagar police station area of the city and zero mobility with heavy deployment of force to maintain the situation would be enforced in the police station area, where door-to-door screening is to be carried out. The screening would be carried out in areas divided on the basis of police station jurisdiction. The decision for door-to-door screening was taken in a meeting presided by Kota divisional commissioner L N Soni on Thursday. In order to ensure that Kota is protected from coronavirus, it is necessary to carry out screening of every citizen so that those with symptoms can be identified. The screening in a police station periphery is speculated to be over within a day. IG Kota Ravi Dutt Gaur ensured implementation of zero mobility in the police station area on the day of screening. The door-to-door screening in Dadabari police station area was successfully conducted in a single day, Kota district collector Om Kasera said in the meeting and asked people to purchase necessary items a day before the screening in their respective areas. Kasera on Friday issued order to enforce zero mobility in Udhyog Nagar police station area of the city on April 4 (Saturday) from 5am to 12am and said anybody found violating zero mobility in the area would be prosecuted under Sections 188, 269, 270 of CrPC and under sections of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act 1957. The suspects, traced during the screening, would be recommended home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-180-teams-deployed-to-carry-out-door-to-door-screening-in-kota/articleshow/74975702.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Lawyers get ‘online’ bails for over 100||Ludhiana: District Bar Association (DBA) Ludhiana has claimed that advocates got more than 100 prisoners released on bail or parole using the online system. Under the new system, the advocates have to send bail application to on duty judges online who then orders the release of convicts or under-trials on merit. Vice-president of DBA, advocate Rajinder Pal Singh Babbar said this is for the first time in the history of DBA that bails were filed online. He added that the system put in place on the orders of Justice R K Jain and according to the guidelines of the Supreme Court and Punjab and Haryana high court. “Since the advocates were not allowed to leave their houses, I talked to sessions judge and he was pleased enough to grant us permission to file online bail applications. I distributed the list of email addresses and phones numbers of judges among the members,” said Babbar. According to him, usually, bail bonds are filed in court. “However, in this case, we have sent personal bail bond forms and as soon as the court issue release orders, orders are directly given to jailers who then release the prisoner,” added Babbar. He said advocates have got bails for more than 100 prisoners since March 29 when the system was put in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lawyers-get-online-bails-for-over-100/articleshow/74975264.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Ramganj residents agree to tests, 134 quarantined||JAIPUR: Ramganj residents who are scared with the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases on Friday changed their stance and showed their willingness to cooperate with health workers. Following a confidence building exercise by religious leaders, local representatives and special team of police, at least 134 people from the locality were sent for quarantine isolation. Many also had an apprehension who will take care of their family members if they were quarantined. TOI on Friday visited the curfew-hit areas in Ramganj locality where health workers along with police team were on the job of screening. “Many of them were not cooperating. They were unwilling to share details of their family members. However, things appeared little improved as people have shared details. There are still some youths who try to deter and confuse their family members,” said a health worker at Handipura locality in Ramganj Bazaar. After Rajasthan police on Thursday deployed a special team to facilitate Jaipur police commisssionerate, many areas were covered by the team of health workers and police. The team comprised police officers including ACP traffic Aahad Khan, additional DCP (Metro) Nazim Ali and Parvez Aalam, inspector at Jaipur range. “We have sent 134 people from Ramganj for quarantine who were directly or indirectly in touch with the two persons of the locality who were found Covid-19 positive initially. Gradually things are improving and people are cooperating,” said police commissioner Anand Srivastav. Those who are not opening the doors and are in the list of those to be quarantined are being contacted by police over the phone. “They have some doubts and questions. Many of them were convinced and the process of sending them for quarantine is on,” said an officer at Ramganj police station. However, police teams on duty have also been asked not to be give any kind of relaxation in the curfew affected areas in Walled City. “Only if there is a medical emergency or those who are into sale of food and grocery items are allowed to move,” said an officer. A few days ago some policemen were also attacked by a group of youths who were playing cricket amid curfew. “We have registered a case in this connection and will make arrests soon,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramganj-residents-agree-to-tests-134-quarantined/articleshow/74975696.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Nine more Iran evacuees hit by Covid-19||JAISALMER: After nine more evacuees from Iran tested positive for Covid-19 in the first batch of 236, the authorities have decided to keep the remaining Indians under quarantine for 14 days. Directions have been issued to test them every three days. The patients have now been admitted to AIIMS Jodhpur. While the 248 evacuees of the remaining two batches tested negative in the second round. After the lockdown ends, they will be sent back to their houses and the Army has made all arrangements for this. According to official sources, on March 15, 236 Indians were airlifted from Iran in two aircrafts and brought to Jaisalmer and later on March 16 and 18, 248 passengers were brought in and all were kept at the military station in Jaisalmer. After 14 day quarantine period, all the 484 evacuees were tested, but 9 out of 236 passengers who came in the first batch tested positive and on Friday nine more have tested positive. All the 12 patients are above 55 years. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-more-iran-evacuees-hit-by-covid-19/articleshow/74975697.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC employees told to be ready to serve emergency duties||Nashik : The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), Nashik division, has asked its employees — drivers and conductors — to be ready for any kind of emergency duty in Thane district. A letter to this effect was issued by MSRTC headquarters and divisional controller of Nashik. The MSRTC has been tasked with the responsibility of fairing the employees of various government agencies under the essential services during the lockdown across the country to contain the spread of Covid-19. Local trains, too, have been shut down. But, to ensure that the essential services are not hit, the responsibility of transporting people from Raigad, Mumbai, Palghar and Thane districts to Mumbai and the city has been handed over to the MSRTC. They have, however, been told to adhere to social distancing as well as cleanliness norms so that those operating the buses as well as the passengers do not get any kind of infection. The letter issued by the MSRTC states that a section of officers, conductors and drivers will be sent to any of the four divisions to run the buses and their jobs would be on turn-by-turn basis. “The divisional controller has now asked the officials and the employees to be on their marks to take up the duties in the said regions at short notices. The letters to the effect have been dispatched to the Nashik Depot 1,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-employees-told-to-be-ready-to-serve-emergency-duties/articleshow/74974603.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Burial triggers row at Karelibaug cemetery||Vadodara: A number of locals objected to burial of body of COVID-19 victim, a 78-year-old man from Godhra, at a Muslim cemetery located in Karelibaug area of the city, fearing that burying the dead body, near their locality may spread the viral infection. When the body of the Godhra resident was brought to Matariya Kabristan in Karelibaug at around 7 am on Friday morning, a group of locals gathered near the burial ground claiming that as per rules, such dead bodies have to be burnt on funeral pyre. Those who objected to the burial included people of different faiths, who reside in societies located near the ground. “After our police team reached there, the crowd which had gathered near the burial ground dispersed. We had kept the police ‘bandobast’ till the time the burial got over. The burial was peacefully,” said Karelibaug police inspector R I Jadeja. Vadodara district health officials however refuted the claims of locals that the burial was done without following government guidelines. “The guidelines state that the body should be transported in a secured bag to avoid the infection from further spreading,” said chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat. “The guidelines state that the grave of the person should be dug deep. It should be a deep burial. So, an earth mover was used to dug up a deep pit after which the burial was carried out with complete protocol,” he said. The guidelines stress that there should be no bathing, kissing, hugging and reciting of verses for the dead people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burial-triggers-row-at-karelibaug-cemetery/articleshow/74972889.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Car festival cancelled first time in a century||MYSURU: For the first time in at least a hundred years, temple town Nanjangud will not host the famous car festival of Lord Sri Srikanteshwara on Saturday due to outbreak of Covid-19 cases even as authorities prepare to collect samples from primary contacts of positive cases there. At least three positive cases’ primary contacts tested positive, including two family members of P52, the patient who contracted the virus on March 26. On Friday, there were no positive cases reported in Mysuru. The famous Gouthama Rathotsava, which attracts over 1 lakh devotees, was cancelled while pujas and other rituals will be performed within the temple premises. The idol will not be taken out in the chariot, the first time in a century, according to Sri Srikanteshwara temple priests. DC Abhiram G Sankar on Friday said devotees are barred from attending the event. The cluster of coronavirus cases from Jubilant Life Sciences, which is the reason for 20 positive cases in the state including one in Ballari, could rise sharply, as people with symptoms, mainly family members of positive cases who are called as primary contacts, increases. While the authorities had quarantined rimary contacts, they will start collecting samples early next week. There are 263 primary contacts who have been moved to quarantine facility and their samples will be tested. As at least three primary contacts tested positive, the authorities are wary. The protocol is that samples are collected from family members on the 12th day from the date on which the person is tested positive. The first case from the Nanjangud plant was reported on March 26 and authorities will collect samples from five primary contacts early next week. While seven persons are primary contacts and home quarantined after P52 tested positive, two, including his wife, tested positive. The DC said samples are collected from primary contacts on the 12th day as it’ll help in getting accurate results. There were 263 primary contacts from 19 cases, which will increase after two more cases reported on Thursday night. “We’ll start collecting samples and subject them to tests,” he said. He said there were 1,087 secondary contacts related to Jubilant Life Sciences cases in Mysuru district and 230 primary contacts of employees based in Mysuru. Some are in neighbouring districts including Chamarajanagar and Mandya. Mysuru’s first positive case was reported on March 21. But since he directly checked into the isolation ward at KR Hospital and asked family members to stay away, he has not infected them. The second case also took care not to infect others, the authorities said. It’s not the case with the Nanjangud incident, they added. Watch Karnataka: Car festival cancelled in temple town first time in a century||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/car-festival-cancelledfirst-time-in-a-century/articleshow/74973351.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Outstation students and labourers being screened in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Labourers and tudents from other states are being screened here from Friday. Labourers from other states too are being screened. On the other hand, nine labourers from other states who had been kept at the isolation centre in Pokhran ran away on Friday. But, police caught them and brought them back to the isolation centre. “Nine labourers who had come from Karnataka were kept at the quarantine ward in Pokhran. They ran away on Friday. A case was lodged at Pokhran police station. Police caught them and brought them back to the quarantine ward,” SP Kiran Kung said. District collector Namit Mehta said that the second phase of the door-to-door survey has started. Nearly 1,488 teams are conducting the survey. Of them, 1,418 teams are conducting survey in rural areas. The survey focuses on cough, cold, fever and respiratory problems. People suffering from these symptoms are being screened. As per information, maulvis from other states are staying at many madrassas. “The first phase of door-to-door survey has been completed in which 6,78,056 people from 1,12,760 families were surveyed. Among them, 91,478 members of 16,125 families were in urban areas and 5,86,578 members of 96,635 families were in rural areas,” the collector said. Mehta directed the SDOs to stop the movement of migrant labourers. “The labourers should be shifted to shelter homes and given all requisite amenities. Also, their medical screening should be conducted. Proper social distancing must be maintained. So far, over 700 labourers have been screened,” the collector added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/outstation-students-and-labourers-being-screened-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/74975708.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ajmer||Zika combat plan to contain spread of coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The strategy which the state government had adopted to combat Zika outbreak in Jaipur in 2018 will be used to contain the community spread of coronavirus. Sero surveillance, which is an effective way for measuring the proportion of a population that has antibodies to the relevant infection, will be adopted by the health department to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is a tried and tested strategy implemented during spread of Zika in different parts of the state. During Zika spread in 2018, 158 people were infected. At that time, health department teams were deployed to conduct surveillance in and around 3km area radius of Shastri Nagar area, epicentre of the outbreak. Though the state government did not impose curfew, they restricted movement of people in the area. However, for containing the spread of Covid-19, the state government took a step further and imposed curfew in affected areas to conduct surveillance. In 2018, the health department conducted sero surveillance, which was quite effective and now the same strategy has been adopted now to contain coronavirus. “It is an antibody test which gives a reasonable idea about weather the person is positive. It will have to be confirmed by diagnostic testing. However, for containment, we can immediately separate positive people so that community transmission is prevented,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, it has a drawback as it takes five days for a human to develop antibodies for Covid-19 virus after getting the infection. “If a person is infected on April 1, then for the next five days (till April 5), the person will be tested negative in the test done under sero surveillance. He will be tested positive after five days of getting infection. However, for ascertaining that the infection is spreading in the community level, the test is effective as it will be done on larger sample size,” said a senior health department official. However, currently the health department is conducting PCR test in laboratories. Once a person is tested positive for Covid-19 in antibodies test, his samples will be tested at the laboratory for confirmation. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “There is a fear of spread of Covid-19 at the community level for which they are going to start sero surveillance soon. It will be done in areas adjoining tourist places and other places vulnerable for infection.” According to the health department, the test is quite simple. The official said the test is just like blood sugar test. There will be stripes attached to a handy machine. A drop of blood will be placed on the stripe and the machine will show the report if the person has antibodies to the virus. The sero surveillance is the next stage for screening of the persons for Covid-19. Currently, the health department officials are going door-to-door with a questionnaire and they check if the person has influenza-like illness or he has any contact with a Covid-19 patient or a travel history. But, they do not have any diagnostic test done randomly. Now, these health teams will be armed soon with a handy machine to ascertain the prevalence of virus at the community level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/zika-combat-plan-to-contain-spread-of-coronavirus-in-raj/articleshow/74979943.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Zika combat plan to contain spread of coronavirus in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The strategy which the state government had adopted to combat Zika outbreak in Jaipur in 2018 will be used to contain the community spread of coronavirus. Sero surveillance, which is an effective way for measuring the proportion of a population that has antibodies to the relevant infection, will be adopted by the health department to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is a tried and tested strategy implemented during spread of Zika in different parts of the state. During Zika spread in 2018, 158 people were infected. At that time, health department teams were deployed to conduct surveillance in and around 3km area radius of Shastri Nagar area, epicentre of the outbreak. Though the state government did not impose curfew, they restricted movement of people in the area. However, for containing the spread of Covid-19, the state government took a step further and imposed curfew in affected areas to conduct surveillance. In 2018, the health department conducted sero surveillance, which was quite effective and now the same strategy has been adopted now to contain coronavirus. “It is an antibody test which gives a reasonable idea about weather the person is positive. It will have to be confirmed by diagnostic testing. However, for containment, we can immediately separate positive people so that community transmission is prevented,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, it has a drawback as it takes five days for a human to develop antibodies for Covid-19 virus after getting the infection. “If a person is infected on April 1, then for the next five days (till April 5), the person will be tested negative in the test done under sero surveillance. He will be tested positive after five days of getting infection. However, for ascertaining that the infection is spreading in the community level, the test is effective as it will be done on larger sample size,” said a senior health department official. However, currently the health department is conducting PCR test in laboratories. Once a person is tested positive for Covid-19 in antibodies test, his samples will be tested at the laboratory for confirmation. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “There is a fear of spread of Covid-19 at the community level for which they are going to start sero surveillance soon. It will be done in areas adjoining tourist places and other places vulnerable for infection.” According to the health department, the test is quite simple. The official said the test is just like blood sugar test. There will be stripes attached to a handy machine. A drop of blood will be placed on the stripe and the machine will show the report if the person has antibodies to the virus. The sero surveillance is the next stage for screening of the persons for Covid-19. Currently, the health department officials are going door-to-door with a questionnaire and they check if the person has influenza-like illness or he has any contact with a Covid-19 patient or a travel history. But, they do not have any diagnostic test done randomly. Now, these health teams will be armed soon with a handy machine to ascertain the prevalence of virus at the community level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/zika-combat-plan-to-contain-spread-of-coronavirus-in-raj/articleshow/74975710.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Patients conducting prayers in groups: Docs||Hyderabad: Doctors at Gandhi Hospital have expressed apprehension towards those who tested positive for coronavirus and had gone to Tablighi Jamaat meeting are not maintaining the social distancing rule. “They are conducting prayers in groups despite repeated requests to not congregate. We keep warning them that the virus spreads fast but they won’t listen,” a junior doctor told TOI. After a doctor was attacked by the relatives of a Covid-19 patient, the authorities shifted the patient to King Koti Hospital and beefed up security. “We are given personal protection equipment (PPE) so that we can deal with such cases,” a doctor said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patients-conducting-prayers-in-groups-docs/articleshow/74975272.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||Grocer shops to remain open 24 hours, if needed||Nashik: The district administration has said that grocery shops and medical stores can keep their establishments open for 24 hours, if and when required. It had come to the notice of the administration that some shops were closed during the lockdown and it created a rush at other shops. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “In order to cut down on pressure on some shops and avoid rush at shops, we have ordered all the grocery, medical and other stores related to essential commodities to remain open even for 24 hours as the need may be. They have to follow the norms of social distancing.” The officer also warned that the shops not going by the orders would be prosecuted accordingly. The district supply officer will ensure the grocer and essential goods continue to function even in the odd hours as per the need, while the food and drug administration will take its own measures to ensure medical shops remain active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/grocer-shops-to-remain-open-24-hours-if-needed/articleshow/74974625.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 4, 2020||Business||Centre grants Rs 17,000cr to states to tackle coronavirus crisis||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to different states to augment their financial resources to combat the coronavirus crisis. While the home ministry approved an advance release of Rs 11,092 crore to all states under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF), in line with the assurance given by PM Narendra Modi to CMs on Thursday, the finance ministry said Rs 6,195 crore was transferred on account of “revenue deficit grants”, which were part of the 15th Finance Commission recommendations for 14 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal. “The Centre released in advance its share of first instalment of SDRMF for the year 2020-21, amounting to Rs 11,092 crore, with a view to augment funds available with the state governments,” the home ministry said in a release. To make available additional funds to the states for taking preventive and mitigation measures for containment of Covid-19, the Centre on March 14 had made a special dispensation for utilisation of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). This fund was allowed to be utilised for setting up quarantine facilities, sample collection and screening; setting up additional testing laboratories, cost of consumables; purchase of personal protection equipment for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities; purchase of thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, and consumables for government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-grants-rs-17000cr-to-states-to-tackle-coronavirus-crisis/articleshow/74975956.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Udaipur||Three new corona cases in Udaipur, tally at 4||UDAIPUR: Three more persons, including a woman, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Raza Colony of Mulla Talai area here on Friday, taking the total number of infected persons in the area to four, district officials said. With more positive cases reported, vigilance has been enhanced in the curfew-bound areas of the city. Grocery, vegetables and milk were supplied in the affected colonies so that people do not face inconvenience. The authorities said the grocery supplies would be made on every alternate day, while milk would be supplied everyday till the curfew lasts. “Three persons, who are relatives of the 15-year-old boy who tested positive a day ago, have been found to be infected by the coronavirus. One of them is a 45-year-old woman who is also nursing in-charge of the swine flu ward of the RNT Medical College,” confirmed Anandhi, Udaipur collector. Some 40 people who had come in contact with the first positive case were tested and 37 reports were negative except these three positive cases, the officer said. She also said that these people lived in the same floor of that of the boy while others from the same building but on different floors were safe from the infection as they observed isolation. After four of a family tested positive for the virus, the medical team has line listed all those people who had been in contact with them. RNT Medical College has arranged for isolating the entire swine flu ward staff, ward boys, sweeper, nursing personnel who worked with the positive tested in-charge of the ward. Similarly, one of the uncles of the boy, posted as a home guard at Ogana police station under Jhadol block too has been isolated and so have been all the staff members of the police station screened and quarantined as they too had come in contact with the home guard. Udaipur SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi appealed to all religious gurus to release audio video messages to believers of their respective sects to prevent rumours being spread among the communities. He further said that 16 cases have been registered for spreading fake news and creating panic in society and 99 persons have been arrested so far. “Curfew is imposed in the 3 kilometre radius of three police station areas, including Ambamata, Ghantaghar and Hathipole. Movement is completely prohibited for the common man and people have been asked to confine themselves indoors so that curfew regulations are not violated,” Bishnoi further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/3-new-corona-cases-in-udaipur-tally-at-4/articleshow/74975711.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||2.24L Ujjwala consumers to get free LPG refills||Nashik: Around 2.24 lakh Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries in Nashik will get free liquid petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder refill for the next three months owing to the coronavirus outbreak. The central government has decided to supply the gas free of cost to the beneficiaries. Ujjwala LPG connection was started for all priority families, beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin), Antyoday Yojana, Forest Dwellers, Most Backward Class and other classes. Since the government has announced free refills, the beneficiaries are requested to place their orders as and when they need the refill and the same will be delivered to their door step. According to sources, the cost of the refills would be transferred directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries by the government so that they can use the amount to purchase the cylinder refills. “There is no shortage of any kind of cylinders in the district and people have unnecessarily pressed the panic button,” an official from an LPG said The LPG companies collectively deliver 31,000 cylinders per day, but the demand had shot up to 40,000 due to the panic. “Too many orders for LPG cylinders were placed due to which the delivery system was choked. People should be patient and the cylinders will be delivered to their homes,” he added. Around 90% of the consumers in the district have two cylinders. “When the lockdown was imposed, consumers who had got cylinders just 10 days ago booked the second cylinder. This led to the rise in demand,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-24l-ujjwala-consumers-to-get-free-lpg-refills/articleshow/74974638.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 4, 2020||Nashik||579 migrant workers placed in municipal schools, shelter homes||Nashik: A total of 579 migrant workers are seeking shelters at 23 locations in the city, including municipal schools and shelter homes. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has identified 19 municipal schools across six divisions to provide these migrant workers with all facilities such as meal, toilets and all the other necessary facilities. These schools can totally accommodate over 2,330 people at a time. “Besides municipal schools, the municipal corporation has also made arrangements for migrant workers at five other locations in the city, including its shelter home Gadge Maharaj in Nashik West, shelter home near Indrakund in Panchavati and other two locations,” said NMC officials. The industrial and business activities have completely stopped following lockdown. Scores of workers travel across the state in search of work. As the business units have temporarility closed, these workers attempted to travel back home. However, due to the lockdown, they are left stranded and forced to take refuge in shelter homes. The principals of the respective municipals schools have been tasked with the responsibility of taking care of those who are seeking shelter. Moreover, centre chiefs of municipal schools have also been appointed as nodal officers for each division, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/579-migrant-workers-placed-in-municipal-schools-shelter-homes/articleshow/74974649.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Silver lining: Clear skies, great views, better air quality||Mussoorie: Amidst the ongoing lockdown and looming Covid-19 threat, the silver lining is that the skies have become clearer in the Doon valley and Mussoorie, and the air quality has seen a marked improvement. “After the lockdown was put in place, the view of the Doon valley from Mussoorie has become much clearer. The haze that used to cover the valley has reduced significantly,” said Suvigya Sabharwal, a Mussoorie resident. Suryamani Jhaldiyal, a senior citizen, added, “After a long time, I have seen such clear views of the Doon valley and of the snow-peaks. The glimmering lights of the valley look very clear at night and we can even see lights from towns in the plains beyond the Shivalik ranges.” In a similar vein, Praveen Kaushal, a resident of Dehradun, said, “"The view of Mussoorie has improved tremendously over the past few days. Especially at night, one can see the lights of the town much more clearly.” According to experts, the air quality index has also improved considerably in the valley. The air quality index has come down to 54 which is considered satisfactory while PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels have dipped well below the permissible limits to 15.5 microgram per cubic metre and 69.5 microgram per cubic metre respectively. “Owing to the ongoing lockdown, the vehicular and industrial pollution has reduced in the Doon valley and air quality has improved, as a result of which the valley is looking clear,” said Anand Sharma, deputy director general of Indian Meteorological Department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/silver-lining-clear-skies-great-views-better-air-quality/articleshow/74972333.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Case against person for violating home quarantine in Tuticorin||Madurai: The Tuticorin police have registered a case against a 51-year-old man who was placed under home quarantine as he came out of his house by violating the conditions.According to sources, the man, a resident of Poopalrayarpuram in the district was placed under home quarantine along with his family members as his daughter had returned from abroad. On Thursday, he had left his house and visited several places. Based on a complaint lodged by corporation officials, the Vadapagam police registered a case.Meanwhile, officials from the prohibition enforcement unit attached to the Madurai city police on Thursday registered a case against a recreation club functioning near Kalavasal and seized Rs 4.15 lakh worth liquor bottles. On Friday, the district administration officials sealed the club for selling liquor bottles illegally during the lockdown period. Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan said that a total of 1,481 cases were registered against 1,852 people in the district police limits for violating Section 144 till April 2. Police also seized 1,119 vehicles for violating the curfew. On Thursday alone, 246 cases were registered against 310 people and 168 vehicles seized. Similarly, the city police registered 366 cases against 407 people for violating the curfew till April 2. This apart, 841 vehicles were seized by them. In Virudhunagar district, 1,297 cases were registered against 1,420 people and 661 vehicles were seized till April 2. A total of 705 cases were registered against 674 people for violating the curfew in Ramanathapuram till April 2. Police also seized 635 vehicles in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-against-person-for-violating-home-quarantine-in-tuticorin/articleshow/74975289.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 5 societies put under cluster quarantine||AHMEDABAD: For the first time, fearing that dense human habitation could act as a pacemaker for Covid-19 spread the civic body on Friday decided to impose cluster containment of some residential societies, after Covid-19 patients were detected from these residential clusters on different dates. Around 493 households in five residential societies in Jamalpur, Shahpur Rangila Chowky, Bhanderi pol in Dariapur, Gujarat housing board in Rakhial and in Danilimda have been cluster quarantined. These societies will have a board outside their societies warning outsiders to not enter the perimeter. All important provisions will be supplied by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to these societies, including groceries and food kits. The civic body will conduct regular health check-ups of the residents. No persons will be allowed to move out or strangers allowed inside the society under quarantine. Police presence will be there in the large containment zone according to the prevailing requirement The locations are Alif apartment near Ismail Pir ni Dargah, where there are some 50 houses, Crystal Apartments behind Shahpur Rangeela police chowky, where there are 27 families, Bhanderi pol in Dariapur where some 250 households including some 1,000-odd people stay, while at Gujarat Housing board in Rakhial some 16 families have been quarantined. At Maaz residency in Danilimda some 150 households have been put under cluster quarantine. “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary steps. Our teams will ensure supply of essential commodities to all the families in these areas,” said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra. According to a senior MC health official, the cluster quarantine is apart of the micro-plan for containment issued by the Union ministry of health which states that the containment zone will be decided based on the extent of cases or contacts listed and mapped by the surveillance teams. There is also provision of an arbitrary basis to demarcate an area of 3km radius around the epicentre — which is the residence of the positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-societies-put-under-cluster-quarantine/articleshow/74975397.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC identifies six new spots for setting up vegetable markets||Nashik: The civic body, in order to reduce the number of people gathering in vegetable markets, has identified six open spaces and playgrounds where vendors will be allowed to set up their stalls for selling their produce. Currently, there are 105 places, including some market buildings, across the six divisions of the city where vegetables are being sold to the citizens during the lockdown. However, according to civic officials, the social distancing norm is not being followed. Thus, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has decided to open six new spots as it will bring down the pressure on the existing 105 markets. A civic official said the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already issued guidelines for vendors and consumers about measures need to be taken while buying or selling vegetables. “There should be social distancing of at least one metre between the vendors and consumers, and five metre space between two vendors. But people are not following the rules,” the official said. As per guidelines issued by the municipal corporation, consumers should also buy vegetable that will last them for a week. An open space near NMC’s sub-office of the property tax in Nashik East division, Shivsatya ground in Nashik West, Nilgiri Bag in Panchavati, Shikhrewadi ground in Nashik Road, Satpur Club House ground in Satpur and Pawan Nagar ground in Cidco division are the spots identified by the civic body for the new vegetable markets. Ban mobile handcarts: Civic chief Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has expressed his concerns over some vendors selling vegetable on mobile handcarts despite ban and has directed the civic officials to take help from police administration to ban sale of vegetables on moving handcarts across the city. Few days ago, Game had released an order to ban sale of vegetables on handcarts to avoid handling of vegetable as part of precautionary measures. But a section of vendors are still selling vegetable on handcarts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-identifies-six-new-spots-for-setting-up-vegetable-markets/articleshow/74974676.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC acquires 2,000 PPE for its over 700 medical staff||Nashik: The civic administration has bought 2,000 kits of personal protection equipment (PPE) for its medical staff attending to the coronavirus patients and those working at the quarantine facilities at various hospitals. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already received 1,000 PPP kits. The remaining kits are expected to arrive in the next few days. Personal protection equipment (PPE) kits are used by medical personnel working in isolation wards and intensive care units to protect them from getting infected. “We had given the order for 2,000 PPE kits and so far received 1,000 kits. We are expecting to get the remaining kits in the next few days. This stock will be enough for around two months,” said a civic official. When contacted, a medical official of the municipal corporation working at one of the major hospitals in the city confirmed that they have been provided with the PPE kits. “We also have the necessary equipmentsand medicines required for the treatment of coronavirus patients at the hospital,” said the official. NMC has medical staff of over 700, including 98 medical officers, three head nurses, 230 staff nurses, 125 ANM nurses, 11 X-ray technicians, 23 lab technicians, 51 ward-boys among other staff. NMC has made quarantine wards at its building in Tapovan and Bytco hospital with a total of 51 beds. The Zakir Hussain hospital of the municipal corporation has also been reserved for isolation with a capacity of 100 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-acquires-2000-ppe-for-its-over-700-medical-staff/articleshow/74974667.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||All cops must be on field, not incourt, says HC||Mumbai: During the Covid-19 lockdown when “anti-social elements” are seen loitering, it is “absolutely essential” that the entire police force is on the field, rather than in court to answer to pleas for regular bail, said Bombay high court on Friday. While citing a Rajasthan HC order, the Bombay HC observed the “release of an accused or convict at the cost of breaching the order of lockdown and at the cost of risking lives of many cannot be considered to fall within the category of ‘extreme urgent’ matter.’’ The court adjourned one such plea to a regular bench when it resumes normal hours after the lockdown is lifted. “Unless an extreme emergent case is made out, they cannot be asked to spend their time defending regular bail applications,” said Justice A M Badar in an order. HC noted boundaries of almost all districts are sealed, “hence even if a prisoner is released on bail, it may not be possible for him to reach his destination without risking his life due to the outbreak of Covid-19. — Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-cops-must-be-on-field-not-incourt-says-hc/articleshow/74973304.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Cops held 414 violators, detained 3,400 vehicles||Vadodara: Police have detained thousands of vehicles and arrested hundreds of citizens for flouting police notification and lockdown since March 25. The drive against those venturing out on roads for leisure has been stepped up over last few days. City police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut said they have filed 250 police complaints against those who ventured out in public without any reason. Over 3,420 vehicles were detained by the cops and 414 people were arrested over last 9-10 days. On Thursday itself, 280 vehicles were detained and 21 FIRs registered in different areas of the city. “Once your vehicle is detained, it will be released after paying penalty in the RTO and it will take a month for the process. So I request people to stay indoors and follow the rules,” Gahlaut said. The cops have also been flying drone cameras since a week to track down people gathering in groups in residential colonies and apartments. The cops posted on the field, though, are wary of vehicle detaining drive. “On one hand, the drive to penalize those flouting traffic rules has been stopped so that the cops don’t come in close contact with commuters. But while detaining vehicles of those out on the roads for leisure, the cops come in close contact with people,” said a police official. “Many of them argue with us and they are not even wearing masks. We arrest them but we don’t even know if they are carrying the virus. It is dangerous for the cops to get into daily scuffle with the commuters and arrest them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-held-414-violators-detained-3400-vehicles/articleshow/74972910.cms||Tushar Tere
April 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC sets up 24x7 helpdesk for providing essentails to sr citizens, people with disabilites||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has set up a separate helpdesk for providing essentials like food and medicines to senior citizens, people with disabilities and those ailing. The help desk has been set up at Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan – the civic headquarters. To make this initiative a success, the civic body has taken the help of non-government organisations (NGOs) and social outfits. The beneficiaries can contact on the helpline numbers – 0253-2222447 and 0253-2571293 – in order to get the supply of medicines and food. The civic administration has also appointed a special nodal officer to monitor the help desk. “Though the government has imposed lockdown across the country to stop the spread of Covid-19, it has allowed people to step out only to buy essentials like groceries and vegetable. They (the citizens) have been asked to maintain social distancing. Still, there are many senior citizens and people with disabilities who are unable to step out to buy the essentials,” a civic official said. “Considering this, we have decided the set up the 24x7 help desk. The office of the education department in the headquarters building has been identified for the purpose. We are taking help of some NGOs and social outfits to facilitate the doorstep delivery of essentials,” he added. According to the official, there are many senior citizens who are living alone in the city. “Our help desk is dedicated for such people,” he said. “I welcome this decision as it will help many who are living alone or are unable to step out for buying the essentials. The NMC should create awareness about the helpline numbers so that maximum number of people can take benefit of this,” Arun Mathurkar, a senior citizen, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-sets-up-24x7-helpdesk-for-providing-essentails-to-sr-citizens-people-with-disabilites/articleshow/74974690.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake meds: Customs to keep a watch||Hyderabad: To ensure organised criminal networks do not supply counterfeit medicines and other equipment for coronavirus treatment, sleuths from the customs department are keeping a close watch on the imports of medicines, personal protection equipment (PPE) and related items. To keep the supply chain intact during lockdown, customs officials are also clearing all cargo - essential and non-essential items - on a priority basis at the Inland Container Depots in Sanathnagar and Air Cargo Terminal in Shamshabad. Recently, M Ajit Kumar, chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), had written to the staff asking them to ensure 24x7 customs clearance for smooth supply of essential goods and services.“...As stated by WCO (World Customs Organisation), criminal organisations have turned this global pandemic into an opportunity to carry out their fraudulent activities,” he stated. “In wake of Covid-19, there is going to be import of medicines, test kits, ventilators, masks and PPEs... Our job is to ensure no counterfeits or spurious items enter the country,” said a customs official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-meds-customs-to-keep-a-watch/articleshow/74975636.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||PM Narendra Modi’s appeal is ‘tubelight’ idea: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi branded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to citizens as tube light idea and 9 p.m. gimmick. Modi, on Friday, asked citizens to light up lamps, torch or cell phone lights to illustrate unity at 9 p.m. on Sunday (April 5). “This country is not an event management company. The people of India are humans who too have dreams & hopes. Don’t reduce our lives to gimmicks of 9 mins, @PMOIndia. We wanted to know what aid states will get & what relief the poor will receive Instead we got some new drama,” tweeted Owaisi. This tube-light idea was truly unique. As lakhs of hungry, poor & homeless migrants across India WALK to their home… https://t.co/oKqThBlRrz— Asaduddin Owaisi (@asadowaisi) 1585907514000Continuing his attack on the BJP government, Owaisi questioned the status of migrant workers. “This tube-light idea was truly unique. As lakhs of hungry, poor & homeless migrants across India WALK to their homes, I’ve to ask: where is the light @PMOIndia ? I know you only want #positivevibes & don’t want us to raise some issues but WHERE is the light?,” tweeted Owaisi. In a series of tweets, he took jibe at the central government. He said that while Supreme Court lawyers stated ‘one-third of migrant workers may be carrying infection’, union health ministry claims there are no proofs of community transmission. Owaisi told people that more than five members should not participate in the last rites of the person, who died of coronavirus. He also said that only two people should participate in the prayers, which are offered during the last rites and should be offered in the burial ground. The Hyderabad MP also thanked Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekar Rao for taking on-board, the inputs rolled out by union ministry of health pertaining to disposal of the dead body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-pms-appeal-is-tubelight-idea/articleshow/74975314.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||No lockdown for packaging material for essential goods||Mumbai: The state government issued a clarification on Friday to ensure availability of packaging material for essential goods and for smooth functioning of production units which cannot be closed, such as steel and rubber. An earlier government order had exempted these industries from the lockdown, stated the government’s earlier order. But they were still facing difficulties due to confusion and strict conditions imposed by the local administration. Officials said although industries involved in providing essential services were allowed to operate, their support and allied industries were unable to do so. A senior office said, “For instance, industries involved in the production of medicine and food material will not be able to deliver in the coming days if they do not find packaging material. Similarly, there are some industries that cannot be shut because once they are, they will take a few months to become operational again, like steel and rubber industries. The government is allowing them to operate.” On Friday, Ajoy Mehta, chief secretary of Maharashtra, issued a clarification to the previous lockdown circular on March 25. It stated: “All the necessary packaging units required for industrial units of 8(A) are allowed to operate.” It stated local authorities must ensure uninterrupted supply chain. (With Bhavika Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-lockdown-for-packaging-material-for-essential-goods/articleshow/74973629.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay to get Rs 56 crore centre to find 50 innovations against coronavirus||A Rs 56-crore Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) which will scout, evaluate and support innovations and start-ups that address Covid-19 challenges has been approved by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). The Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE), a techno business incubator at IIT-B backed by DST will be the implementing agency of CAWACH, which will come up in IIT-B. “Given the impact of Covid-19 as a pandemic globally that has jolted countries across the world to take immediate actions and scale up responses to detect, treat and reduce transmission to save people’s lives, DST is playing a critical role to pace up India’s efforts to fight the crisis,” the DST said on Friday. The Centre’s mandate will be to extend timely support to potential startups by way of financial aid for innovations eployable within 6 months. CAWACH will identify up to 50 innovations and startups in the area of novel, low cost, safe and effective ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gears, novel solutions for sanitizers, disinfectants, diagnostics, therapeutics, informatics and other interventions to control Covid-19. It will provide access to pan-India networks for testing, trial and market deployment of products and solutions in areas of priority for Covid-19 solutions. “CAWACH programme is focused on leveraging the youth, intelligence and extraordinary innovative potential of our technology incubators and startups and empowering them for scale-up to speedily address the multi-dimensional challenges of Covid-19,” DST secretary Professor Ashutosh Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-b-to-get-rs-56cr-centre-to-find-50-innovations-against-virus/articleshow/74973737.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Is Gujarat testing enough people?||AHMEDABAD: For the state of 6.5 crore, Gujarat has tested just 1,998 persons for the Covid-19 virus. A few other Indian states have tested more. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of positive cases and deaths in the country, tested around 6,500 samples till April 3 to identify 335 cases. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), defended the state strategy, saying that the department is following national guidelines. “Every state and country has its own method. For example, South Korea went for mass testing in ATM-like booths,” she said. Current testing strategy by ICMR, updated on March 20, says that all symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, all symptomatic healthcare workers, all hospitalized patients with SARI and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between 5-14 days of coming into contact. Ravi said that in regions recording high number of cases like Ahmedabad, they are considering rapid sampling and random sampling methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/is-gujarat-testing-enough-people/articleshow/74975394.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: 55 undertrials released from Mysuru prison to decongest facility||MYSURU: At a time when ‘social distancing’ has become an essential catchphrase, the spotlight has turned on the overly congested prisons across India, which healthcare experts fear can turn into hotbeds for the spread of the Covid-19 infection. However, officials guarding prisons are working tirelessly to decongest Indian jails, and to this end, authorities at the Mysuru Central Prison released 55 undertrial inmates on bail. The release of the undertrials from the Mysuru prison has been carried out within the framework of rules set down by the high court, and after a scrupulous scrutiny conducted by the district court. Furthermore, the ‘cluster case’ at Nanjangud has resulted in the prison authorities stepping up screening measures. Right from the chief superintendent down, all the personnel have to subject themselves to thermal screening before they can enter the prison. The authorities have also appealed to visitors against coming to the prison for the reminder of the duration of the lockdown. However, inmates are being permitted four telephone calls a week against the regulation two. The authorities have also barred entry of advocates, journalists seeking to interview inmates and NGO personnel to the prison. Chief superintendent of Mysuru Central Prison KC Divyashree told TOI that they were leaving nothing to chance as far as adopting precautionary measures against Covid-19 was concerned. “All the inmates and staff have been directed to wear masks and use hand sanitisers frequently,” said Divyashree, confirming the release of 55 undertrials from the jail. “They were released on Tuesday and Wednesday,” she said. Divyashree said that the condition of all inmates was being closely monitored, and those displaying any symptoms of the infection were being segregated and placed in isolation. “We have set aside one cell for use as an isolation ward. Directions have been issued to all those working here not to leave the place unnecessarily,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/55-undertrials-released-from-mysuru-prison-to-decongest-facility/articleshow/74972888.cms||R Uday Kumar
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||HC hears first ‘urgent matter’ via VC, releases a ship||Mumbai: At its first hearing of urgent matters via video-conference (VC) during the Covid-19 lockdown on Friday, Bombay high court directed the release of an arrested offshore supply vessel. The dispute over bunker dues to the fuel supplier ended with the vessel’s Indian owners paying Rs 1.2 crore to ensure its release through consent terms. HC is considering setting up a VC facility on a long-term basis. At the 20-minute VC hearing, convened by Justice Anil Menon, advocates Ashwini Sinha for the bunker (marine and diesel oil used as fuel by vessel) supplier and Rishi Murarka for the vessel owner, argued from their residences. The vessel was arrested on March 17 after a maritime claim was made by the supplier under Admiralty Act. A ship’s release is generally viewed as a matter of urgency and this vessel was performing offshore support near Bombay High to oil rigs and other offshore installations. Both sides had signed consent terms on March 25, which the lawyers verified. The judge then directed that subject to no other caveat and all payments to the Sheriff of Mumbai being made, the arrest of the vessel stood vacated. A vessel’s arrest can usually cost $10,000 daily, said an admiralty lawyer. From April 1, HC had started the video-conferencing fcility with Justice Menon designated to take extremely urgent civil and criminal matters till April 7, for two hours each day, and Justice Gautam Patel for the next seven days, till April 14. “This will ensure urgent matters are attended to even during this crisis,’’ said registrar general S P Agarwal. HC said it wanted to ensure access to justice for urgent matters during the lockdown, with a facility similar to one provided by Supreme Court. It will be available at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa. HC said VC proceedings are being tested in Mumbai, the principal bench of the HC, where no one needs to step out of their residence to participate in a judicial hearing. The orders are being sent to lawyers with digital signatures and certified copies will be available once regular court resumes. VC hearings can be done through computers or cellphones, said HC, while laying down guidelines, but it barred recording of the hearings. HC requested Maharashtra government to release finance for these measures. There was a request by some lawyers recently that VC be used for judicial proceedings during the lockdown. HC had on March 26, in an order passed by Chief Justice B P Dharmadhikari along with three Justices A A Sayed, S S Shinde and K K Tated, observed that VC was available since a week and is now being set in motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-hears-first-urgent-matter-via-vc-releases-a-ship/articleshow/74973540.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||FPS rice disbursal to continue all Apr||Hyderabad: The state government has issued orders lifting the 15-day cap for distribution of rice through fair price shops (FPS). The 12-kg free-of-cost rice distribution per person would be done throughout the month of April, and not stop on 15th of this month. As per the rules, FPS were allowed to distribute rice only up to 15th of every month. But, now this norm has been relaxed keeping in view the lockdown and the target of providing 12-kg rice per person to every white ration card holder. Relaxation of 15-day norm is also aimed at reducing the long serpentine queues at the FPS. Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy appealed to the card holders not to throng the FPS out of apprehensions that they may not get the rice after April 15. “The rice will be distributed to every card holder. Only those should come to the shops who have been issued with time-slot tokens. Also maintain social distancing,” he said. Another reason for people flocking the FPS is that the talk in card holders is that the Rs 1,500 cash per card holder would be given only if they take the 12-kg rice. “There is no link to rice and Rs 1,500 cash offer. The money will be deposited in the bank accounts of the card holders irrespective of they having taken the rice or not,” Srinivas said. Nearly 20 lakh card holders took the 12kg rice per person i.e. about 80 lakh metric tonnes of rice was distributed since April 1. Normally, about four lakh card holders take rice in a day but due to lockdown and 12-kg rice offer, the number increased to about seven lakh card holders every day. Civil supplies commissioner Satyanarayana Reddy said there was no need to panic, as 3.34 lakh metric tonnes of rice would be distributed to 2.80 crore beneficiaries in Telangana. FPS would work from 7 am to 6 pm every day. T gets 50k metric tonnes rice: The state purchased 50,000 metric tonnes of rice from central pool for distribution through FPS. Officials said state purchases rice from the pool, the amount for which is later reimbursed by Centre. In all, Telangana purchases over one lakh metric tonnes of rice each month from the pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fps-rice-disbursal-to-continue-all-apr/articleshow/74975578.cms||Roushan Ali
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Server breakdown hits supply of PDS essentials||Hyderabad: Several people who had lined up to procure rice had to go back empty handed due to a breakdown in the server network of fair price shops. Long queues were seen since early morning and the breakdown compounded the woes of the people. As a result, there was jostling in the queues and social distancing norms were broken. The shop owners and local leaders had a tough time in trying to manage the crowd at some places as people had started coming in from 6 am and waited for over three hours for authorities to fix the problem. “We have been waiting for the server to be fixed from morning. Even after taking all precautions for social distancing the server issue caused people to gather in front of the shop in large numbers. After waiting for the issue to be solved for almost three hours, we had to ask everyone to come back tomorrow,” L Nagachandhar, owner of fair price shop at Baghlingampally, told TOI. Sarojiniamma, a 58-year-old waiting outside shop number 708 in Baglingampally, said: “I was asked to go back home after waiting for nearly three hours. While I was desperately waiting for them to start distributing the rice, I was also worried to see so many people gathering in front of the shop so close to each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/server-breakdown-hits-supply-of-pds-essentials/articleshow/74975597.cms||Moulika.KV
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Injured bat rescued from house in Kothaguda, lost one of its wings||Hyderabad: Animal activists rescued an Indian pipistrelle, one of the smallest species of bats, which had injured itself after hitting a ceiling fan in a house in Kothaguda on Friday. The bat lost one of its wings in the accident and is currently undergoing treatment at a rescue shelter in the city. “Our team members rushed to the spot as soon as we received a call on our helpline. The bat might take some time to recover as it was badly injured and lost one of its wings,” said Pradeep Nair of Animal Warriors Conservation Society. With the onset of summer, wildlife conservationists say that bats are finding new resting spots in ventilators, balconies and windows. “Bats usually breed in summer and this is the time when they find new resting spots. If a bat is sick or injured, it can leave its roost during daytime and might not be in the best condition to fly and navigate. So, they end up injuring themselves. Most of bats being found in homes are the young ones, who have no idea how to make their way back out,” said Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/injured-bat-rescued-from-house-in-kothaguda-lost-one-of-its-wings/articleshow/74975649.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: SP turns truck driver to inspect cops at Covid-19 checkposts||BENGALURU: An IPS officer disguised as a truck driver to monitor his subordinates posted at Covid-19 checkposts in and around Nelamangala taluk on Thursday night. Ravi D Channannavar, superintendent of police (Bengaluru Rural district), drove two trucks and a private car during the operation. He kept switching from one vehicle to another to check whether the lockdown was being enforced. VJ Sajeeth, additional superintendent of police and Mohan Kumar, deputy superintendent of police (Nelamangala sub-division), accompanied Ravi. “We were inspecting vehicles at a checkpost near Thyamagondlu. Around 2.30am on Friday, we found a car coming from Nelamangala side and stopped it. The man driving the vehicle said he wanted to go Tumakuru. We didn’t allow him to move forward. We were surprised to find that he was our SP and his co-passengers were our superiors. Later, they asked us to continue working and left the spot,” said a police officer. “Following complaints of cops collecting bribes at checkposts, we paid a few surprise visits. We found the charges were baseless,” Sajeeth said. 2 RTO inspectors held for extortionThree people, including two motor vehicle inspectors attached to Jayanagar RTO, were arrested on Thursday evening for allegedly extorting money from truck drivers at an RTO checkpost in Attibele. The accused are TK Jayanna, 49, Kariyappa, 59, both MV inspectors, and Vivekananda, 30, a home guard. Police said RTO officials had shut the checkpost due to Covid-19 but the accused opened it to extort money from truckers passing by. “We registered a case of extortion after a truck driver, who was transporting muskmelon, lodged a complaint with Attibele police station. VJ Sajeeth, additional SP, and his team swung into action, arrested the trio and seized Rs 15,500 from them,” an officer said. According to police, Jayanna and Kariyappa are supposed to be part of a Covid-19 checkpost at Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. But they didn’t do the job properly. Vivekananda recently joined hands with the duo to extort from the public. GN Shivamurthy, deputy commissioner (Bengaluru Urban), suspended Jayanna and Kariyappa on Friday on charges of dereliction of duty, under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sp-turns-truck-driver-to-inspect-cops-at-covid-19-checkposts/articleshow/74974496.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown woes: Elderly walk 5km to collect pension from post office in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Braving the scorching sun, around 70 senior citizens from Kanmanike village, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, walked 4-5km to reach the Kumbalgodu post office on Friday morning. They had received information that their pension would be disbursed. With no transport service being available due to the lockdown, the elderly were forced to set out on foot. “Usually, the money is delivered to their homes by the postal department. This time, they were asked to collect it on their own. The sum — Rs 600-Rs 1,000 — is too valuable for them. With the lockdown, there are no jobs and no money. Thankfully, they got two months’ pension at one go,” explained Prakash, a gram panchayat member. The pensioners who walked were in their 60s and 70s. Those who were lucky had their relatives drop them to the post office. “On the way, I saw around 25 others. They all would turn expectantly when they heard the sound of a vehicle, hoping they could ask for a lift. It was a sad sight,” said Shivakumar BN, who took his 58-year-old sister Kamalamma to the post office on his bike. One elderly woman reportedly hitched a ride in an ambulance that was returning after dropping a discharged patient home. “The elderly walked with no food or water. Some of them have medical conditions like diabetes and began the journey after taking medicine. By 11am, there were many people at the post office. There was no social distancing, but people were so tired that they just sat down wherever they could find some space,” said Rahul Singh, a factory supervisor, who stays opposite to the post office and has been following the buzz outdoors. By noon, the veterans returned to their villages, fatigued yet relieved that they had some money to hold on to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/senior-citizens-walk-4-5km-to-collect-pension-from-post-office/articleshow/74974530.cms||Syed Asif
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Export restrictions will hit industry: Pharma body||Hyderabad: Pharmaceutical Exports Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) has sounded the alarm bells over restrictions imposed on export of paracetamol, anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and other formulations. Pharmaexcil said it would impact the Indian industry as several countries are talking about self-reliance due to the restrictions. They said that India has enough stocks not only domestic markets but also for export. Several companies are facing penalties for violation of export agreements. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had issued a notification on March 3 restricting export of paracetamol, vitamin tablets and around 26 drug formulations. On April 2, Pharmaexcil director general R Udaya Bhaskar in a letter to DGFT said: “Pharma exporters are waiting for the response of DGFT as they have to oblige pre-approved supply contracts and export obligations. Indian missions abroad are contacting us for supplies of these medicines...like paracetamol is in huge demand across the globe.” Bhaskar said that some countries, like the UK, were facing a national shortage of these medicines which Indian companies have enough stocks of had listed drugs required to fulfil the needs of domestic consumers. The DGFT had, on March 25, amended the export policy stating hydroxychloroquine as prohibited but with exemption to export-oriented units. Multiple representations have been made to give similar exemptions for other listed drugs. In another letter to DGFT director general Anil Yadav on April 2, Pharmaexcil said that there was an undue delay in issue of licenses to pharma companies resulting in penalties for delayed supplies, loss of trust, demurrage for shipments lying in ports which was putting importers in a fix. “India is currently thinking about self-reliance in raw material due to China lockdown. All countries are thinking on the same line. It will become a deathblow to the Pharma industry,” an official of the drug export authority said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/export-restrictions-will-hit-industry-pharma-body/articleshow/74975632.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Fuel consumption sees drastic drop||Hyderabad: Despite petrol bunks having remained open during the lockdown period, the consumption of diesel and petrol has come down drastically. Petroleum dealers said there was a 27% decrease in consumption of diesel and 12% in petrol. With police clamping down on vehicular movement, the consumption of fuel has further come down. Managements of various petrol bunks said they are struggling to pay salaries to their staff and as the sales were hit badly in March. They are worried that same situation would continue even this month. Telangana petroleum dealers’ association president Amarender Reddy urged the oil marketing companies to exempt them from licence fee on fuel during the lockdown period. He also urged the central and state governments to announce Rs 5 lakh insurance to the staff of petrol bunks, particularly delivery personnel who are risking their lives and working to provide refill to the motorists during the lockdown period. As per the records available with the office of the state-level coordinator for oil companies in Telangana, 1.45 lakh kilo litres of petrol was sold in March 2019 compared to 1.27 lakh KL in March 2020 in Telangana. One KL is equal to 1,000 litres. Likewise, 2.84 lakh KL diesel was sold in March 2019 when compared to 2.07 KL in March 2020. Oil marketing companies have statistics of oil sales for the entire month of March and are yet to take out the sales for the exact number of days of lockdown period. However, an official from the office of the coordinator for oil companies said there was not much of an impact on sales of fuel when the statistics for the entire fiscal 2019-20 are taken into consideration, as the lockdown period is distributed over two months, 10 days in March and another 14 days in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-consumption-sees-drastic-drop/articleshow/74975643.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nashik||PCDA distributes 300 ration packets to needy||Nashik: The Private Coaching classes Directors Association (PCDA), Nashik have distributed 300 packets of ration to people in the city on Friday. Jayant Muley, president of the association, said they wanted to help the city administration in feeding the poor. “We contacted the collector and shared that we want help people by giving them ration, which will help them out for a few days. They coordinated with the traffic police to identify such people and daily wagers,” he said. The members of PCDA, accordingly, prepared the ration packets and started distributing to those identified. “We purchased 1,000 kilogram of rice and 300 kilogram of pulses and brought them to one of our members’ house. We also hired four labourers to make packets of three kilogram rice and one kilogram pulses and then started distributing them,” he added. There are over 450 members in the PCDA out of which 88 had contributed for the collection of ration. “No contribution is small for a good cause. We had received nearly Rs 71,000 through online banking services. We are still receiving the money, which we will use to prepare more packets and distribute next week,” Muley told TOI. The police authorities granted them permission to reach all the areas of the city. “We took all the precautionary measures and distributed the ration while wearing masks and disinfecting our hands with sanitiser,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pcda-distributes-300-ration-packets-to-needy/articleshow/74974723.cms||pragya jain
April 4, 2020||Goa||Congress general secretary among six held in Vasco hotel||VASCO: Vasco police arrested six people, including Congress general secretary Sankalp Amonkar, for assembling in a restaurant at Vasco. They were booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code. Vasco police said they received information at 1pm on Friday that a group of men had gathered in the restaurant of a hotel in the port town. Police rushed to the restaurant and arrested Amonkar, Damodar Divkar, Zencor Polgi and Sachin Bhagat. Sada Baburao Revankar, who was seated at another table in the restaurant, and the owner of the hotel, Amit Kulkarni, were also arrested. They were later released on bail. Vasco police s received information at 1pm on Friday that a group of men had gathered in the restaurant of a hotel in the port town. Police rushed to the restaurant and arrested them all, including the owner of the hotel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-gen-secy-among-6-held-in-vasco-hotel/articleshow/75089371.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||‘Patient zero’ and father test negative, to be discharged soon from AIIMS-Bhopal||BHOPAL: ‘Patient zero’ and her journalist father have tested negative for Covid-19 after nearly two weeks of hospitalisation, according to an AIIMS-Bhopal official. The two would be discharged from AIIMS after consultation with the Bhopal district administration. However, as per protocol, they would remain under home isolation and require regular health check-up, the official said. The discharge of the two is expected to be a huge relief for more than 100 people who remain under home isolation after coming in contact with the journalist. The 26-year-old patient zero was the first Covid-19 positive case reported in Bhopal on March 20. The patient had a travel history to the UK. Five days after testing positive, her father was also diagnosed with Covid-19. Patient zero tested negative in her second test at the hospital. The 50-year-old journalist has not shown any indications of Covid-19. Instructions for their discharge will be worked out with the district administration on Saturday, said sources. Hospitals may ensure that stable patients are discharged as early as possible while further new admissions (of stable patients) are also restricted. All patients discharged for home should be instructed to return to hospital if they develop any worsening of the illness, according to MoFHW protocol. SARS-CoV-2 virus can initially be detected 1–2 days prior to the onset of symptoms in upper respiratory tract samples. The virus can persist for 7–12 days in moderate cases and up to 2 weeks in severe cases (WHO mission to China Report). In faeces, viral RNA has been detected in up to 30% of patients from day 5 after onset and up to 4 to 5 weeks in moderate cases. The significance of faecal viral shedding for transmission still has to be clarified, according to EU standards, cited a health department expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/patient-zero-and-father-test-ve-to-be-discharged-soon/articleshow/74975308.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Endosulfan victims in uncertainty||Kannur: When her eight-year-old son Devnath, an endosulfan victim by birth, frequently collapses in fits, Aruni and her husband Chandran look blankly at each other. They have no idea how they should manage the situation, because there are no neurologists in Kasaragod, and they are unable to go to the Mangaluru hospitals, as Karnataka has blocked the entry of vehicles from Kerala, including ambulances, following the Covid-19 threat, thus denying treatment to the patients from the state. “Though we get the basic medicine from the primary healthcare centre, we feel tense when he develops fits, sometimes two-three times a day, and we are not able to take him to any hospital, as there is no neurologist here,” says Aruni, resident of Mooliyar. This is not the story of Devnath alone. Hundreds of endosulfan-affected people like him are in uncertainty as they have no access for specialized treatment in the district, and with the denial of entry to Karnataka, their anxiety has been doubled, says the mother who even wrote a book, ‘Pettunovozhiyathe’ (Unending labour pain), on their struggles. The ordeals of Abdul Rashiq from Aadhur, Manjumol from Kodom Belur and hundreds of others are the same. It was the other day that Manju was admitted to Kannur Government Medical College, Pariyaram, where she developed some complications. Manju is usually treated at Mangaluru and her family feels there are issues with the treatment in Kannur, because it is different. There are over 1000 patients in different age groups who depend on Mangaluru hospitals, according to Muneesa Ambalathara, an endosulfan victim and the president of the Endosulfan Peeditha Janakeeya Munnani. “You know there is no neurologist in Kasaragod, and with Karnataka blocking borders, their tension has increased,” she said. There is a deficiency in the supply of special medicines too. Since many patients consult doctors in Mangaluru, the medicines they prescribe are often not available here. Since the supply of medicines has come down, following the lockdown, there is anxiety among the patients and their families, said Amosh K, a volunteer associated with Blood Donors Kerala, who helps the patients get medicine. “We try and get medicines that are not available here, from Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram but some medicines are not available there too, so the authorities should take measures to get it immediately as the patients cannot discontinue it,” he said. Dr Raman Swathi Vaman, assistant nodal officer of Endosulfan Rehabilitation project in Kasaragod said that the problems faced by endosulfan affected people have come to their attention and efforts are on to address it immediately. “We have made working arrangements to get two neurologists from other districts, who would join the District Hospital and General Hospital in a couple of days, and also we are trying our level best to replenish the stock of the drugs, especially the high-end medicines that have been exhausted, though it is a tough task due to the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/endosulfan-victims-in-uncertainty/articleshow/74973482.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 4, 2020||Nashik||No tuck shops in school till lock-down||Nashik: A viral tweet about a Nashik school asking the parents to come to school and buy uniforms and books is found to be old and issued before the lockdown period. The schools have decided to cancel all tuck shops and collection of fees till April 14. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Ashok Nakhate, has confirmed that the tweet was posted before Janta Curfew and there is no school, which is allowed to conduct any such activities in their premises. “We saw the viral tweet asking the parents to buy uniforms and books on April 5 and then found out that it is from a respected English medium school of the city. We also noticed that the tweet is old and was not posted recently,” Nakhate told TOI. According to the ACP, the tweet was posted when the lockdown was not announced. In the CBSE schools, the new session begins in the month of April after their examinations. The schools ask the parents to buy the uniforms and books for their children before the session begins. “Since the whole city observing the lockdown period till April 14, the schools are not allowed to call parents for any activity. All of them are given strict instructions regarding this,” the ACP added. Himgauri Aher Adke, Chairperson, English Medium Schools Association, told TOI “We are following the instructions by the administration and the schools are not conducting any activity. We have resolved that the schools will not conduct the tuck shops where the uniforms and stationery is sold in the school premises. They are also not to ask the parents to pay any fees in this period.” Since the CBSE schools are to begin their new academic session in April, the association has decided that they will wait till April 14 to take any decision. “We will wait for the situation to normalise. We will wait for the district administration’s nod to begin the new session once the lockdown period gets over,” added Adke. The principal of the school concerned, which had posted the tweet about the purchase of uniforms and books, said “The post is from before the lockdown period. We are concerned about our students and their parents. There is no question of asking them to come to schools on April 5.” According to the principal, they have already informed the parents via their mobile based application that they need not come to the school till further instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-tuck-shops-in-school-till-lock-down/articleshow/74974745.cms||pragya jain
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||5 teams of food safety dept ensuring supply of essential goods in Doon||Dehradun: While the doctors are ensuring best possible treatment to novel coronavirus patients and suspected cases, police are maintaining law and order situation, the food safety department staff is playing a crucial role of maintaining the flow of supply of food and essential commodities in the state capital. Five separate teams comprising three members each is working for 10 to 14 hours a day so that the stock leaves manufacturers and reaches the retailers via suppliers in quick time. Each team is led by a food safety officer and comprises a food grains officer and weights and measurement officer. MDDA secretary Girish Gunwant, who has been appointed Nodal officer for food and LPG cylinder supply, told TOI, “At present, there is no shortage of food items or LPG cylinders in Dehradun. Initially, there was some shortage of flour but our teams have been successful in sorting out the issue and as a result, there is an uninterrupted supply of essential products in Dehradun.” The key responsibilities of the team are to make sure that milk, bread, LPG cylinders, fruits, vegetables and edible oils are available in the market. Besides, the other responsibilities include conducting raids to check out that any retailer or supplier is not overstocking products and shopkeepers are charging the genuine amount from the customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-teams-of-food-safety-dept-ensuring-supply-of-essential-goods-in-doon/articleshow/74973485.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 4, 2020||Kochi||1,782 vehicles seized in Ernakulam district for lockdown violations||KOCHI: Police station compounds in the district have been getting filled up with vehicles of those caught violating lockdown. As many 1,782 vehicles have been seized in Ernakulam till April 2. Assistant commissioner of police, Ernakulam, K Laljy said those who are roaming around without any particular reason are the ones facing police action. “We are keeping the surveillance tight and vehicles of only those who raise flimsy reasons during checking are seized. The whole aim of the process is to discourage people from moving around without a valid reason,” he said. Additional superintendent of police, Ernakulam Rural, M J Sojan said rural police are not showing any lenience as they have to enforce the law in a vast area compared to the city. “We usually send a person home on bail after arresting him for violating the lockdown. The exercise wouldn’t have any purpose if we give him his vehicle back when we send him home as he would be back on the street the next day. So, we keep their vehicles till the lockdown is over,” said Sojan. Police officers feel youths and elders alike, many are still violating lockdown. “We have come across youths as well as senior citizens who have violated the lockdown. Everyone has one reason or the other and many aren’t valid ones, leading to action like vehicle seizure,” said Siby Tom, circle inspector, Ernakulam North. According to statistics provided by the police department, more number of violations are being reported in rural areas than that of city. A compilation of daily statistics released by rural police shows a total of 1,301 vehicles have been seized so far. City police, meanwhile, has seized as many as 481 vehicles till Tuesday. “I guess people in the city are more aware compared to rural areas and hence are adhering to the norms,” said ACP Laljy. However, ASP Sojan said the rural police have been showing no lenience as their jurisdiction is vast. “If a vehicle is seized, it would be given back only if the offender comes up with a valid reason. For instance, if he had forgotten his ID card at the time of the seizure and if he later produces it, then the vehicle would be given back. Vehicles seized for flimsy reasons would stay in police custody till the lockdown is over,” he said. City police officers, however, said vehicles seized are given back in a reasonable time. “We don’t give back vehicles immediately. By the time the violators get their vehicles back they would’ve understood the mistake that they made,” said a city police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/1782-vehicles-seized-in-dist-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/74973494.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Shortage of water forces residents to ignore lockdown, step out of homes||Aurangabad: Residents from areas, where there is no tap water supply, have to step out of their houses amid the ongoing lockdown to get water from nearby wells, hand-pumps or public taps. Many areas within the jurisdiction of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation are not connected to its piped water supply. Many of the newly developed residential societies in these areas are well insulated with either borewell or has a private water tanker supply. However, the lower-income group of people mainly comprising workers have to get water from neighbour’s hand-pumps or public taps. According to Sominath Shirane of Satara-Deolai Sangharsh Samiti, around 3,000 to 4,000 residents of Sadat Nagar in Satara village does not have any source of water supply. “The people living in this area are mainly workers or street vendors who are struggling to arrange food during the lockdown. At the hand-pump near Mahadev Temple in Satara, people rush to fill water,” Shirane said. Hence,they are at a higher risk of getting exposed to the infection, he said. Shirane has asked that during the lockdown period, the AMC should provide water tanker in the areas without charging anything as the gathering of people is not allowed during the lockdown. He had also raised concerns about the consumption of hand-pump water which may cause health issues. In Padegaon, a 10th standard student in Maji Sainik Colony was run over by a truck in 2019 while he was going to get water on his scooter from a nearby public tap. The areas does not fall under the piped supply network of the AMC. Situation is similar in Naregaon, Jatwada, Misarwadi, Brijwadi and Jai Bhawani Nagar areas. Especially during summer, the water crisis becomes severe. Demands for free water tank supply has been refuted by municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey citing the poor financial condition of the AMC. On Friday, mayor Nandkumar Ghodele said that the gathering of people is worrisome. Relief will be sought from the administration considering the prevalent conditions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shortage-of-water-forces-residents-to-ignore-lockdown-step-out-of-homes/articleshow/74974754.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Reports of 33 citizens who came in contact with positive cases awaited||Aurangabad: After two confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Thursday, the civic administration has deployed teams to check for all the people who had come in contact with the affected patients. It has also sealed the localities from where the fresh cases were reported. Till a very long time, there were no fresh cases in Aurangabad district after the first suspected patient tested negative for the contagion twice on March 22. However, the district sounded an alarm on Thursday after two people tested positive.A 39-year-old man, an IT engineer from Pune and a resident of Aref Colony, was one among the two cases. Municipal officer for health Nita Padalkar said that seven members of the patient’s family has been admitted to a private hospital in the city. Their swab samples have been sent for Covid-19 analysis.The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has admitted the maid, who worked at the patient’s house, to the district civil hospital’s isolation ward to check for symptoms.The other person who has tested positive for Covid-19 is a 59-year-old housewife from Cidco N-4 area. Incidentally, the woman’s husband had started showing symptoms after he returned from Delhi from a business visit on March 15. 10 days later, the woman also started showing symptoms. Initially, both were being treated at a private hospital. Later, they were admitted to the district civil hospital on March 31. In the Covid-19 analysis done by the Government Medical College and Hospital, the couple tested positive. However, when their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, the man tested negative and woman tested positive for the contagion. Padalkar said that swab samples of 25 suspected people, who may have come in contact with the woman, have been sent for testing. Both Aref Colony and Cidco N-4 fall in significantly populated areas of the city. Hence, the civic administration is trying to find out all those who had come in contact with the infected patients to prevent the virus from spreading.Around 100 metre area around the houses of both the positive patients have been sealed. All the families living in these areas will strictly be under home-quarantine for 14 days. Health teams with two members each have been formed for screening persons in the area and checking for symptoms. While three teams have screened 893 people and 163 houses in Aref Colony, five teams working in Cidco N-4 have screened 865 people and 195 houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reports-of-33-citizens-who-came-in-contact-with-positive-cases-awaited/articleshow/74974733.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Special teams to handle Covid-19 biomedical waste||GANDHINAGAR: In a bid to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus because of poor handling of biomedical waste of patients, the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has drawn up guidelines to handle such waste and also formed special teams to handle and monitor proper disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste (BMW). GPCB member secretary A V Shah said, “In view of the novel coronavirus pandemic , the central pollution control board has published guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of waste generated during treatment/diagnosis/quarantine of Covid-19 patients. GPCB has directed all the common biomedical waste treatment and disposal facilities (CBMWTFs) to follow the guidelines of CPCB strictly and ensure disposal of biomedical waste from healthcare facilities/institutions.” BMW generated from healthcare facilities (HCFs) is disposed of through 20 operational CBMWTFs located in various part of the state having capacity to handle 71,000 kg waste per day. GPCB is monitoring biomedical waste management through its 27 regional offices located in the state. “We have formed special teams for strict monitoring of activities,’’ Shah added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/special-teams-to-handle-covid-19-biomedical-waste/articleshow/74975392.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||19 more markaz attendees test positive in Rajasthan, tally up to 33||JAIPUR: Nineteen more faithfuls related to Tablighi Jamaat were found infected with Covid-19 in the state on Friday. With this, the number of Jamaat linked people found positive in the state increased to 33. Out of the 19 new Covid-19 cases, 13 of them are in Jaipur. “In Jaipur, 13 persons have been found infected with the virus who are related to Tablighi Jamaat. Among these, six belong to Maharashtra, five to Tamil Nadu, one to Jharkhand while another belongs to some other state,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health. They have been kept in an isolation facility at RUHS College. “They were found staying at a mosque in Ramganj area during the door-to-door survey,” said a health department official. He said that all of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi recently. Two persons of the Jamaat have been found positive in Bikaner and one in Dausa as both cities reported their first cases. They have been sent to an isolation facility for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19-more-markaz-attendees-testpositive-in-raj-tally-up-to-33/articleshow/74975728.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||BJP MLA booked for holding protest||Aurangabad: The Beed police on Friday booked BJP MLA Suresh Dhas on the charges of violating the lockdown orders and holding a protest. Dhas belongs to the Ashti assembly constituency of the district. The MLA reached out to Khed as well as Bhigvan village situated on the border of Beed-Ahmednagar after police allegedly assaulted sugarcane farmers who tried to enter the district. The farmers had been to other districts for sugarcane cutting and had tried to enter Bed district for returning back to their respective villages. To protest against the policemen allegedly assaulting the sugarcane cutters, the MLA sat on agitation demanding action against those present on duty. Somehow, the issue was temporarily resolved after the intervention of senior officials from the police as well as the administration. However, a serious cognizance of the incident was taken by police authorities who, after analyzing the nature of violations allegedly committed by the MLA, decided to register an offence against him. Despite repeated attempts, the MLA could not be reached for his comments on the issue. However, the police authorities said that in violation of the lockdown orders imposed across the country, the MLA travelled and carried out agitation. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “MLA Suresh Dhas, without applying for a permission pass, travelled from Beed to districts which are afflicted by the virus. This was not only a violation of the curfew but also enhances the risk of infection in Beed which so far does not have any positive cases.” The offence against the MLA has been registered with Ashti police station of Beed rural under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for disobeying orders duly promulgated by government officials. In addition to this, he has also been booked under relevant sections of National Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mla-booked-for-holding-protest/articleshow/74974765.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman steals from her own house, enacts burglary act||MADURAI: The Tuticorin police have registered a case against a woman who stole from her own house and enacting a drama stating 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery and cash were burgled from there. According to police sources, Vincent, 59, and his wife Jhansi, 56, are residents of Periyaselvam Nagar in Tuticorin district. In her complaint to the police, Jhansi said that when she woke up on Friday morning, she noticed the door of room where the bureau was kept broke open. When she went inside, she noticed that the things in the bureau were scattered and found out that gold jewellery and nearly Rs 20,000 cash was missing. Based on her information, officials from the Thalamuthu Nagar police station rushed to the spot and conducted an investigation. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service. During inquiry, police found out that Jhansi had staged the entire act as she had taken the jewellery from the house by allegedly giving sleeping pills to her husband on Thursday night. Speaking to TOI, Tuticorin superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan said that Jhansi had confessed that she had taken the jewellery and hid them near her house. Police have recovered the jewellery. A case was registered against her and further investigation is on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-steals-from-her-own-house-enacts-burglary-act/articleshow/74975318.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Five areas in city cordoned off after spike in +ve cases||Vijayawada: With a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases compounded with the first death registered in the state, the Krishna district administration sounded a red alert on Friday at all places where positive cases have been reported. Apart from Vijayawada city, Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Nandigama, Jaggaiahpet and Nuzividu towns. While some areas in Vijayawada have already been declared red zones, the district administration has set up 3km perimeters from houses where people have tested positive for Covid-19 at Nandigama, Jaggaiahpet and Nuzividu. In Vijayawada, Ranigari Thota, Old Rajarajeswaripet, Moghalrajapuram, Bhavanipuram and Kummaripalem areas have been identified as red zones. Officials have completely cordoned off these areas, restricting the movement of people from other places to these areas and also not allowing the people residing in these areas to step outside till door-to-door survey is completed. Health workers, ANMs, ward volunteers and Asha workers have been pressed into action to conduct the survey in these areas to identify the people who have come in contact with patients who have tested positive for Covid-19. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that the administration is leaving no stone unturned to identify people who might have contracted the coronavirus in Vijayawada as well as in other areas of the district from where positive cases have been reported. “Since we have already identified the people who had travelled to New Delhi to attend a religious congregation and quarantined them, we have now focussed on people who could have possibly come in contact with these people in 3km-perimeters,” Imtiaz said. Meanwhile, in some villages, villagers have themselves blocked roads to stop outsiders from entering villages. Residents of Atkuru, Musunuru and some other villages are only allowing people from those villages to move within the stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-areas-in-city-cordoned-off-after-spike-in-ve-cases/articleshow/74974775.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Water supply continues without interruption||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation is taking efforts to supply water to every household without any interruption. Usually during these days of a year, the city reels under water cuts. That is largely because of less water stock in the dams and increase in demand. Moreover, the pipeline in most areas is old and these areas face dry days at least twice a week. Bhaskar Kumbhar, hydraulic engineer of KMC, said, “Just after the lockdown was announced, we sat for hours to plan the supply. Our emphasis is on rationalising the supply and ensuring equitable distribution to all areas. The pumps are operating round the clock.” He added that they were expecting the demand for water to drop marginally as all hotels and establishments are shut. However, the demand is growing. Some areas have complained about slow flow of water. In such areas, the KMC has deployed water tankers. The tanks of the apartments are filled every day with the water from these tankers. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “In these times, we are advising people to maintain hygiene, washing hands regularly and keeping their house clean and sanitised. If there is no regular supply of water, we cannot expect people to follow these hygiene rules.” He added that he had instructed all water supply staff, especially those looking after pumping and distribution to avoid taking leaves. Also, instructions have been issued to inform residents about the change in timings of supply if there is any due to any unprecedented situation. The engineers of the pumping station claim that since the demand of water for commercial use has dipped suddenly the load over the pumps during day time has come down. The pumping is done 24 hours which has been made possible by changes in the supply schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-supply-continues-without-interruption/articleshow/74975911.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Amrita to conduct mock online test||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University will conduct a mock online test for engineering aspirants. Participating in the mock test will not only help engineering aspirants enhance their problem-solving skills but also help to improve skills in answering the questions in the computer-based test, a statement from the university said. According to the statement, the university’s JEE Practice Portal has more than 5,000 questions from the Amrita Entrance Examination, JEE questions of 10 years and other state-level competitive examinations. Those interested should visit amrita.edu/cbt to register and take the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amrita-to-conduct-mock-online-test/articleshow/74975322.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Collectors ask community leaders to ensure compliance||MADURAI: District collectors of southern districts convened meetings with leaders of religious communities on Friday to ensure the success of the lockdown period. Dindigul collector M Vijayalakshmi urged the representatives of communities to make the people aware of the importance of social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene as also self-isolation and quarantining. Karur medical college hospital has been selected for isolating Covid-19 positive people. In Tuticorin, collector Sandeep Nanduri held a meeting with the representatives of the Muslim Jamaat. He told them that people who had gone to attend the Tablighi conference in New Delhi should voluntarily get themselves checked. Two people from Kayalpattinam municipality had tested positive for the disease one of whom was a doctor who treated many patients. Fifteen of his family members had also been tested. The entire area had been sealed off and steps had been taken to provide essential commodities to the people of this region with the help of NGOs. The collector said that action would be taken against people who tore up the quarantine warning notice put up outside many homes. A similar meeting was held in Theni with collector Pallavi M Baldev holding a consultative meeting of religious community leaders in the district. She said the state government was taking all initiatives to prevent the spread of the disease. Similar meetings were held in Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari also. Leaders of Christian, Muslim and Hindu communities in the districts were asked to ensure the success of the lockdown period. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay and commissioner of police S Davidson Devasirvatham had convened a similar meeting on March 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/collectors-ask-community-leaders-to-ensure-compliance/articleshow/74975321.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Halfway through the lockdown, shopkeepers say supplies of essential items running out||Nainital: As his stock of pulses, rice and flour runs out, Sundar Singh Negi, a shopkeeper in Garud town of Bagehswar is worried about the supplies that he is yet to receive from Haldwani, more than 150 km away. Negi and many others like him — shopkeepers who cater to people in the hills of Uttarakhand, have been waiting for the supplies of essential items from the plain regions of the state since a few days now. “Ever since the lockdown came into force, the supply has been erratic. Our stock of flour, rice, pulses and almost all the essential items is about to end. I have the inventory of just two or three more days and there is no clarity when the next supply would arrive,” Negi said, worry evident in his voice. Shopkeepers say that even when supplies reach these remote areas, the cost of the items have increased manifold leaving them no choice but to increase the price themselves. “On an average, pulses are priced at Rs 90/kg. However, our suppliers in Haldwani say that the price has now increased to Rs 110/kg. Even though I am ready to pay that price, the suppliers say that supplies will take time to reach,” Negi said. The situation in almost all the small towns and villages across the hills is the same. Traders and shopkeepers that TOI spoke to in places like Kausani, Kapkot, Binsar and other areas voiced similar concerns. “There is a sense of panic which gets accentuated when essential items begin to be in short supply. As a result, many people are keen on hoarding foodstuff,” said Alok Singh, owner of a shop near Kausani. He added, “We have told people many times not to hoard the food items and to buy only as much as they need. However, with no clarity as to how long this situation will continue, it is difficult to convince people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/halfway-through-the-lockdown-shopkeepers-say-supplies-of-essential-items-running-out/articleshow/74973534.cms||Prashant Jha
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||Man with diarrhoea dies day after leaving hosp||Mysuru: A 45-year-old man suffering from diarrhoea died at Heggadahalli village in Nanjangud taluk on Thursday, allegedly due to the negligence of panchayat officials. In the same village, 15 people have been discharged from hospitals after getting treatment for diarrhoea. Even though people at Heggadahalli village had complained to panchayat officials that a drainage got blocked near the borewell from where drinking water is supplied to the villages, the officials didn’t bother to repair it. Due to their negligence, on March 31, 15 of them complained of vomiting and loose motion. Soon they were taken to Hullali hospital, KR Hospital and General Hospital in Nanjangud. Swamy, 45, was among the 15 who got admitted for diarrhoea. He was discharged from hospital on April 1. However, a day later he died. Dr Umesh, district cholera control officer, told TOI: “On March 31, nearly 15 people who were complaining of vomiting and loose motion from Heggadahalli got admitted to three different hospitals. Immediately along with our DHO, Dr Venkatesh, we rushed to the village where we came to know that the drainage line next to the borewell was defunct. Though the villagers have complained about the issue to panchayat, they did not take measures to repair the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-with-diarrhoea-dies-day-after-leaving-hosp/articleshow/74973502.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Samples of tested doubles in a week, with Miraj lab gets functional more samples of coronavirus suspects will be tested in little time||Kolhapur: The rate of testing samples of coronavirus suspects at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune has doubled in the last one week, much to the relief of the health administration which is struggling to attend to the people put in institutional quarantine with inadequate staff. After two positive cases were reported from the city and one from the rural part of the district, the health administration has engaged itself in the herculean task of tracing the contacts of the affected persons and bringing them under institutional quarantine. Moreover, after people who were advised home-quaratine were found roaming in the open, the administration has been forced to put them under institutional quarantine. A senior health official said, “The positive cases has forced us to get more people tested. Currently, the high-risk persons are being tested. It takes one to two days to get the reports of the swab samples from NIV, Pune. We are discharging the people whose reports turn out negative. They have been strictly asked to remain in home-quarantine.” Of the 830 people put under institutional quarantine in the last one week, 21 people have been discharged. So far, tests of 270 suspects have been done and their results are awaited. The state government directives and even the advisories of the Central government suggest focusing on the positive and high-risk patients to minimise work load. Currently, the number of positive and high-risk patients, who have been put in isolation, are comparatively less. Therefore, doctors can attend to these patients with the personal protective kits that has been provided to them. The increase in the number of positive and high-risk patients will require more isolation beds, ventilators and a large number of protective kits. The testing laboratory in Miraj Government Medical College in Sangli district has been made functional. The samples of the suspected cases from Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Satara districts can be tested at this laboratory. However, the lab administration has made it clear that the local health authorities should first send the samples of only those patients who have had a travel history or are showing visible symtoms. The reports of the samples sent to the lab in Miraj hospital will arrive in eight to ten hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/samples-of-tested-doubles-in-a-week-with-miraj-lab-gets-functional-more-samples-of-coronavirus-suspects-will-be-tested-in-little-time/articleshow/74975912.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kochi||2,017 camps house 40k guest workers in Ernakulam district||KOCHI: A survey organised by the labour department with the support of revenue officials in Ernakulam has revealed that around 40,000 guest workers have been currently living in the district in as many as 2,017 camps, including houses. However, officials assume there may be more than 60,000 guest workers in district in total. The data collection, which will be completed soon, has found that most of guest workers reside in Perumbavoor, Muvattupuzha and Angamaly areas. However, officials say the data is incomprehensive since they could not collect details of workers from grassroots-level, which according to them should be done by the local bodies. “We visited buildings and met its owners for collecting details of guest workers staying in the respective structures. We also looked into aspects like hygiene and access of workers to medical care. We could identify only around 40,000 workers from the camps in the district. But we assume that there are more than 60,000 workers in Ernakulam,” said a labour official. The data is being collected to extend more facilities for the workers in Ernakulam. Officials say around 50% of them have already left for their hometowns due to Covid-19. “The presence of guest workers in camps is very minimal now as 50% to 70% of them already left for their natives. Based on the present data, health intervention will be done among them if necessary. If the existing facilities are overcrowded, they will be relocated, said an official from the Collectorate. The data is also based on food distributed among workers and sanitation facilities. “Some issues are long-term ones. But, our immediate duty is to ensure that the guest workers get food during the lockdown,” he said. Officials look for health status of the worker, presence or absence of symptoms of Covid-19, hospitalization, among others. The report submitted to health officials noted that hygiene was being looked into three categories — poor, needs improvement and satisfactory. While hygiene in some buildings were satisfactory, in a few others it was below par. “We have asked owners and employers to improve sanitization of camps which where found unhygienic. We cannot say all guest workers are living in unhygienic conditions,” said Ernakulam DMO Kuttappan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2017-camps-house-40k-guest-workers/articleshow/74973547.cms||T C Sreemol
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Now, grocers demand open market to help exhaust stock||Madurai: Grocery shop traders have demanded that the district administration organise an open market similar to the one being done for vegetables, to help them sell the crores worth of stock lying in their shops that have remained shut for more than a week now. President of the Tamil Nadu Foodgrain Merchants Association S P Jeyapragasam said there are around 100 grocery shops in East Masi Street near the Meenakshi Amman Temple, of which, a few are more than a century-old with a loyal customer base. The 10X10ft area shops in close proximity to each other were among the first to be closed after the lockdown was announced. A representation was made by the association to the district collector Dr T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan seeking that alternate shops be allowed to open on a particular day and the other half the next day to avoid crowding. However, all the traders opened the shop at the same time on Friday leading to chaos, and police had to close them all.Traders said that these shops have stocked about Rs 15 crore worth of goods collectively, including dals, sugar, flour, rice, garlic, dates, raisins, cashewnuts among others. “The dates, raisins and garlic weighing tonnes are in danger of getting infested by worms or rotten if not taken out immediately. These are low shelf-life condiments,” Jeyapragasam said. Pandian a trader said the government should at least allow them to sell off their stocks and then close the shops. Vice president of the association, P Mahendravel said that an open market can be established at Nagaikadai Bazaar, which is now empty to help them sell their stocks. Collector Vinay said the administration had given the traders many options as they are important for providing essential commodities to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/now-grocers-demand-open-market-to-help-exhaust-stock/articleshow/74975328.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Doctors asked to make their own safety gear||Aurangabad: The medicos and health staff – working for monitoring and treating Covid-19 patients – are being trained to make their own safety gears owing to the lack of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). The medicos have been asked to prepare a face shield with the help of polycarbonate (OHL) sheets that were provided to a handful of them during a training imparted on Friday by a group of senior doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Moreover, one of the senior medicos told the young doctors that apart from boosting immunity, clapping provides positive energy and advised the young doctors to clap often while being on duty. The senior medicos also informed the young doctors that they will be provided with surgical masks. But according to experts, these masks are ineffective in holding virus. “We have been told that face shield clubbed with mask wont shield us 100 per cent, but will curtail the chances of getting infected,” one of the resident doctors said. GMCH has reserved its super-specialty building for Covid-19 cases. The ground floor has been reserved for screening the patients reaching GMCH, first floor has been reserved for keeping the patients with mild to moderate symptoms, while second floor has been kept as buffer area. The third floor has been reserved for setting up an intensive care unit (ICU) for critical patients. Unable to find a solution for an enough-resistant body cover/gear for the medical staffers to be deployed on duty, a team of senior medicos led by GMCH HOD (medicine) Minakshi Bhattacharya has offered to provide surgical gowns made from linen. When contacted, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that PPE is for medical and paramedical staff that will be exclusively catering to Covid-19 patients. “We are using the PPE judiciously. Considering the current flow of patients as well as the positive cases, we require six PPEs every day,” Kulkarni, who is heading the regional COVID hospital in Chikalthana, said. As of now, there are 230 PPE available at the regional hospital and the hospital authorities have been assured by the administration to supply fresh set of PPE within 10 days. Sources informed that to avoid use of too many PPE, swabs are being collected at an interval of at least six hours. “With Covid-19 positive patients coming from the remote places of Hingoli and Osmanabad districts, the possibility of the medical staff getting exposed to this infection cannot be ruled out,” a medical officer from Osmanabad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doctors-asked-to-make-their-own-safety-gear/articleshow/74974780.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Lack of transport, labourers hits baby food supply in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Baby food and formula have become difficult to come by in several pockets of the city, especially in the south. But manufactures and distributors pointed out the crisis was not because of scant stock but owing to shortage of labourers as well as vehicles to ferry the consignments from distribution points to the stores. Private firm executives Esha Banerjee and Sudipta Simlai, residents of Bhowanipore, said they had been searching for infant food in their area two days into lockdown but could not find even one pack in dozen-odd medicine and grocery stores. On April 2, Simlai pleaded with his neighbour, who is in essential services, to give him a drop to New Alipore, where he found some stock. According to a distributor, ever since the lockdown was imposed, every supply line for infant formula has stalled, like that in the medicine business. After the government issued e-passes to facilitate transportation of essential commodities, medicine supply has begun. But for most medicine shops, baby food was not on the priority list, as a result of which, only a handful of delivery people had got e-passes for infant formula, he said. Some shop owners have, themselves started picking up stocks. “We ran out of baby food within three days of the lockdown. I called up my distributor in Sealdah but he said although he had stock, there was no one to deliver.We go to the distributor to get the products,” said Arnab Sadhukhan of Central Medical Stores on S N Banerjee Road. Manik Lal Das, south Kolkata secretary of Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association (BCDA), said, “We told retail outlets to send a complaint to FMCG companies. If the supply is not restored in a day or two, it might lead to trouble.” Subir Sen, north Kolkata secretary of BCDA, however, said there was no such supply problem between Sinthi and Shyambazar. As a solution, some mothers, like Bijoyini Ghosh from Jadavpur, have put their kids on alternative diet, as advised by paediatricians. (With inputs from Dwaipayan Ghosh, Rohit Khanna, Sudipto Das & Sajal Mukherjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-transport-labourers-hits-baby-food-supply/articleshow/74975333.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan count surges to 179 with 46 new cases, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With 46 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the state reported its highest number of cases in a single day. In just two days, Rajasthan reported 59 cases. However, Jaipur crossed the 50 mark with 14 more found infected with the virus. Out of the 55 cases in Jaipur, 35 of them are from the Ramganj area and 13 belong to Tablighi Jamaat who came from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. Ramganj has become the nightmare for health department officials as they are conducting screenings of people in a densely congested area, where people live in multi-storey buildings in joint families. “We have quarantined more than 150 persons who came into contact with the infected people,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. Currently, the health department is focusing more on identifying people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat to test their samples. In Sikar too, the health department conducted tests of two Jamaat people. But they tested negative for the virus, said a health department official. In Udaipur, three people contracted the virus from a 16-year-old boy, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He had travelled from Indore recently. All the three new cases in Udaipur are from his family. Bikaner and Dausa reported their first Covid-19 cases. In Bikaner, two people were found infected with the virus, who belong to Tablighi Jamaat, and in Dausa too, a person from Jamaat has been diagnosed with the disease on Friday. Three people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Alwar, with one from the Jamaat. Out of the three in Alwar, two of them are related to a person who died of Covid-19 on Thursday while undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur. Nine evacuees from Iran in Jodhpur too have been found infected with the virus. So far, 27 evacuees, who are in isolation facilities at Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, have been diagnosed with the disease so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-count-surges-to-179-with-46-new-cases-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/74975733.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||600 bottles of liquor seized, four arrested in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) of the city police arrested four people and seized more than 600 liquor bottles from them on Friday. Police identified them as R Selvaraj, 43, R Selvam, 39 and A Veerasekaran, 43, hailing from Pudukkottai and S Sengol, 34, from Sivaganga. They were working in a tasmac bar at Ganapathy and had bought the liquor when the government announced the lockdown, a police officer said. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani who received information about the illegal liquor sale at a building located near a tasmac outlet on Sanganoor Road in Ganapathy had instructed officials to take action. A team consisted of PEW police inspector T H Ganesh, sub-inspector L Kandasamy and district excise manager Shajudeen rushed to the place and seized 560 bottles of beer and 75 bottles of brandy worth Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/600-bottles-of-liquor-seized-four-arrested/articleshow/74975327.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Vegetable bags of horticulture department a huge hit in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: The horticulture department and the department of agri-marketing have convinced several farmers groups in various parts of the district to supply vegetables to villages in Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks.Major municipal markets in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri have been shifted to open grounds since the past few days to facilitate social distancing norms.While volunteers have been made available to deliver essential items to the three towns, the horticulture department has undertaken supply of fresh vegetables to Kandal and other parts in Ooty.“We have started supplying vegetables in a package containing greens for four people for four days. A package costs about Rs 150”, said Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department.The horticulture department procures vegetables from farmers of Uzhavar Sandhai and makes a package bag of four kinds of vegetables, apart from onion, ginger, tomato, greens and coriander leaves.Loaded in a pick-up truck, the vegetables are sold in fringe areas such as Fingerpost, Buttfire, Indunagar, Pudumund, Stone house and Arani.“We have seen a good response for our vegetable bags. On Saturday, we will choose other areas in the town. We are going to start areawise vegetable sale in Kotagiri from Saturday”, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vegetable-bags-of-horticulture-department-a-huge-hit-in-ooty/articleshow/74975330.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
April 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan count surges to 179 with 46 new cases, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With 46 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the state reported its highest number of cases in a single day. In just two days, Rajasthan reported 59 cases. However, Jaipur crossed the 50 mark with 14 more found infected with the virus. Out of the 55 cases in Jaipur, 35 of them are from the Ramganj area and 13 belong to Tablighi Jamaat who came from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. Ramganj has become the nightmare for health department officials as they are conducting screenings of people in a densely congested area, where people live in multi-storey buildings in joint families. “We have quarantined more than 150 persons who came into contact with the infected people,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. Currently, the health department is focusing more on identifying people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat to test their samples. In Sikar too, the health department conducted tests of two Jamaat people. But they tested negative for the virus, said a health department official. In Udaipur, three people contracted the virus from a 16-year-old boy, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He had travelled from Indore recently. All the three new cases in Udaipur are from his family. Bikaner and Dausa reported their first Covid-19 cases. In Bikaner, two people were found infected with the virus, who belong to Tablighi Jamaat, and in Dausa too, a person from Jamaat has been diagnosed with the disease on Friday. Three people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Alwar, with one from the Jamaat. Out of the three in Alwar, two of them are related to a person who died of Covid-19 on Thursday while undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur. Nine evacuees from Iran in Jodhpur too have been found infected with the virus. So far, 27 evacuees, who are in isolation facilities at Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, have been diagnosed with the disease so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-count-surges-to-179-with-46-new-cases-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/74979939.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops seek tax details from Tablighi Jamaat||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has issued a notice to seven members of the Tablighi Jamaat core committee, including Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, asking them to report the source of funding for the Alami Markaz, its headquarters at Nizamuddin. The police have sought the organisation’s tax details, PAN and bank account statements of the past three years. Markaz head Saad and the six others have also been asked to send the lists of foreigners and Indians who attended the religious congregation between March 11 and 13. The police teams looking for the seven members have been told to take precautionary measures before entering any premises used by them as it’s suspected that they too may have shown signs of Covid-19. The members have been asked to clarify if they had sought any permission from a government authority to hold the gathering, if they were issued any written guideline for the event, and if the Alami Markaz authorities had any other correspondence with the administration. They will also have to submit the number of committee members and the list of employees working for the organisation. Police also want the number of gatherings organised between January 1 and April 1, a map or site plan and the number of CCTV cameras on the premises. Besides the audio or video recording of all participants after March 12, the original register with the record of all attendees are to be submitted too. The information about parking attendants and volunteers present after March 12 will also have to be provided. Saad and his core committee members will also have to report if any devotee fell sick during the programme and the steps taken to evacuate the Alami Markaz, especially the measures that followed the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. A date-wise report has also been sought on inmates who were taken to hospital after March 12. Police are also trying to find out how many inmates were taken to other mosques or houses in Delhi after it became clear that several people had fallen sick. The members will also report about the curfew passes obtained by the organisation and the government officials who visited the premises after March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-seek-tax-details-from-tablighi-jamaat-notice-to-maulana-saad-six-others/articleshow/74975736.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||80 detained for offering prayers||Kolhapur: Police detained close to 80 people in three separate incidents on Friday for allegedly violating lockdown orders in western Maharashtra. The incidents took place in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts, where the people had allegedly gathered to offer their prayers. The first incident was registered in Gadhinglaj taluka, where 15 people were detained from the religious place. All of them entered the premises through a rear entrance when the front door was locked. In another incident at Miraj, 41 people were detained by the police with the same reasons. They tried to flee the spot after police reached the venue. However, they were caught and taken to the police station. As many as 23 people including 11 minor boys were detained from Mangalwar Peth in Karad. The police produced 12 of them before the court and were told to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 each. In failing to pay the fine they would have to undergo 15 days of simple imprisonment. The minor boys were released after issuing a warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/80-detained-for-offering-prayers/articleshow/74975914.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Some defy lockdown by showing old medical files||Kolhapur: Some people in the city were found showing old medical files to get through the barricades set up by the police in order to restrict the movement. A person from Ruikar Colony who wanted to travel to Nagala park was stopped by the police at Sinchan Bhavan. The hospital file that he showed to the police was dated two years ago. After an enquiry of 30 minutes, he told the police that he was going to his friend's house in Nagala park. He was asked to go back to his house and the police threatened him to seize the vehicle. A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said, "We have a system set up where we check with the hospital to see any prior appointment taken by the particular person. If we find no urgency we do not let the person travel. In the last couple of days, we found such cases in several places." Some were seen roaming outside in the evening. In the morning, many move around without buying any essentials. Farmers from nearby villages arrive early morning to sell the vegetables. They sit at the locations marked by the administration after which they go back home at around 9.00 am. Some said the movement is restricted by the police as the day progresses. Social distancing is not followed properly in many places. People take evening walks in open grounds or gardens. One security man guarding it, is helpless when the locals move out in the evening. "We are getting bored staying in our houses the whole day. Like social distance markings, the administration should mark tracks in the open grounds for walking at safe distance," said a person walking at the ground near Kasba Bawda Pavilion. Institutional quarantine to have music system Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that the music system of Saregama Carvaan will be set up in institutional quarantine after the people brought there, complained about feeling like prisoners. Kalshetti said at some quarantine wards, the social distancing was not being practised. Some had complained that there is not enough space in the quarantine centres. They circulated the photos of the centres through social media. These are the people who have a history of travel to cities where coronavirus patients have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/some-defy-lockdown-by-showing-old-medical-files/articleshow/74975913.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||On-duty health check-up for police||Surat: Among the frontline warriors including medicos and civic body staff, it is the police who too are maximum exposed to the risk of Covid-19 infection while ensuring lockdown and peace in the city. Taking a serious note of this, Surat police have planned to get medical examination of their staff done near the spots of their duty. With round-the-clock duties, cops hardly get time for health check-ups. Now, with this initiative, they will be able to get medical attention at their own places of their work. Health check-up started from Friday with three medical vans being provided to the city police by Mission Hospital. The vans will be visiting all the areas of the city and checking the health of policemen, traffic brigade jawans and home guard jawans. The vans will be stationed at strategic locations which are easily accessible by the cops and jawans. The medical check-up will be free of cost, and if the personnel require further treatments, they will also be provided free of cost by the hospital. “The vans will be visiting different areas of the city for around seven to eight hours. Apart from the police, health of TRB and home guard jawans will also be checked,” said P L Chaudhary, assistant commissioner of police, special branch, Surat. “The hospital offers service of three vans and health check-ups of all the policemen on duty. Cops ensuring lockdown are more exposed to getting Covid-19 infection as they are likely to come in contact with Covid-19 positive persons on the streets. Hence, in order to help our fraternity, this has been started,” said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/on-duty-health-check-up-for-police/articleshow/74972935.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Devout offer Friday prayers from home||Charminar: Residents of the Old City offered Friday prayer (Zohar) in their respective homes as the number of Covid-19 cases saw a surge in the state. Few devotees were allowed in Old City’s important mosques, including Mecca Masjid, where Imam and Mauzin led the prayer after a brief sermon. The devotees were not allowed by the Masjid committee members. Maulana Mohammed Rizwan Quarishi, Imam o’ Khateeb of Mecca Masjid said that only five persons were allowed to offer prayers with congregation and urged Muslims to ensure social distance to make the lockdown successful. “Five devotees with cops and media persons were allowed to offer prayers with congregation at the historical Mecca Masjid. I appeal to people to ensure social distance.Muslims should stay at home and offer prayer to get rid of the virus,” Maulana Quarishi told media after Friday prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/devout-offer-friday-prayers-from-home/articleshow/74975329.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tea Board seeks package for small tea farmers||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Vice-chairman of Tea Board of India B Kumaran has written to the ministry of commerce and industry seeking a financial support package for the small tea farmers. “In the most trying times of Covid-19 pandemic, small tea growers in the country have been abstaining from their farming activities in their very small and marginal tea holding following the government’s instruction to stay home and safe. Thus, small tea growers have suffered the inevitable total depletion of their very fragile sustenance source. They are in a formidable financial crisis and need the help of the Government of India,” the letter said. “I have written to the ministry of commerce and industry to extend a helping hand by way of a financial package regarded as feasible to alleviate the suffering of small tea growers at least to some extent,” Kumaran said. Meanwhile, Gudalur MLA M Thiravidamani has written to the chief minister of Tamil Nadu seeking his intervention in connection with a few tea manufacturing factories in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks in the Nilgiris, who are forcing workers attend duty. “It has come to light that some of the tea manufacturing factories in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks have obtained self-declaration letters from the workers saying that they are working at their own risk,” the DMK MLA said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tea-board-seeks-package-for-small-tea-farmers/articleshow/74975334.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Political parties feed guest workers||COIMBATORE: Several political parties in the district have been offering relief materials to underprivileged people hit hard in the ongoing 21-day lockdown. Recently, BJP state secretary Vanathi Srinivasan inaugurated ‘Modi Kitchen’ to serve food to those stranded in the city. Elsewhere in the district, BJP cadres prepared food in community kitchens and served them to scores of destitute, stranded guest workers, sanitary workers and police personnel. According to BJP district president Nandakumar, the party has served food for about 25,000 people since March 26. Over 2,500 families had received ‘Modi kit’ containing provisions and 150 families received medical kits in the district. The district Congress unit has launched ‘Rahul Anna Bhojana’ to feed about 500 people daily in Coimbatore. Congress working president Mayura Jayakumar said they are planning to scale up the project depending on the requirement in the coming days. The Left parties too have been preparing food and serving food to the needy. CITU's Hotel Workers' Union along with other affiliated unions has been involved in the service ever since the curfew was imposed rendering many workers stranded. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan visited one of the kitchens where CITU was preparing food for free distribution on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/political-parties-feed-guest-workers/articleshow/74975332.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam cops launch app to track home-quarantined||KOCHI: As part of their efforts to fight Covid-19, Ernakulam rural district police launched a mobile application named ‘Happy@Home’ on Friday to track those who are in home quarantine and to gather periodic updates about them. The app helps the users in maintaining a log of his health status by answering yes or no questions which enables cops to arrange medical care for them if needed. The app also lets the users maintain a travel history so that their ‘contacts’ can be tracked in case they become Covid-19 positive in a later stage. District police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthick said the mobile application was developed to strengthen the communication between police and those who are in home quarantine under its limits. Officials said those under home quarantine can log into the app using the phone number that was used to register with health/police department. “If the user has been registered, then he/she will be sent a 4-digit OTP to the number concerned, using which they can log into the app,” a police officer said. The app, according to police, can track daily health status of home-quarantined persons. “In case of an emergency, the app can be used to alert police so as to provide immediate medical care,” said officials. The app will inform the users on how many days they have spent in home quarantine and how many more days are remaining in quarantine. Rural police said the app can track the location of home-quarantined people as well. “The telephone numbers of police, ‘Disha’, counsellors, food aggregators and corona control are also available in the app and home-quarantined people can choose the service they want,” officials said. Police will also use the app to send messages and important notifications as well to those in home quarantine. “The app is available on Playstore for free. Software developers Dipin K Das, Jingle Elias and Mohandas P G helped us in developing the app. Arrangements have been made to keep checking the effectiveness of the app and to update it accordingly,” said SP Karthick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-launch-app-to-track-home-quarantined/articleshow/74973580.cms||Disney Tom
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||250 register as blood donors: Collector||Kolhapur: As many as 250 citizens have registered online as blood donors, said district collector Daulat Desai on Friday. He said that the administration will create a database of the donors, according to their blood-type, the donors could be contacted directly during a requirement. He added that the district currently has ample bloodstock, however, anyone wants to register as donor can visit www.kolhapurcollector.com/blooddonation link and do it. Meanwhile, Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), Commissioner, Mallinath Kalshetti, said that they have appointed four contact officers for the quarantine facilities across the city. These officials will look after the breakfast, meal, and health facilities of the admitted patients. The KMC has set-up six quarantine camps across the city where citizens with travel history are admitted. According to Kalshetti, as many as 295 citizens are admitted to six quarantine camps across the city. Most of the citizens are in the Rajaram College hostel facility, followed by Punjabrao Deshmukh hostel, and Government Polytechnic hostel in the city among others. He said that they are planning to introduce ‘Art of Living’ and several other such wellness counseling sessions in these centres. He has asked the officials to give special attention to the quarantine camps in respective venues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/250-register-as-blood-donors-collector/articleshow/74975916.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||‘Each dist to get Rs 5cr’||Dehradun: The state government on Friday issued directions to allocate funds of Rs 5 crore to each of the 13 districts to help them make preparations for the fight against novel coronavirus. The money would be available through the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) Fund in which Rs 85 crore has been allocated for this purpose. A communique from the CM’s office said that Rs 20 crore has been provided to the medical education department for bolstering infrastructure in hospitals notified for Covid-19 and Rs 20 crore for transport corporation to enable payment of salaries and other expenses. Meanwhile, several senior leaders of opposition parties, including Congress, CPI(M), CPI and Samajwadi Party, have written a joint letter to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat stating their concerns regarding the dip in the availability of food in the state. The leaders urged the government to provide free meals twice a day in every city of the state without asking for any document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/each-dist-to-get-rs-5cr/articleshow/74973566.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Confined to homes, many residents turn birdwatchers, soak in the sight and sound||Madurai: They may be confined to their homes due to the lockdown, but residents in Madurai have suddenly been sighting various species of birds in their gardens and terraces. While they believe this is because there are fewer people on the roads, some renowned birdwatchers said it is the people who have started noticing more of birds and bees around their residences now. N Raveendran, a birdwatcher, said it would be wrong to say that the bird population has seen a rise in the last one week. “It is just that people are looking around as they have free time and are noticing them. It is also the time when many of the fledglings had grown and were leaving their nests, especially water birds,” he said. S Saranya, a resident of Gomathypuram, said she had been excited to see a strange looking bird that was quite big, brown and black in colour with red eyes. “I took a photograph and Googled to see that it was a greater coucal,” she said, adding that her father told her that it had been been a common bird like crow when he was a child and lived near Sellur in Madurai. “Some residential associations have members sharing photographs of birds they saw and seeking information about it. People are also assuming they are seeing and hearing more but they were always there, it is only because every sound is audible and every movement is visible as there is no other major movement in the surroundings,” said Dr Badri Narayanan, an ophthalmologist and birdwatcher. He said that even he had sent 20 e-bird lists in the last 15 days by just watching the birds on his terrace. “We usually go to open places and waterbodies but, I realized that there were so many surrounding us,” he said. He had listed birds like woodpecker, black rumped flameback, bulbuls, tailor birds, purple sunbirds, rose ring parakeet, common myna and many others. “This year was good for migratory birds that nested along water bodies, and if they entered in pairs, they will be leaving with their fledglings resulting in the larger numbers being seen in some places,” said Raveendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/confined-to-homes-many-residents-turn-birdwatchers-soak-in-the-sight-and-sound/articleshow/74975335.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: IIT-Roorkee develops low cost face shields||ROORKEE: IIT-Roorkee has developed low-cost face shields for first-line healthcare professionals at AIIMS Rishikesh for protection from Covid-19. The shield can be used along with the protective gear by healthcare personnel while entering the wards housing Covid-19 patients, officials said. The spectacle-type design of the protection shield provides for ease of replacement and the cost of the shield is expected to be quite low. “The manufacturing cost per shield is approximately Rs 45. But when mass manufacturing is done, the cost of each shield would be less than Rs. 25,” said an official. The tinkering lab of the institute has developed the face shields. TNN IIT-R develops face shields for health workers of AIIMS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-develops-low-cost-face-shields/articleshow/74974797.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Key market village ups guard, ensures effective lockdown||Kolhapur: A village, barely 20km from Kolhapur city, has formed teams to keep a watch on its four entry points so that the lockdown and social distancing norms are strictly followed. Sangrul village, with its 16,000 residents, is a key market place for the surrounding forty villages. It is also the junction through which residents of these other villages have to pass. The village gram panchayat, however, passed a resolution to form teams and start vigil at the entrances after the first positive case was reported from Kolhapur city. The village has around 105 residents with home quarantine instructions, who have returned home from Pune and Mumbai. Sadashiv Khade, sarpanch of village, said the committee named ‘Corona Dakshata Samiti’ has about forty people, who have volunteered to do the service. “The teams are closely monitoring all those instructed to follow home quarantine. They are are not allowed to mix up with their family members also till fourteen days gets completed. After every two days, our committee members visit the homes of these quarantine members and check for their well-being and if they need anything. The family members are also advised not to come out of their houses,” he said. Gram sevak of the village, Pandurang Bidkar, said that they are making sure that no person is allowed to enter or exit the village without any valid reason. The people, who try to enter the village for no reasons, are stopped and told to return. Every person entering or leaving the village is asked to use a hand sanitizer before moving ahead. The village teams are also keeping an eye on the emergency service vehicles by noting their registration numbers and keeping an eye on their movement in the village. “We don’t want coronavirus to enter into our village. People have voluntarily joined the committee. This includes ex-army men, retired police personnel, doctors, CA, engineers, farmers and other professionals,” Bidkar said. The teams are effectively using social networking apps to stay in constant touch of each other and informing about the entry, passage of any essential service vehicle or people in the village. Nitin Patil, who is a member of the committee, said, they had created a whatsapp group and all the group members sitting on four entry points are inter-connected. “The village is a junction village for around forty villages in the region and one has to pass through the village to commute other side. If a person gives reason like medical emergency while entering the village, then a voice message is sent on the whatsapp group about the person and the vehicle number so that the other check post members are aware about it,” he said. The committee has also formed a mobile team which keeps roaming in the village to keep an eye on those who enter the village and to urge villagers against stepping out. The committee has also asked Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers to take up a door-to-door survey of the village so that even a normal cold or cough patient will be found and treated immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/key-market-village-ups-guard-ensures-effective-lockdown/articleshow/74975919.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin to the rescue of transgender community in city||Kolhapur: The nationwide lockdown introduced soon after the outbreak of coronavirus has wreaked havoc for the transgender community in the city. Most of the transgenders thrive on what they earn at social gatherings like marriages and the birth of children. Many of them also ask for money from the passengers at the railway station or the bus stand. Ever since the lockdown has come into effect, neither are there any social events happening in the city, nor are there any passengers at the railway station or the bus stand given the restrictions in movement. This has taken a toll on the transgenders, who having no other means of livelihood, are finding it difficult to manage two square meals a day. According to city-based transgender activist Mayuri Allavekar, the district administration provided groceries for 24 people on Thursday. However, there are 75 more transgenders in the city whose requirements need to be taken care of in these times of distress. “We are thankful to the district administration for taking cognizance of our needs andd giving us basic groceries on Thursday. However, there are still many of us who are yet to receive the ration. Whatever ration we got on Thursday, we distributed among the 75 transgenders.” Sadhana Jhadbuke, a city-based social activist, said that the situation of the transgenders in the city was pretty grim. “This is the reality of this marginalised section of society. Social occasions like marriages and other events that could fetch them some money stand canceled. Many of them were sex workers, some of them are HIV positive. We contacted the district administration for help and they swiftly acted upon our needs,”said Jhadbuke. According to Jhadbuke, there are around 277 transgenders across Kolhapur district who too are running short of funds in buying ration. “The unavailability of Aadhaar card and ration card poses many hurdles for the transgender community, an issue that needs to be looked upon on priority basis,” she said. When contacted, district collector Daulat Desai told TOI, “We are aware of their situation. We will provide the ration to the rest of them.” He added that the ration to the remaining transgenders would be provided with the help from non-governmental organizations and private donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-to-the-rescue-of-transgender-community-in-city/articleshow/74975917.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t give bail to economic offenders: ASG||Hyderabad: Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao on Friday wrote a letter to the high court’s judicial registrar urging him to ensure that the benefit of parole, bail accorded by the Supreme Court in the backdrop of Covid-19 is not extended to economic offenders lodged in jails. a high level committee held its meeting on the directions of Supreme Court to decide on the measures to be taken for the prisoners to decongest prisons. A committed led by Justice MS Ramachandra Rao convened a meeting and reviewed the situation in the prisons. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-give-bail-to-economic-offenders-asg/articleshow/74975739.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||‘Will meet India’s total test requirement in 2 weeks’||The road leading to MyLab Discovery Solutions laboratory in Baner wears a deserted look due to the lockdown. But the office itself is buzzing with activity — the management is juggling various phone calls alongside a delayed lunch. The phone calls are from various state governments and agencies ordering Covid-19 test kits. MyLab rose to national prominence last week when it became the first Indian firm to get approval to make the test kit. Wednesday’s “multimillion dollar” injection by Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla has infused new energy into the team. “Once India’s test kit requirement is taken care of in two weeks, we will take our test kits to other countries,” Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, MyLab, tells TOI in this first exclusive interview. Excerpts: When did it first occur to you that you needed to make this kit?Even when Covid-19 was spreading in China and the numbers were somewhat unclear, we knew we had to make the kit. We, however, did not plan our inventory and assumed that a few hundred kits would be enough to check suspected patients. We also thought many other companies will be trying it, and it was a surprise that only a few of us managed to pass the stringent requirements to make the kit. Why is 100% consonance of true positive and negative a must? The Covid-19 kit is a Class-C category product, but we have developed a Class-D product in the past with similar accuracy. A false positive will take up limited state resources, while a false negative will be even more dangerous because a coronavirus positive person might be out in the open. Despite tremendous pressure, the government evaluated every product before giving permission. The approval of Indian Council of Medical Research, apart from just the kit, also qualifies the manufacturing capacity, capabilities and processes. Is your current capacity to make these kits enough? By the end of this week, we can make 1,500 kits per week and each kit can test 100 samples — 30 samples per hour per machine. With the Adar Poonawalla investment, we will soon scale it up to 20,000 kits. We are investing in additional automated lines, which should shore up our capacity to deliver these universal kits even to international markets. Is India is testing less than it should be? We cannot predict the numbers, but we should be prepared. It depends on spread, density and demography. In the long run, we might be under-tested or over-tested, but in medicine, it better to be safe than sorry. How does the Adar Poonawalla investment help you? SII has global recognition and this is a long-term partnership. We get immediate entry into global markets that SII is present in. You have a national hero in your team, who is credited with bringing this test kit out. How is she recovering post-delivery? She is spending good time with her baby. We are taking care of this baby. In fact, I think all our members are national heroes, and it is not a one-person effort. To make a product like this, there are so many steps that are required and everyone has played a role. Our team has worked two shifts for six months and this will continue for the next two months at least.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-meet-indias-total-test-requirement-in-2-weeks/articleshow/74970557.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||‘Resume wheat truck movement to avert flour crisis’||KOLKATA: Restriction on movement of interstate goods vehicles is taking a toll on the supply of flour to the city. Several mills in Bengal have been shut and no production has been taking place owing to shortage of manpower and scant supply of wheat from other states, such as UP and Bihar. The current demand is being met with the help of buffer stock lying with traders. Also, trucks that had entered Bengal but had got stuck on roads in the initial lockdown days, had recently started ferrying consignments, wholesalers in Posta said. “Currently, the demand is being met with the help of the stock we already had and that, which was stuck on highways. But for long-term solution, interstate movement of trucks has to resume because that is how wheat, an important raw material, will reach the state for mills here to produce flour again,” said Amit Shah, owner of Shah Flour Mill. “Trucks from other states should have been allowed during the lockdown because states depend on one another for supply of edibles. Once the entire stock in Bengal is exhausted, we may face crisis.” The central government announced a three-week-long lockdown last week to minimise the spread of novel coronavirus. Last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited Posta and requested traders to open their establishments so that the supply of edibles to retail markets were not affected. But so far, not even 40% of the outlets have been able to operate, owing to absence of labourers. The same problem of manpower shortage has been plaguing flour mills as well. “Almost all labourers have left for their villages. The mills can’t be operated without labourers,” said a wholesaler of flour in Posta. Even though the entire wholesale hub is yet to reopen, supply of several essential commodities has been revived. Most retailers are hiring their own vehicles to ferry goods to their shops. Kolkata Police has already started issuing e-permits to vehicles ferrying essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/resume-wheat-truck-movement-to-avert-flour-crisis/articleshow/74975337.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Farmers stop vegetable supply in protest against civic staff||AURANGABAD: More than 300 vegetable growers from Naalvandi village in Beed district have stopped supplying vegetables to Beed city and its neighbouring areas in protest against the ‘highhandedness’ of Beed civic chief, his colleagues and police. The farmers from the village, located about 12 km from Beed, were supplying over five tonnes of vegetables even during the current lockdown. However, they stopped the supply on Friday in protest against the alleged physical and mental harassment by civic employees as well as policemen accompanying them. They alleged that despite following the social distancing norm, the civic staff are manhandling them and even taking away their produce. “When we reached the Shivaji stadium with vegetables on Thursday, the civic employees, along with policemen, not only lifted our produce but also dumped it in a garbage van,” said village sarpanch Radhakrishna Mhetre Sharda Raut, a farmer, said, “I was reluctant to send my husband to the Beed market for selling vegetables. However, we decided to continue the supply so that people don’t not suffer. After going there, the government staff along with police assaulted him. Now, we will either give our vegetables to the poor in our village or feed them to our animals. We will not go to Beed for selling vegetables.” When contacted, Beed municipal council chief officer Utkarsh Gutte refuted the allegations. “I did not assault the farmers. Those on duty might have assaulted them for violating the social distancing norm. The vegetables seized is usually returned to them.” Ganesh Raut, another farmer, said that despite chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh publicly appealing to government staff, especially police, not to use force against farmers and those into essential services business, they continue to do so. Other farmers from the village accused the civic staff and local police of assaulting them or their customers and even throwing away vegetables for no reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-stop-veg-supply-in-protest-against-civic-staff/articleshow/74974807.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 4, 2020||Hubballi||Cops give roaming youngsters a coconut as a token of goodwill||Basavaraj Kattimani & J Abbas Mulla Koppal/Hubballi: The second week of the lockdown having started, police across the state are coming up with ever more novel methods to keep youngsters roaming without any cause chained to their homes. After cops made youngsters perform gruelling exercises, sweep streets and stations clean to varying results, Koppal police have decided to adopt a more generous and traditional approach. Across India, in most ceremonies, guests are handed a coconut as a farewell gift, and many auspicious events are begun with the breaking of the coconut, and it is this tropical crop that Koppal police are using to drive their message through. Cops are handing youngsters venturing out on bikes for no reason a coconut, and asking them to return home, while those stepping outside without covering their faces are having coconuts broken in front of their vehicles by police. Koppal deputy superintendent of police Venkatappa Nayak said that the cops shelled out money from their own pockets to purchase the coconuts. “Personally, I spent Rs 2,000 and bought 200 coconuts. These are being distributed to youngsters needlessly roaming the streets of Koppal town. We are requesting them to cooperate with cops by staying indoors,” Nayak told TOI. The deputy SP, however, said that the cops were ensuring that those leaving homes for genuine reasons such as purchasing medicines and other essential commodities are not stopped. “But we have found that many people are venturing outside without cause, and our intention is to make them understand the gravity of the situation. When such youngsters return home with coconuts in their hands, the members of their families will understand the reason behind the cops’ gesture, and word will soon spread among the public. In the end, this will prevent many others from straying outside their homes,” Nayak added. No mask, no fuel in Hubballi Keen on instilling a sense of responsibility among commuters at a time when the Covid-19 infection is spreading across the country, the management of a fuel station has decided against servicing customers who arrive without masks. The owners are equally strict when it comes to enforcing social distancing at the station, refusing to sell fuel to customers not keeping a safe distance from others. In addition to strict adherence to the norms of the lockdown, employees of the Mahaveer Petrol Pump in Hubballi have been distributing masks to those coming to the station with no protective equipment to cover their faces. Ashpaq Kunnibhavi, manager of the fuel station in question, said that, while they were operating as they had done prior to the announcement of the lockdown, the management had been requested by cops to refuse petrol to those loitering around the city needlessly. “So, we started a campaign, which entailed, besides refusing sale of fuel to those not wearing masks, and travelling around the city without any valid reason, appealing to our customers to cooperate with the cops in enforcing the lockdown,” said Kunnibhavi. Santosh Muttagi, the owner of the petrol pump, said that his employees had distributed masks to more than 500 people thus far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-give-roaming-youngsters-a-coconut-as-a-token-of-goodwill/articleshow/74973630.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Waive school fees of 1st four months say parents||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur City and District Citizens’ Action Committee has demanded that the school fees for the first four months of the upcoming academic year be waived. The committee stated in a memorandum dated April 2 that many parents were complaining about the constant hammering from some private English medium schools in the city to pay the school fees upfront for the forthcoming academic year or lose their ward’s admission. Ramesh More, a member of the action committee, told TOI that they have given the memorandum to education officer (secondary) of Kolhapur Zilla Parishad, Kiran Lohar, requesting that the fee for the first four months be waived. More said that many parents were already under tremendous burden of their personal and professional lives amid the lockdown. To add to their woes, the schools, mostly private unaided ones which charge a heavy fee, were forcing them to pay the fee or lose the seat reserved for their wards. More added that they were planning to take up the issue with the state education minister and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, if there was no resolution at sight. Lohar said that he has forwarded the memorandum to the higher authorities of the state government. “The state government, througha circular dated March 30, has already asked the schools to show ‘compassion’ towards parents and defer the fee payment till the lockdown gets over,” he said. Lohar added that if the schools still put pressure on the parents to pay the fees, they would face strict action including losing their registration. “Proposals against such errant schools will be forwarded to the deputy education director,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/waive-school-fees-of-1st-four-months-parents/articleshow/74975920.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Private schools begin online classes||JAIPUR: Most of the private schools have begun the new academic session with online classes. But the move has been difficult for the parents and teachers who have to shell out a lot of money to buy expensive data packs. Jaipur resident Prashant Chaudhary (name change) said that both his kids have to log on to their laptops at 9:30 am for the online classes that continues till 12.30 pm. “Every day, for more than three hours, we need two laptops for my children. There are many parents who are struggling to find another laptop or connecting via phones. I need at least 8 GB mobile data per day pack. This is difficult for us especially for parents who cannot afford it,” said Choudhury. For teachers, it is more difficult as not everyone is accustomed with technology. Sunil Parashar (name change), a teacher in private school said that he doesn’t have a laptop so all the classes has to be taken on mobile phone. “My eight-year-old daughter holds the phone in her hand while I teach. We can connect to 50 students in one class at a time. Sometimes, there will be power cut or some student will have an event at his home. There will be some kind of disturbance and without personal interaction it is difficult to make them understand the concept. Not everyone has a laptop or can afford heavy data packs,” said Parashar. Most of the schools are taking online classes from kindergarten to class XII. Many teachers have raised questions on the necessity of teaching primary sections online. “Students till class IV could have been given a break from it. Their attention span is less and it is difficult for us to create content for them,” said a teacher. School authorities, however, consider this a necessity. Lata Rawat, principal of Cambridge Court High School, Jaipur, said that it was taking the school administration a lot of time to manage this new way of teaching. “We are working day and night to make it more accessible for parents and students. It is a necessity or students will be facing academic loss. Now it is up to parents whether to watch videos or movies online or save the data for students’ education. Our objective is to occupy students constructively. It is new for us as well but this is the need of the time,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-schools-begin-online-classes/articleshow/74975343.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation gives just 1 min for virus survey||AHMEDABAD: When the entire world is under the grip of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the city civic body — Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) seems to be haste. Its health workers have been given a task of surveying 200 persons in just four hours. This means just one minute is given to inquire whether a person has any symptoms of Covid-19. The urban health society for AMC had last week conducted recruitment for 354 sanitation officers and the same number of medical officers for urban health clinic. For this, nearly 1,100 had opted for posts of sanitation officers and 94 applied for posts of medical officers. Later, all the applicants who had opted for sanitation officers' posts were hired and given the task of surveying the people. “We are told to finish 200 persons at least in four hours. One cannot even write a person's name and address in a minute, so how it is possible to survey about this pandemic?" asked a fresh recruit. A sanitation officer told TOI that they are not given any hand sanitizer, hand gloves or masks by the civic body. He said they are also facing situations where people think that the surveyor will arrange some financial aid or food for them. “When we went to Chandlodia area for survey, a group of desperate people rushed to us seeking money or food. Thus, the idea of maintaining social distance collapsed,” he said. Similarly, survey was conducted in the Odhav area of city where sanitation officers just asked whether any family members suffered from cold or cough and counted the number of family members before concluding their survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-gives-just-1-min-for-virus-survey/articleshow/74975391.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, Tirupur residents get veggies at doorstep||Coimbatore: Following in the footsteps of its counterparts in the state, Tirupur city corporation on Friday introduced mobile vegetable markets to prevent the residents from crowding markets, violating the physical distancing norms. Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated the sales at Thennampalayam in the city. Corporation commissioner K Sivakumar said 24 vehicles would be used to deliver vegetables to the city residents. He said the initiative was launched in association with the agriculture department, vegetable vendors, and non-governmental organizations Dream 20 trust and Vetri amaipu. “All the four zones have been allotted six vehicles each. The number of vehicles will be increased based on the requirements,” he said. Pointing out that there were 60 wards in the city corporation limits, he said they were planning to introduce a vehicle per ward. The corporation commissioner said a pack of vegetables was priced at Rs 100. “It will contain tomatoes, ladies finger, radish, beetroot, and coriander and curry leaves.” A R Nandha Kumar, a volunteer of Dreams 20 trust, said they have selected the vegetables to be included in the pack based on their capacity to boost the immune power of end consumers. “We won’t be offering same set of vegetables every day. They would be changed twice a week.” He said they were also distributing vegetables at doorsteps on request from the public. “Another eight vehicles are being used for this purpose. We have purchased four tonnes of vegetables and made more than 630 deliveries in a single day.” Nandha Kumar said safety gears such as gloves, masks and hand sanitizers have been provided to the people, who are involved in the task. “Both the corporation workers and volunteers are involved in the work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-tirupur-residents-get-veggies-at-doorstep/articleshow/74975345.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Bank orders transfer of 198 officials post lockdown period||AURANGABAD: Maharashtra Gramin Bank (MGB) has issued a transfer list comprising names of 198 officers currently posted as branch managers or assistant manager in different parts of the rural areas. The order was issued on Thursday A bank official said that transfer orders coming at a time when the country is battling against the spread of coronavirus has not gone down well with the bank officers posted across the state. “At a time when the bank staffers are risking their lives to cater to the customers, it was expected from the bank to be empathetic and avoid carrying out mass transfers,” said a bank officer. Bank employees said that though they have been asked to act on the transfers on the next day of government relaxing the lockdown, they said they will be facing problems like finding accommodation. A couple of staffers who have been transferred from Pune and Mumbai said that due to a higher number of cases reported from these cities, even their relatives are not keen on helping them with the accommodation. The order stated ‘All are hereby instructed to get themselves relieved from respective offices after the lockdown period is suspended by the Government of India and join immediately on the next working day to their new place of posting. Regional managers will monitor and see the relieving of the transferred officers as per this circular. Disobedience of the instructions will be viewed serious.’ When contacted, chief general manager Mahendra Kabra said, “I don’t think they should face any problem. With people following the social distancing and lockdown orders, we expect this Covid-19 chain to break in about a fortnight, following which things will return to normalcy.” Banks associated with MGB informed that it is a scheduled bank established by the Government of India and sponsored by Bank of Maharashtra. Considering its presence in rural areas, it continues to remain one of the preferred banks in rural areas of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bank-orders-transfer-of-198-officials-post-lockdown-period/articleshow/74974817.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||10,000 houses screened, sanitised in Tirupati||Tirupati: The municipal corporation of Tirupati initiated measures to screen all the residents of nearly 10,000 homes, after the first positive Covid-19 case was reported in the temple city on Thursday. Two rounds of sanitisation activity in the red zones was completed on Friday after the first positive case was reported on Thursday. The corporation announced five wards as red zones. The corporation, which has strictly restricted the movement of people in wards 32, 35, 36, 37, and 38 under the municipal corporation limits, has been conducting a door-to-door survey at over 10,000 houses. Further, rapid response teams along with other civic staff have been deployed for spraying of sodium hypochlorite in the designated red zones. To reduce the inconvenience to the people in the red zones, civic staff are supplying them with vegetables, milk, medicines and other essential commodities. “Movement of public especially in the red zone wards are strictly prohibited. Residents of the temple city have to co-operate with the civic body to avoid the spread of the virus. Only one person from each house has permission to come out if there is any emergency. There is no need to panic and the civic body has been taking all measures to control the spread of the virus,” commissioner PS Girisha said. Corporation authorities have deputed 188 health teams, ward secretaries, Asha workers, ward volunteers and 50 medical officers for conducting the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/10000-houses-screened-sanitised-in-tirupati/articleshow/74974816.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Cops use mild force to disperse hundreds gathered in mosque||MADURAI: Tense moments prevailed in Tenkasi town as police resorted to a mild use of lathi to clear hundreds of people who had gathered to offer prayers at the Mohideen Jumma Pallivasal on Friday. There were minor injuries on both sides and more than 300 people were booked.Four people were also arrested. Superintendent of police (SP) of Tenkasi district, G Suguna Singh said that a policeman was making announcements in an autorickshaw around 12.30pm on Friday, asking public not to gather for regular prayers. Noticing heavy gathering in the mosque, he alerted the Tenkasi police station inspector Adivel. The inspector and team along with tahsildar Shanmugam went to the spot where about 400 had gathered. “Police cited the 144 order and asked the crowd to disperse. This was objected by a section who insisted on going ahead with the prayers. They also used abusive language,” Singh said. This resulted in mild stone pelting and throwing of plastic chairs, in which Adivel and sub-inspector suffered minor injuries. “Police resorted to the use of lathi to clear the crowd. There was no lathi charge,” he said and added that the injured are undergoing treatment. Police registered a case against around 300 people under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act and sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 506(i) (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 294b (reciting obscenities) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-use-mild-force-to-disperse-hundreds-gathered-in-mosque/articleshow/74975344.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Erode||Tusker found dead in Erode||Erode: A male elephant was found dead in the Kadambur forest range of Sathyamangalam Tiger Serve (STR) on Friday. Forest watchers and guards on patrol had found the carcass on the road. An autopsy was conducted in the presence of senior forest department officials. Veterinarians said that the animal was 40 years old. “It was not feeding properly due to a neurological disorder,” a senior STR official told TOI. “There was no food in the intestine. It had last eaten 10 days ago.” The carcass was later buried in the forest. Kadambur forest range officials have registered a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tusker-found-dead-in-erode/articleshow/74975347.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Lalbazar offers pass for driver to ferry patient to hosp for dialysis||Kolkata: The Lalbazar top brass on Friday came to the rescue of 67-year-old Tapan Mukherjee, a day after TOI reported how it had been a struggle for the renal-ailment patient to drive from his home off Hazra Road to a Bypass hospital for dialysis twice a week during the lockdown. Officers from the Tollygunge police station visited Mukherjee’s home and promised to issue him a special pass for a driver, who would be able to take him to and from the hospital. Mukherjee would also be included in Pronam, the Kolkata Police initiative for senior citizens, said a Lalbazar officer. “It is an exceptional case and we are taking a humanitarian stand,” said an officer from the south division. With Mukherjee’s son being stuck in Mumbai and daughter in Dubai, and no driver or cabby available at present, he himself has to drive for dialysis. Around 5.45pm on Friday, Tollygunge police station OC Saroj Prahlaj and four others visited Mukherjee’s home. He was, however, yet to return from dialysis, the fourth session since the lockdown started 10 days ago. “Mukherjee told us it took him almost seven hours to complete the process and return home. He said he did not want to travel by ambulance, and that, he would prefer a driver for his car. We will give him the driver’s pass by Tuesday, his next dialysis session,” said an officer. “Being a stage-5 patient prone to Covid-19, I was worried. But assurance from police has allayed my fears. What I needed was an assurance that my driver would not face harassment,” Mukherjee told TOI. Cops said they would help Mukherjee beyond his dialysis. “If he faces any problem commuting to hospital, he can seek our help. We can arrange for a vehicle,” said an officer. Police will also allow a friend to join him for the hospital trips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lalbazar-offers-pass-for-driver-to-ferry-patient-to-hosp-for-dialysis/articleshow/74975356.cms||Sudipto Das
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt not singling out any community, says collector||Coimbatore: In the backdrop of a rising number of people who participated in Tablighi Jamaat Ijtema testing positive for Covid-19, the district administration stepped in to quell purported attempts to give the spread of the virus a communal colour. At the same time, the officials also sought the cooperation of religious leaders in identifying and isolating people with Covid-19 symptoms.Coimbatore collector K Rajamani who held a meeting with religious outfit representatives on Friday also assured that the government was not singling out any community and that there were strict protocols which the government was following. Explaining that government authorities have traced 87 out of 90 people who attended the meeting in New Delhi, Rajamani said that the district administration sought the co-operation from the Muslim community to trace the remaining people. He also informed the Muslim outfit representatives that officials would be monitoring even those who are quarantined at home. “Apart from assuring full cooperation, they had even asked us to check the family members of the attendees for Covid-19 symptoms,’’ Rajamani told TOI. Muslim outfit representatives told the collector that in the backdrop of raise in positive cases among Tablighi Jamaat returnees, members of community fear that they would be singled out and blamed for the spread. Rajamani assured them that was not the case and pointed out that even members of other communities are being tested and isolated. Hindu religious outfit representatives however said they have no role behind spreading of such rumours and assured full cooperation for the officials in their fight against the novel coronavirus. “We have given them all the background details and explained about the government protocol,” Rajamani said. A Faizal, joint secretary of Coimbatore district Sunnath Jamaat Kolgai Kuttamaipu, who attended the meeting, said that they had assured to give full cooperation but sought the officials to stop fake information on social media.“We have requested the collector to release a video of himself stating that his administration would initiate strict action against those who spread false information and hatred against a community,” he added.Meanwhile, members of Hindu, Muslim and Christian communities in Coimbatore issued a joint statement expressing solidarity with the government and their intent to work together in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. “As it was not healthy to give communal colour to a disease, we have come together to show hatemongers that we are all together in the fight,” said M Abdul Hakkim, secretary of Jamaat e Islami Hind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-not-singling-out-any-community-says-collector/articleshow/74975349.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to re-conduct survey to identify needy families||JAIPUR: To deliver ration to people in need at the time of lockdown, district administration had conducted a survey in which they identified the needy families. However, teams of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) have been appointed to recheck the survey and rectify any mistakes made. District administration conducted the survey with the help of civil defence. After the survey was done, help of JMC was taken for final rectification. Additional commissioner at the JMC Arun Garg explained, “We are already providing cooked food to thousands of people daily. But there are some people who are not able to get the groceries either due to some financial constraints or have not been able to access the grocery shops. Hence, we are completing this survey to provide ration to the people.” Jaipur has been divided into 12 parts in which 12 teams of JMC officials have started working on the survey. It has to be completed as soon as possible. Sources in the department however, say that this survey is being done by the JMC officials as district administration found irregularities in the surveys done by civil defence teams. “Civil defence team members added names of people who are not eligible for the ration. Due to some approach, their names were added. Hence, the work has been handed over to JMC to re-check the survey,” said one source. For the last two weeks, JMC has been providing cooked food to people in many locations. Along with this, a campaign has been run by the JMC in which they have given two sacks to the garbage-collecting vehicles who will collect chapatis from public for stray animals. Once the work of garbage collection is complete, then the JMC hoopers will go to 16 pre-decided routes to distribute chapatis to strays. This campaign was started after receiving complaints from many people who said that after lockdown, they have not been able to provide food to stray animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-re-conduct-survey-to-identify-needy-families/articleshow/74975353.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Test result of another doctor too awaited||Coimbatore: The public health department had a scare on Friday after another doctor developed symptoms of Covid-19. The Mettupalayam-based doctor, who is pursuing masters in paediatrics and practising in Chidambaram, had returned during the lockdown. After she developed symptoms, the doctor was isolated in a private hospital and tested for the virus. Her results from the lab in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital was inconclusive, prompting officials to send a fresh sample to the Covid testing centre in Theni. “We heard that her sample tested negative in Theni. But we are awaiting an official declaration,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. The department is now working on to find out where she could have been exposed. “She was seeing patients in Chidambaram till she returned to the district five days ago. Here, she had no exposure to anybody in the Tablighi Jamaat group,” said Coimbatore collector K Rajamani. “So, we believe that exposure could have occurred while she was in Chidambaram. We are awaiting her final result,” he said. The department is also awaiting the results of 25 people from the district, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet and also their close contacts. “This includes people from the corporation limits and Annur,” said Rajamani. “We have begun tracing their contacts before waiting for their results. Even if they test negative, they will not be discharged and allowed to go home. They will be moved to their quarantine location.” Two private hospitals have submitted four samples for testing. Seven people got admitted into ESI hospital showing symptoms of the virus on Friday, taking the total number of admitted people to 109. The spurt in cases and fears of exposure has led to the calls to the 108 ambulance spiking from 17,000 a day to more than 21,000. Despite the district administration allocating six ambulances just to ferry symptomatic patients from homes to hospitals and in between hospitals, a group of four migrant labourers from Kerala who developed symptoms of the virus could not get an ambulance to reach the ESI hospital for four hours on Friday. “The 1077 helpline sent them around in circles and the 108 ambulance service also could not send a vehicle for hours” said Vivek, a social worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/test-result-of-another-doctor-too-awaited/articleshow/74975359.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||Society prez drives tenant out of her home, arrested||Surat: President of an apartment was arrested by Umra police on Friday for allegedly driving out a woman teacher of a municipal school and her four-month-old son from their rented accommodation here on March 31. It is presumed he was overwhelmed with fear of coronavirus and thought that because the woman was coming from outside the area she was infected with the deadly disease. The woman had to spend night in the room of a watchman of another municipal school. The woman had shortened her maternity leave and returned to job following instructions from her office. She was assigned work related to arrangement of food for poor people by Surat civic body. Police arrested Raju alias Rajesh Patel, president of Amar Palace Apartment at Athwalines, for allegedly forcing the woman to vacate her rented apartment. A police officer became complainant in the case. Police booked three others of the apartment along with Patel. Radhika Gamit had returned from Vyara with her son. Her father and husband had come to drop her because she was asked to shorten her leave and return to duty immediately in view of the current situation. She had asked for help from a friend in finding her a house and the latter got her a flat in Amar Palace Apartment on rent. The partment watchman, residents along with Patel knocked on the door. After making some inquiries they asked her to leave. "The woman called police control room for help. We tried to convince the accused to not to create troubles for the woman. But the residents continued to oppose her staying there," said Umra police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/society-prez-drives-tenant-out-of-her-home-arrested/articleshow/74972968.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Erode||Erode dist sealed off||Erode: The district administration sealed off all the inter-district borders on Thursday night to check the spread of Covid-19. The situation got worse on Thursday evening after six more people tested positive, taking the number of coronavirus affected from 26 to 32. All of them are undergoing treatment at the IRT Government Hospital in Perundurai. The administration has isolated more than 72,000 people who came in contact with the Thailand nationals affected by the virus. Police have closed all main roads to Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Bhavani and Andhiyur. “Only those who need to attend marriages and funerals and those in need of medical assistance will be allowed to pass,” Erode collector C Kathiravan said. “They should get permission from the district administration to travel. Police will stop those who are not carrying passes.” Those in the sealed areas are being provided with the essential commodities. They are also allowed to go out to buy groceries in the morning. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-dist-sealed-off/articleshow/74975354.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nivea to make sanitizers in Sanand||AHMEDABAD: To address the shortage of hand sanitizers during the Covid-19 pandemic, skincare brand Nivea India has announced it will manufacture alcohol-based hand sanitizers at its Sanand plant. The plant manufactures skincare products. The company has begun production of alcohol-based sanitizers that will be distributed for free to public hospitals and healthcare institutions in Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and to its distributors across India. The initiative has been taken up by Nivea India in collaboration with its partners, to shift part of its production towards making hand sanitizers at the Gujarat plant. A joint statement issued by Omar Navarro, vice-president, supply chain for the region, and Neil George, MD, Nivea India, stated, “We have been in constant touch with local authorities and our key partners, to make the switch at our plant and formulate the liquid hand sanitizers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nivea-to-make-sanitizers-in-sanand/articleshow/74975390.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Campaign against live animal markets||AURANGABAD: Advocacy group Animal Equality has launched a worldwide campaign and petition calling on the United Nations to immediately shut live animal markets across the globe. “In an exclusive footage shot by Animal Equality at live animal markets in China, Vietnam and India, animals such as deer, raccoons, crocodiles, dogs, chickens and goats can be seen living in filthy conditions, suffering from dehydration, starvation and disease,” Amruta Ubale, senior director of public affairs of animal equality said. She added, “It is in these unregulated markets where diseases like SARS originated, and where scientists believe Covid-19 began. Exotic and traditionally farmed animals are mixed together in cramped cages and unsanitary enclosures, creating the perfect breeding ground for zoonotic diseases.” The Animal Equality group said that is was not the first time that a deadly virus was linked to live animal trade and consumption “The H1N1 Flu (Swine Flu) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) are two more examples of viruses that likely originated in animals and then jumped to humans causing dangerous outbreaks. Researchers also believe that Covid-19 most likely originated from a seafood market in Wuhan, China, which is notorious for trading wild animals,” the advocacy group has said, while pushing for banning live animal markets. The petition initiated by the advocacy group has evoked good response with over 30,000 individuals have signed it so far within no time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/campaign-against-live-animal-markets/articleshow/74974823.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Madras Regimental Centre provides food packets to guest workers||The Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington in the Nilgiris under the aegis of ‘Dakshin Bharat Area, Indian Army, undertook ‘Sahayata’ endeavour as part of ‘Operation Namaste’ in the Nilgiris, wherein, essential supplies encompassing meals ready to eat, dry ration packets, sanitary items and fresh drinking water were delivered to guest workers, daily wagers and other poor sections of society in Ooty, on Friday. The ‘Sahayata’ drive covered around 350 people including guest workers and poor people. On March 31, about 250 guest workers in Coonoor were provided with supplies of food packets, dry ration packets and sanitary items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mrc-provides-food-packets-to-guest-workers/articleshow/74975363.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Caterers do their bit to feed needy||Coimbatore: Out of business since the lockdown, caterers have come out to feed the needy, instead of mourning their losses and sitting idle at their houses. They had large orders for weddings in the last week of March, but they were all cancelled with the entire country going into lockdown mode to fight Covid-19 outbreak. With no other functions to look forward to for at least another two weeks, the caterers have decided to use their resources to help the district administration feed the hungry guest labourers in the district. They are open to donations and requests for food supply to people, who require it. The catering owners’ association from the district and Erode first approached collector K Rajamani with a request to allow them to provide food to the needy. Ganesh, of Express Holidays, said, “We were then sent to the north taluk office in Ramnagar, where officials allowed us to distribute food in north Coimbatore. We have now set up a kitchen at Ashoka Prema Kalyana Mandapam, which the owners have lent us for the purpose. Besides using our own resources, we also get a lot of sponsorship and donations in terms of raw materials from clients, vendors and volunteers.” He said they have been distributing 2,000 lunch boxes and as many boxes of dinner daily. “We also serve around 125 officials, who are risking their lives for us. The beneficiaries are spread across eight camps and they include guest labourers, tribals, homeless people and beggars,” Ganesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caterers-do-their-bit-to-feed-needy/articleshow/74975360.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR introduces ‘round trips’ to reduce away time||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has come up with the idea of “Round Trips” in operation of freight trains in order to help its on-duty staff reduce the time spent out of their headquarters. “The initiative has been introduced in the wake of a huge increase in the speed of freight trains as the passenger trains remain suspended till April 14,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of the SCR, said. “In normal circumstances, once the running staff (loco pilots and guard) works on a train away from the headquarters, they have to stay for longer durations in the running rooms before they commence duty for returning. However, during the current situation since passenger trains are suspended, average speed of freight trains has increased enormously. Due to this the running time of freight trains has decreased. The advantage of reduced running time in freight trains is being utilised for round trips,” he said. Under the new concept, running staff are being booked comparatively for short trips and immediately after completing the outgoing trip, they are again being booked for another train towards the headquarters. “This has helped the running staff to reach the headquarters within a reasonable time duly reducing the staying time out of headquarters during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. This concept has received enormous response and around 80% of running staff are being benefitted every day,” an SCR official said. As some of the running staff is expected to take rest due to non-availability of train in opposite direction, the SCR has been disinfecting and sanitizing these facilities at regular intervals with hypo-chloride solution. Physical distance is being also maintained in provision of beds at the running rooms. The SCR has also taken several precautionary steps and employee centric measures for the running staff, including suspension of biometric verification system and installation of thermal scanners at all the crew booking points. A kit that contains soap, 200 ml hand sanitizer, triple layer mask, one set of hand gloves and tissue papers is also given to the staff while reporting on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-introduces-round-trips-to-reduce-away-time/articleshow/74974827.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Three ‘presumed +ve’ cases reported in Kurnool district||Tirupati: Three presumed positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kurnool district, following which district administration took measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the district further, on Friday. According to Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian, of the four presumed positive cases of Covid-19 reported in the district, one patient—who belonged to Azimuddin Nagar in Kurnool city—tested negative. “The final test results of the other three patients are awaited, but people of the district can rest assured that the district administration is well-equipped to contain the spread the virus. As a precautionary measure, all kind of contact with the three places where the three people were from—Kurnool, Avuku and Banaganapalli—has been cut off completely. Police and other officials are on standby to provide any kind of assistance to the people in the areas that have been locked down, the district collector said. The collector clarified that the Rajasthani youth who tested positive for Covid-19 was being treated at a government hospital and his condition was improving. The doctor who treated the youth tested negative for COVID-19. “The district administration has moved all those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, as well as those who came in contact with them, into isolation/quarantine. Our appeal to the people of the district is that even the first contact or the second contacts should also report themselves to the officials and get themselves tested to rule out coronavirus,” the district collector appealed. Later, G Veerapandian visited the Covid-19 command control room in the city and took stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-presumed-ve-cases-reported-in-kurnool-district/articleshow/74974843.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 4, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus: Single-day positive count hits double-digit for the first time in Pune||PUNE: Twelve more people, including seven close contacts of infected individuals, tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Pune metropolitan region (PMR) on Friday. Of these, eight are from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and one is from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. Three are admitted in Sassoon General Hospital. a“Of the eight residents from the PMC limits who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, five are close contacts of positive persons. They are residents of Rasta Peth, Pirangut, Padmavati and Guruwar Peth,” a civic health official said, adding that it was for the first time that positive patient count rose in double-digit in PMR in a single day. Dean of the Sassoon hospital Ajay Chandanwale said, “Three admitted patients who tested positive on Friday are residents of Kasewadi, Mangalwar Peth and Bhavani Peth.” The civic official said one of the three patients at Sassoon was a close contact of Parvatigaon resident undergoing treatment at a private hospital. A Pimpri Chinchwad resident who tested positive for Covid-19 is also a close contact of one of the infected participants of ‘Tablighi Jamaat’ Delhi meet. With this, the total number of infected people in the PCMC limits has increased to 15. Of these, a total of 11 have recovered and been discharged. Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner, PCMC, said, “Seven persons who were close contacts of two residents who attended the meet and tested positive have been quarantined at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial and New Bhosari hospitals. Their throat swabs were sent for analysis to NIV. We received positive report for one of them.” The Sassoon hospital had reported contagion in total three admitted patients on Thursday. One of them succumbed to the contagion-related complications hours after she was found infected with Covid-19. On Thursday, as many as nine people had tested positive for the contagion, of which three were tested randomly and four were the participants of the ‘Tablighi Jamaat’ meet in Delhi. So far, a total of 18 people have been discharged from various hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad after completion of their 14-day isolation period and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/single-day-positive-count-hits-double-digit-for-the-first-time/articleshow/74975369.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 4, 2020||Mangaluru||No positive cases in DK, Udupi||Mangaluru: No positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Friday. Reports of 16 samples in Dakshina Kannada and another 16 in Udupi tested negative for coronavirus. There are 4,727 people under home quarantine in Dakshina Kannada and 825 in Udupi. Currently, there are nine Covid-19 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada district and three in Udupi. Free milk for poor Dakshina Kannada Milk Milk Producers Cooperative Union has commenced free distribution of milk to poor slumdwellers, construction workers and migrant labourers. The union will distribute 5,000 litres of milk every day till Aprril 14. A family of four members will be given 1 litre of milk per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-positive-cases-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/74973708.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Western Railway to set up 420 isolation coaches||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad division of the Western Railway will convert 70 coaches into isolation wards. In all, the Western Railway will convert 420 coaches into isolation wards of which 70 will be stationed in the Ahmedabad division, said divisional railway manager Deepak Kumar Jha. He said that the work to convert the coaches has begun at the Kankaria coach depot. A prototype of an isolation ward was created on Friday, and it had oxygen and medicine supplies. Jha said that the windows of the coaches have been covered with mosquito nets and each bed will have a fan, light, and a mobile charging point. Railway officials said that one coach is expected to have 16 isolation beds. The railways will use only non-air-conditioned sleeper coaches for the isolation beds. Officials said that the first cabin near the bathroom of a coach will have curtains installed in the aisle so that the entry and exit of patients could be screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wr-to-set-up-420-isolation-coaches/articleshow/74975385.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha reports 4 positive cases for novel coronavirus in highest jump in one day||BHUBANESWAR: Four persons, including one who attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in New Delhi as well as three brothers, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Odisha on Friday. This is the highest number of positive cases that the state has witnessed in a single day since it reported the first case on March 15. This raises the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to nine, including seven from the state capital Bhubaneswar. The other two are from Cuttack and Bhadrak, leading to the state government to completely shut down all three cities for 48 hours, starting 8pm on Friday. Subroto Bagchi, the government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19, said a man from Cuttack with recent travel history to Nizamuddin Markaz has tested positive for the virus. Health department authorities said the 30-year-old native of Pension Lane in Buxibazaar area of Cuttack has been admitted to SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. The three brothers are from Bomikhal area of Bhubaneswar. They, too, have been shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital. All four are said to be from the minority community. Government sources said the four who tested positive on Friday were asymptomatic. More than 100 people who came in contact with them have been quarantined. Bagchi said the government has so far traced 67 people -- seven foreign nationals currently in Odisha and 62 from the state – who attended the Tablighi Jamaat. “Forty Odisha natives who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat have not returned to the state. They are in Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal,” Bagchi said. These apart, 10 people from West Bengal, who had attended the event in New Delhi, had visited Talcher area of Angul district after attending the Jamaat recently. “Locals who had come in their contact have been quarantined,” Bagchi added. The Angul district administration has quarantined 31 people in this connection. From among 27 people who returned from the Nizamuddin event, 21 have tested negative for COVID-19 while reports of 5 more are yet to come, the spokesperson said. Fearing community transmission in the wake of fresh cases, the government changed the Covid-19 regulations making it mandatory for all to report flu-like symptoms to the 104 Helpline with their personal details and health conditions. It will be the duty and responsibility of people to report flu symptoms to the government, the health department stated. “All persons with flu-like symptoms are urged to call the health helpline 104 and report about their personal particulars and health condition,” the health department asked people in a tweet. According to the revised regulations, doctors and healthcare professionals attending to Covid-19 patients will not attend to any other person and stay away from hospital staff attending to non-virus patients. All medical officers and other healthcare personnel engaged in screening suspected Covid-19 patients will be given protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-report-4-positive-cases-in-highest-jump-in-one-day/articleshow/74973720.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Civil society in Jaipur fears food distribution will stop||JAIPUR: Civil society organisations providing free cooked meals to poor and homeless for the past 13 days have been finding it difficult to run due to fear of infection and resource crunch. Jaipur’s biggest free meal programme initiated by several groups, including Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS), has decided to suspend distribution for 24-48 hours. At a meeting of all voluntary groups held on Friday, they decided to hand over the list of needy families and areas to the district administration for food distribution. Kavita Srivastava of People’s Union of Civil Liberties said since the past 13 days they have been distributing food packets to the needy numbering up to 5,000. “It is the duty of the government to provide food to poor families and needy. We will monitor them and see if the food is reaching at all places or not,” said Srivastava. The group has been receiving support from gurudwaras, temples, mosques and other charitable institutions. They have projected that a total of 17 lakh people are neded to be fed by the local administration in Jaipur alone. Mukesh Goswami of MKSS told TOI that due to the lockdown, they are finding it difficult to channelise their volunteers making the distribution difficult task. “Our volunteers are at risk as they distribute food to hundreds of people every day,” said Goswami, a core member of the group. They suggested the government to provide foodgrains to organised groups like Akshaypatra or Radha Swami Satsang Vyas who have the infrastructure to prepare food for thousands of people. Facing a similar problem, civil defence member in Jaipur Sahil Singhal said they had shut down distribution of cooked food due to poor support from the donors. “The question which most of the donate ask is how long the problem will persist. The uncertainty over the entire situation is killing their spirit,” said Singhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-society-fears-food-distribution-will-stop/articleshow/74975371.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt whip, dist collector inspect private hospitals||Tirupati: Following the state government’s decision to bring all services in the government and private hospitals as well as the healthcare industry under the essential services maintenance Act (ESMA), state government whip Dr Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, accompanied by district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta, inspected various private hospitals in the temple city of Tirupati on Friday. After visiting a few private hospitals, including Narayanadri hospital on Tiruchanoor road, RUSSH hospital, Sri Padmavathi Nilayam quarantine facility, and the SVRR government general hospital in Tirupati on Friday, the state government whip said that the next 11 days were very crucial to contain Covid-19. “The efforts of the state government and district administration have paid off to a large extent so far, as only nine positive cases have been reported in the district. A majority of the nine reported cases are linked to the Delhi Jamaat meet. The state government is following the best treatment protocols and we are confident that all the patients will recover,” Dr Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, who is also the Chandragiri legislator, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-whip-dist-collector-inspect-private-hospitals/articleshow/74974849.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Role reversal: With humans caged in, birds fill the silence as sightings go up||Over the past week, myriads of colourful, prancing birds have made their way into Greater Kailash-II resident Aman Dogra’s quiet morning ritual of sipping coffee on his balcony. Looking over the empty, sunlit road on Wednesday, an unusual one caught his eye and Google told him it is a purple sunbird. As human beings find themselves caged in their homes, the quiet neighbourhoods of Delhi-NCR have been taken over by thousands of birds — some migratory and some which were always around but would go unnoticed — singing atop balcony railings, flying in groups through gardens and hopping from one tree branch to the other. Ornithologists say, the clean air, reduced noise levels and ongoing breeding season have aided this jocund emergence. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park (YBP) in Delhi says while the sighting of urban birds has indeed gone up, people have also become more attentive. “There is more activity because this is the breeding season for so many bird species. With very little noise around us, it is easy for them to vocalise and call out for their mates,” said Khudsar, adding that noise above 20 decibels sends birds into hiding. When Khudsar went out to buy milk on Tuesday, he even saw a shikra (a bird of prey) sitting next to the shop, while other species like black ibis, grey hornbill, white eye, green pigeon, rose-ringed parakeet and purple sunbird are now easily spotted in neighbourhoods. The avian movement is pronounced between 6am and 2pm when the birds set out to find food for their newly hatched, said M Shah Hussain, scientist in-charge at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, adding that species like red turtle dove, red-whiskered bulbul, Indian treepie and the red-throated flycatcher are some uncommon birds one may spot around their houses now. Brigadier Arvind Yadav has recorded 42 species of different birds in the last three days using binoculars as part of a ‘house birding’ challenge. “I have put a water bowl and a feeder, which attracts many species,” said Yadav, who stays at Dhaula Kuan’s Army Enclave. The species recorded by him included the Eurasian hoopoe, pond heron, grey hornbill, jungle babbler and black kite. In Noida, too, enthusiasts who visit bird sanctuaries and wetlands regularly, said that they have been spotting some rare birds closer home. Coppersmiths, sunbirds, parakeets have flocked to the local parks, balconies and terrace gardens. “We are getting to hear koels. The birds start chirping early and can be heard through the day. Perhaps because there are no vehicles on the streets to drown their voice, the songbirds are clearly audible,” Shashi, a resident of Sector 29, said. The most visible at this time are the shiny sunbirds, they say. “I have seen almost 50 different species over the past few days. Because it is not possible to go out now, I have placed my camera on a tripod in a way that when birds come, I can click away. Several flowers are in bloom and the bird feeder has come in handy too. I have spotted intermediate egrets and black-eared kites,” said Anand Arya, a birder, who has a tip for inviting birds to balconies. “Keep a feeder, keep the balcony quiet, keep flowery plants and wait.” Several residents have also spotted birds which are usually only found in the nearby sanctuaries or wetlands. “Coppersmiths are flying in flocks. It is unusual and wonderful,” said Rakesh Khatri, a birder and member of IUCN (International Union For Conservation of Nature). In Gurugram, with the improved air quality, residents have reported spotting rare birds like chestnut-headed bee-eater, paradise flycatcher, and rosy starling in their localities. (With inputs from Ipsita Pati in Gurugram)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/role-reversal-with-humans-caged-in-birds-fill-the-silence-as-sightings-go-up/articleshow/74975750.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 4, 2020||Coimbatore||New convert to Islam subjected to cyberbullying||Coimbatore: A 24-year-old man, who had recently converted to Islam, on Friday said some youths in his locality were spreading rumours on social media that he was infected with Covid-19. He has approached police, seeking action against them.A cop attached to Karumathampatti police station said M Saravanan, of M Pappampatti near Karumathampatti, had converted to Islam two months ago and changed his name to Abdul Rahman. A functionary of Tamil Puligal Katchi, he has been working with a power loom unit. “With the lockdown is in force, he had stopped going to work and staying at his house along with his father Murugan and mother Radhamani, who are daily wage labourers. Meanwhile, a WhatsApp message that he had attended a meeting in New Delhi and returned home recently started doing the rounds,” the officer said. The message read that a medical team had screened him at his house and the results would be out in two days. It also warned that the entire village of M Pappampatti and Moppiripalayam panchayat would be sealed by officials if he were to be tested positive for Covid-19, the officer said. Saravanan alias Abdul Rahman, said, “On Thursday, I received phone calls from panchayat president, village administrative officers and many other people, asking me to come for Covid-19 screening. They also inquired about my health condition. I told them that I was not sick.” However, he was taken to the ESI Hospital, where doctors screened him. He was later let off as doctors didn’t see in him any signs of Covid-19. On Friday, he lodged a complaint with the Karumathampatti police, seeking action against two youths - Mahesh and Nandakumar - for spreading rumours about him on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-convert-to-islam-subjected-to-cyberbullying/articleshow/74975364.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Delhi||IB sleuth’s murder: AAP ex-councillor charged||NEW DELHI: The chargesheet filed in the murder case of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma on Wednesday claimed that the sleuth, a familiar face in the area, was specifically targeted by rioters led by suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain. Ten people, including Hussain, were arrested in this case. Earlier, TOI had reported that there were strong indications that it was a targeted killing. Eyewitness accounts cited by police allege that Hussain instigated the mob to kill “kafirs”. The ex-councillor had allegedly sent his family away , but had stayed back claiming that he was there for his community. Police claimed that Sharma had moved ahead of the crowd standing a short distance away from Hussain’s house to pacify people from both communities. However, 20-25 people carrying stones, rods, lathis, knives, etc, came and caught hold of Sharma, allegedly at Hussain’s instigation, and dragged him to Chand Bagh pulia where he was beaten to death. “The mob threw his body in the drain near Chand Bagh pulia along the main Karawal Nagar Road at 5.39pm (as per video footage captured by Neeraj Kasana). His body was recovered on February 26 around noon,” the chargesheet said. In their statements, eyewitnesses claimed that before Sharma’s murder, Hussain had led a crowd provoking them to take revenge. The mob then burnt several shops in the area. They also caught hold of Sharma, who was appealing for peace between both the communities. One of the killers, Salman, a resident of Chand Bagh who was caught by Special Cell, had bragged to a family member over the phone about stabbing Sharma multiple times and throwing his body into the drain, the chargesheet mentioned. Police examined 81 eyewitnesses to establish the role of each accused in Sharma’s murder. Hussain’s associates — Anas, Firoz, Javed, Gulfam and Shoaib Alam — were identified by eyewitnesses for firing indiscriminately at some residents of the area. Two other killers, Nazim and Kasim, were caught from Sambhal in UP, where they had fled after learning about Salman’s arrest. The conclusion of the chargesheet claimed that the accused had tried to create a sense of terror by not only mobilising the mob by provoking them on basis of religion, but also by providing them with logistical support, including weapons. The attack on Sharma had disturbed the social fabric of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ib-sleuths-murder-aap-ex-councillor-charged/articleshow/76186137.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Complexes must submit workers’ data for funds from Central scheme||PUNE: Over one lakh housing societies in the state have to compile the data of maids, watchmen, drivers and gardeners working on their premises for the state cooperation department to cover them under a central government pension plan. Housing federations across the state have to send the data to the state government so that they can start the central government pension scheme for them, cooperation department officials said. Many from the unorganised sector have been rendered jobless overnight after the lockdown. They should have some income and a pension for the future, vice chairman of Maharashtra Cooperative Housing Federation Suhas Patwardhan said. He is also the chairman of Pune District Cooperative Housing Federation. The order was issued by the development commissioner of unorganised labour under the department of industries, energy and labour. Societies have to prepare an Excel sheet and fill information for bulk enrolment of the unorganised staff for the central government scheme. “Most of these workers are staying at home. Though not all society members will cut their salaries, they will suffer. A pension scheme is necessary. The Centre has a scheme called Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan Dhan, but there is no data to disburse the amounts,” Patwardhan said. Housing societies can compile data and the pension scheme can commence with the Centre sending the money to their accounts, he added. Hirabai, who works in a society as a domestic help, said she would give her name if sought by the society members as times were hard. “We need the government’s help now. I get ration, but I cannot buy anything as I have no cash and hardly any savings,”she said. Activists said the scheme looks beneficial but there should be good contribution from the Centre and the workers must be allowed to withdraw funds when they need it. Shubha Shamim, an activist who works for the unorganised sector, said the minimum assured pension is Rs 3,000 after attaining 60 years of age. “There should be good contribution from Centre to what the worker will put up. Unless the government decides to put a lump sum amount now in their accounts, the scheme may not help many,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/complexes-must-submit-workers-data-for-funds-from-central-scheme/articleshow/74975379.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt tweaks decision for corona hospitals||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Friday changed its earlier decision to set up Covid-19 hospital in every district. The hospitals will come up at such places where the Centre has given permission to open radiology department. On March 31, health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das had told mediapersons that Covid-19 hospitals will be established in every district. “We slightly changed in the decision. District collectors will earmark places for setting up of the hospitals on the basis of the permission granted by the Centre to open radiology department,” said a press release quoting Das. Das said new testing centres will come up at Vimsar, Burla, MKCG medical college and hospital, Berhampur, IGH, Rourkela, hospitals in Rayagada, Kalahandi and Balangir. Now Odisha has government Covid-19 testing facilities in RMRC Bhubaneswar, AIIMS Bhubaneswar and SCB medical college and hospital in Cuttack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-tweaks-decision-for-corona-hosps/articleshow/74973734.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||20,000 packets of dry ration to be distributed in Jaipur soon||JAIPUR: As three MLAs - Mahesh Joshi, Amin Kagzi and Rafeek Khan - met district collector Joga Ram on Friday to take up the issue of distribution of dry ration packets in the city, they were assured by him that 20,000 packets of dry ration have been arranged and will be distributed soon. Joshi is Hawa Mahal MLA, Khan is Adarsh Nagar MLA and Kagzi is Kishanopole MLA. “I said there is a huge gap between those who are getting ration packets and those who are not. We discussed these issues with the collector and he assured us that about 20,000 packets of dry ration have been arranged and will be distributed in the city in a couple of days,” Khan told TOI. “So, he also assured us the figure (number of packets) will keep increasing in the coming days. So, the issue has been resolved now,” he added. “We urged him to remove all the barriers in distribution of dry ration packets. We also asked him to give ration to all the non-ration card holders in the city. I also pointed out that there are only 20% ration card holders (under food security act) in the city. Also, ration cards of many are inactive and some of them don’t have ration cards,” he added. Khan on Thursday had raised the issue with chief minister Ashok Gehlot about slow distribution of dry ration in Jaipur city. Meanwhile, civil society groups blamed the district administration for not including them in conducting the survey in identifying poor people in the district. “We are sceptical of the intentions of the officers and employees of the labour department because they want to show that there are very few workers in Sitapura and surrounding areas,” said Mukesh Goswami of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS). ADM IV Ashok Kumar on Friday said that on having received information at the war room, the administration helped provide food to 80 children from Bhubaneswar, Odisha, who were pursuing B.Ed from Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20000-packets-of-dry-ration-to-be-distributed-in-city-soon/articleshow/74975381.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown heroes: Kids open piggy banks, donate little savings||AHMEDABAD: Inspector D R Gohil was surprised to see 6-year-old Ishita Sharma comw into his office at the Vatva GIDC police station with her piggybank, saying that she wants to donate the money in it to fight the coronavirus. Gohil said the little girl said she had wanted to buy a cycle and had saved the money for it but now wants to give to the police to help poor people. “When I asked that how she will buy a cycle, she would start saving money buy the cycle later, but helping poor is important,” said Gohil. Gohil said, he told Ishita that the government does not need the money now but he will call her when it does. “I told her that for the moment she should buy the cycle with the money and when we need money for the poor we will call her. She went away happy,” Gohil said. Children in Gujarat are emptying their piggy banks and donating their little savings to help fight the coronavirus, crisis and provide relief to people affected by the lockdown. They have joined celebrities and business tycoons in donating to the PM-CARES Fund and also aiding direct relief measures for the poor. While a four-year-old girl from Ankleshwar town in Bharuch donated Rs 11,200 to the PM-CARES Fund, three boys from Ahmedabad walked into a police station to give away their combined savings of Rs 5,500 to feed migrant workers, whose lives have been upended by the lockdown. Four-year-old Paris Vyas won the hearts of millions when she told the media she is donating whatever she had in her piggy bank to fight the crisis and provide succour to the poor. It turned out that her fancy piggybank had coins and currency notes worth Rs 11,200. “I am donating whatever I have saved in my piggy bank. I saw on the TV that many famous people are giving money to fight the coronavirus. “If they can do it, I can also give my money. I am giving away all my savings. Everyone should donate money to help the government fight the coronavirus,” she said. Two days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nonagenarian mother Hiraba, who lives in Gandhinagar, donated Rs 25,000 from her savings to the PM-CARES Fund. Inspired by her gesture, a family in Gandhinagar decided to donate Rs 1 lakh to the fund after being prompted by their 13-year-old son, Rudra Patel. “I have decided not to celebrate my birthday this time. At my request, my parents decided to donate Rs 1 lakh to the PM-CARES Fund,” Rudra told a news channel, proudly holding up the cheque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kids-open-their-hearts-piggy-banks-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/74975388.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to follow Kerala lead in rapid tests for community surveillance||PUNE: Maharashtra will follow in Kerala’s footsteps in rapid tests for coronavirus surveillance. The southern state is waiting for the first consignment of kits from Hong Kong . It has already conducted some preliminary tests which indicate that such an effort will help better surveillance in the community. State health minister Rajesh Tope said these tests would be “quicker and easier” for surveillance of the community at large. “We will procure the kits soon,’’he told TOI. Rapid tests take blood samples, with quicker results. They are much cheaper with a greater reach, but the results are not final. “It has to be used with the swab tests or the Polymerase Chain Reaction test for confirmation,’’medical expert Pradeep Kumar and former Indian Medical Association president of Kerla said. He has written a detailed analysis on these tests for medical journals. Rapid tests can be used for hot spots to check for community spread at the earliest so that focussed aggressive measures can be taken in that particular region to prevent further spread, he added. Rapid tests which can be done by a nurse show results between 45 minutes and two hours and costs between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. The rapid tests will be an add-on to the PCR, pathology expert KP Aravindan said. “The tests will show positive if the virus is in the body for 3-7 days. This means that the test is not useful in the very early phase of the disease. For early diagnosis, PCR is the method of choice,” he said. Kerala state government panel doctor for Covid-19 Anup Kumar, who was at the forefront for the Nipah diagnosis, told TOI this cannot be used as a primary diagnostic test but to detect prevalence of the virus in a limited manner. “A person in incubation period can test positive. Positive cases will have to be reconfirmed via swab samples. But after rapid tests, we can isolate possible carriers quickly, focussing on community surveillance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-follow-kerala-lead-in-rapid-tests-for-community-surveillance/articleshow/74975376.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Differently abled child from Rajasthan donates his national award money to PM-CARES fund||JAIPUR: In a noble gesture, a 17-year-old differently abled boy suffering from a fatal disease has donated Rs 2 lakh that he had received as prize money for winning two national awards to the PM-CARES fund to assist relief works in the fight against Covid-19. Hridayeshwar Singh Bhati, who is the youngest patent holder of India with 7 inventions including 3 patents to his name, has received two national awards by the government of India with a prize money of Rs 1 lakh each. He decided to contribute the amount of Rs 2 lakh to the PM-CARES fund in view of the coronavirus spread. “The country gave so much and now this is the time for me to contribute and therefore I returned Rs 2 lakh prize money and contributed to the PM-CARES relief fund. The certificates and medals are the real awards which are with me,” he said. Bound to a wheelchair, Bhati was given national award by vice-president Venkaiah Naidu under the “Most Outstanding Creative and Inventor Child of India” category in December last year and was given “PM Rashtriya Bal Shakti Puraskar” by President Ram Nath Kovind in January. Bhati is suffering from duchenne muscular dystrophy, a genetic disorder characterized by progressive muscle degeneration and weakness. He invented circular chess in 2013 and became the youngest patent holder of the country. He has also invented 12 and 60 player circular chess and got patents for them. He has contributed in ramp modification for power vehicle accessibility in two vehicles, 16X16 Sudoku and has filed patents for them as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/differently-abled-child-from-rajasthan-donates-his-national-award-money-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/74975399.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Contracting Covid-19 not end of the world: Survivor||BHUBANESWAR: The second coronavirus patient of Odisha, who had tested positive for the virus after returning from the UK, was discharged from AIIMS Bhubaneswar on Wednesday night. Once out of hospital, he appealed to people to not panic and stay calm to beat the life-threatening respiratory disorder. The 19-year-old is the first cured patient among the six who tested positive for coronavirus in the state. Sharing his ordeal with TOI, he said people need to be optimistic and have faith in the doctors and healthcare workers. Contracting Covid-19 is not the end of the world, he said. A first-year student of bachelor in mathematics and computer science at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, this young man left the UK on March 16 and arrived in Bhubaneswar on March 18. “My father had asked me to self-isolate myself in our house and not touch anybody over phone. When I reached home, I confined myself to a room and did not meet any of my family members. After I started showing symptoms like mild fever and cold, my father took me to AIIMS Bhubaneswar,” he recalled. The hospital authorities put him in the isolation ward immediately. They took his throat swab for test. In the evening, the authorities told him that his sample had tested positive for Covid-19. “I could not believe the test result initially because I had shown mild symptoms, but that was the truth and I had to deal with it. To be honest, I was not scared. I was sure of being cured of it soon,” he smiled. He experienced mild fever, headache, body aches and a little bit of cough for five days. “I could not even pick up my phone owing to the acute body ache. Fever and headache gave me sleepless nights. The receptors of my taste bud were not working and I could not tell one food from another as I lost the sense of smell. But the problems started decreasing from the sixth day onwards. The fever was gone and so was the excruciating body pain. I slept most of the time during the period of treatment,” he added. The survivor said he started feeling well after the tenth day. “There was no fever, headache, body pain and cough on the 11th day. I am fortunate enough that I did not get respiratory problems since Day 1. But the symptoms vary from person to person. On the 13th and 14 day, the hospital authorities took two of my samples for testing. After my samples tested negative the second time, I was discharged from the hospital,” he added. While undergoing treatment, he was reading online materials of his university and working on his homework for at least one hour a day. “I watched 20 movies on my mobile phone during this time. I love classics and American film director Stanley Kubrick is my favourite. I loved his ‘2001: A Space Odyssey’. I also listened to a lot of music to keep myself relaxed in this difficult time,” he added. He said the most important thing for a Covid-19 patient is balanced diet. It will help energise the body and fight the virus. “People should not stop eating because they can’t feel its taste. Another important thing is drinking sufficient water during period of treatment to keep yourself hydrated. A positive mindset, good sleep, proper treatment and proper food will help you beat the virus,” he added. He also expressed his gratitude to the health workers and doctors of AIIMS Bhubaneswar. “I am grateful to the doctors and health workers of the hospital. The professionalism of these frontline health workers is commendable. I must also praise the government for taking steps to contain the contagious disease. I remember people were partying and roaming in the UK when they witnessed 2,000 positive cases, but our government locked down the country before the cases touched 1000,” he added. He wondered if his roommates back in the hostel are infected. “I think I got infected while travelling in air,” he said, adding, “I request everybody that stop victimizing any coronavirus positive patient. Please support him and pray for him to recover,” he added. He is still in isolation after being discharged from the hospital. “I will stay in quarantine for a few more days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/contracting-covid-19-not-end-of-the-world-survivor/articleshow/74973753.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops issue notices to housing society heads to control loitering on streets||PUNE: The Pune police have started issuing notices to the chairmen/presidents of various housing societies in a bid to rein in those loitering on the streets during the lockdown. The notices are being issues under CrPC Section 149. . At the moment, loiterers are booked under IPC Section 188 (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public authority), which provides for punishment including simple imprisonment. “They (chairmen/presidents) have a responsibility to ensure their members stay safe indoors,” DCP (Zone III) Pournima Gaikwad said. So far, notices have been served to heads of societies in jurisdictions of Kothrud, Alankar, Warje, Deccan, Sahakarnagar and Dattawadi police stations. According to the notice (copy with TOI), office-bearers must ensure members do not leave without police permission and must maintain a register at entrance/exit gates.  Milind Kulkarni, chairman of Saraswati society on Sinhagad Road, said, “Most of these steps can be followed. What if a few members still step out? We will face legal action and this is not justified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-issue-notices-to-housing-society-heads-to-control-loitering-on-streets/articleshow/74975382.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Purohits lean on video calls to perform puja amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: Several Purohits have taken to internet to perform their religious duties with several of them making use of video calls to perform pujas amid the 21-day lockdown. The purohits are accepting accepting online requests for ‘seemantham’ (baby shower), ‘gruhapravesam’ (housewarming), ‘masikam’ (a ritual performed after death) or ‘shraddha karmas’. “There are few rituals or ceremonies which cannot be postponed. So online services come handy,” said MV Rangarajan, a priest at Chilkur Balaji Temple. He said most purohits are adapting to the change. He said his family hired veda pandits from Tamil Nadu for his niece’s seemantham, online. Sukanya V, who had to hire a purohit for masikam, said that she was forced to use the online option. “We could not find anyone who would come to our house. So, we requested our purohit to perform the rituals virtually,” said Sukanya, adding this is the first time they used video calls for such rites. She said that they also transferred the ‘dakshina’ online. P Ramana Murthy, whose gruhapravesam is scheduled on April 8 said a purohit will be guiding them via video calls. “ As no purohit is ready to travel, we will go ahead with the rites via video calls,” he said. Purohits said that they accept online requests only if they know that the person has a basic knowledge about the rituals. “It’s hard to explain everything virtually.” said Ananda Sharma, a purohit. They also said ‘dakshina’ will be a little less for online pujas as they need not travel to clients’ homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/purohits-lean-on-video-calls-to-perform-puja-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74975387.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 4, 2020||Pune||Civic body forms teams for daily follow-up||Pune: The civic body has appointed dedicated teams to conduct a follow-up with people under home quarantine on a daily basis. The teams will check on people who have recently returned from international trips and those discharged after treatment for Covid-19. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed separate teams for five zones. The teams will seek updates from quarantined people on their health status and details of persons in contact with them. For persons sporting the home quarantine stamp, the teams will check if separate food, bed, utensils, clothes and washrooms are provided to them. The teams will check if those under under quarantine have downloaded the Saiyam app. Civic officials said dedicated staffers have been appointed since seeking updates on health and other conditions of quarantined people was a vital part of treatment. “More staffers will be made if needed,” an official said. Health department officials will monitor the information collected by the teams to decide further course of action. About 80 staffers will be involved in collecting the information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-forms-teams-for-daily-follow-up/articleshow/74975389.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||People resort to panic buying in twin cities||Bhubaneswar/Cuttack: People in twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack resorted to panic buying soon after the government’s announcement 48-hour shutdown starting from 8pm from Friday. Apart from twin cities, there will be shutdown in Bhadrak town. The markets, which used to witness customers trickling in in their leisure, saw sudden rush with people making beeline for grocery and vegetable shops. A few police personnel deployed at the markets were of little help as the shops were chock-a-block with apprehensive people. The Unit-I, vegetable market in Nayapalli and Kochilei market in Rasulgarh here saw mad rush of people since 4pm. The Omfed outlets, where packaged milk is sold, witnessed unprecedented rush. The milk stock got exhausted soon as people from other areas also came rushing in to stock a more milk in their refrigerator. “By the time I reached the vegetable markets, there was a huge crowd. Initially, I was apprehensive to venture into the market for fear of infection. But then there was no way. People didn’t at all maintain social distancing, which was a frightening sight at this juncture,” said Amulya Rath, a resident of Nayapalli. At many places, the mad rush of people led to traffic jam although while announcing shutdown, DG, police, Abhay and chief secretary Asit Tripathy had assured people not to panic. “People need not panic at all as select medicine stores will remain open during the curfew-like lockdown,” the DGP said. In Cuttack, heated exchange of words ensued at many shops over availability of essentials. At most of the shops, rice, dal and oil went out of stock in the evening as people bought them as soon as the announcement came in the afternoon in television. The medicine shops also witnessed heavy rush. An official source said Badambadi was flooded with people as the vegetable market was shifted from Chhatra Bazaar to Link Road a week ago. Thousands of people congregated in the evening to buy vegetables. “I was forced to shut down my shop as most of the groceries went out of stock and several people gathered near my shop,” said Subhendu Sahu, a grocery shop owner in Khan Nagar. Similarly, hundreds of vehicles were seen lined up near the petrol pumps in twin cities for fuel. People were buying fuel as if it won't be available after shutdown. The situation in Bhadrak was a bit different. As the district administration did not allow essential shops to open in the afternoon, there was no rush. However, the announcement of 48-hour shutdown came as a surprise for many as the town is not that affected, said a citizen. People stayed indoors with exception of some who came out to fetch milk, said Sanjib Kumar Mekap, a Bhadrak resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/people-resort-to-panic-buying-in-twin-cities/articleshow/74973768.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||Totally free treatment at 52 UHCs till May 31||Surat: The standing committee of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday decided to waive off the registration fees of patients visiting its 52 urban health centres (UHC) in the city. Moreover, it will not charge the patients for medicine and injections. “The patients visiting the UHCs of the SMC will not be charged registration fees (Rs 20) till May 31 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. They will also not be charged for medicines and injections. Everything is being made available free of cost,”' said SMC standing committee chairman Anil Goplani. “We have also decided to extend the 10% rebate scheme deadline for advance tax payers till May 31. Normally, we give 10% rebate in April and 7% rebate in May to advance taxpayers in the city. However, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the SMC will give 10% rebate to property tax payers till May 31,” Goplani said. According to the SMC officials, during the 2019-20 financial year, it had recovered Rs 1,050 crore as property tax from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/totally-free-treatment-at-52-uhcs-till-may-31/articleshow/74973417.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Curbs may ease early in city if numbers remain low||Nagpur: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday stated the state government could continue with lockdown in areas with large number of Covid-19 cases. “Even if Centre lifted its restrictions, state has the powers to continue them. If restrictions are eased simultaneously, people will again crowd the places. Only solution is to open up areas phasewise. For example, in Mumbai, the government would lift restrictions in Worli and then Dadar and then in other areas,” Deshmukh told TOI. While hinting that cities like Nagpur, with relatively fewer cases, would benefit, he said restrictions would be eased only after consultation with police commissioners, collectors and other authorities. “There’s still a long way to go. We can’t say anything at the moment,” he said. Expressing concern over attacks on police and health officials, the home minister warned the miscreants. “Our entire police force is working over 16 hours a day and it’s unfortunate that some people mete out such treatment to them. They are overburdened as their weekly offs are also cancelled. Even healthcare workers are at the frontline to save the patients,” he said. Deshmukh said over four lakh migrant workers were stranded in various parts of the state and government had made arrangements of their food and shelter at over 300 camps. “They’re stuck after the borders were sealed during lockdown. They wouldn’t be allowed to move till April 15,” he added. Referring to two positive cases in Dharavi slums that sparked fears of community spread, the home minister said entire area was sealed and the government was making all out effort to limit the spread of virus. Applauding efforts of police and health workers, Deshmukh said all government agencies had come together to fight this calamity and were working round the clock. “If you look at developed countries, where coronavirus has spread havoc, you will see that their systems have collapsed,” he said adding that diligently following social distancing norms was the only solution. Tablighi Jamaat responsible for the spread The home minister blamed Tablighi Jamaat members for not taking precautions that led to spread of Covid-19 cases across the country. “After their congregation, they moved to many states and infected others. We’re not taking any chances and have traced 95% of them in state. All of them are in quarantine and are being tested. We cancelled permission for their event in Vasai which was supposed to take place in mid-March that over 50,000 were expected to attend,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curbs-may-ease-early-in-city-if-numbers-remain-low/articleshow/74974879.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 4, 2020||Goa||Hospicio scales up resources in fight against Covid-19||Margao: With many private clinics and hospitals across South Goa being either shut or having scaled down operations, Hospicio, Margao, is battling on two fronts – catering to general patients needing emergency treatment, and those showing symptoms of Covid-19. The district hospital has now stepped up its preparedness level to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic by gearing up all its resources. While a screening centre has been set up near the hospital’s entrance, the establishment of two more Covid-19 out-patient departments (OPD) has taken the total to three. Doctors at these OPDs consult patients turning up with respiratory illnesses. Besides, three teams of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff have been constituted to handle any emergency in the event of a spurt in Covid-19 cases. “At the screening centre, patients presenting Covid-19 symptoms and having travel history are directed to the Covid-19 OPDs. Those not showing any symptoms of respiratory illness nor having travel history area are sent to the general emergency OPDs,” Hospicio’s medical superintendent, Dr Ira Almeida, told TOI. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa, has issued an advisory to its members suggesting that doctors above 60 years of age refrain from providing OPD services as far as possible. Other doctors have been advised to keep their out-patient departments open provided they have proper staff and social distancing is maintained in the waiting hall and throughout consultation time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hospicio-scales-up-resources-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/74975402.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru youths storm Instagram, TikTok with global coffee-making trend||BENGALURU: If you are tempted to join the brigade of youngsters posting pictures of a foamy coffee mixture sitting on a glassful of milk and ice, you aren’t alone. It’s the latest fad on social media. Lately, everyone on social media platforms seems to be jumping on the bandwagon for this special kind of frothy coffee — Dalgona Coffee. The trend, which began with a South Korean YouTube channel, has till date 96.6k posts on Instagram and 96.7k views on TikTok. Though it became popular globally in December, Indians began trying it out after the lockdown. To get that foamy cuppa right, one must whip together two tablespoons each of sugar, coffee powder and hot milk, till the dark liquid turns into a light, foamy cloud-like mixture. It turns into an excellent photo-op when the mixture is added on top of a glass filled with ice and milk. But it’s not just the pretty pictures that are making people try it; some also find the preparation process calming. Namrata Kumar, 19, a student, says she stumbled on the Dalgona Coffee video on TikTok. “Since the lockdown began, my anxieties were high. Watching Dalgona Coffee videos is fun and relaxing. I also tried my hand at it and I’ve mastered the technique,” says Namrata. Bengalureans have also given a twist to the brew. For instance, Deborah Paul, a city-based special educator in autism, says it doesn’t always taste as good as it looks in pictures. “It tastes great when mixed aggressively until foam and milk become one,” she says. Some are trying it out as part of the #DalgonaCoffeeChallenge. For many, recipes like this help keep their mind off the pandemic. But there are many who say this recipe isn’t new to Indians. Asiya Rehman, a techie, says it’s just a westernised version of local whipped coffee. “The difference is we add hot milk to the foam. Some of these trends are just our old Indian recipes with a Western twist,” she says. Snigdha Chaturvedi, a city-based twitterati shared a picture of Dalgona Coffee with an ode to her grandmother’s recipe — “Dalgona coffee is just the flipped version of the ‘phiti hui’ (whipped) coffee, desi homes have been making for ages.” There are also jokes about how people are trying Dalgona Coffee like it’s a cure for coronavirus, while some call it a wrist exercise in disguise. Atul Khatri,a popular standup comedian, tweeted a disclaimer: “WHO has specified that Dalgona coffee does not cure coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/city-youths-storm-insta-tiktok-with-global-coffee-making-trend/articleshow/74975057.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 4, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha govt shuts down Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak for 48 hours to check virus spread||BHUBANESWAR: On a day Odisha reported four new positive Covid-19 cases, the state government completely shut down the cities of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak for 48 hours – starting 8 pm on Friday – in a bid to contain the possible community transmission of the virus. Announcing the decision, chief secretary Asit Tripthay said, “The precautionary measure is taken to prevent community spread of the virus because these places have reported all the (nine) cases in Odisha.” Out of the nine Covid-19 patients currently in hospital, seven are from Bhubaneswar – including three brothers who tested positive on Friday – and one each from Cuttack and Bhadrak. Barring hospitals and select medicine stories, everything else will remain shut during the 48-hour period. The OPDs in hospitals will also be closed. All shops including those selling groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk as well as business centres and other establishments will remain closed, the government order specified. The shutdown will have an impact on around 20 lakh people residing under the municipal areas of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak besides 14 village panchayats around the state capital. Appealing to the people to cooperate with the state government, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “These 48 hours are crucial for the administration. The officials will trace the contacts of those who tested positive, a key step in containing the spread of Covid-19. We have to make some sacrifices for the welfare of our family and friends and bear the hardships due to the shutdown.” The government also suspended passes issued to various categories of professionals and vendors, except those associated with healthcare. Stating that the shutdown is nothing less than a curfew, DGP Abhay said, “Police will be forced to shift those coming out of their homes to government-run quarantine facilities for 14 days.” Government’s Covid-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said the decision to go for a complete shutdown was triggered by patients fifth and sixth. While the fifth patient is a 60-year-old man from Bhubaneswar with no travel history, the sixth one is a 30-year-old native of Cuttack who had gone to Delhi to take part in the Tablighi Jamaat. “The shutdown will help us to aggressively trace their contacts,” Bagchi said. In case of the 60-year-old from Bhubaneswar, the government has found that neither he nor his close contacts have travelled outside the city in the last few months. He, however, had visited the OPDs of two private hospitals and AIIMS, Bhubaneswar for treatment. He was admitted to AIIMS between March 5 and 31. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has, meanwhile, sealed the Suryanagar locality where the fifth patient’s residence is located. The man is on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-shuts-down-bhubaneswar-cuttack-and-bhadrak-for-48-hours-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/74981647.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt shuts down Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak for 48 hours to check virus spread||BHUBANESWAR: On a day Odisha reported four new positive Covid-19 cases, the state government completely shut down the cities of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak for 48 hours – starting 8 pm on Friday – in a bid to contain the possible community transmission of the virus. Announcing the decision, chief secretary Asit Tripthay said, “The precautionary measure is taken to prevent community spread of the virus because these places have reported all the (nine) cases in Odisha.” Out of the nine Covid-19 patients currently in hospital, seven are from Bhubaneswar – including three brothers who tested positive on Friday – and one each from Cuttack and Bhadrak. Barring hospitals and select medicine stories, everything else will remain shut during the 48-hour period. The OPDs in hospitals will also be closed. All shops including those selling groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk as well as business centres and other establishments will remain closed, the government order specified. The shutdown will have an impact on around 20 lakh people residing under the municipal areas of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak besides 14 village panchayats around the state capital. Appealing to the people to cooperate with the state government, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “These 48 hours are crucial for the administration. The officials will trace the contacts of those who tested positive, a key step in containing the spread of Covid-19. We have to make some sacrifices for the welfare of our family and friends and bear the hardships due to the shutdown.” The government also suspended passes issued to various categories of professionals and vendors, except those associated with healthcare. Stating that the shutdown is nothing less than a curfew, DGP Abhay said, “Police will be forced to shift those coming out of their homes to government-run quarantine facilities for 14 days.” Government’s Covid-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said the decision to go for a complete shutdown was triggered by patients fifth and sixth. While the fifth patient is a 60-year-old man from Bhubaneswar with no travel history, the sixth one is a 30-year-old native of Cuttack who had gone to Delhi to take part in the Tablighi Jamaat. “The shutdown will help us to aggressively trace their contacts,” Bagchi said. In case of the 60-year-old from Bhubaneswar, the government has found that neither he nor his close contacts have travelled outside the city in the last few months. He, however, had visited the OPDs of two private hospitals and AIIMS, Bhubaneswar for treatment. He was admitted to AIIMS between March 5 and 31. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has, meanwhile, sealed the Suryanagar locality where the fifth patient’s residence is located. The man is on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-shuts-down-bhubaneswar-cuttack-and-bhadrak-for-48-hours-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/74973781.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Parents pray for quick return of cadet pilots from US||Mangaluru: Balvinder Singh Virdi and Amritpal Kaur Virdi, who have been living in Mangaluru for the past two decades, are worried for their son, who is stranded in the US. Prabjot Singh Virdi is a cadet pilot, who is pursuing the commercial pilot licence (CPL) course at CAE-Oxford Academy. Attached to a Indian private airline, these cadets are in Phoenix, Arizona, as part of their 54-week commercial pilot training. Prabjot is a cadet belonging to batch number 27, and left India on December 2018. However, due to technical reasons, the training programme was delayed. Balvinder Singh Virdi said, “In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, things are not very pleasant there. Parents of Indian cadets are worried about their safety. A soon as we wake up in the morning, we call our son to check if he is safe. We request the government to intervene and help these cadets return to India, if the training academy cannot ensure their safety. There are around 150 Indian cadets there, in addition to cadets from Japan and other countries. Parents are reaching out to the academy as well as the ministry of external affairs and Indian Embassy in the US. The ministry has responded to our mails, and assured to look into the matter immediately,” he said. Though the academy has been maintaining that all precautionary measures are in place, the cadets are complaining about the lack of gloves and masks. A few parents are also planning to reach out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, he said. In an email to the foreign secretary on March 29, Balvinder Singh said, “The US government has not yet instructed for a lockdown of the state. However, the academy has informed students that in case of a lockdown, the academy would cease to pay for the students’ stipend and accommodation. The course has already been extended because of inappropriate management by the academy, which caused financial stress on parents, and now the indications of abandoning students during a lockdown is insensitive and unwise. I request you to please ensure necessary steps are taken to prevent the academy from taking such actions and creating panic among the students. If the academy is unable to ensure the well-being of the students, then my suggestion would be to arrange for safe return of the students to their respective countries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/parents-pray-for-quick-return-of-cadet-pilots-from-us/articleshow/74973796.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Bicholim man held for ‘Nizamuddin’ post||PANAJI: A 50-year-old person from Bicholim was arrested on Friday and subsequently released on bail after he allegedly posted ‘I love Nizamuddin’ on social media. This comes in the wake of the markaz religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat that was held last month at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Nizamuddin has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the country. Speaking to TOI, Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi said, “We have arrested Mohsin Shaikh, a resident of Muslimwado, under Section 188 (violating curfew order) and Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.” Dalvi said the accused was later released on bail on producing a surety of Rs 10,000. “We had received many complaints about his posts. The offence has been registered suo motu,” Dalvi said. A senior police officer said Shaikh had first posted ‘I love Nizamuddin’ which attracted widespread criticism fromk people. Following this, Shaikh put up another post which was even more provocative in nature. The officer also said that if the police had to not arrest Shaikh, Bicholim town could have witnessed “tense moments”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-man-held-for-nizamuddin-post/articleshow/74975412.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC threatens action if food is distributed without govt approval||HYDERABAD: Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) department warned individuals and organizations of action against them if they distribute food without contacting government officials. The decision was taking following an incident in Manikonda on Thursday. Around 3,000 people gathered at Manikonda on account of free distribution by individuals and social distancing went for a toss. “The district collector shall inform the local superintendent of police to initiate action against private individuals if they are not routing distribution of food and essentials through proper channel (government officials),” read a statement issued by MAUD department. Outside Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), additional collectors have been appointed as nodal officers who shall widely publicise the instructions by giving phone numbers and contact details so that donors can contact them. The state government has directed them to coordinate with municipal commissioners and the police for distribution (food and essentials) by ensuring social distancing. For philanthropists and samaritans who want to serve the city, GHMC on Thursday formed a wing to collect food and essentials from donors. “We have pressed into service 10 vehicles (DCMs) to collect food and distribute them to the needy. Action against people will be initiated if the food is not routed through GHMC officials,” said Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-threatens-action-if-food-is-distributed-without-govt-approval/articleshow/74975409.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Jaipur||Woman cop in Kotwali who never says no to help||JAIPUR: Meet 45-year-old head constable Santosh Chaudhary who never fails to respond to calls for help. Posted at Kotwali police station, she always makes it a point to ensure steady flow to supplies to locals whenever they need. Despite the ongoing curfew in Kotwali thana area, she is just a phone call away. Be it supplying ration, food packets, arranging LPG cylinders to even helping with bank work, she does it all. Her phone starts ringing as early as 7 am and generally it is the elderly living alone who are the first ones to call. “I reach for duty at 8 am and even after I return home at 9 pm I get calls for help. People who have some issues or problems keep calling me and I keep arranging things and solving problems for them even after reaching home,” she says. “As a beat constable, I have been visiting elderly couples who are poor and whose children are settled abroad. Also visiting destitutes is part my job. During the lockdown which was converted into curfew in my police station area, these people rely on me for even small things,” says Chaudhary, who is better known as Jeejibai in the area. TOI met her on a sultry Friday afternoon when she was busy over phone at Choti Chaupar. “Abhi aa rahi hun maataji. 10 minute main aapke saaman ke saath pahoonch jaoongi. (I am coming. I will be there in 10 minutes with your items),” she tells a caller before disconnecting her phone. While she leaves for work on her tw-wheeler everyday, her two children tell her to be careful. “They worry that going to so many households increases her risks of an infection. However, as it is advisable for the elderly not to venture out, I respond to all the calls, no matter how tiring it gets. There is no one to take care of them. I take precautions,” she added. “Sometimes elderly couple ask for groceries, while at a few occasions I had arranged their LPG cylinders. Lockdown and curfew is a must at this time to fight Covid-19, but at the same time society needs to take care of those who are stuck and stranded somewhere,” she adds. Is she too scared and jittery like others while visiting areas in the Walled City where several cases have been reported? “I also feel scared and put on masks and keep sanitiser in my pocket. Whenever I am talking to someone, I ask them to keep a distance,” she tells. These days Santosh spends restless nights and goes to sleep after a bath. “Raat ko sapne bhi yehi aatey hain ki budiya ko roti nahin milli aur woh bula rahi hai (Even in dreams I find myself called by an elderly woman who asks for meal),” she tells in her typical Haryanvi dialect. During the interaction, a police PCR van stopped and policemen in the van asked her if she had eaten. In her reply, she directs the PCR van to make a visit to Baba Harishchandra Marg where some poor people on the road were sitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-cop-who-never-says-no-to-help/articleshow/74975411.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Walk on colony roads will cost you in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The effort of Delhi Police to prevent people from wandering around in their colonies will be boosted and in fact, the cops have already registered over 150 FIRs in the past few days against people they found violating the lockdown rules. They have also invoked the Epidemic Act and provisions of the Indian Penal Code to register cases against 95 people who have breached house-quarantine norms. Amid this, they were heartened by the act of man who called police to register a case against his father who was adamant on taking walks despite being urged not to. The people against whom police acted argued that they were either out to stretch their legs or to meet someone. Anto Alphonse, DCP (Dwarka), disclosed that 21 FIRs were registered in Dwarka alone against people not complying with the quarantine rules requiring them to stay isolated in their houses. Anil Mittal, additional PRO, Delhi Police, added that another 12 cases, eight in south Delhi, two in north Delhi and one each in northwest and central Delhi, had been registered on the same grounds. “We had given people adequate warnings and informed them about the consequences of violating the rules. We are taking action now,” said Alphonse. Cops are now employing drones and people on the ground to gather information about violators. In south Delhi, police are keeping tabs on several areas, among them Hauz Khas, Ambedkar Nagar, Sangam Vihar and Mehrauli. So far, the drone surveillance is restricted to the daytime. Nine picket points have been put up in south Delhi for 24 hours surveillance. Apart from quarantine violators, 156 FIRs were registered and 3,195 people detained in Delhi on Friday for violating lockdown norms. The FIRs have cited IPC sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers). In addition, 365 vehicles have also been impounded under the Delhi Police Act. A police officer in Dwarka revealed that local residents in some areas have been roped in to keep an eye on people leaving their houses. “These people will ask them why they are stepping out. If they are unable to provide a valid reason for being outside, they will be reported and booked,” the officer said. Amid this scene of wilful contravention of lockdown norms, a 30-year old man in Rajokri in south Delhi reported his father to the cops. He told police that his 59-year old father left the house at 8pm every day for a walk. When the cops responded to his call, they found the father-son duo arguing on the road. “The son was asking his father to go back home, but the elderly man was not listening. We brought them to the police station and released the father on bail and filing an FIR under IPC Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) at the Vasant Kunj South police station,” said a police officer. The man was concerned about his father’s health being at a vulnerable age and had sought the help of the cops in keeping the 59-year-old indoors. Police responded to his call, but took the two of them to the police station. Coming out of houses and strolling on the roads or in the community parks during the lockdown are prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/walk-on-colony-roads-will-cost-you/articleshow/74975417.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Pune||Strict checks in containment zones even after lockdown period: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope has said the state government would strictly enforce the surveillance norms in the “containment zone” even after the lockdown period to check the spread of coronavirus cases. The Centre has imposed the lockdown across the country till April 14. The standard protocols for the containment strategies involve demarcation of areas around the cluster of cases as “containment” and “buffer” zones, house-to-house search for people with respiratory symptoms and putting them under home quarantine or hospital isolation. The minister told TOI that the government would ensure “stricter vigilance” in the containment zones/hotspots marked by the administration even after the lockdown period. “The surveillance measures in these areas will be stringent even after the lockdown is relaxed or withdrawn. The administration will have to maintain strict vigil on people’s movement in these areas. A curfew-like situation will continue to prevail in each containment zone till we are sure that there is no threat of Covid-19 infection,” Tope told TOI. Once an area is declared as a containment zone, all residents of that locality are essentially under home quarantine with restricted movements. The authorities have to ensure supply of essential commodities in these localities. The health minister also stressed on adequate check of the over 3.5 lakh migrant workers put up at various camps across the state. “The respective district administration has been told to keep a close watch on the areas where the migrant workers are being kept. Social distancing has to be maintained among them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-checks-in-containment-zones-even-after-lockdown-period-tope/articleshow/74975413.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 4, 2020||Delhi||As duty calls, Delhi cops forced to stay away from kids longer||NEW DELHI: After waiting for five days, Vidhi (8) got to play ludo with her father, head constable (HC) Anil Dhaka, when he reached home on Thursday morning. A few hours later, when he was leaving for duty again, Vidhi gave him a white envelope for his station house officer (SHO). It had a note: “You don’t sleep at night. You come late to your house or sometimes don’t come to your house. So, I, Vidhi Dhaka, daughter of head constable Anil Kumar Dhaka, want to thank you and your staff for taking care of everyone without thinking of your own lives (sic).” The SHO and his staff members were not only happy, the note was also an encouragement for them to do better. “Our school teacher asked us to thank people who are at the forefront of fighting the novel coronavirus. I wrote the letter to thank my father and all police officers,” Vidhi told TOI. Her elder brother, Abhishek, said the family was worried about their father’s well-being. “We call him every two hours. Sometimes he gets angry but we understand. Earlier my sister used to run to him as soon as he reached home but now she waits for him to clean up,” he said. Inspector Afaq Ahmad’s wife, Zeenat, is now left mostly with their 7-year-old son at their Okhla home. “Even when he is at home, he tells us to maintain a distance. While for most people, the lockdown period is also family time, police officers need to be on duty. My son some times craves to play with him. I appeal to everybody to follow the lockdown,” she said. It’s the children who suffer the most as even on returning home, police personnel try to isolate themselves to keep their near and dear ones safe. Vijayanta Arya, DCP-North West and a mother of two boys, was surprised when her sons asked her to stay home to follow the lockdown. “At first it was funny, then I explained to them that police personnel need to be on the ground to make sure people don’t go out.” As she and her husband, South West DCP Devender Arya step out for work, the kids are left in the safe custody of their grandparents. “Sometimes my sons video-call me after a fight. They wait for me to reach home at night but usually by the time we are home, they are either sleepy or have already slept,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-duty-calls-cops-forced-to-stay-away-from-kids-longer/articleshow/74975760.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 4, 2020||Pune||Lockdown heroes: Treating a critical patient boosts morale of Bharati hospital doctor||PUNE: The high of successfully treating the very critical 41-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, has come as a massive fillip to the staff of Bharati Vidyapeeth (DTU) Medical College. For 12 days, the woman was on ventilator due to acute respiratory distress, and leading the charge against the contagion was Dr Shivakumar S Iyer, professor, department of critical care medicine. When the woman was finally taken off the ventilator and showed improvement, it made the staff — doctors, intensivists, ICU nurses and healthcare attendants, drawing from the critical care department — forget about their own personal struggles in those dozen days. “All our staff managing this case had to be quarantined and stayed away from their family during this period. Many have young children or elderly parents,” he said. When the woman was admitted to the hospital, she was immediately placed in isolation. “The most difficult part was managing the fear and panic in the minds of relatives and also health care personnel,” Iyer recalled. Over the next 12 days, the woman needed close and careful attention by the team attending to her. “The main challenge was to provide care without endangering our staff. My major role apart from providing expert care was allaying the anxiety and providing emotional support to the family and staff,” Iyer said. When she finally got off the ventilator, Iyer recalled, it boosted their morale.“This condition has a very high mortality. It has helped gear us to manage subsequent cases with confidence,” said Iyer. Iyer said that managing just this one case took a lot out of everyone. “I shudder to think what will happen if we are flooded with cases. It will overwhelm our health system and endanger our staff and secondarily, all of society. Providing adequate resources to healthcare personnel and keeping up their spirits, will be a challenge,” said Iyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/treating-a-critical-patient-boosts-morale-of-bharati-hospital-doctor/articleshow/74975415.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 4, 2020||Goa||As govt mounts rescue effort, some seafarers say they are safer onboard||Panaji: Even as the Goa government makes efforts to bring back over 8,000 seafarers, some stakeholders suggest that the offshore seamen remain safer aboard the ships which serves as a natural lock down and quarantine. Stakeholders in the industry also pointed out that on the cruise liners, the men have access to food and are also covered by health insurance, which they will lose once they leave the ship and return home. Goan seamen association of India (GSAI) points out that the crew on board cruise vessels operated by MSC Cruises and Costa Cruises are the worst hit and required to be evacuated, while crew members on other vessels are in a better position. The state government has already reached out to the Centre seeking help to bring back seamen stuck on cruise vessels in countries infected by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Stakeholders also point out that Goa lacks a quarantine facility large enough to isolate the crewmen once they return to Goa. “Being a sailor, I would say if the situation on board is not so bad and manageable, then the sailors quarantined on board should stay there till the situation gets a bit normal. Travelling at this time of crisis is not recommended unless things are worse on board,” said Cuncolim resident Joel Morais who is presently stuck aboard a ship. Thousands of Goans are employed with major cruise firms such as Carnival Cruise Line, Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises, Viking Cruises, Virgin Voyages and Marella Cruises. These firms have home ports strewn around the world, spread out as far as the Caribbean region and Florida to Italy and Barcelona. “They are currently safe on the ship and each ship has a doctor and medical facility. Hygiene and sanitation is at the highest level if you consider that 75% of the ships are around the US and are following the USPH standard,” said Parixit Pai Fondekar, director of Kamaxi Overseas Consultants, a recruiting firm for cruise lines. Kamaxi Overseas itself has 7,000 crew members stuck on vessels across the globe. GSAI said that the crew members stranded in and around Brazil and Italy are those who need immediate attention. “The crew on MSC and Costa, which are in Brazil and Rome, are having a terrible time. So the government should listen to them because they are are not being taken care off. The seamen are frustrated and they should be rescued before the lockdown is lifted because after that it will become a mess,” said founder president of GSAI, Dixon Vaz. If one takes into account India’s contribution to the cruise sector, Fondekar estimates that there are around 50,000 seamen employed with cruise liners and India will have to repatriate all stranded seamen. and not just Goans. Royal Caribbean itself employs 4,787 Indians aboard its ships. “Some seem to not understand the situation and have created a fear and hype, and demands have been made of the Goa government. If the seafarers are brought home then do we have enough quarantine centres, and aren’t we putting our families at risk of the contagious Covid-19?” executive chef with Princess cruises, Jerry Dias said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-govt-mounts-rescue-effort-some-seafarers-say-they-are-safer-onboard/articleshow/74975431.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||Now, two new containment zones demarcated to stem virus spread||Bhopal: After four jammatis — staying in mosques at Shyamala Hills and Aishbagh — were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the one-km area radius around the two places of worship has been barricaded and declared “containment area”. The spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore told TOI that the “containment area” was sanitized by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday. Residents of 50 houses on all on either sides of the “epicentre” were screened, he added. A rapid action team of health officials, BMC officials and revenue officials has been formed to monitor the area and make provision of essential for the residents — who have been quarantined for 14 days, and will not be allowed to leave the area under any circumstances. “It there is some emergency, then the rapid action team headed by the SDM will take a call,” said Rathore. Residents of the area have been advised to practice social distancing, wear masks and wash their hands frequently during the quarantine period. “A doctor would be monitoring the health of the residents and if someone develops coughing of fever, they should inform the team or the doctor immediately,” said Rathore. Talking about the provision of essential goods during isolation, he said, “The necessary items will be provided by the district administration. We have provided a phone number to all residents of the area to contact, if they need anything.” To ensure that no one enters or exits the areas, police have barricaded the area and are on constant vigil around their perimeters. Even the road leading to the chief minister’s house in Shyamla Hills has been closed and checkpoints set up in front of Bharat Bhavan. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is currently living in 74 Bungalows — which is not part of the containment zone. SHO Shyamla Hills, BP Singh Bains said, Ahata Rustam Khan area was already barricaded after the a woman and her father were tested Covid-19 positive. He said, now another 1km around the area has been locked down. He further said, police have put up checkpoints at Depot Square, Doordarshan office, Shyamla Hills police station, Kilol Park, Ravindra Bhawan, Governor House, and Banganga Square. The movement to and from these areas is completely restricted. He further said that entry is only allowed to milk supply from Sanchi, newspaper vendors, BMC vehicles which are supplying vegetables & grocery and the emergency teams conducting the medical screening. A force of around 100 police personnel has been deployed in the area to enforce lockdown. They have been supplied masks and sanitisers from the control room. Similarly, the area around Rehmani Mosque in Aishbagh has been locked up and police have barricaded all streets leading to it. ASP Zone I, Rajat Saklecha, said that the mosque was completely barricaded and entry in or out has been stopped. Checkpoints have been set up at every cut point to restrict movement of people especially in and around 200-300 metres from the epicentre.  A force of three policemen at each checkpoint has been deployed. Saklecha said that police force has been deployed at all 32 mosques in the city, where foreign jamaatis had been living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-two-new-containment-zones-demarcated-to-stem-virus-spread/articleshow/74974934.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Crime rate dips by up to 80 per cent in Delhi as janta stays in||NEW DELHI: There has been a drastic fall in crime figures in the second half of March. Delhi Police data shows that between March 15 and 31, most crimes have reduced by half and some have even reduced by almost 80%. While street crimes and fatal accidents have reduced since there are hardly any people on the roads, the dip in burglary and vehicle thefts is being attributed to increased police presence and sealed borders. Extensive checking at the borders has acted as a deterrent for criminals from the neighbouring states. Robbery, kidnapping for ransom and extortion have also seen a massive fall. The total number of crimes, too, has dipped by a huge 44% compared with last year. This year, 1,890 cases have been lodged compared with 3,416 in 2019. “Drinking in public has reduced to nil owing to the lockdown. The closures of colony roads have reduced accidents,” said Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa. Incidents of molestation of women have reduced by almost half (72 compared with 144 last year). There has been a 65% dip in the number of cases of causing hurt, which occur mainly due to petty fights, as people are forced to stay indoors. “With most services now available at doorsteps and the fear of being infected by Covid-19 have resulted in people avoiding physical contact,” said a cop. Police have intensified patrolling at hotspots and deployment of policemen has become dynamic with focus on crime-prone areas, identifying active criminals, arrest of notorious criminals and preparation of their history sheets during the lockdown to contain them. Senior citizens, who are one of the most vulnerable groups prone to heinous crimes, feel safer since most of their family members are at home. Initiatives like the Covid patrol force and drone surveillance of colony roads have resulted in people staying indoors. As a result, the possibility of crimes occurring in residential areas have dipped by almost 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crime-rate-dips-by-up-to-80-as-janata-stays-in/articleshow/74975430.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man assaults Aasha workers on duty, lands behind bars||HYDERABAD: A man was arrested at Tirupally in Adilabad district and booked on charges of assaulting Aasha workers when they went to seek details of his brother who was in home quarantine after he returned from the Tablighi meet in Delhi. Police slapped section 354 (assault or criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act on him. Earlier, a group of Aasha workers staged a protest at Tirupally demanding action against the accused after two fellow workers were allegedly attacked by the latter. Adilabad district SP Vishnu S Warrier said the workers went to the man’s house at Chilukuri Lakshminagar area on Thursday afternoon to find out secondary contacts and collect information. “The man’s brother ill-treated the workers and shouted at them. When the Aasha workers asked for a signature on the paper, he tore it,” the SP said. The SP said the workers were carrying out checks on those lodged in home isolation as part of their duty. “They were carrying out contact tracing in the area. They were seeking details of those who came in contact with the man, who has been home quarantined after he returned from Delhi,” he said. Meanwhile, the Aasha workers also demanded safety gears and masks from DM&HO while discharging their duties.u S Warrier said the workers went to the man’s house at Chilukuri Lakshminagar on Thursday to find out secondary contacts and collect information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-assaults-aasha-workers-on-duty-lands-behind-bars/articleshow/74975502.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Unauthorised absence: SDMC warns health staff of sackings||NEW DELHI: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has issued a stern warning to its public health officials making it clear that any dereliction of duty during the time of Covid-19 pandemic will lead to disciplinary action and even termination of services, confirmed a senior official. “It has been directed by commissioner Gyanesh Bharti that the public health department is covered under the essential services and all employees are duty bound,” the order reads. It was issued after some staff reportedly made excuses of difficulties in travelling, said an official. Civic staff will show the government-issued identity cards to cross state borders and report for duty, the order stated, underlining that “any unauthorised absence from duty will be dealt with seriously, including termination of services under section 56J” of the service rules. Under the section, an official can be compulsorily retired if his service leads to public loss. “In extreme cases, the administration is also empowered to invoke the epidemic act for ensuring continued performance of machinery,” the official said. SDMC is trying to ramp up its human resources in the health department as many posts are already lying vacant, said an official. The corporation has decided to take help of healthcare professionals, who are ready to volunteer, at its health centres and dispensaries, said a spokesperson. “Many retired and fresh doctors, nurses and even medical students have come forward to serve the nation at this crucial time. They will work for free,” he added. The plan has been approved initially for three months and can be discontinued any time depending on the requirement, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unauthorised-absence-sdmc-warns-health-staff-of-sackings/articleshow/74975439.cms||Paras Singh
April 4, 2020||Goa||‘Reduce food wastage, start home composting’||Panaji: Goa Waste Management Corporation on Friday requested citizens to reduce food wastage and take up home composting instead. Since the lockdown has affected garbage collection and treatment process, the corporation felt that the current situation would be the right time to encourage citizens to reduce waste. GWMC has asked citizens to cook responsibly, reduce litter and start home composting in whatever way possible. “Because of the lockdown we want to propagate home composting because many people are now sitting at home and they can start their own compost unit,” GWMC managing director Levinson Martins said. He said that the solid waste management workforce has been affected because of the lockdown. “Now we are operating with very less labourers. These are practical problems,” Martins said. In its recommendations, GWMC stated that citizens should cook efficiently. “Limiting food wastage, weekly meal planning and coordinated shopping can lead to a reduced food wastage,” states the first GWMC recommendation. The second recommendation stressed on the importance of home compost. “Food waste does not need to enter the main municipal waste stream, especially during this time. Get a contained compost unit installed at your home,” it states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduce-food-wastage-start-home-composting/articleshow/74975420.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||Will give dates 10 days before X, XII exams start: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that students appearing for their SSC and HSSC exams would be informed 10 days prior to the exam. “We will not announce last-minute dates for SSC exams and the remaining papers of HSSC,” he said. Sawant also exhorted students to continue studying, and to continue preparing for competitive exams. Sawant also said that the government would not conduct the SSC and HSSE exams online, but would let students answer mock exams for practice. “The directorate of education (DoE), along with the state council of educational research and training (SCERT), have announced that they would conduct mock tests online in mathematics and science,” Sawant said. CM: Mock tests are not compulsoryHe added that these practice tests are meant for students of government and government-aided schools who are appearing for the 2020 state board exams. “These are not compulsory,” he said. “Students who want to practise can appear for these mock tests, which have nothing to do with the board exam.” He added that the DoE and SCERT have tied-up with Jio-Embibe to “ensure that the learning of Class X students is not interrupted”. Meanwhile, Sawant told reporters that students of Classes IX and XI would be assessed for promotion after calculating the average of earlier examinations. If they fail, they will be given the opportunity to answer a supplementary exam — which will be conducted maintaining social distancing, he said Speaking on university exams, Sawant said Goa University will inform student ten days before the scheduled start of exams. Sawant said that 82 counsellors affiliated with the education department would be sent to a labour shelter home to counsel people. The health department has already given orientation training to these 82. The counsellors have been asked to inform labourers why they have to be in a shelter home till April 14. He also said that there are 16 labour camps, and approximately 1,000 people stay in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-give-dates-10-days-before-x-xii-exams-start-goa-cm/articleshow/74976020.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: School van drivers’ association writes to CM Uddhav Thackeray on plight||NAGPUR: School Van Drivers’ Association (SVDA) has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray highlighting their members’ poor financial condition and their inability to ride out the lockdown period. SVDA president Afsar Khan said the lockdown has shut the source of revenue while expenses continue to mount. “Our members and their dependents in Maharashtra number about 50 lakh. They need to be fed, utility bills have to paid, EMIs are auto-debited and the school fees of our children have to be deposited. This is a very dangerous situation for all of us,” said Khan, who also heads the Vidarbha division of Akhil Maharashtra Vidyarthi Vahutak Mahasangh. SVDA says their members’ financial condition was not strong to begin with. “People who can survive a lockdown are those who have saved cash. Our people do not have savings. It’s like the money comes in morning and is gone by evening. Literally, it’s like a hand-to-mouth existence for a majority of our people,”said Khan. In the letter, SVDA has asked Thackeray important questions. “We want to know what kind of plan does the government have for us?. We also want to know how we will be able to take care of our families?. How will our fixed expenses be met? If we are unable to pay our creditors due to loss of income, how will the government come into the picture and help us?” states the letter. Khan stressed that only with the intervention of the state, a feasible solution could be found. “On our own, it is not possible and so, it is natural that we seek the government’s help in bailing us out. At the very least, we need to know what the plan is or if they have started working on something for us,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-van-drivers-association-writes-to-cm-on-plight/articleshow/74974942.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Greater Kailash residents anxious as foreign guests arrive at hotel in colony||NEW DELHI: A hotel in E Block of Greater Kailash I in south Delhi has created a commotion and much anxiety after a bunch of foreign visitors arrived on Thursday. The residents’ welfare association and the local people are apprehensive about the outsiders spreading the novel coronavirus and have demanded proper barricading of the hotel. “Two Tempo Traveller vans arrived at the guesthouse,” revealed Rajiv Kakria of the local RWA. “There was panic and the RWA immediately called the authorities, who informed us that no permission for quarantine facilities in the area had been given.” When residents crowded the facility around 4pm in protest, the hotel manager showed them a letter from the Malaysian embassy that stated the guests had arrived from Rishikesh where they had been stranded during the lockdown. The RWA statement about incident said that the SHO came and told the crowd to disperse as Section 144 was in force. Six RWA representatives met the officer to explain that the presence of the foreigner would defeat the purpose of the lockdown. “The SHO assured us of an investigation and we left the police station. The area has been barricaded since and we are trying to assuage the raw nerves of the residents,” the statement added. The RWA, however, noted that that the doors of the guesthouse were open and only a single policeman posted there. It said it had nothing against the tourists, in fact sympathised with them, but the efforts to contain the infection would be jeopardised if untested people were allowed to stay in the locality. The government should designate hotels that are not located in residential areas for such lodgers, it said. South Delhi Municipal Corporation later confirmed that the Malaysian embassy had booked the facility for two days. “None of the guests are suspected corona patients and will leave by Saturday morning. Their stay was co-ordinated by the government of India,” said an official. Another SDMC official added that this was not a case of a hotel being turned into an isolation/quarantine facility. “When hotels are turned into isolation centres in the event of the coronavirus crisis escalating, the ones chosen for such a purpose will be away from thickly populated residential areas,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gk-residents-anxious-as-foreign-guests-arrive-at-hotel-in-colony/articleshow/74975442.cms||Paras Singh
April 4, 2020||Goa||KTC buses to get groceries to doorsteps||Panaji: The department of civil supplies and consumer affairs has introduced grocery on wheels. The move is aimed at bringing essential commodities to people’s doorsteps so that they can “stay home, stay safe”. The initiative will see essential commodities sold in suitably modified Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) buses. Two buses, one in North Goa and one in South Goa, have been tasked with the duty for now. Subsequently more such vehicles will be introduced. A statement released by the state government read that grocery on wheels is specifically focused on standalone residential complexes, interior areas, industrial estates that have grocery shops at a distance. Commodities like rice, dal, salt, sugar, haldi powder, tea and other essentials will be made available through these buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-to-get-groceries-to-doorsteps/articleshow/74975441.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Eight held for gathering in Bharuch mosque||SURAT: About eight people were arrested for assembling in a mosque in violation of lockdown restrictions imposed due to coronavirus threat in Bharuch on Friday. The arrests have been made due to fear of spread of COVID-19 as 62 people from Bharuch had attended a religious congregation in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March that led to spike in cases there. These 62 individuals are under home quarantine. Bharuch town police registered an FIR against the eight people under IPC sections 188 and 269 for disobedience and negligent act to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. They were noticed during a surveillance carried out by a drone over a mosque located at Ratan Talav in Bharuch. The accused are Ismail Patel, Imran Umarji Patel, Ashfaque Mohammed Qureshi, Wasim Lalu Khan, Mohammed Lalu Khan Pathan, Maulvi Khalid Aslam Shaikh, Mohammed Wasim Khalifa and Afran Shaikh. DP Vaghela, deputy superintendent of police (Dy.SP), Bharuch, said, “We reached the mosque with five panchs (witnesses) and nabbed the eight people, including the maulvi and the trustee of the mosque. After the Nizamuddin incident, there are clear directions from the state government to keep a close watch on illegal assembly of people at religious places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/8-held-for-gathering-in-bharuch-mosque/articleshow/74974949.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Trans man beaten up for alleged attempt to sexually assault minor||Tirunelveli: Residents of Thirumal Nagar in Tirunelveli city beat up a transgender man for allegedly attempting to sexually abuse a six-year-old girl and handed him over to the Perumalpuram police. Residents also petitioned the police to vacate him and his wife, a transwoman, from the locality fearing safety of their children.The girl’s mother was admitted in the Tirunelveli government medical college hospital for delivery last week. Her father was attending to her mother in the hospital. Since there was nobody to take care of the girl and her brother, their parents left them at the house of their mother’s sibling (transwoman). Apart from the two children, there were a few other children in the house.“Locals said that on Thursday the accused sent the other children out to play around 5 in the evening when his wife had gone out. As the victim was alone at home he tried to sexually abuse her. When his wife returned she came to know about it and alerted the locals,” district child protection officer B S Dev Ananth said.Local youth beat the accused and they chased and caught hold of him when he tried to escape. They handed him over to the police but he was found loitering in their locality on Friday morning. Alarmed over the inaction against the accused, the villagers took the issue to the notice of the child protection unit and senior police officers in the city.“We are investigating the matter and appropriate action will be taken,” deputy commissioner of police (law and order) A Saravanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trans-man-beaten-up-for-alleged-attempt-to-sexually-assault-minor/articleshow/74975440.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Week after staying off trade, street vendors back in business in Madurai||MADURAI: It seems only a week is all what most street vendors can afford to stay off their businesses. Just when the second week of the lockdown began, the street vendors have dusted themselves off and rushed back to their business. While the country came to a standstill with the lockdown in place, it was a week of no dealings for small vendors like Ashokan who had no option but sell the old stocks. “I stocked up murukku, biscuits and groundnut ladoos, among others, about a week ago from a wholesaler,” he said adding my family helped me pack them in plastic bags. I spent the Rs 5,000 I had for this stock and would make a profit of about Rs 1000, if I do not sell this I will stand to lose my Rs 5000,’’ he said. He was not alone. Ramanathan, 73, of Mullai Nagar, sold his stock of tender coconuts in Chinna Chokkikulam. “I placed my order a few days ago, and paid Rs 11,000. I was told that the stocks were coming this morning so sold them today,’’ he said. All the vendors, including fruit sellers and those selling non-essential commodities like “kolam powder’’ were all on the streets on Friday, as it was necessary to ensure that they did not waste away Rs 10,000 they spent a week ago for stocking up. For all these small vendors, it is a now or never situation. The government’s dole might help them survive for a week, but if they have to save something for the future, they have to go out in the street and sell as it is the only to keep their business going and money rotating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/week-after-staying-off-trade-street-vendors-back-in-biz/articleshow/74975446.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Youth who went abroad shows Covid-19 symptoms, admitted||Rudrapur: A man, in his 20s, has been admitted to a private hospital in the city after he showed symptoms of novel coronavirus on Friday. The youth is suffering from cough, fever and breathing issues. He is currently undergoing treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a private hospital in the city and his condition is told to be critical. The man had recently travelled to Germany and Turkey, however, he wasn’t quarantined. Dr Shailja Bhatt, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Udham Singh Nagar, told TOI, “We were informed that a patient with Covid-19 symptoms was admitted to a private hospital. Subsequently, we sent a team that collected his blood sample for Covid-19 test. His report will come by Saturday.” Meanwhile, the former landlord of the suspected Covid-19 patient told TOI, “Around 15 days back, an Asha worker came to my house to inquire about my ex-tenant who had recently come from Turkey. I told her that he has shifted from my place and gave her the mobile number of the man’s father but it seems that the health department didn’t bother to quarantine him.” However, CMO Dr Bhatt refutes all charges of carelessness by the department and says that the patient had come from Turkey in February but he stayed in Noida for more than a month after that. "He has been in his house for more than twenty days now. The reasons of his ailment can be ascertained only after we get the test reports. We have quarantined all the people with travel history across the district and we have been following the guidelines issued by the Centre,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-who-went-abroad-shows-covid-19-symptoms-admitted/articleshow/74973870.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||First four patients of Jabalpur test negative for Covid-19||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: There is some good news from the state. While first Covid-19 patient of Gwalior is likely to be discharged after recovery, the test reports of first four Covid positive patients of Jabalpur have tested negative in the latest report late on Friday. Another test would be conducted on these four patients on Saturday and if they again test negative for Covid-19 they would be discharged from hospital and advised home isolation for 14 days, said health sources. Doctors treating them have said that health parameters of all the four patients are normal and they have almost fully recovered. District collector Jabalpur, Bharat Yadav, in his press briefing said that the samples of these four patients have tested negative in the report received in the night. Dean of the Netaji Subhash Bose Medical College and hospital, Dr P K Kasar said, “The second test on the four would be held on Saturday. ” There are eight positive patients in Jabalpur who are undergoing treatment. But the other four patients are employees of the first positive patients and were infected after coming into contact with these patients. Since then, no patient has been found positive for Covid-19 in Jabalpur. Seven reports were received on Friday and all tested negative, said official sources. Meanwhile, a 36-year-old man who was the first person to be tested positive in Gwalior, has already tested negative in the first report. Samples for second test on him have been sent to the laboratories and the report is awaited. As per the protocol, any patient is only considered fully recovered after two test reports show him negative for Covid-19. It is only after the two tests confirm the patient to be negative that the patient is discharged from hospital and is advised to stay at home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/first-4-patients-of-jabalpur-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/74974978.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Ten people gather for prayer, booked||Uttarkashi: Ten people who defied lockdown guidelines to gather for prayer were booked by city police on Friday. They had gathered at a house situated in Indra Colony of Uttarkashi town on Friday. The accused have been identified as — Kashmira, Sajid, Sadakon Ali, Rashid Ahmed, Shehjad Ansari, Shoaib Ansari, Imamudin Alam, Monu, Rehmat Ansari, and Daroga Ansari. Soon after getting information, a police team reached on the spot and arrested all ten people for disobeying lockdown guidelines. Inspector Mahadev Uniyal, in charge Uttarakashi police station, told TOI, "We have arrested all the accused. A case has been lodged against them under section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act and sections 188, 269, and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disobeying lockdown guidelines and risking lives of other people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ten-people-gather-for-prayer-booked/articleshow/74973861.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 4, 2020||Delhi||200 trucks from Delhi sent to Maharashtra for veggies, at ‘zero profit’||NEW DELHI: A truckers’ association has sent 200 empty trucks from Delhi to Maharashtra to pick up vegetable and bring them to the national capital. All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) will bear the cost of the onward journey of these trucks and will charge only for the return trip. “We are doing this on 0% profit-basis just to help maintain the supply of essential items,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of AIMTC. Though the Centre has taken several measures to make the movement of either loaded or empty trucks hassle-free, the truckers are facing huge problem in getting enough cargo. The number of drivers available per 100 trucks has also fallen to nearly 20 compared with 60-70 just before the lockdown. Hence, in such situations truckers usually ask charges for round trip, which makes the essential items more expensive. “It’s a very critical phase for truckers and has posed challenges to their very existence. We are trying our best to help drivers and people as well. Since we are aware that certain vegetables come from Maharashtra to Delhi, we sent 200 trucks from here,” Atwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-trucks-sent-to-maha-for-veggies-at-zero-profit/articleshow/74975451.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sasmit Patra catches up on books, helps wife in kitchen amid lockdown||BHUBANESWAR: Rajya Sabha member and BJD spokesperson Sasmit Patra may be under lockdown, but it has given him the freedom to catch up with life and do all that he had been missing out on. So from reading books on different subjects to helping his wife with household chores and working on drafting three private member’s bills for the upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament, Patra has his hands full. Patra, who used to teach business management before he entered politics, says he started reading books on management, law and public policy and biographies as soon as the lockdown came into force. This apart, he has been browsing through online articles and news to keep himself updated. He is also using this time to do research on governance and public policy. “I am currently reading ‘Audacity of hope’ by Barack Obama. ‘The triple bottom line’ by Savitz and ‘How Modi won India’ by Rajdeep Sardesai and other books are on my list for the lockdown period,” he says. The parliamentarian also loves to cook and has been helping his wife in the kitchen. “I can make dalma, potal rasa, saga bhaja, santula, bhindi fry, badichura and many other Odia delicacies. I can also rustle up some vegetarian fare. In fact, my entire family, including my kids, love whatever I prepare,” he adds. Patra says of late he has also been doing household chores like vaccuum cleaning, dusting and cleaning dishes with his wife. “She feels happy if I help her with the household work. Sharing and caring is the best thing to do in such difficult times,” he adds. He further says the public life and party work had made it nearly impossible for him to devote enough time to his family. Returning late in the night from political debates on television to staying away from family in Delhi during the Parliament sessions and committee meetings had robbed him of the opportunity to spend time with them. But the lockdown has helped him reconnect with his large joint family in Bhubaneswar as a son, a nephew, a husband and a father. “This is a time to share and care for family. Sharing memories, experiences and observations from my personal, professional and political life with the children to listening to their aspirations and dreams, each day has presented itself with a unique opportunity and purpose,” he adds. This lockdown also gave him a glimpse into a whole new world of PUBG gaming. His son and nephew introduced it to him and now he is addicted. “I can now understand how these games can get the youngsters hooked as I too can’t resist their pull,” he smiles. Patra says he has also been spending time revisiting old photos right from his parent’s wedding to the vacations they took together. “I have been telling my children stories of my school days and how I got married and they have been lapping it up with rapt attention. From the rough patches we had to the wonderful memories we made going along the way, the stories of it all has helped me bond with my family in this time of crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sasmit-patra-catches-up-on-books-helps-wife-in-kitchen-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74973863.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 4, 2020||Goa||Grow your own veggies, urges agriculture dept||Panaji: Farmers have been advised by the directorate of agriculture to take up cultivation of only short-duration vegetable crops during this summer in view of the coronavirus outbreak. An advisory issued by the department on Friday suggested that the general public also grow vegetables in their kitchen gardens, seeds for which are made available at taluka-level zonal agricultural offices (ZAO) at 50% subsidy. From limiting manpower to washing farming implements, Goa’s agriculture department has listed out various measures for farmers to adopt while carrying out their farm operations as a precautionary measure against the potential spread of the virus. The farmers, during harvesting, have been advised to avoid engaging a larger number of labourers per day and to ensure that they maintain social distancing, apart from maintaining personal hygiene by washing their hands with soap at regular intervals. “Farmers selling paddy to registered paddy procurement agencies or rice mills are also requested to take adequate care at all stages to avoid the spread of Covid- I9,” the advisory read. It also emphasised to engage only familiar persons in farm operations as far as possible to ensure that entry of a likely carrier is avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grow-your-own-veggies-urges-agriculture-dept/articleshow/74975468.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||KTC buses to get groceries to doorsteps||PANAJI: The department of civil supplies and consumer affairs has introduced grocery on wheels. The move is aimed at bringing essential commodities to people’s doorsteps so that they can “stay home, stay safe”. The initiative will see essential commodities sold in suitably modified Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) buses. Two buses, one in North Goa and one in South Goa, have been tasked with the duty for now. Subsequently more such vehicles will be introduced. A statement released by the state government read that grocery on wheels is specifically focused on standalone residential complexes, interior areas, industrial estates that have grocery shops at a distance. Commodities like rice, dal, salt, sugar, haldi powder, tea and other essentials will be made available through these buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-to-get-groceries-to-doorsteps/articleshow/74975444.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Medical staff stop hosp duty fearing Covid-19 infection||Visakhapatnam: Medical staff at various hospitals have stopped reporting for duty fearing coronavirus (Covid-19) infection following the sudden surge in positive cases and six nurses of a government hospital showing symptoms. Sources said that over 100 staff working in various hospitals across the city have stopped reporting for duty fearing that they may get infected while treating patients. Around 40 nurses of a city-based private hospital were also absent from work after a few Covid-19 patients were shifted to that hospital, they said. “We are not provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and this makes us vulnerable to the virus. Some of us are still working despite such a situation, but not everyone is willing to do so,” said a government hospital nurse on conditions of anonymity. District collector V Vinaychand has urged the medical staff to not lose hope and keep treating patients. “We will take every precautionary measure to ensure safety,” he said. Head of the isolation committee and joint collector Loteti Siva Sankar told TOI they have contacted the medical staff of two private hospitals with isolation wards as well as transit hospitals – Chest Hospital and ENT Hospital. “Our officials have been visiting the isolation wards regularly to ensure proper supply of equipment. We are also providing protective equipment, masks, and sanitisers to the medical staff as well as trying to keep them motivated. We have three more private hospitals ready with isolation wards if needed” the joint collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medical-staff-stop-hosp-duty-fearing-covid-19-infection/articleshow/74973868.cms||Siva G
April 4, 2020||Hubballi||3 linked to Tablighi Jamaat event test positive for Covid-19||Belagavi: After Bidar, three more people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19, in Belagavi on Friday. The results for the tests came in on Friday afternoon. With this the total number of cases associated with the Tablighi Jamaat event rose to 15 in North Karnataka. A total 11 people who were associated with the event tested positive for Covid-19 in Bidar, while the relative of a man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi district. It is for the first time that Covid-19 cases have been reported in Belagavi. District in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar told the media, “Three people who had come to Belagavi from Delhi, after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin Markaz have tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, there was no worry in Belagavi for Covid-19. We will take necessary steps to contain the spread of the disease.” The three people who tested positive for Covid-19, attended the Tablighi Jamaat event on March 13, according to the bulletin released by the state health and family welfare department. Deputy commissioner S B Bommanahalli said a total 62 people, including 10 foreign nationals were identified, who were associated with the Tablighi Jamaat event, after the district administration received instructions from the state government to isolate them. “We have acted swiftly to identify them, and they are all in isolation.” It should also be noted that 10 Indonesian nationals, who were Tablighi Jamaat preachers, who had come here on March 15, were quarantined in two locations. Five men are at a mosque in Auto Nagar and five women are at an undisclosed house. All the 3 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Belagavi have been quarantined at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) hospital. Lab to be set up District health officer (DHO) Shashikant Muniyal said that the district administration is making necessary arrangements to set up a Covid-19 testing lab in Belagavi. “I am tasked to oversee developments related to the lab,” he said. Muniyal said lab technicians from Belagavi were sent to Pune to get trained in using Covid-19 testing kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-event-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/74972712.cms||Shreyas HS
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Call for better financial support for women||MADURAI: Experts and activists have called for the state and central governments to introduce more initiatives to provide better financial and health support for women who also silently bear the brunt of lockdown because of social stigma. Social activists pointed out that women are now being forced to work twice as hard during the lockdown, especially all working women. “It is double the burden for women in most households as they take care of their children, family members at home apart from doing their regular job and chores. Even school children who were getting noon meals are now not getting it. Mothers from poverty-ridden homes struggle to provide for their families,” said advocate Selva Gomathi, managing trustee, Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation for social legal studies and development. The advocate said that when it comes to finances, conditions for payment of bank loans and house rent for women need to be relaxed and women from poor backgrounds could be given an additional special allowance. “Many women would have bank loans pending or they would have borrowed from self-help groups. However, they would not be able to pay up now and many working women may not be even paid their salaries, particularly in unorganized sectors,” she added. Dr Navaraj, founder, Madurai Science Forum, meanwhile pointed out the need for women to first take care of their own personal health, both physical and mental health, to better support their families during this lockdown. “Many women in rural areas are unable to afford healthcare, medicines, sanitizers to keep clean and even sanitary napkins. The government should ensure that they are provided with all basic healthcare supplies,” he said. The Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation along with Fatima college and ActionAid in Madurai are providing free mental health counselling for women during lockdown period. Their helpline numbers are 9843460061/ 9894611838/ 9524318207.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-for-better-financial-support-for-women/articleshow/74975452.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Coronavirus: With 38 fresh ones, positive cases rise to 147 in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Among the 102 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, 38 are from the southern districts and all of them had attended the Tablighi conference in Delhi last month. This takes the total number of infected people in south Tamil Nadu to 147. Dindigul (26) recorded the most number of positive cases on Friday, making it the district with the highest number of cases in this region. Dindigul collector M Vijayalakshmi said they had screened as many as 3,31,072 people so far in the district for the disease. Among the 26 who tested positive on Friday, three were from Palani, one each from Neikkarapatti and Balasamudram town panchayat, eight from Natham, 11 from Begampur and two from Dindigul union. All the 43 who had tested positive would be moved to Karrur Government MCH on Saturday. Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said more people from the district who attended the Delhi conference had come forward, which included the latest six patients who tested positive. “Those who attended the conference are from different areas in Tirunelveli city and otherwise, including Melapalayam and Pathamadai. The four new cases in Tuticorin on Friday included two from Kayalpattinam and one each from Tuticorin and Authoor. Madurai district collector Dr TG Vinay said in a statement that a total of 379 people who were in contact with the 15 Covid-19 positive patients currently undergoing treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) have been identified and are under home quarantine. In Madurai district, containment areas include Narimedu, Melamadai, Thabaal Thanthi Nagar, Melur, Elumalai and Thirumangalam. In all, 67,748 families including 2,92,759 people who reside in these areas are being strictly monitored by a team of 854 health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-38-fresh-ones-positive-cases-rise-to-147-in-south-tn/articleshow/74975463.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mayo lab develops technical snag, load shifted to AIIMS now||NAGPUR: The only Covid-19 testing facility at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) or Mayo hospital developed technical snag on Friday as the main unit stopped functioning. The lab had more than 200 samples to be tested on Friday. This work stopped due to the snag. Thankfully, the new lab facility at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in city started the same day and a major embarrassment for Mayo was averted. District collector Ravindra Thakare said that the snag got developed in one major testing unit at Mayo. “But, we are transferring all the samples at the newly installed lab facility at AIIMS. Results of at least 90 samples will come out by Saturday morning,” he said. According to lab officials at IGGMCH, the technical snag is not very major. It will be repaired within a day or two. Technical expertise from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, will be sought online as the technician cannot visit the lab due to travel restrictions. AIIMS Nagpur made the much-awaited announcement of beginning of the molecular diagnostic laboratory on its Mihan campus on Friday. “The lab facility has been successfully established at AIIMS Nagpur following approval of the Department of Health Research, ICMR, Delhi. The testing facility (RT-PCR for Covid-19) is now functional, and testing started in full-fledged capacity from Friday itself,” said an official statement issued by AIIMS. This lab will cater to the population of Vidarbha and Central India and comes as a relief as IGGMCH was the only testing centre in this region. The standard operating procedures for swab collection and transportation will be done as per MOHFW/ICMR guidelines. “AIIMS has further taken steps to establish a 100-bedded isolation ward for Covid-19 cases which will include a 6-bedded ICU equipped with multipara monitors, infusion pumps, Fowler beds, intubation kits, defibrillators, ECG machines and ventilators,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayo-lab-develops-technical-snag-load-shifted-to-aiims-now/articleshow/74975462.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Team that apprehended Jamaat participants quarantined||Rudrapur: Ten members of the team, which apprehended 13 Tablighi Jamaat members returning from Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) a few days ago, have been quarantined. The team included two doctors, four health staffers and 14 policemen. The step has been taken after three men among the 13 Jamaat members tested positive for novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, Additional Director General (ADG) of police has announced a reward of Rs 20,000 for the team. District's Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh told TOI, "Sample of all the team members have been sent for Covid-19 test. Some have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. The team did a commendable job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/team-that-apprehended-jamaat-participants-quarantined/articleshow/74973876.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy personnel join cops to enforce lockdown in city||Visakhapatnam: With four new positive cases, the district administration sounded high alert in the city on Friday and six localities including Thatichetlapalem were locked down. In Visakhapatnam district, the number of Covid-19 cases reached 15. Minister M Srinivasa Rao inaugurated the Covid-19 testing lab in the city on Friday. The lab would start functioning from Monday. After testing the sample, the result would be sent to Pune lab for confirmation. Meanwhile, around 50 Navy personnel joined hands with the city police to implement the lockdown. Other departments would join the effort from Saturday onwards in a phased manner. The police are trying to identify primary contacts of the 19 persons, including one from Visakha rural area, who had attended the religious meeting in New Delhi. Earlier, the administration had put the number at 17. According to district collector, tests showed that five had reported positive, seven negative out of the 19 who had come back from New Delhi. So far in Visakhapatnam district, 427 samples were tested--268 were negative and results are awaited in 145 cases. “The process to identify the primary contacts of those who tested positive after attending the religious congregation in New Delhi meet is on. People who had come in to contact with positive cases should come forward,” said minister M Srinivasa Rao. Around 23 primary contacts have been identified as fathers, brothers, mothers and other family members. “These people had travelled in the same train to New Delhi. Once we identify the primary contacts, then we will look at secondary contacts,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-personnel-join-cops-to-enforce-lockdown-in-city/articleshow/74973902.cms||Siva G
April 4, 2020||Delhi||How corona has made regular child delivery a googly||NEW DELHI: Child delivery in the time of Covid-19 has become a major operation. It requires the same protocols adopted in case of a delivery involving a woman suffering from hepatitis B & C or HIV. This is being done to avoid the risk of transmission of the novel coronavirus, said Dr Anuradha Kapur, director and head of the Institute of Obs and Gynae at Max Super Specialty Hospital, Saket. “We wear protective apron, masks, eye shields and vinyl gloves to protect ourselves from contracting the infection while conducting the delivery. All these personal protective equipment (PPEs) are then discarded,” she added. The novel coronavirus can spread from an infected individual through respiratory droplets sent into the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes. It may also spread when someone touches a surface or an object that has the virus on it, then touches his mouth, inside of nose, or eyes. Dr Amita Shah, consultant gynaecologist at Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurugram, said even asymptomatic persons could be the carriers. “It is difficult to rely on contact history shared by patients. So, as a matter of abundant precaution, we are using PPEs for all child deliveries,” she said. Normally, for a child delivery through caesarean section, two junior doctors, two technicians and multiple other staff are present, in addition to the gynaecologist. However, these days, the staff inside the operation theatre are kept at bare minimum because PPEs are available in limited numbers. “We don’t allow many relatives to visit the patient too. The practice of allowing the husband during the delivery has been restricted too,” said Dr Ranjana Sharma, senior consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at Apollo Hospital. If the mother is symptomatic for Covid-19, she added, breastfeeding cannot be allowed immediately and the baby is kept at a distance. Also, the doctors said, general anaesthesia is being avoided for caesarean section as it involves intubation and spinal anaesthesia is preferred. Instead of monthly check-ups, pregnant women are asked to stay indoor and not to come unless an ultrasound is essential, said Dr Shah. “We are talking and consulting on WhatsApp video calls and allaying their anxieties,” she said, adding that around 50 deliveries had been conducted in March. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), at present there is no evidence that pregnant women are at a higher risk of severe illness due to Covid-19 than the general population. “However, due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections,” it says, adding that they should, therefore, report possible symptoms, even fever and cough, to their doctor. Till now there is also no evidence on whether an infected pregnant woman can pass the virus to her foetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery. “To date, the virus has not been found in samples of amniotic fluid or breast milk,” WHO says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-corona-has-made-regular-child-delivery-a-googly/articleshow/74975479.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Govt ready to call on docs in pvt hosps: Minister||Visakhapatnam: Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Friday said that the government is ready to use services of doctors in private hospitals if necessary. He instructed the administration to strictly implement the lockdown and not hesitate to take action against those found roaming on streets without valid reasons. The minister further asked the police to ensure security of doctors in the wake of the attack in Hyderabad. He also instructed officials to increase the number of rythu bazaars and introduce more mobile rythu bazaars. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-ready-to-call-on-docs-in-pvt-hosps-minister/articleshow/74973909.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Dearth of personnel may hit emergency care||MADURAI: Lack of trained personnel to handle emergency care including ventilators may lead to government hospitals struggling to treat critical Covid-19 cases even though there are enough ventilators to handle the rising numbers at present. At the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, one of the biggest tertiary care centres in the state, a total of 147 ventilators are in use, according to an RTI reply filed in November 2019. There are around 400 ventilators across both government and private hospitals. “Not all ventilators, especially those in government hospitals across the state have proper batteries with power back-up. This means a patient could die if there is an unexpected power shut down. Further, maintenance of ventilators is also poor making it much difficult for doctors too,” said a senior anaesthetist who works at a government hospital. However, doctors asserted that not all Covid-19 patients would require ventilators though there may be a rise in demand now. “Ventilators are used only for critical cases wherein the patient’s lungs are failing. Even for Covid-19, only patients with co-morbid illnesses need ventilator support. But, only doctors, staff nurses and emergency technicians who have worked in intensive care can handle ventilators,” said Dr N Uwaraja, head and consultant emergency physician at a private hospital in Madurai. Though hundreds across Tamil Nadu have undergone emergency technician courses offered for paramedical staff, they are not recognised for roles in emergency rooms (ERs) and intensive care units (ICUs). Usually, anaesthetists take up the role of intensivists in the government hospitals. Doctors also reiterate that such courses in India are insufficient for ERs and ICUs. “Emergency technicians if given right training and posting can properly maintain and run ventilators in government hospitals. It will reduce the burden of doctors to handle ventilators and also reduce the number of cases being referred to tertiary health care centres. We are ready to serve if the government gives us the opportunity,” said an emergency technician, who works with 108 ambulance services. “Emergency medicine courses are currently not recognised in India. Their training also varies with the institution they study. So, anaesthetists are the ones mainly handling ventilator care. However, we are also being underutilised,” said a senior anaesthetist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dearth-of-personnel-may-hit-emergency-care/articleshow/74975467.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP Governor Lalji Tondon asks VCs to fight corona with technology||BHOPAL: Governor Lalji Tandon has directed vice-chancellors of all universities of Madhya Pradesh to help students who are away from their home for studies. In an email sent to all V-Cs of the state, Tandon stated that all possible help must be offered to students in the corona crisis and lockdown due to it. The governor said the universities must establish contact with all such students residing in university campus or outside and ensure that they get proper food. Students should also be given the option to contact universities and ask for any help required. For completing the syllabus too, the governor said arrangement should be made by the information technology cells of universities to make students study from home. Tandon said V-Cs are expected to make the optimum use of technology in this time of corona crisis to ensure that students do not suffer in any way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/guv-asks-vcs-to-fight-corona-with-technology/articleshow/74974989.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Goa||As Goa government mounts rescue effort, some seafarers say they are safer onboard||PANAJI: Even as the Goa government makes efforts to bring back over 8,000 seafarers, some stakeholders suggest that the offshore seamen remain safer aboard the ships which serves as a natural lock down and quarantine. Stakeholders in the industry also pointed out that on the cruise liners, the men have access to food and are also covered by health insurance, which they will lose once they leave the ship and return home. Goan seamen association of India (GSAI) points out that the crew on board cruise vessels operated by MSC Cruises and Costa Cruises are the worst hit and required to be evacuated, while crew members on other vessels are in a better position. The state government has already reached out to the Centre seeking help to bring back seamen stuck on cruise vessels in countries infected by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Stakeholders also point out that Goa lacks a quarantine facility large enough to isolate the crewmen once they return to Goa. “Being a sailor, I would say if the situation on board is not so bad and manageable, then the sailors quarantined on board should stay there till the situation gets a bit normal. Travelling at this time of crisis is not recommended unless things are worse on board,” said Cuncolim resident Joel Morais who is presently stuck aboard a ship. Thousands of Goans are employed with major cruise firms such as Carnival Cruise Line, Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises, Viking Cruises, Virgin Voyages and Marella Cruises. These firms have home ports strewn around the world, spread out as far as the Caribbean region and Florida to Italy and Barcelona. “They are currently safe on the ship and each ship has a doctor and medical facility. Hygiene and sanitation is at the highest level if you consider that 75% of the ships are around the US and are following the USPH standard,” said Parixit Pai Fondekar, director of Kamaxi Overseas Consultants, a recruiting firm for cruise lines. Kamaxi Overseas itself has 7,000 crew members stuck on vessels across the globe. GSAI said that the crew members stranded in and around Brazil and Italy are those who need immediate attention. “The crew on MSC and Costa, which are in Brazil and Rome, are having a terrible time. So the government should listen to them because they are are not being taken care off. The seamen are frustrated and they should be rescued before the lockdown is lifted because after that it will become a mess,” said founder president of GSAI, Dixon Vaz. If one takes into account India’s contribution to the cruise sector, Fondekar estimates that there are around 50,000 seamen employed with cruise liners and India will have to repatriate all stranded seamen. and not just Goans. Royal Caribbean itself employs 4,787 Indians aboard its ships. “Some seem to not understand the situation and have created a fear and hype, and demands have been made of the Goa government. If the seafarers are brought home then do we have enough quarantine centres, and aren’t we putting our families at risk of the contagious Covid-19?” executive chef with Princess cruises, Jerry Dias said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-govt-mounts-rescue-effort-some-seafarers-say-they-are-safer-onboard/articleshow/74975477.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Nanjangud primary contacts moved out of lodge after row||MYSURU: The Nanjangud cluster outbreak is proving a headache for state authorities in more ways than one. While health department officials are still clueless on the source of the infection, the district administration’s decision to move primary contacts of positive cases to a public quarantine facility ran into stiff resistance from residents around. Officials say there are more than 250 primary contacts of the 21 positive cases in Mysuru district. They expect the number of positive cases to rise and are preparing for a corresponding spike in primary contacts. While those infected are being treated at an exclusive Covid-19 hospital on KRS Road, the administration is now tracking primary contacts – family and anyone who came in contact with those infected – and is moving them to a common quarantine facility. A lodge in Devaraja Mohalla was converted into a facility to house primary contacts and officials moved 27 people, who have shown no symptoms of being infected so far, into the lodge on Thursday evening as per protocol. However, in the wee hours on Friday, scores of people spilled on to the streets to protest the move. It led to tension in the area and the standoff continued well into the morning, forcing authorities to move the 27 out. The authorities favoured lodges since rooms have bathrooms attached, therefore limiting the chances of primary contacts venturing out. Officials had at first planned to house them in schools and hostels but discarded the idea since they would have to depend on common toilets, which would increase the chances of them contracting the virus. However, residents mistook the 27 for positive cases and mounted a protest. Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, rushed to pacify them, but the protest continued despite prohibitory orders in place. Police presence was beefed up as a precautionary measure. Former mayor MJ Ravikumar, a resident of Devaraja Mohalla, told TOI officials should have thought the plan through. “This lodge is located in the heart of Mysuru and it is a residential locality. Residents fear they would be infected. Authorities should have moved primary contacts to hotels and lodgings on the outskirts.” Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed primary contacts were moved out of the lodge, but he warned that if people continued to hinder authorities, criminal cases would be filed against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/residents-protest-nanjangud-primary-contacts-moved-out-of-lodge/articleshow/74974993.cms||HM Aravind
April 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: App to track quarantined, check fake news turns handy for authorities||MADURAI: From helping those under quarantine to confirm fake news to helping the district authorities keep track of such people, a mobile phone app developed by a city-based firm has been playing a supportive role in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. Qcare, founded by M Senthil Kumar, helps its user get an alert when he or she is more than 15 to 20 metres away from the house of a person asked to be under quarantine. “The address provided by the person to be under quarantine is marked. The officials concerned in the respective district get a message when they are 100 metres away from their house,” said Senthil Kumar who is CEO of Jiovio Healthcare. He said the app has been downloaded by nearly 5,000 people using android and iOS platforms. “It was developed in 48 hours and launched last Wednesday,” he said. “The app is also offered as an update for our apps like Madurai Kavalan, which has more than 50,000 users, and similar apps we developed for the Theni, Namakkal and Trichy police units,” he said. The respective district administrations which hold control over the app have asked those under quarantine to install it so that home quarantine can be monitored virtually. To avoid malpractices such as user leaving mobile at home and going out, the app will ask them to click selfie and send it to the officials at random times. “It is a useful app. More than 150 under quarantine have registered it,” says Tirunelveli city deputy commissioner of police (law and order) A Saravanan. One of its other key features is providing proper news updates on Covid-19 status and real time data and section to filter fake news on social media. “We have filtered 107 fake news till Friday morning. Qcare users can verify forwards in this section before forwarding it,” Senthil Kumar said. Developers are working on providing customised features based on the request of the district administrations. “On the request of the Dindigul district administration we developed a feature for those under quarantine to record 30 second videos about their health to be shared with doctors. It reduces the need to travel to a hospital,” says Senthil. Theni district administration asked a feature for users to order grocery kit for Rs 150 that is being provided by the district administration. “We are now rendering this service to nine districts. We are approaching administrations of more districts to extend this benefit to them,” Senthil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/app-to-track-quarantined-check-fake-news-turns-handy-for-authorities/articleshow/74975475.cms||M K Ananth
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 1,700 living in GVMC shelter homes||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is providing food and shelter to those stranded in the city as well as the destitute. The civic body had five shelter homes—at Vivekananda Kalyana Mandapam, Subbalakshmi Kalyana Mandapam, YTC center at Vepagunta and MVP Colony. Under the circumstances, GVMC has set up 21 shelter homes in total, of which 13 are temporary. The civic body may increase the number of shelter homes if inmates were to increase. It is also considering converting train rakes into shelter homes. At the shelters, the GVMC is providing food three times a day as well as tea and snacks. Inmates are being given beds, blankets, pillows, soaps and toothbrushes. Further, the civic body has also roped in the AP Nayibrahmin Association which is providing free hair-cuts and shaves. Y Srinivasa Rao, project director of the Urban Community Development (UCD) wing told TOI that more than 1,700 people are staying at the 21 shelter homes. Of the total, around 800 people are from Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand, Srinivasa Rao said. Moreover, the GVMC is distributing ration among migrant labourers at various places in the city. A control room has been set up for the purpose at Swarna Bharati Indoor Stadium. The civic body has notified that those stranded in the city can seek help by calling on 08912732410 or 7032017389.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-1700-living-in-gvmc-shelter-homes/articleshow/74973920.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Home quarantine for last overseas traveller ends on Monday||BENGALURU: With the last international traveller to have landed in Bengaluru set to complete 14 days of home quarantine on April 6, isolation for suspected Covid-19 cases will focus exclusively on primary and secondary contacts of the travellers and others who have tested positive for the virus. The country’s first focus in the strategy to contain Covid-19 was on quarantining international passengers arriving from countries declared affected by World Health Organisation (WHO). India formally shut all international flight arrivals on March 22, when about 145 people reached Bengaluru from foreign destinations. The traveller whose quarantine is set to end on Monday landed here from the US on March 23. As on Thursday, 12,700 international travellers had completed their quarantine period, while another 2,210 people continued to remain in isolation, BBMP data accessed by TOI revealed. Officials, however, declined to reveal details of the aforementioned traveller, citing privacy issues. Till Friday morning, Bengaluru reported 45 Covid-19 positive cases: 30 from within BBMP limits and the rest from Bengaluru Urban district, according to data from BBMP’s war room. About 198 primary and 239 secondary contacts of patients in BBMP limits and 203 primary and 3,245 secondary contacts of those in Bengaluru Urban were put under quarantine as on April 2. While the primary contacts were put in public quarantine facilities, the secondary ones were in home isolation. According to BBMP officials, 107 of the 198 primary contacts and 47 of the 239 secondary contacts have completed their quarantine period. No details were immediately available on contacts of the Bengaluru Urban patients. A major contributor to the large number of secondary cases in Bengaluru Urban was the first Covid-19 patient, whose 13-year-old daughter too was found to be infected. The girl had attended school and accounted for about 1,000 secondary contacts, BBMP officials explained. They pointed out only a quarter of those infected in Bengaluru are primary or secondary contacts or have a vague source of infection, indicating that the virus spread has been contained as of now. Dr Ravikumar Surpur, special commissioner (health), BBMP said, “Quarantine and isolation have played a vital role in ensuring the disease does not spread. Surveillance is the most important thing in quarantine. There are three major categories — the positive case, his or her primary contacts and secondary contacts. Patients would receive the necessary treatment, but it’s the primary contacts who need to be monitored to prevent further spread. This is critical. Secondary contacts can be easily handled later as chances of them getting infected are less.” “All those who finish 14 days of quarantine would have to be under extra vigilance for another 14 days, which is called the reporting phase. We want to ensure nothing happens to them during this phase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-quarantine-for-last-overseas-traveller-ends-on-monday/articleshow/74975017.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ticket can be booked for post-lockdown dates: Rlys||Visakhapatnam: Responding to rumours on social media that since railway ticket bookings have resumed for dates after April 15, the lockdown will end the day before, the Railways on Friday issued a clarification saying that bookings had not stopped except for the lockdown period. Speaking to TOI, G Suneel Kumar, senior divisional commercial manager, Waltair division of ECoR, said that advanced reservation period for tickets is 120 days and ticket bookings for April 15 and beyond began much before the lockdown was announced. “Ticket bookings opening from April 15 does not mean that the lockdown will end on April 14. If the Centre extends the period further, the Railways can cancel reservations made from April 15,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, the district administration too responded to the rumours about the lockdown period. “People should not believe rumours circulating through social media and unauthorised sources,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ticket-can-be-booked-for-post-lockdown-dates-rlys/articleshow/74973946.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 4, 2020||Surat||COVID-19 hospitals set up in Bharuch, Ankleshwar||Bharuch: Bharuch district administration has set up three Covid-19 hospitals — two in Bharuch and one at Ankleshwer. “There are 165 home quarantined people in the district who are being closely monitored. Fortunately as on date, there has not been a single positive case in Bharuch. Sewashram Hospital and Civil Hospital in Bharuch have 60 and 75 beds respectively, while ESIC Hospital in Ankleshwar has 100 beds. If required, we will take the help of Jayaben Modi Hospital,” said Bharuch district collector M D Modiya. “We have made arrangements of six ventilators, 55,000 three layered masks and 1,500 N-95 masks to meet challenges in the case of an emergency,” said he said. Being an industrial district, a large number of migrant labourers from Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh have come to Bharuch to earn their livelihood. “The medical examination of all the labourers staying in various labour colonies at Dahej, Vilayat, Vagra, Ankleshwar and Jhagadia will be conducted in the next five days,” Modiya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-hospitals-set-up-in-bharuch-ankleshwar/articleshow/74973490.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||19 more Markaz attendees identified in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The number of persons from Gujarat who visited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz has gone up to 103, with 19 more identified in Ahmedabad. DGP Shivanand Jha said all of them have been home quarantined after a proper medical check-up. Jha added that efforts are being made to identify more people who either gone to Markaz or have come to the city from the Markaz. Jha said earlier 34 people from the city who had gone to the Markaz had been identified. “Of these 34, one person, originally from Muzaffarnagar in UP, tested positive for Covid-19,” he added. Jha said that of the 103 attendees, 57 are from Ahmedabad, 20 from Bhavnagar, 12 from Mehsana, eight from Surat, two from Navsari and four from Botad. Jha also said that cases of people being ferried from place to place in goods containers have come to light. “A large number of people being ferried in a small space which increases the risk of transmission. Cases over such incidents have been registered” , added Jha. Ahmedabad: The state government on Friday told the Gujarat high court that it had received a list of 1,350 persons from Gujarat who had visited Nizamuddin, Delhi, and out of them 1,282 persons have been traced. Of these people, 84 persons have been found to have attended the religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 1 and March 23, where they might have come in contact with the novel coronavirus positive persons. However, only one of these 84 persons has been found Covid-19 positive, but other 83 persons have been placed under quarantine. The government said that the search for the remaining 68 persons is under way. The authorities have their contact numbers, but their locations are not known. Out of 84, the authorities have identified 11 persons on technical intelligence and the rest 73 were traced on the basis of human intelligence. Among them, 38 are from Ahmedabad district, 12 from Mehsana, 20 from Bhavnagar, eight from Surat, two from Navsari and four participants from Botad. The state government made it clear that no foreign national who participated in the congregations has entered Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19-more-markaz-attendees-identified-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/74975008.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Mysuru||With no takers, pineapple growers of Shivamogga hit||Shivamogga: The countrywide lockdown has dampened the prospects of pineapple growers in Malnad and semi-Malnad taluks of Shivamogga district on account of a subdued demand. It is peak period as the summer sets in, but the virus scare has brought down pineapple prices to a bare minimum. The rates have now plummeted from Rs 18 to 50 Paise per kilogram. A visit to the Soraba taluk, one of the major pineapple growing regions of the district, reveal how the lockdown has destroyed the farm economy. “This year, rates are down to 50 Paise. This too only after CM BS Yediyurappa announced the farm products can be transported within the state during lockdown. We are lucky if someone comes forward to buy the pineapples,” said a farmer from Soraba taluk. According to the locals, several cottage industries in the taluk are involved in the production of pineapple juice and other processed forms. Thousands of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar arrive here in the harvest season to work in the factories and fields. However, this year due to the lockdown, all the industries are shut and the farmers have left the crops to rot. “Most of us shifted to pineapple cultivation nearly a decade ago. I cultivated pineapple this year in 30-acres land. This is the worst year for all of us. All — from farmers to factory owners — are affected. All our fields are filled with rotten fruits,” said Shivakumar, a grower from the Kadasuru village. According to Sadananda Gowda, a grower from Chandragutti village, Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai and Delhi are considered to be the prime markets for pineapple. “This year, the government has restricted inter-state transport and so there is hardly any demand,” said Gowda. Shakeel, who has been cultivating pineapple for last two decades and running juice shops in Soraba town said the horticulture department must intervene immediately. “I am also a partner at a pineapple juice factory. We had many workers from Uttar Pradesh at the factory, but now all have left the town. We can’t even recover our investment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-no-takers-pineapple-growers-of-shivamogga-hit/articleshow/74972776.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||First positive patient in EG discharged||Kakinada: The 22-year-old youngster who was the first Covid-19 positive case in East Godavari was discharged on Friday after he tested negative twice as per the protocol. The youth, a student of King’s College in London, returned to Rajahmundry recently and tested positive following which he was admitted to the isolation ward in GGH Kakinada. East Godavari collector D Muralidhar Reddy said the youth underwent treatment under an experienced medical team and was discharged after conducting Covid-19 tests twice which came out negative. The collector further said that of the 36 people from the district who had gone to New Delhi, 34 have returned while two are in UP. All the returnees have been tested and three of them are Covid-19 positive, the collector said. Reddy added that 200 samples have been collected from family members. Speaking to TOI, the youth said that upon returning from London he found out that one of his co-passengers on the flight had tested positive. He then approached the doctors who admitted him to GGH, Kakinada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/first-positive-patient-in-eg-discharged/articleshow/74973968.cms||Samson Raj
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri develops indoor air purifier, hands it over to Mayo hosp||Nagpur: Taking note of the safety of medical persons working in government hospitals while treating coronavirus patients, CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has developed a first-of-its-kind bench scale air purification scrubber (BAPS) that will purify indoor air.On Friday, the scientists handed over the scrubber to Mayo Hospital where nine corona positive patients are currently undergoing treatment. The original design of BAPS developed by the institute was used for treating outdoor air pollution. Wet scrubbers are effective air pollution control devices for removing particles or gases from indoor or outdoor exhaust streams. It operates by introducing the dirty gas stream with a scrubbing liquid.According to scientists, the same invention has been modified to decontaminate indoor air. “The scrubber works on the principle of absorbing dust particles from the air. In the pilot experiment at Mayo, we have replaced the regular liquid with soap water and disinfectants. There are higher chances of presence of virus inside the hospital air. The scrubber will clean the air from particles and bound bio aerosols, and release treated air out,” said PS Rao, senior principal scientist at Neeri.Rao added that the vacuum pump takes in the “impure air, dirt and pollution from the atmosphere and delivers it to the lower chamber of the system through a pipe”. “A mixture of disinfectant and soap water is present in the lower chamber. The impure air from the atmosphere reacts with the disinfectant soap water mixture takes up the particles including bio aerosols and it gets purified,” she said.The dirt in the air settles down at the bottom the chamber as the dirt particles are heavier. “Soap dissolves the fat membrane and the bio aerosols falls apart and dies, or rather it becomes inactive. It is reported that the bio aerosols including virus can remain active in ambient air and many surfaces for hours,” said Rao.If proven effective, BAPs can be used on a large scale at airports, malls, cinema halls and other places which have huge footfalls. “Environmental contaminants are widely distributed in our environment. Therefore, they have a vast effect on the tropic food chain. While commercial air purifiers focus on eliminating dust, pollen, smoke particles and volatile organic compounds from the air, wet scrubbers with various scrubbing agents can be made capable of capturing a greater number of bio aerosols bound particulates,” said Rao.IN A NUTSHELL * Neeri develops first-of-its-kind bench scale air purification scrubber (BAPS) to purify indoor air of the hospitals* Scrubber handed over to Mayo Hospital * Regular liquid inside scrubber replaced by soap water and disinfectants* Soap dissolves the fat membrane and the bio aerosols falls apart and becomes inactive* Bio aerosols including virus can remain active outside the body in ambient air for hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-develops-indoor-air-purifier-hands-it-over-to-mayo-hosp/articleshow/74975012.cms||Manka Behl
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown affecting the dead as well||Haridwar: Because of the ongoing lockdown, those who have a death in the family are unable to come to Haridwar for immersion of ashes, or to perform other rituals. Priests at the Har-ki-Pauri and other Ganga ghats in the holy city said that ‘asthi visarjan’, ‘pind daan’ and other rituals have all stopped owing to the lockdown. At least a hundred families of priests whose livelihood depends on ‘dakshina’ (charity) from pilgrims performing these rituals are struggling to make ends meet, said Akhil Bharatiya Yuva Teerth Purohit Mahasabha president Ujjwal Pundit. According to Pundit, around 3,000 pilgrims visit Haridwar everyday to perform post- death rituals or rituals for ancestors. With travelling coming to a standstill, due to the lockdown, no rituals are being performed and the priests have no income. “We would earn around Rs 500 per day but now we have no earnings,” said Avikshit Raman, a priest who returned to his village in Champawat after the lockdown. He added that there was a rush of people to leave the holy town when the lockdown was announced. For those whose family members passed away in the period of the lockdown, it has been tough to perform rituals as well. Kunwar Pal, a resident of Garhmeerpur village near Bahadrabad, said, “A family had come to Har-ki-Pauri on March 27 to immerse their mother’s ashes but police stopped them at Shankaracharya Chowk and they had to return.” Meanwhile, Ganga Sabha, the apex body of priests in the town, is trying to help those who are finding it difficult to make ends meet. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha told TOI that ration and other essential items are being provided to the needy daily at Malviya Dham, Jwalapur and Teerth Purohit Dharmashala, Kankhal. He, however, did not specify the number of beneficiaries. “Despite difficulties, we are following the advisory on lockdown and fully support the government in its struggle against Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-affecting-the-dead-as-well/articleshow/74972787.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 4, 2020||Goa||Grow your own veggies, urges agriculture dept||Panaji: Farmers have been advised by the directorate of agriculture to take up cultivation of only short-duration vegetable crops during this summer in view of the coronavirus outbreak. An advisory issued by the department on Friday suggested that the general public also grow vegetables in their kitchen gardens, seeds for which are made available at taluka-level zonal agricultural offices (ZAO) at 50% subsidy. From limiting manpower to washing farming implements, Goa’s agriculture department has listed out various measures for farmers to adopt while carrying out their farm operations as a precautionary measure against the potential spread of the virus. The farmers, during harvesting, have been advised to avoid engaging a larger number of labourers per day and to ensure that they maintain social distancing, apart from maintaining personal hygiene by washing their hands with soap at regular intervals. “Farmers selling paddy to registered paddy procurement agencies or rice mills are also requested to take adequate care at all stages to avoid the spread of Covid- I9,” the advisory read. It also emphasised to engage only familiar persons in farm operations as far as possible to ensure that entry of a likely carrier is avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/grow-your-own-veggies-urges-agriculture-dept/articleshow/74975497.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Health dept training more medical staff in critical care||Thiruvananthapuram: Along with the plan to set up additional Covid-19 hospitals and facilities, including critical-care ICUs, the health department has started training more nurses and paramedics in ‘third-generation’ healthcare operations. Middle- and junior-level nurses and paramedical staff are being trained in critical care, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) management and ventilator operations, which are now handled only by senior nurses working in critical-care units (CCUs). The decision to boost human resources for critical-care facility management was taken in view of the chance that hundreds of persons may be admitted to ICUs if the situation worsens. With the number of ICU beds with ventilators being increased in medical colleges, the need has come to train more paramedical staff and nurses on operating CCUs, said Dr Santosh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. “We had first-generation training in basic management, such as the need for washing hands, using gloves, using sanitzers, wearing masks and so on. This training was given to over 5,000 staff members of the hospital. Second-generation training was given to those working in isolation wards. This covered proper use of PPE, management of waste, specimen collection and other procedures,” said Dr Santosh, who heads the training process at the hospital. The government is in the process of increasing the number of ICU beds to meet any emergency. With this, each MCH in the state will have 250 to 500 ICU beds. Bigger hospitals, like the ones in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, will house up to 500 critical-care beds. “More beds mean more ventilators. So we need more trained people for working the ICUs, which involve several complex procedures. Around 2,000 nurses and paramedics are undergoing third-generation training,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/health-dept-training-more-medical-staff-in-critical-care/articleshow/74972830.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 140 US citizens to be flown back on Sunday||KOLKATA: After Armenians and Europeans, it’s evacuation time for American and Russian visitors stranded in Kolkata and other parts of eastern India. An Air India B-787 Dreamliner aircraft will touch down in Kolkata around 6.30pm on Sunday and take off with 140-odd Americans, nearly all of them short-term visitors to India. The plane will then head for Delhi where the passengers will disembark and board a United Airlines aircraft to fly to San Francisco in the US. According to sources, officials from American consulate had contacted the airport authorities and were coordinating the initiative to repatriate US citizens who had come to India and then got stranded here owing to Covid-related developments. First, international flight operations were suspended, then a countrywide lockdown was imposed and finally, domestic flights were halted. Though the current situation in the US appears worse than India, with the former grappling with over 2,45,000 cases and 6,000 deaths, Americans held up here are desperate to get back before flights into the US are disrupted should America too announce a lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain. Some also fear that it is early days yet in India and if things get worse, they would rather be in the US to avail of the healthcare system rather than be stranded elsewhere. According to airline sources, the 256-seater aircraft will carry only 140 passengers to ensure social distancing. Though more passengers will join in Delhi for the flight to San Fancisco, it will also also maintain sufficient social distancing. A spokesperson at US Consulate General Kolkata said: “We are facilitating flights to the US for Americans from all parts of India. US citizens interested in a repatriation flight should register in our Smart Traveler Enrolment Program at https://step.state.gov and monitor our social media platforms for important updates. We appreciate the support of the government of India, state and local authorities, and the private sector for their assistance.” The Russian consulate is also planning to mount an evacuation sortie for 150-odd citizens held up in the region. Sources said the consulate had hinted at a possible flight on April 7 or 8. Russian airline Aeroflot could fly in for the mission. Sources said the Russian consulate had approached the civil aviation ministry and the ministry of external affairs through the Russian embassy. Once they get the nod, the airline that will operate the flights has to submit the flight plan for approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Armenia was the first to repatriate its citizens, most of them students studying at an Armenian college in the city, on March 30. The following morning, Air India had operated a chartered flight to Frankfurt after a technical halt in Delhi, carrying Germans, British, Italians, Dutch, Danes and other nationalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/140-us-citizens-to-be-flown-back-tomorrow/articleshow/74975019.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Sanitization drive in Salt Lake to combat corona||KOLKATA: With three more Covid-19 suspects being sent to hospital isolation in Salt Lake, the administration has gone into a sanitization overdrive in the township — particularly in the areas where the suspects were identified. Bidhannagar MLA and state fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said all necessary steps were being taken. A fire-tender was sent to EE Block on Friday to assist the civic workers in sanitizing and cleaning up the area. Civic authorities held a MMIC meeting on Friday to take stock of the situation. They have decided to provide each of the 41 wards with a disinfectant spraying machine. Sources from the civic body said that they have come across a specific case, in which a patient had reached Kolkata via Haldia from Maharastra. “We are following the health department’s guidelines to conduct the sanitisation drive. We are also urging residents to follow the lockdown properly. It is being noticed that some people are still going out to local markets, even though buying essentials is not urgent for them,” said a civic official. However, the residents of Salt Lake, especially those living close to the affected places, have been on tenterhooks. The first Covid-19 case in Salt Lake was reported from AD block earlier this week. According to Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials, the number of Covid-19 suspects in Salt Lake has reached four now. Earlier, civic officials had gotten a list of around 73 people who came to the city from abroad in the first few weeks of March. Around 500 people were kept in home isolation while over 200 others had crossed the 14-day isolation period without developing any symptom. “We have been very tensed and worried after hearing about the repeated Covid-19 cases in the city. We have heard that a resident of Karunamoyee housing complex has been hospitalised. tension has gripped the entire locality,” said Anjan Kumar Ganguly, an elderly resident of Salt Lake. “My elderly parents are panicked after knowing from some locals that a person, who had visited his relative’s house in Salt Lake from outside recently, has been tested positive for Covid-19. We are staying indoors and not going out of the building,” said an EE Block resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sanitization-drive-in-salt-lake-to-combat-corona/articleshow/74975029.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||Now, a capsule for transporting Covid-19 patients sans risk||Nagpur: Transferring a Covid-19 positive patient from one ward to another or from one hospital to another is a challenging task in many ways. Even though doctors treating them wear protection kits, infection can still spread through droplets of patient during transportation on a general stretcher. Entire hospital galleries and corridors must be sanitized once a Covid-19 patient visits.Moreover, other patients in ward or support staff without proper PPE kits may get infected. So, moving a patient from isolation ward becomes very risky.Doctors from Nagpur’s Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences and K innovation labs have developed a unique capsule for transport of Covid-19 patients in a safe manner without contamination of outside atmosphere.Dr Anant Singh Rajput, critical care consultant of this hospital, said that ward-to-ward transfer of Covid-19 patients has become risk-free with this enclosure made of toughened glass, acrylic plates, and aluminium frames.“Covid-19 patients in isolation rooms may need to be transported on stretchers for ventilator support or for advanced care in ICU. Moving them through hospitals can spread infections. So, this concept of designing an enclosure for such patients struck my mind,” said Dr Rajput.Dr Amol Kadu, his ophthalmologist friend who has developed eight such innovative medical instruments so far, took the responsibility to design this capsule. Together, they named it as Covi-safe.“The concept of such capsule is not new to medical field. But, Covi-safe is arguably the first to support ventilators,” said Dr Kadu.“We can shift the patient on ventilator in this box without disconnecting oxygen support. For those who are not on ventilator, we have kept an oxygen inlet and CO2 outlet. The outlet has a filter that restricts virus inside it. This filter is disposable,” said Dr Kadu.Developing this device in the middle of lockdown had been a challenge for the doctors. They had to take special permission from city police to open their vendors’ shops, workshops and designed the prototype in 2 days under police protection.“As this was exclusively for Covid-19 patients, we decided to donate it to IGGMCH, where 9 positive patients are presently admitted. Union minister Nitin Gadkari was present when we donated this on Thursday,” said Dr Rajput.The duo claimed that they can produce these enclosures in large numbers and it may cost less than Rs20,000. “In its next version, we want to make it compatible for CT Scan. It’s an important diagnostic tool for Covid-19 patients, but in India, entire CT Scan center needs to be disinfected if one such patient visits. The next version of Covi-safe will have such features that CT Scan can be done without infection,” said Dr Rajput.About Covi-safe The enclosure is made of aluminium angles, toughened glass, acrylic plates and fixed on a GI stretcherWith gaskets support, it can be fixed on stretcher in such a way that it becomes air-tightEven patient on ventilator can also be shifted in this box as it supports ventilators and has arrangement of oxygen cylinderPatient can be shifted from one ward to another, or one hospital to another easily without the risk of contaminationIn the next version of this tool, doctors are planning to make it suitable for CT Scan which is important diagnostic tool for Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-a-capsule-for-transporting-covid-19-patients-sans-risk/articleshow/74975025.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 4, 2020||Dehradun||Sedition charges on Pantnagar University staffer after he asks people to take law in own hands||Dehradun: A case of sedition has been filed against Abhilakh Singh, a staffer of Pantnagar University, after he wrote a message on a WhatsApp group about poor condition of labourers during lockdown and urged people that they should take law and order in their own hands. Police have taken Singh’s phone in custody and further inquiry is being carried out in the matter. Talking to TOI, Pramod Kumar, superintendent of police (crime), Udham Singh Nagar district, confirmed that a sedition case, under section 124 (A) of IPC, has been filed against Abhilakh Singh, who is a pump operator at Pantnagar University. Kumar added, “He had written a provocative message against the police and government in a WhatsApp group. An FIR under section 124 A of IPC has been registered against him on the basis of the screenshot we have obtained from his phone.” Commenting on the FIR against him, Singh told TOI that his message shouldn’t have invited a sedition charge. “What police is doing to the poor and labourers is not hidden. We all have seen videos of people walking, crying for food and finally dying with nobody to help, not even police. What I have written is the truth of the society. If speaking your heart out falls under sedition, they can go ahead,” he added. Meanwhile, the action against Singh has been criticised by several groups who have demanded removal of sedition charges against him. Kailash Bhatt, president of Inqalabi Mazdoor Sangh, in a written statement to police and state government, wrote that “police has a personal grudge against Singh as he keeps fighting for the rights of poor and labourers.” Former Congress president Kishore Upadhyay also condemned the police action, saying, “We condemn the FIR against a person who highlights the plight of the poor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sedition-charges-on-pantnagar-university-staffer-after-he-asks-people-to-take-law-in-own-hands/articleshow/74972818.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||State to Centre: Expedite clinical trials for immune-based drug by B’luru docs||Bengaluru: Researchers from Bengaluru-based HCG cancer hospital have started looking at developing a immunotherapy-based drug that can fight Covid-19. On Wednesday, a meeting was held with Karnataka chief minister BS Yedyurapppa in this regard, following which the state has written to the Union ministry of health and family welfare seeking to expedite review of the drug research and permitting initiation of clinical trials. The ICMR’s (Indian Council of Medical Research) ethical committee has approved of the research. On April 1, the state government wrote to the ministry of health and family welfare, asking the Centre to intervene and issue necessary instructions to the ICMR to review the detailed work of Bengaluru researchers and consider the same for initiation of clinical trials. The research aims to activate specific proteins to activate the immune system that is muted by Covid-19 virus in an affected patient. The immunology lab at HCG hospital has worked on the project to create a treatment for Covid-19, assisted by Lancet Resource Centre. Dr Gururaj Rao molecular and cell biologist, Dr Jyothsna Rao immunologist, Dr US Vishal Rao and other team members of HCG have developed a cytokines-mediated anti-Covid therapy, which is based on how a child’s immune system is able to combat the virus unlike in the elderly. “Cytokines are the signalling proteins released by the cells. This investigation therapy is an enriched cocktail of cytokines predominantly from the TH1 immune cells,” said Dr Vishal. The researchers have made a concoction of cytokines released by the human immune system against virus attacks and have been known to be effective against Covid-19 too. “Unfortunately, patients infected with the virus are unable to produce them. What we have done is to make this concoction using healthy donors,” said Dr Vishal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-to-centre-expedite-clinical-trials-for-immune-based-drug-by-bluru-docs/articleshow/74975033.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 4, 2020||Goa||50% drop in trash at Saligao plant||Saligao: With all hotels and resorts shut along the North Goa coastal belt, Hindustan Waste Treatment Plant Ltd (HWTPL) at Saligao has seen a 50% drop in daily garbage collection. Officials said that the solid waste treatment plant at Saligao has capacity to process garbage of village panchayats which are struggling to process their waste. “The plant received a minimum of 120 tonnes of garbage on a daily basis till March 22. After that it has come down to 50-60 tonne on a daily basis. It has come down drastically,” said HWTPL director Ganesh Kandaswamy said. The plant situated on the Saligao plateau caters to all the village panchayats in the vicinity and used to receive waste from as many as 1,200 hotels. With the lockdown imposed, all these hotels have closed. “Now pure household waste is coming,” he said. The plant now operates for a single shift. “We might get more panchayat waste in the coming days since we have the capacity, but that call the government has to take,” Kandaswamy said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-drop-in-trash-at-saligao-plant/articleshow/74975501.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil hospital to hire 350 paramedicos||AHMEDABAD: Civil hospital authorities invited applications for temporary recruitment of medical and paramedical staff for the new Covid-19 hospital on their campus in the Asarwa area of city, but barely any candidates turned up on Friday morning. Many of the candidates for posts of paramedical staff said the hospital authorities were offering a meagre salary of Rs 13,000 a month and this was the reason for the low turnout. Civil hospital authorities, through the district collector, invited applications 90 posts of specialist pulmonologists, five anaesthetists, 165 posts of medical officers (MBBS) and 700 posts of nursing staff for the Covid-19 hospital that has been set up at the 1,200 bed hospital on the Civil Hospital campus. On Tuesday morning, just 300 candidates turned up for nursing staff posts and there were very few applicants for the posts of specialists and medical officers. A resident of Vadaj, who has been working at a private hospital in Thaltej, said he has been a staff nurse for seven years and gets a monthly salary of Rs 18,000. "Here, they are offering just Rs 13,000 to work with coronavirus patients and the post is also temporary. The hospital authority should at least promise us a contract of a year,” said the candidate, the sole earning member in a family of six. Another candidate from Vatva, who works for a private hospital on SG Road, said no one would risk their life for such meagre pay. “I am the only earning member of my family. Civil Hospital should at least offer more salary than private hospitals. I get Rs 20,000 per month at a private hospital. I came here with the hope that they may give me a permanent posting,” said the candidate. Superintendent of Civil Hospital, Dr Gunwant Rathod, said that he was unaware of the recruitment number of recruitment and issued a gag order on media coverage. Hospital authorities did not also properly manage social distancing between candidates. There was also a one-hour lunch break for interviewers, between 2pm and 3pm, leaving candidates sitting in the sun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-13000-a-month-to-treat-covid-19-patients-at-civil/articleshow/74975043.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Patchy broadband tests patience of those on work from home||CHENNAI: Internet usage in homes has gone up during the lockdown that has restricted movement, with broadband customers complaining about slowdown in services. While those working from home say the existing bandwidth is not supporting their official work online, other subscribers have been raising concern over frequent interruptions in downloading files.  T K Pandian, a resident of Anna Nagar, said he was finding it difficult to download even small files using his broadband connection. A subscriber of BSNL who uses a Wi-Fi connection at home to complete official work, he said he had been struggling with BSNL broadband over the past two months. “But, it has aggravated in the last 15 days. Drop in signal on my Wi-Fi modem has become frequent as it has become a herculean task to even download a file with a size of just 70MB,” he said. The state-owned BSNL has the highest number of broadband connections, an estimated 1.5 lakh, in Chennai telecom circle comprising the city, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. The circle also has about 20,000 subscribers with optical fibre cable connections. There are other problems too. A few residents in some parts of the city have complained that they have been unable to open two portals at the same time as the pressure on the server has increased since the time companies asked their employees to work from home. Sundar, a private bank employee and resident of Aminjikarai said that the Wi-Fi connection has been slow at least since the middle of March. He uses an office software for official purpose that requires better bandwidth. “But, it is slow as I cannot open two websites at a time,” he said. Accessing social media portals is also difficult. “We have an Airtel connection. We tried to call the customer care number to complain, but could not reach it,” he said. While Airtel did not respond to a TOI query over complaints from customers, BSNL is increasing its gateway capacity. When contacted, BSNL Chennai Telephones chief general manager V K Sanjeevi said the traffic had increased by 20% over the last fortnight recording the maximum upload and download speed of 360GB per second. “Now, every hour has turned into a peak hour after work from home became the order of the day. We are activating our new equipment to upgrade the gateway bandwidth capacity by adding another 100GB per second within a week,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/patchy-broadband-tests-patience-of-those-on-wfh/articleshow/74975523.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Nagpur||61-year-old Washim man is Vid’s new +ve case||Nagpur: A 61-year-old man from a village in Malegaon tehsil of Washim district was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The man, whose information was shared by the state government as an attendee of Tablighi Jamaat meet at Delhi, was identified by the local administration on April 1 and his samples were sent to Nagpur the next day after admitting him to the district hospital.Washim’s district collector Hrishikesh Modak said that the administration is tracing travel history of this person.“The man is claiming that he never attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He says that he went back to his village Mendshi from Badnera railway station from where he was supposed to board a train for Delhi. But, we need to confirm his claims,” the collector said. The man has been admitted to the isolation ward of district hospital in Washim. His family members and neighbours from his native village have also been admitted to the same hospital as they are his high-risk contacts. Their samples were also sent to Nagpur on Friday.Divisional deputy director (health services) for Akola division Dr Riyaz Faruqui said that the person is asymptomatic. “The man is showing no symptoms like fever or cough. He doesn’t have co-morbidities like diabetes or hypertension. As per his claims, he changed his plans at Badnera station and came back instead of attending the Delhi congregation,” he said. Still, as he has been detected Covid-19 positive, the administration is now confirming his travel history.“Our priority is to check close contacts of the patient and detect if any of them is positive,” said Washim civil surgeon Dr Ambadas Sontakke. If any of his family member or close contacts test positive, it will be the first case of rural transmission of Covid-19 in Maharashtra. All earlier cases have been detected at cities and district headquarters only.The health department of Washim swung into action immediately and started door-to-door contamination drive in Mendshi village. If the patient’s claim is to be believed, his source of infection must be somewhere between Washim and Badnera railway station only. Vidarbha region now has 25 cases with one death and seven being recovered and discharged. Positive patients are admitted in Nagpur, Gondia, Buldhana and now in Washim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/61-year-old-washim-man-is-vids-new-ve-case/articleshow/74975038.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||In bid to rein in violators,netas turn cop whisperers||Hyderabad: Believe it or not, public representatives, including ministers and MLAs, have become ‘police informers’ to rein in violators of the lockdown guidelines. They were not only giving alerts to local cops on lockdown violations but also making sure people stayed indoors during this period. With chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao taking a dig at public representatives, especially GHMC corporators, for remaining mute spectators and not enforcing strict adherence to the lockdown by people, some public representatives took his reprimand seriously and began helping police in clamping down on violators. In the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district, a minister after coming to know about people consuming alcohol duly informed cops to take action against the tipplers. Vidoes of Sircilla district collector D Krishna Bhaskar giving a piece of his mind to motorists for venturing out on to the roads have already gone viral. In Rachakonda police commissionerate, senior officials told TOI that MLAs and corporators have been alerting them on mass gatherings in some areas, violations by motorists and lack of food for migrant workers. “On some occasions, public representatives also manned the checkposts along with police to make sure that people do not break the barricades. It is a fact that some public representatives either directly or through their cadre have become informants for us during this lockdown period,’’ a senior police officer told TOI. In Siddipet district, finance minister T Harish Rao himself is supervising lockdown enforcement and holding meetings with officials and local sarpanches. He is also ensuring that the sarpanches and others coordinate with police and other departments if they come across lockdown violations. “In rural areas, sarpanches or TRS party cadre are sharing information to their local MLAs who pass it on to police if they chance upon violations by people. People caught gambling or organising get-togethers and playing cards are immediately bundled into police vehicles,” a senior police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-bid-to-rein-in-violatorsnetas-turn-cop-whisperers/articleshow/74975512.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||HC seeks govt reply on availability of PPEs for docs, nurses & paramedics||Ranchi: Expressing concern over the lack of adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) for the frontline workers, who include doctors, as reported by TOI and other media, the Jharkhand high court on Friday sought a reply from the government with details of the facilities and infrastructural support available for those fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The move comes following an email by lawyers Indrajit Sinha and Rohan Mazumdar to Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan on March 31 in which they mentioned various media reports on the lack of sufficient PPE for the doctors looking after quarantined persons at Khelgoan quarantine centre and Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. In the email, the lawyers demanded an immediate supply of PPE to the frontline workers to prevent them from contracting the virus. Consequently, the court converted the email into a PIL and heard the matter through video conference in which all stakeholders appeared online from their residential offices on Friday. On Thursday, both the lawyers presented their submission before the court and during the hearing on Friday, advocate general Rajiv Ranjan informed the court that there is adequate stock of PPE and it is being provided to the health workers as per protocol. The matter would be heard again on April 7. Registrar general Ambuj Nath said, “The division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ranjan and Justice S N Prasad, asked the state to file a reply on a number of issues, including the infrastructure and equipment provided for fighting the virus, the number of people affected and the number of tests conducted on those with symptoms of the virus. The reply is to be undersigned by the chief secretary and sent via email by April 7.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-availability-of-ppes-for-docs-nurses-paramedics/articleshow/74974265.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||IIT(ISM) develops adaptor to make 1 ventilator work for many||Sindri: A team from the IIT(ISM) Dhanbad has used 3D printing technology to develop an adaptor which makes a single ventilator work for multiple patients. The adaptor, a prototype of which is ready and sent for testing and feedback, will be a boon during the time of ventilator scarcity because of the Covid-19 threat in the country. Talking to TOI, A R Dixit, a professor of the institute’s mechanical department, said there has been a surge in demand from hospitals for ventilators, which is vital for critically infected Covid-19 patients. He said, “Our team has developed a multiple channel adaptor for a ventilator so that it can be used for up to four patients. This will help increase the capacity of existing ventilators.” According to Dixit, the concept was first reported in Society of Academic Emergency Medicine and was successfully used by Dr Menes of the US in the 2017 Las Vegas mass shooting casualty incident. The adaptor is a simple multichannel airway and helps branching of a single ventilator for simultaneous use on more than one patient, Dixit explained. He said a functional prototype of the adaptor is ready at the mechanical engineering department’s reverse engineering lab. “The adaptor is equipped with flow limiters (controller) of different sizes which can limit the oxygen flow from the splitter for multiple patients according to his or her requirement,” Dixit said. He said the team has sent a prototype of the adaptor to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, to take for feedback from the doctors there. Dixit further said 3D printing is used worldwide to develop different personal preventive equipment like face shields, masks and also important medical attachment like valves and splitters. The other members of the team which developed the adaptor include Ashish Kumar, technical superintendent of the reverse engineering lab and Ratnesh Kumar, a PhD scholar, apart from Dixit as the team leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/iitism-develops-adaptor-to-make-1-ventilator-work-for-many/articleshow/74974205.cms||Anil Ashutosh
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||Veggie seller who travelled with Hazaribag Covid patient, quarantined||Bokaro: A 42-year-old vegetable seller from Lalpaniya in Gomia block of Bokaro, who travelled with the Hazaribag Covid-19 patient from Asansol on March 29, was taken to an isolation centre on Friday. The man, district officials said, is a relative of the Covid-19 patient. The duo met in Asansol on March 27 and began their journey back to Jharkhand together. Confirming the development, Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar said, “The blood and swab samples of the man were sent to Rims in Ranchi on Friday along with two of his family members. All the three have been quarantined.” After the 52-year-old Hazaribag man tested positive on Thursday evening, the district administration here swung into action to track down the man. A team of medical experts led by district epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava drew the blood samples and noted the contact history. “The man is a vegetable-seller. We are yet to find out why he visited Asansol around 10 days ago,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Upon his return, the suspect went about his business as usual and sold vegetables at a local market in Lalpaniya for three consecutive days, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/veggie-seller-who-travelled-with-hazaribag-covid-patient-quarantined/articleshow/74974091.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||PVUNL converts steel container into Covid-19 isolation ward||Ramgarh: Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (PVUNL), a joint venture of the state-owned NTPC and Jharkhand government, set up an eight-bedded fully air conditioned isolation ward inside a steel container at the sadar hospital in Ramgarh. The container is equipped with all medical facilities and amenities like urinals. Public relations officer of PVUNL Y Devashish said, “An emergency hospital with eight isolation beds inside a steel container has been set up at the sadar hospital in the district headquarters. It is equipped with medical facilities and other amenities. The isolation ward has been handed over to the sadar hospital.” The sadar hospital already has a five-bedded isolation ward for positive cases of Covid-19 and the unique container facility will add on to the number. An official of the sadar hospital said, “Central Coalfields Limited has also set up isolation wards in several places in the district like Adarsh hospital, Giddi, CCL Bhurkunda hospital under Barka-Sayal area and Silver Jubilee hospital in Rajrappa area.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvunl-converts-steel-container-into-covid-19-isolation-ward/articleshow/74974479.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Lockdown rules, be ready to lose passport||VADODARA: Planning a foreign trip later this year? Then, beware before venturing out during lockdown. Vadodara police have decided to press for revoking the passports of those flouting lockdown rules. Police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut said beginning Friday (April 3), city police will make a list of all those arrested for violating public notification and find out who all possess passports. “Once identified, we will write to the passport office and ministry of home affairs to cancel their passports,” he said. Gahlaut added that those who don’t have passports also won’t be spared. “There would be many who want to apply for passport. We will mention the police complaint and arrest on record during police clearance for passports.” The decision about this drastic step was taken as people are still seen sauntering on the roads and other public areas without any reason. Many are giving ridiculous excuses for moving out of their homes. On Friday, 35 people were booked for violating the lockdown orders and police will start the process to check who among them are passport holders. “With the help of CCTVs and drone cameras, we are capturing images of people who are moving outdoors. When they are tracked down and questioned, many of them are found to be moving out in public areas without any valid reason. People are not taking lockdown seriously,” Gahlaut said. “The move to restrict their overseas travel is aimed at curbing unnecessary commuting by citizens,” Gahlaut told TOI. People from those from well-to-do families were also found moving around in cars for no reason, compelling the cops to step up their drive to detain vehicles of offenders over last few days. Sources in the police department said the advisory to cancel passports has been given to all police stations across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/flout-lockdown-rules-be-ready-to-lose-passport/articleshow/74973027.cms||Tushar Tere
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||State to seek its due GST share from Centre: Oraon||Ranchi: The state government will request the the Centre to release its pending share of GST and central taxes, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Friday. “We need money to procure equipment, protective gear for our front line staff in this fight against coronavirus,” Oraon said. “The Center has not given Jharkhand its share for the months of December, January, February and March. We will urge them to release the money at once,” he added. Sources in the revenue department said Jharkhand’s monthly GST share is between Rs 300 crore to Rs 375 crore. Besides mobilising funds to combat the pandemic, Jharkhand will press for its share as the projected revenue collection in the first few months of the first quarter of 2020-21 financial year reflects a poor scenario. “With the lockdown hitting the economy hard, collections may run dry in a few months. Soon, it may become difficult to pay salaries to the government employees. The situation can improve after August if things are under control,” an official said. The department also hinted that the state might also seek a share from the Rs 3 lakh crore dividend which the Centre had collected from RBI recently. Meanwhile, Congress on Friday said it has launched a centralised control room for its party workers and volunteers to keep track of the food grain availability at panchayat, block and district levels. “Besides the government doing its bit, our party will monitor the scenario on ground constantly and help the needy in getting ration during the lockdown,” Oraon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-to-seek-its-due-gst-share-from-centre-oraon/articleshow/74974367.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||Few devotees at Chaiti Durga idol immersion||Ranchi: Only a handful of devotees, who were observing social distancing, were seen during the procession for immersion of Goddess Durga idols at the end of Chaiti Durga Puja on Friday. For the first time, the 94-year-old tradition also saw the procession without any music or fanfare. The priest of Shri Chaiti Durga Puja Mahasamiti, Subhash Chandra, said, “We maintained social distancing and only 8-10 people were in the shobhayatra (procession). We adopted all preventive measures prescribed by the authorities. Apart from this, we also had sanitisers and wore masks throughout the day as preventive measures.” During the ritual, only the priest and one devotee were allowed to go near the idol. The organisers had arranged for 2,000 packets of prasad so that they can avoid physical touch while distributing them. The organisers said the tradition is going on since 1926 and the celebration was never like this before. One of the organisers, Sanjay Singh, said, “We took all preventive measures. To maintain social distancing during immersion, we used ropes to handle the idol. Only two persons were allowed to go near the idol so that there is less chance of interaction.” He added that the organisers were compelled to hold the puja as all arrangements had been made before announcement of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/few-devotees-at-chaiti-durga-idol-immersion/articleshow/74974128.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Noida||Noida sets up app alert for quarantine breach||NOIDA: Tightening the lockdown in Noida, which has the most Covid-19 cases in UP, the state government has restricted the number of people who can travel in a vehicle and turned to app-based surveillance and monitoring of people in quarantine in which alerts will go out to the local administration if a person directed to be in isolation moves out of the house. Starting Friday, only one person will be allowed on a two-wheeler and only two in a four-wheeler — one in the driver’s seat and the other in the backseat, a statement issued by the director (media) for police commissioner Alok Kumar Singh said. In case of a violation, the vehicle will be seized and an FIR lodged. “If a woman is travelling with her husband, or if an elderly person is riding pillion, they will not be penalised. Those travelling in a four-wheeler for an emergency will also be exempted,” additional CP (law and order) Akhilesh Singh said. The police statement had not listed the exemptions. While vehicles carrying essential items or with passes are allowed on roads, only two people are allowed inside. “Heavy loaded vehicles can continue plying but they should only have a driver and a cleaner. Anyone else found inside the vehicle will be made to get off and sent to the nearest shelter home,” the statement said. A vehicle seized for violating these rules will not released as long as Section 144 is in effect in the district. In addition to social distancing, imperative to efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus is contact tracing. To speed this up, the administration has turned to digital solutions, launching two apps for internal use — one for surveillance and another for contact tracing. Data from all three will be channelled to an integrated platform. One app will be installed on the phones of those asked to quarantine themselves at home. A travel range will be set, which will match the size of the house. “When someone crosses the range, we will be notified,” said Dadri subdivisional magistrate Rajeev Rai. Those home quarantined will also be asked to share their photos every few hours. The location details in the photos’ metadata will be used to make sure they are where they say they are. “The surveillance of people in home isolation may be the first of its kind. People often don’t follow guidelines and step out without informing the administration, risking themselves and others. The app will inform us the moment someone tries to leave the house,” district magistrate Suhas LY said. The surveillance mechanism is, however, entirely dependent on the location of the phone. “To address that, the app has an auto random videocalling feature. If a person does not respond, it will be assumed quarantine is breached. For those who do not have smartphones, we will start stamping hands (this has not been done in UP before), take an undertaking that they will stay home and start cold calling them,” the DM said. Another app will automate the process of contact tracing. “We will use a predictive software to trace primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients so the administration can move fast,” the DM said. Data from both will go into an integrated platform, which will track every caller, and possible patients and their contacts. Whenever a person tests positive, all their contacts will already be at hand, instead of the process starting after a positive case comes in. All relevant departments will immediately be informed and expected to respond swiftly. With this, there is now just one helpline for Noida: 1800-419-2211. Speed of response has been cited as the reason why Noida became the state’s Covid-19 hotspot. As of Friday, 54 of the state’s 174 cases were from Noida. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath replaced both the district magistrate and the CMO earlier this week. The administration on Friday planned a temporary reprieve — hotels will be converted into paid quarantine facilities for those who have not tested positive but asked to self-isolate. Four more hotels — Hotel Ginger in Sector 63, Mosaic and Radisson Blu in Sector 18 and Golf View in Sector 37 — and some vacant residential towers that will be used as quarantine facilities. For five-star hotels, Rs 2,500 per day has been fixed, while the rate is Rs 2,000 a day for a four-star and Rs 1,500 a day for a three-star. “We are providing people the option of paid quarantine facility at these locations at nominal charges,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-sets-up-app-alert-for-quarantine-breach/articleshow/74975551.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||Kids show their big heart to help poor in COVID crisis||Surat: In these difficult times, little children from the state are showing their big hearts by donating money to the government from their piggy banks.Five-year-old, Paris Vyas from Ankleshwar, has become a source of inspiration for charity to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and help the poor affected due to the lockdown.Paris donated Rs 11,200 from her piggy bank savings for the relief of the poor people affected due to the lockdown in the state.In a small video that went viral a couple of days ago, Paris holding her decorative piggy bank was seen appealing people to donate generously for the poor.Talking to TOI, Paris said, “Poor people are not getting food to eat, so I decided to donate my piggy bank saving. I am also requesting other people and children to donate their savings to help poor people”In the video, she is heard saying, “I am giving whatever I have in my piggy bank to the government so that they can help the poor people and fight against corona. Like me, you also come forward to help the government to fight corona.”Paris’ father, OM Vyas, who owns a chemical unit in Ankleshwar said, “My daughter was inspired seeing tycoons like Ratan Tata and Mukesh Ambani donating huge amounts to the PM-CARES fund. She came to me with her piggy bank and asked me to donate it to the government.”Vyas added, “I can transfer the amount online to the PM-CARES fund, but I want to donate her piggy bank to the district collector in Bharuch. Since there is a lockdown, I am trying to get permission from the police to meet the district collector in Bharuch and hand over the piggy bank as donation.”According to Vyas, many of his daughter’s classmate at the Little Flower School have come forward to donate their piggy bank money. Three brothers, aged between four and 10 years, walked into a police station in Ahmedabad with their piggy banks as they wanted to contribute in city police's efforts to feed the poor, homeless and migrant workers.In a video shared by the Ahmedabad police on its Twitter handle, the three brothers are seen walking into the premises accompanied by their mother.“Heartfelt thank you to Zaid, Moin and Amen, who donated Rs 5,500 from their piggy banks after their mother showed them the relief work being done by us. “We are extremely pleased by the kind gesture of these kids,” said the police in a tweet on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kids-show-their-big-heart-to-help-poor-in-covid-crisis/articleshow/74973513.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Noida||Taking dogs out is difficult: Noida residents||NOIDA: The Covid-19 lockdown has posed a problem for many Noida residents who own pets. They claim they are unable to take their dogs for walks, with the police as well as their housing society RWAs being too strict. While some RWAs are not allowing residents to take their dogs out in the park for poop, many have complained that cops too have been objecting to pet owners taking their dogs out. For instance, a doctor from a housing society in Sector 60 has alleged that he was rebuked by cops while he had taken out his pet dog for poop. “We have received a complaint from the doctor, who claimed he was rebuked by a team of cops while he had stepped out of his housing society with his dog, and asked to stay indoors,. The matter has been communicated to senior police officers,” a police officer said. With no way to take the dog out, pet owners say at least they there should be some leniency for them and they be allowed to take pets out at least once. Santosh, a resident of Nirala Estate society in Greater Noida (west), said that with restrictions on walks in the society park, some pet owners were forced to take their dogs out for a walk in parking lots. He said that pet owners should be allowed to take their dogs out for poop at least once a day. However, Shavez Khan, Sector 58 SHO, told TOI that a complaint was received and the residents were informed that police has not issued any such guidelines to bar the pet owners from taking out their dogs. “Animals would need to be taken out and we have clarified to the residents of Sector 60 that there are no guidelines or directions from the police to debar the pet owners from taking out their dogs. Police can’t tell them to stay inside as it was impractical,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/taking-dogs-out-is-difficult-residents/articleshow/74975609.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||SMIMER parking to have 548 beds for isolation||Surat: The multi-level parking of SMIMER hospital, which is being converted into an isolation centre, will have a capacity of 548 beds. "We converting multi-level parking facility into isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. We are recruiting 115 ward boys, 50 aayas (women caretakers) and 500 nursing staff for this,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, said. According to Pani, total 7,474 cases of acute respiratory infection (ARI) were found during the door-to-door surveillance and they are being cared for by our medical teams. "On Friday, 2,553 public places were disinfected in the city and till date, total 19,480 places have been completely disinfected. Meanwhile, three new patients,, all males, with suspected symptoms of the virus were admitted in SMIMER on Friday. An 18-year-old from central zone had visited textile market in Uttar Pradesh, while another 53-year-old man from Piplod and a 48-year-old from Katargam, both without any travel history were admitted. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “There was not a single positive Covid-19 case reported in the last 48 hours ending Friday evening from the Diamond City. All the samples of the suspected cases have been sent for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smimer-parking-to-have-548-beds-for-isolation/articleshow/74973553.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Business||Wuhan & IC 814 heroes among 61 pilots ‘rested’||NEW DELHI: The coronavirus pandemic has done something that the hijackers of Indian Airlines’ flight IC 814 in December 1999 could not — impact the flying career of Captain Devi Sharan who was operating that fateful flight on an Airbus A300. The retirement age in Air India is 58 and many senior pilots are hired on contract on attaining that milestone. Pilots can fly commercially till they turn 65. Air India had retained the IC 814 commander, who for last eight years is flying the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, on contract two years ago. Earlier this week, AI temporarily suspended the post-retirement contract of 61 pilots, including Captain Sharan. Among those on this list is Captain S H Reza who was one of the four pilots operating first of the two special jumbo jet charters sent to Wuhan on January 31 and February 1 to fly out Indians stranded there. Captain Reza later got a formal appreciation letter from the government. Captain Sharan, who joined IA in 1985 on the Boeing 737 classic and was widely applauded for his calm handling of the IC 814 crisis, refused to comment on the issue, saying he is “not authorised to speak to the media.” A senior pilot who has flown with Captain Sharan said: “At 60, we have five years of flying left. Hopefully things will get resolved and there will be a full recovery that will see us back in the flight deck.” Amen to that! AI’s move came as a cost-saving measure because corona has dealt a body blow to commercial passengers flights and airline revenues. All airlines are taking similar steps to cut costs and somehow survive the invisible virus’ deadly attack on both human life and livelihoods. Highly experienced pilots like Captain Sharan, who are of the rank of examiner and instructor, were retained by airlines due to a crippling shortage of captains in peak travel times witnessed not so long back. Today, a large number of airlines are on the verge of closure with their fleets grounded. Other pilots on AI’s list of 61 re-hired-on-retirement speaking on conditions are understandably upset. “The government specifically said there should be no job losses during the lockdown. We should have been retained as we chose to stay with AI on retirement and not join other airlines. A large part of our salary is due with AI. At least that should be cleared,” said a senior pilot. AI is among the most financially stressed Indian carriers and the government had last year warned it may shut down unless a buyer is found for the Maharaja. Now, corona has led to such uncertainty that no one knows how AI’s proposed divestment will play out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wuhan-ic-814-heroes-among-61-pilots-rested/articleshow/74976042.cms||Saurabh Sinha
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||Desperate for essentials, kolis from Worli breach seal and set sail for Mahim||MUMBAI: Desperate times call for desperate measures. With the sealed Worli Koliwada fast running out of essentials, a group of fishermen on Thursday sneaked out in boats to Mahim to get supplies from their relatives. But when they landed at Mahim beach, they were stopped from proceeding further and forced to return empty-handed. While Worli is roughly four kms from Mahim by road, the same journey traversing the bay is shorter. The seaborne mission, however, ended in failure. “As soon as the breach was brought to my notice, I rushed to Mahim to inform the fisherfolk about the grave consequences of allowing their relatives from Worli Koliwada into the area,” said Mahim corporator Milind Vaidya from Shiv Sena. “...these are crucial times and allowing anyone who may be a high-risk contact of a Covid-19 patient could spell disaster for Mahim. We need to cooperate with the authorities and understand why they are placing these restrictions.” A sombre mood prevailed over Worli Koliwada on Friday following the death of a local leader, Moreshwar Koli. While fisherfolk claimed he had died due to coronavirus, assistant municipal commissioner of GSouth ward Sharad Ughade said they had no information to substantiate it. Harishchandra Nakhwa, a local, said: “Koli was on the frontline of several causes like the fight against the coastal road reclamation. Due to the lockdown, we have no option but grieve at home.” Worli Koliwada has been sealed since Tuesday after a Covid-19 death and number of positive cases touching 15. The police have barricaded the lane leading to Koliwada, also known as Worli village, and only vehicles bringing in essential items, like groceries and vegetables, are allowed entry. But locals claimed that the few shops that are open are running out of stock. They complained that essential items, like milk, are not being delivered home as promised, medicines and health services are unavailable, and ATMs not dispensing cash. S Kamble, a resident of the nearby Worli BDD chawl, said he was not allowed to deliver the grocery items he had got for his daughter who lives in Koliwada with her husband and year-old child. A koli, who did not want to be identified, said her 17-yearold son had fever on Thursday, but no medicines or doctor was available. “Finally, I asked police for help and a health worker took my son to the Prabhadevi health centre,” said the woman, who is the neighbour of some of the Covid-19 patients. Another local Sachin Gawane said: “Koliwada is not like a Kashmir to put such harsh restrictions.” He appealed to CM Uddhav Thackeray and local MLA Aaditya Thackeray to ensure adequate essential services for the 30,000 people living in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/desperate-for-essentials-kolis-from-worli-breach-seal-and-set-sail-for-mahim/articleshow/74976057.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 4, 2020||India||At 9pm Sunday, switch off lights, light diyas: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: About halfway through the 21-day national lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a nine-minute blackout at 9pm on Sunday and urged people to use candles, diyas and mobile torchlights to demonstrate solidarity and reiterate a collective resolve to beat back the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The PM's brief video message telecast on Friday morning aimed to keep public morale up with Modi emphasising collective action and urging people to stay the course. Reaching out to people chafing at confinement and monotony, he said, “We are confined to our own homes, and may be getting assailed by doubts as to how one can win this fight. But none of us is alone. The collective strength of 130 crore Indians is with each one of us.” He added that lighting lamps on Sunday will help rearm the resolve to prevail against coronavirus. The PM underlined the need to assure people, particularly the poor, that their travails will end. “Amidst the darkness spread by the corona pandemic, we must continuously progress towards light and hope. We must continuously strive to take those of us most affected, our poor brothers and sisters, from despair to hope and from uncertainty to certainty. We must defeat the deep darkness of the crisis,” Modi said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn the “we-are-in-this-together” video message on the ninth day of the lockdown, the PM focused on the importance of the power of the collective as well as the need to demonstrate it for the battle against the pandemic. Referring to the massive response to his call for solidarity for doctors, paramedics and others on the frontline, he said, “On March 22, the country realised that we are united in this fight. It is important that in this long fight, we continue to feel and experience the power of the collective in its colossal splendour. It renews the spirit, sketches out the objective and lights up the path to achieve it.” “And that is why, this Sunday, on April 5, we must all together challenge the darkness spread by the corona crisis, introducing it to the power of light. On this April 5, we must awaken the superpower of 130 crore Indians. We must take the super resolve of 130 crore Indians to even greater heights,” he said. Like in his previous addresses on the coronavirus situation, the PM underlined the need for social distancing and being at home, saying it was the only “Ram baan (Ram’s arrow)” to defeat the spread of the disease. He stressed that halting the pandemic was everyone's fight and would need continued adherence to the lockdown norms. “You don’t have to come out on the roads and in streets. Social distancing norms are to be observed under all circumstances as it is our only option, the perfect option, against the virus,” he said. He urged people to turn off all the lights in their homes and stand in balconies or at the doors with candles, diyas or mobile flashlights to illuminate the common purpose of the fight against the pandemic. “Turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in your balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for nine minutes,” Modi exhorted. The PM’s address was, however, criticised by opposition leaders, who alleged too many overlaps of the numeral 9 was inspired by Hindu astrology and that his remarks lacked any substantial assurances. But the PM said the exercise would make all realise that no one was alone and 130 crore Indians were linked by a common resolve. He added that the act of solidarity should not mean crowding. “However, I have one more prayer in this regard, that no one must assemble or gather anywhere while participating in this programme. Please do not go out on to roads, lanes or your localities, do it at the doorstep or balconies of your own homes. One must never cross the ‘lakshman rekha’ of social distancing,” Modi said, apparently a reference to instances of processions on March 22 when he called for a five-minute applause for medical professionals. Recalling that the manner in which people had expressed gratitude to all those fighting against coronavirus on March 22 has been replicated by many countries, Modi said, “Whether it is people’s curfew, ringing bells, clapping hands or clanging plates; they have all made the nation realise its collective strength in these testing times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-9pm-sunday-switch-off-lights-light-diyas-pm/articleshow/74975592.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Surat||SMC notice to 235 foreign returned persons||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has issued notices to 235 people who have had a foreign trip recently, and asked them to report to civic body and fill self-declaration form. They have also been asked to follow 14-day mandatory home quarantine or else the SMC would write to Regional Passport office (RPO) to revoke their passports. “We have received information about 130 persons who had recently returned from abroad and have informed them to download SMC's Covid-19 Tracker App and fill the self declaration form available on SMC’s webiste,” SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-notice-to-235-foreign-returned-persons/articleshow/74973573.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hubballi||IIT Dharwad prepares face shields for healthcare personnel||Dharwad: In addition to the underlying difficulties of tracing people who have come in direct contact with Covid-19 infected patients and ensuring adequate supply of essential commodities to the underprivileged, the government has been confronted with another huge problem: Scarcity of protective gear for citizens and healthcare personnel alike. Although various private organisations and NGOs have come forward to supply masks, the shortage remains acute. Teachers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Dharwad have decided to leverage their expertise by preparing masks that they wish to supply to healthcare personnel. The teachers, with the assistance of volunteers from Dharwad, have thus far made 500 face shields. The protective gear has been prepared with guidance, and in adherence to the prescription of doctors from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi. The shortage of sufficient protective gear at KIMS was thrown into stark relief with a perceptible spurt in the number of patients displaying symptoms of Covid-19 visiting the state-run hospital. KIMS brought this to the notice of IIT Dharwad, following which the latter offered to help the hospital tide over the crisis by supplying face shields. A ten-teacher team from IIT used the 3D printing technology and has prepared eight types of face shields, all of which have been designed in accordance with the norms prescribed by World Health Organisation (WHO). Samples of eight shields were sent to KIMS for examination, of which the doctors approved one. Five days after they received approval, teachers at IIT prepared 500 shields. The ease with which they can be worn is the USP of the masks. Finding raw material to prepare the masks was the biggest challenge that the teachers at IIT faced, but local volunteers helped them get their hands on it. The effectiveness of the masks at KIMS is receiving demand for shields from Kalaburagi, Belagavi and other neighbouring districts, confirmed Professor Surya Prakash in the department of mechanical engineering at IIT Dharwad. Prof MA Somashekar, while admitting to demand for their shields from neighbouring districts, expressed helplessness to fulfil them owing to non-availability of raw material. “Those in need of masks can contact us at pro@iitdh.ac.in, and we will teach those who are interested how to prepare the masks,” he added. In addition to Suryaprakash and Somashekar, the team comprised Amar Gaonkar, Samarth Kedar, Satish, Ramachandran, Anand, Shrikant and volunteers from Rashtrothhana Vidya Kendra. The masks were prepared under the watchful eyes of Prof Surdeep Das of IIT Guwahati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/iit-dharwad-prepares-face-shields-for-healthcare-personnel/articleshow/74972392.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Salem||Coronavirus: 100 more positive cases take Tablighi Jamaat cluster count in Tamil Nadu to 364||CHENNAI: As the authorities stepped up their outreach to members of the Tablighi Jamaat on Friday, 100 more from Tamil Nadu tested Covid-19 positive among those who attended a congregation of the group in Delhi last month. With this, 364 people have tested positive in the TJ cluster in the state. Two people outside the cluster too tested positive on Friday taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 411. The two – a 52-year-old man who had a travel history to the US and a 60-year-old woman who has an autoimmune disorder – are residents of Chennai. “She was already vulnerable. As of now, we don’t know where she contracted the infection,” said a senior public health officer. Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam met 15 community and religious leaders on Friday and sought their help to reach out to TJ members and their families to contain the virus spread. Many of the TJ members have been isolated in hospitals and quarantined, and their families across Tamil Nadu retained within containment zones. At least 1,500 TJ members from Tamil Nadu had participated in the Delhi conference. Around 400 remained in Delhi while the rest returned home. Spike in cases because of isolation, testing of TJ cluster, says health  secretaryHealth secretary Beela Rajesh said, “The number of cases has gone up because we have been able to isolate and test people in the cluster (TJ),” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “In the last few hours, 200 more people have come. We are drawing samples from them for testing,” she said. The state tested 376 people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), admitted to various hospitals. “Three of them tested positive. All of them had a contact history,” said Beela Rajesh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state had screened 2,10,538 passengers and 1,580 people were admitted to isolation wards. As many as 364 people from the Delhi group tested positive while 303 others from the group tested negative. “This does not mean that they are all safe. Since the incubation period is 14 days, they still carry the risk of turning positive... Which is why we insist they remain in quarantine,” the health secretary said. Those who test positive would be moved to hospital quarantine even if they are asymptomatic. The focus of the health department now is to extend the containment area so that the disease does not spread to the community. Door-to-door screening with a list of fever cases for intense monitoring is helping contain the disease. Of the 102 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, 38 are from the southern districts. This takes the total number of infected persons in the south to 147. A doctor from Kayalpattinam municipality who attended the TJ meet in Delhi has also tested positive. Salem collector S A Raman said of the six Covid-19 patients, including five Indonesian TJ missionaries, under treatment in the district, three had recovered and tested negative on Friday. They will be discharged from hospital after getting the state government’s nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/100-more-positive-cases-take-tablighi-jamaat-cluster-count-in-tamil-nadu-to-364/articleshow/74981653.cms||Jaya Menon
April 4, 2020||Puducherry||Coronavirus: 100 more positive cases take Tablighi Jamaat cluster count in Tamil Nadu to 364||CHENNAI: As the authorities stepped up their outreach to members of the Tablighi Jamaat on Friday, 100 more from Tamil Nadu tested Covid-19 positive among those who attended a congregation of the group in Delhi last month. With this, 364 people have tested positive in the TJ cluster in the state. Two people outside the cluster too tested positive on Friday taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 411. The two – a 52-year-old man who had a travel history to the US and a 60-year-old woman who has an autoimmune disorder – are residents of Chennai. “She was already vulnerable. As of now, we don’t know where she contracted the infection,” said a senior public health officer. Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam met 15 community and religious leaders on Friday and sought their help to reach out to TJ members and their families to contain the virus spread. Many of the TJ members have been isolated in hospitals and quarantined, and their families across Tamil Nadu retained within containment zones. At least 1,500 TJ members from Tamil Nadu had participated in the Delhi conference. Around 400 remained in Delhi while the rest returned home. Spike in cases because of isolation, testing of TJ cluster, says health  secretaryHealth secretary Beela Rajesh said, “The number of cases has gone up because we have been able to isolate and test people in the cluster (TJ),” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “In the last few hours, 200 more people have come. We are drawing samples from them for testing,” she said. The state tested 376 people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), admitted to various hospitals. “Three of them tested positive. All of them had a contact history,” said Beela Rajesh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state had screened 2,10,538 passengers and 1,580 people were admitted to isolation wards. As many as 364 people from the Delhi group tested positive while 303 others from the group tested negative. “This does not mean that they are all safe. Since the incubation period is 14 days, they still carry the risk of turning positive... Which is why we insist they remain in quarantine,” the health secretary said. Those who test positive would be moved to hospital quarantine even if they are asymptomatic. The focus of the health department now is to extend the containment area so that the disease does not spread to the community. Door-to-door screening with a list of fever cases for intense monitoring is helping contain the disease. Of the 102 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, 38 are from the southern districts. This takes the total number of infected persons in the south to 147. A doctor from Kayalpattinam municipality who attended the TJ meet in Delhi has also tested positive. Salem collector S A Raman said of the six Covid-19 patients, including five Indonesian TJ missionaries, under treatment in the district, three had recovered and tested negative on Friday. They will be discharged from hospital after getting the state government’s nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/100-more-positive-cases-take-tablighi-jamaat-cluster-count-in-tamil-nadu-to-364/articleshow/74981650.cms||Jaya Menon
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus: 100 more positive cases take Tablighi Jamaat cluster count in Tamil Nadu to 364||CHENNAI: As the authorities stepped up their outreach to members of the Tablighi Jamaat on Friday, 100 more from Tamil Nadu tested Covid-19 positive among those who attended a congregation of the group in Delhi last month. With this, 364 people have tested positive in the TJ cluster in the state. Two people outside the cluster too tested positive on Friday taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 411. The two – a 52-year-old man who had a travel history to the US and a 60-year-old woman who has an autoimmune disorder – are residents of Chennai. “She was already vulnerable. As of now, we don’t know where she contracted the infection,” said a senior public health officer. Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam met 15 community and religious leaders on Friday and sought their help to reach out to TJ members and their families to contain the virus spread. Many of the TJ members have been isolated in hospitals and quarantined, and their families across Tamil Nadu retained within containment zones. At least 1,500 TJ members from Tamil Nadu had participated in the Delhi conference. Around 400 remained in Delhi while the rest returned home. Spike in cases because of isolation, testing of TJ cluster, says health  secretaryHealth secretary Beela Rajesh said, “The number of cases has gone up because we have been able to isolate and test people in the cluster (TJ),” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “In the last few hours, 200 more people have come. We are drawing samples from them for testing,” she said. The state tested 376 people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), admitted to various hospitals. “Three of them tested positive. All of them had a contact history,” said Beela Rajesh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state had screened 2,10,538 passengers and 1,580 people were admitted to isolation wards. As many as 364 people from the Delhi group tested positive while 303 others from the group tested negative. “This does not mean that they are all safe. Since the incubation period is 14 days, they still carry the risk of turning positive... Which is why we insist they remain in quarantine,” the health secretary said. Those who test positive would be moved to hospital quarantine even if they are asymptomatic. The focus of the health department now is to extend the containment area so that the disease does not spread to the community. Door-to-door screening with a list of fever cases for intense monitoring is helping contain the disease. Of the 102 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, 38 are from the southern districts. This takes the total number of infected persons in the south to 147. A doctor from Kayalpattinam municipality who attended the TJ meet in Delhi has also tested positive. Salem collector S A Raman said of the six Covid-19 patients, including five Indonesian TJ missionaries, under treatment in the district, three had recovered and tested negative on Friday. They will be discharged from hospital after getting the state government’s nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/100-more-positive-cases-take-tablighi-jamaat-cluster-count-in-tamil-nadu-to-364/articleshow/74976051.cms||Jaya Menon
April 4, 2020||Business||1st flush tea wiped out, Darj stares at 2nd flush loss||Kolkata: For the first time in the history of the iconic Darjeeling tea, the entire lot of the expensive and exportable first flush leaves withered away, amid the suspension of garden operations owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. Garden experts confirm that it will take a few weeks to a month to get the tea bushes back in shape after re-opening on April 15, which may also affect the equally prized second flush crop of May-June. Hills tea planters already grappling with losses amounting to whopping Rs 150-200 crore for the erosion of first flush now fear a never-seen-before liquidity crisis. Famous for its light-coloured and flowery muscatel aroma, the Darjeeling first flush is generally plucked during the spring — mid-February to early April at an interval of not more than five days to maintain quality. The prized revenue-earning period produces about 20% of the annual output and generates 35-40% of revenue. According to Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) chairman Binod Mohan, it is unfortunate that the lockdown has coincided with our prime first flush plucking season, which generates revenue to meet half the year’s expenditure. “So, there will be economic consequences which may increase depending on how long the lockdown continues.” The planters believe that the industry will find it difficult to move past the current crisis, considering the carryover deficits that had resulted from the 104-day-long Hills shutdown in 2017. “Darjeeling tea estates are yet to recover from the blow received during the 2017 strike. The incident forced many top global importers to drop Darjeeling tea from their list. Another disruption in supply could be fatal for the variety,” said Anshuman Kanoria, chairman, Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA). Goodricke MD Atul Asthana estimates the total loss for tea industry at close to Rs 1,500 crore. “Even if the gardens open around April 15, we will lose the entire crop of April. Darjeeling will be the worst hit.” Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling produce around 353 mkg of made tea annually and it may come down by 45-50 mkg this year. There are 3.5 lakh labourers (along with their 15 lakh direct dependents) on payroll across the 290 tea gardens (Dooars: 158, Darjeeling: 87 and Terai: 45) in north Bengal. Meanwhile, The Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA), the largest apex body of tea associations in India, wrote to the Central government requesting a relief package. “The tea sector has been facing an acute financial crisis for the last five years…the industry is facing severe cash crunch, impeding its ability to cope with wage and other related obligations of the 1.2 million workers,” wrote Vivek Goenka, the chairman of both CCPA and ITA. He has asked for Rs 1,000 per week assistance for three months for each tea garden worker. =============== Peak Flush 1st flush: 25% of total Hills crop Quantity/yr: 2 m kg Avg auction price: Over Rs 700/kg Darj loss so far: Rs 140-150cr Collateral damage: On 2nd flush Last export: 3.5L kg in 2019 Top buyers: Germany, France, Japan, UK, US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1st-flush-tea-wiped-out-darj-stares-at-2nd-flush-loss/articleshow/74975377.cms||Sovon Manna
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Asymptomatic Tablighi Jamaat cluster spurs research on coronavirus strain in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Curious over why more than 80% of the participants of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi who tested positive show no symptoms, the Tamil Nadu health department has asked virologists to study the strain and its virulence. “We have isolated and tested almost all those who participated in the conference. Many who tested positive show no signs of having the virus,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “And others have only mild symptoms. We see this outside the cluster as well. So far, we have had one death. They respond to antiviral drugs; didn’t require ventilators,” he said. Experiences shared by experts from other states with Tamil Nadu differed considerably. Researchers will collect data from samples from infected patients and their families and neighbours. Scientists from health and veterinary sciences departments will study if the virus had mutated to be less virulent in the region.“It can give us important information in our fight and help us prevent the spread,” said Vijayabaskar, a doctor himself. Experts from across the globe are sequencing the virus’s genome to monitor changes. Too early to study strain as cases yet to peak, says expertThe Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium has been given £20 million for the project. Scientists in the US, Spain and Italy have also been working on the genetics of the virus. “All viruses mutate over time, some faster than others,” said Dr V Ramasubramanian, infectious disease consultant at Apollo Hospitals. “Covid-19 is a very young one on the list. There is no evidence to show the strain we see here is different,” he said. Nevertheless, as a practicing physician, he no longer sees fever, a dry cough and fatigue as tell-tale symptoms of the infection. “I see patients with no cough having a bad congestion. Some of them even tolerate low oxygen saturation,” he said. The matter of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients was discussed at the task force meeting chaired by chief secretary K Shanmugam on Friday. “It is important to study if there is a reattachment or modification in the virus we see among the clusters here,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandham, a member of the task force. Asymptomatic transmission isn’t new. “While it is good to study, it may be too early to celebrate. We are not yet at the beginning of the peak we are going to see,” said a senior virologist at Christian Medical College in Vellore. Predictions done by the health department using mathematical models estimate we may have up to 1lakh hospitalisations during the peak period. WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan said while children in several Chinese households remained asymptomatic transmitters, some can be presymptomatic. These are people who unwittingly spread the virus before they have symptoms. Scientists in Japan pointed out that this presymptomatic transmission is happening at a more rapid rate now than it did during SARS. Health secretary Beela Rajesh said the department is taking no chances. All people in quarantine will remain there for 14 days, she said. “We are working out containment plans, tracking epidemiological graphs and studying the virus. Our doctors, beds, ICUs and ventilators are on standby. We just hope we don’t have to use them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/asymptomatic-tablighi-jamaat-cluster-spurs-research-on-virus-strain-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/74976082.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: CM BS Yediyurappa turns to S Suresh Kumar as mantris spar||BENGALURU: Hours after TOI reported on Friday that Karnataka's Covid-19 fight had been hit by lack of coordination between health minister B Sriramulu and medical education minister K Sudhakar, the government fielded primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar to brief the media about the pandemic update.  The education minister's presence surprised officials of the health and family welfare department. Though the department's additional chief secretary was present in the video conference, he was in another room. Speculation is rife that Sriramulu and Sudhakar, who has been tasked with Covid-19 matters, do not see eye to eye. "The CM has picked a neutral candidate in Suresh Kumar," sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-turns-to-s-suresh-kumar-as-mantris-spar/articleshow/74976119.cms||---
April 4, 2020||India||UP, MP invoke NSA for attacks, harassment of health workers||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday expressed concern over misbehaviour with and attacks on medical staff engaged in tracking and treating patients suffering from Covid-19. It asking states to take stern action against the offenders. At least two states, Madhya Pradesh and UP, booked offenders under the National Security Act. The Centre’s directions came after incidents were reported from across the country of doctors and healthcare workers being attacked and quarantined Tablighi Jamaat members misbehaving with nursing staff and impeding screening processes in Ghaziabad. Health minister Harsh Vardhan urged patients and their families not to create hurdles. “They are our corona warriors who are continuously serving the nation to control and contain the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The home ministry asked states to deal with such cases sternly. “States have been asked to take strict action against such people and ensure safety of healthcare workers,” Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in MHA, said. In MP, four offenders identified in the stoning of doctors in Indore were charged under NSA after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned that the administration would not be found wanting. Late on Friday, six more suspects were arrested, taking the number of those held to 13. Similarly, the UP government used NSA against five Tablighi Jamaat members after a hospital superintendent in Ghaziabad complained to the police that they misbehaved with female nursing staff and made obscene gestures. The health ministry is particularly concerned about the safety of healthcare workers following reports from states including UP, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar and West Bengal where instances of misconduct and violence against healthcare workers have emerged. In Indore, Munger (Bihar) and Bengaluru, people attacked healthcare workers when the latter visited localities to collect samples from people suspected to have contracted coronavirus. In West Bengal, there were clashes between police and locals at a few places when the latter prevented health workers from collecting samples for Covid-19. A Solapur man was attacked by locals after he informed the ‘gram sevak’ about seven locals attending the Tablighi meet and also insisted that they be tested for coronavirus. In Tirupally in Adilabad district of Telangana, a man was arrested and booked on charges of assaulting Aasha workers when they went to seek details of his brother who was in home quarantine after he returned from the Tablighi meet in Delhi. Doctors from various hospitals in Delhi raised concerns about Tablighi members impeding their work and threatening to infect them. “We are scared of performing our duties. The government must take concrete steps to ensure our safety,” a senior resident doctor from Delhi’s LNJP Hospital said. In Ghaziabad, Tablighi Jamaat members at a quarantine facility misbehaved with female nursing staff. The chief medical officer said the accused made lewd comments against nurses, refused to take their medicines and walked around the ward half-dressed. “Yeh na kanoon ko manenge, na vyavastha ko manenge, yeh manavta ke dushman hain. Jo inhone mahila swasthya karmiyon ke saath kiya hai, who jaghanya apradh hai. In par NSA lagaya ja raha hai. Hum inhen chodenge nahin (They neither follow the law nor do they follow rules. They are the enemies of humanity. What they did with the women staff is a heinous crime. We are charging them under NSA. We will not spare them),” chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday. Charges under NSA would also be slapped against anyone using violence against police personnel or health staff anywhere in the state, the CM said. In Indore, four of the seven suspects arrested on Thursday for attacking doctors during screening have been booked under NSA. CM Chouhan said in a video statement, “They are not human beings. They are enemies of humanity. Attacking doctors and paramedical staff, who are putting their own life in danger to save others, will not be tolerated at any cost. Strict action will be taken under NSA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-mp-invoke-nsa-for-attacks-harassment-of-health-workers/articleshow/74976070.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 4, 2020||Mumbai||292 teams will go door-to-door in affected areas of Mumbai||MUMBAI: In keeping with the Centre's directives, the state health department has created a 'Cluster Containment Action Plan' to curb Covid-19 cases. The department has formed 2,455 teams in 18 districts, including 292 in Mumbai. The teams had examined over 9.25 lakh citizens till Thursday. According to the department, the plan is being implemented in areas with at least three to four cases. After a basic survey of the number of households and population, teams spread out for door-to-door surveys in a three-km radius of the spot where cases have been found. Teams equipped with protective gear will conduct the survey between 8 am and 4 pm and record information about those suffering from ailments like cold, cough, fever or respiratory issues. Anyone with Covid-19 symptoms will be referred for further tests and treatment, while others in the area will be monitored on a day-to-day basis for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/292-teams-will-go-door-to-door-in-affected-areas-of-mumbai/articleshow/74976138.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||JMM slams PM Narendra Modi’s call for lighting candles on April 5||RANCHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to countrymen to light candles, diyas from their doorsteps and balconies for nine minutes on April 5 received a mix response in Jharkhand on Friday. JMM, the ruling party in the state along with Congress and RJD, took a jibe at Modi. “In this age of science and technology, the use of superstitious practices to combat a global pandemic such as Covid-19 is not acceptable. Beating utensils and lighting candles will not help in warding off the disease,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said in a statement. JMM said while the Union government is trying to fight the disease with such practices, the government does not care to listen to the plights of the state. “The PM held two meetings via video-conference with the CMs but did not hear the problems being faced in Jharkhand,” Bhattacharya said. BJP welcomed Modi’s move. In a statement, BJP state president Deepak Prakash said the party’s functionaries will light candles on April 5 in response to Modi’s call. “The countrymen have rallied behind the PM in this time of crisis,” Prakash was quoted as saying. Former chief minister Raghubar Das also welcomed Modi’s call. “The PM has urged to light candles to show unity and solidarity in the fight against Covid-19,” Das was quoted as saying in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jmm-slams-modis-call-for-lighting-candles-on-april-5/articleshow/74983206.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||TJ delegate from Bengal shifted to ID||Kolkata: A 38-year-old berth supervisor at Haldia Port, employed by a private company, and who had been to the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi has reportedly tested Covid-19 positive. He has been shifted to the Beliaghata ID hospital on Friday, a senior official said. This is the first reported case of a Tablighi Jamaat member testing Covid-19 positive in Bengal. Two others persons are in Beliaghata ID and MR Bangur hospital, but their reults are awaited, a source said. Both had complained of fever and respiratory distress before being hospitalized on Thursday. Sources said the Haldia Port berth was closed since March 24 due to the lockdown. It was not immediately clear when this person returned to Haldia. According to district officials, they had information that 56 persons from East Midnapore had been to Nizamuddin Markaz. Of them, 11 were traced and put in hospital isolation. The 38-year-old was admitted in Haldia sub-divisional hospital with complaints of fever. His swab samples were collected on Thursday and late night, the report suggested he was Covid-19 positive. Another seven people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation were traced by the West Midnapore district administration on Friday. They hail from Ghatal, Chandrakona, Daspur and Kespur. This comes a day after seven people from Midnapore town — who too attended the congregation at Nizamuddin — were traced. All 14 have been sent to Kolkata, where they will be institutionally quarantined at Haj House in Rajarhat. Midnapore Sadan SDO Dinanarayan Ghosh said: “We are continuing a drive to trace more people who attended the congregation at Nizamuddin.” Meanwhile, at the New Town facility, 35 people came in between Thursday night and Friday morning and by evening, 260 persons were kept in isolation in the 10-storeyed building. “The building can accommodate over 400 people, but in order to maintain social distancing protocol, we are not crowding rooms and are ensuring each bed is kept at a 3-metre distance from the other,” said an official. Police said as per the revised protocol, they were admitting only those persons inside the modified quarantine centre who have the necessary recommendation from Bengal police’s IGP (law and order). “For the last two days, people in hoardes were coming from the districts, which led to fears of overcrowding at the centre. Hence, we have been instructed to allow only those persons who have recommendation from IG (law and order). The protocol we are following is that when such persons are arriving, the accompanying police person has to get in touch with the superintendent of police of that district concerned, who in turn has to reach out to the IG’s office and only after a formal intimation from his office, we are allowing admission,” said a senior officer of Bidh-annagar Commissionerate. The officer added a group of people had come from Baruipur in a police SUV but since they didn’t have the IG’s permission, they were asked to go back. (Inputs from Suman Mondal, Sujay Khanra, Tamaghna Banerjee & Jayanta Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tj-delegate-from-bengal-shifted-to-id/articleshow/74975761.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||MR Bangur Kolkata’s first Covid-19 hospital, MCH plan dropped||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Friday designated MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge as the city’s first Covid-19 hospital, on a day the state’s total number of “active Covid-19-positive” cases officially rose by four to 38. The move comes a little more than a week after the government initially identified Medical College Hospital (MCH) and planned to use it for this purpose. That plan, it was learnt, was shelved because MCH did not meet the specifications of the World Health Organization (WHO) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for Airborne Infection Isolation (AII) rooms. Current patients at MR Bangur Hospital are being shifted to SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit hospitals, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, in order to shield them from Covid-19 patients. Hospital superintendent Sishir Naskar said non-critical patients at the hospital, who do not require immediate hospitalisation, could be discharged. “The rest will be shifted as early as possible,” he said. “We need to set up a separate facility for Covid-19-affected patients,” Banerjee said at Nabanna. “Otherwise, people admitted in the general ward with symptoms of the virus may spread it.” The hospital has two buildings — the old building and the new super-speciality building. It can accommodate 900 patients in all. According to the initial plan, the new complex will have the isolation unit, while the old building will be converted into a Covid-19 hospital. The CCU facility in the new complex will be used to treat patients with co-morbid conditions. “There is oxygen connectivity in all beds, therefore converting it into a Covid-19 hospital, while challenging, is not impossible,” said a senior officer. The plan, however, was not without initial hiccups. A group of nurses, cleaning staff, security guards and other support staff gathered near the superintendent’s chamber hours ahead of the CM’s announcement at 10am, opposing the move. They alleged lack of PPE and complained that many of them did not have the training to handle such patients. The stir continued for about three hours, after which the superintendent convinced them to withdraw the stir. “We have adequate PPEs. A government circular has reached the hospital and all of us have to abide by it,” Naskar said. The chief minister, without naming the hospital, later said, “No one wants a Covid hospital in the locality. But people won’t decide where to set up the hospital. The government will take the decision. I came to know that a few doctors were refusing to treat Covid-19 patients, some citizens were stopping families from taking victims to the crematorium. Experts say the virus doesn’t remain active among the dead. Some have opposed requisitioning Sagar Dutta Hospital for dedicated Covid-19 treatment. Under the Disaster Management Act, the government can requisition any hospital it deems fit.” Banerjee also set aside arguments that turning MR Bangur Hospital into a Covid hospital will put other patients in trouble. “This is not a fact. We have set up two new state health facilities at Diamond Harbour and Kakdwip. What’s more, we are shifting all current patients to SSKM and Sambhu Nath Pandit hospital,” she said. The CM also urged the public not to panic. “People with co-morbid factors need to be careful. Otherwise, recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state is encouraging. I talked to Beliaghata ID Hospital doctors today. All patients in the hospital are doing well. Three patients have been sent home, while another nine are likely to be released today,” she said. “Of the 38 active patients, 20 are from five families. Four family members of the Covid-affected from Kalimpong have tested positive. I am now getting information that another six members of the same family are showing symptoms,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mr-bangur-citys-first-covid-hospital-mch-plan-dropped/articleshow/74975786.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||Doc delivers medicines at door step in Adityapur||Jamshedpur: At a time when the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus has forced many doctors to shut their private clinics in the Steel City, there are still a few who believe in the motto of ‘duty first, self last’. Dr Kumar Sarosh, 42, a dental surgeon, who runs a private clinic in Adityapur in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district is not only attending to patients in his chamber but is also delivering medicines at their doorstep. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Sarosh said: “It is unethical for any doctor to refuse treatment to a patient. But if anyone wants to pay a visit to my clinic, I first ensure that s/he does not have travel history to any foreign country in the last two months.” The dentist, who graduated from Manipal, said senior citizens cannot bear tooth ache for long and if they do not get treatment it can turn out to be fatal too. He added that all precautions were being taken to prevent anyone from getting infected with coronavirus at his clinic. The Good Samaritan and three to four volunteers, mostly in the age-group of 20 to 40 years, help supply medicines free of cost to the doorstep of patients during the lockdown. The doctor said, at present, the doorstep delivery of medicines is available to the residents of Adityapur and neighbouring areas. But he promised that if he gets more helpers, then he would extend the service to the whole of Steel City. Replying to a query on the road blocks he is facing now, Sarosh said: “The medicines have to be collected in bulk from stockists in Jugsalai, Bistupur and Sakchi, as the latter are unwilling to deliver the orders due to transportation problem. I have to go to these places on my bike to collect the medicines.” The doctor complained that even after several requests to the district administration, they have failed to give him a pass for free movement during the lockdown, as a result of which he often has to face a volley of question from the cops at the check points. The doctor said he and his boys wear masks and use sanitizers when they go out to deliver the medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/doc-delivers-medicines-at-door-step-in-adityapur/articleshow/74975644.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||JMM slams PM Narendra Modi’s call for lighting candles on April 5||RANCHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to countrymen to light candles, diyas from their doorsteps and balconies for nine minutes on April 5 received a mix response in Jharkhand on Friday. JMM, the ruling party in the state along with Congress and RJD, took a jibe at Modi. “In this age of science and technology, the use of superstitious practices to combat a global pandemic such as Covid-19 is not acceptable. Beating utensils and lighting candles will not help in warding off the disease,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said in a statement. JMM said while the Union government is trying to fight the disease with such practices, the government does not care to listen to the plights of the state. “The PM held two meetings via video-conference with the CMs but did not hear the problems being faced in Jharkhand,” Bhattacharya said. BJP welcomed Modi’s move. In a statement, BJP state president Deepak Prakash said the party’s functionaries will light candles on April 5 in response to Modi’s call. “The countrymen have rallied behind the PM in this time of crisis,” Prakash was quoted as saying. Former chief minister Raghubar Das also welcomed Modi’s call. “The PM has urged to light candles to show unity and solidarity in the fight against Covid-19,” Das was quoted as saying in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-slams-modis-call-for-lighting-candles-on-april-5/articleshow/74975652.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Let individuals take call on PM’s 9-minute plea: CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has refused to get waylaid by politics in the battle against Covid-19 and left it to individuals to decide how they will respond to PM Narendra Modi’s call for a nine-minute candlelight/diya/mobile flashlight programme after switching off lights on Sunday night. “Let me handle corona first. I leave it to individuals to take a call on the PM’s appeal,” Banerjee said at Nabanna on Friday, cutting short the debate over the candlelight show. The CM, however, seized the opportunity to point out that some people were doing politics over rations. “There are some who are reaching out to ration shops and asking for the Centre’s quota. As of now, we haven’t received anything from the Centre. We are distributing rations from our own procurement,” she said. “Rice mills were closed till the other day,” she continued. “Pradip Majumdar (agriculture adviser to CM) came to me and asked for 10,000 masks for rice mill workers. I had to arrange these to resume supply.” She added: “Some are saying the ruling Trinamool is distributing food packets with its symbol. What’s the harm if a party does that? Please keep in mind that I am the chief minister and also the chief of a party.” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh took on the state government on the corona front. “If everything was going fine, why did the government have to suppress death figures? Why did the chief secretary bring down the figures after the panel of medical experts announced the figures on Thursday?” he said. Ghosh complained that doctors and health workers were not getting personal protective equipment. “Why are health workers protesting against the government?” he said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, meanwhile, donated Rs 10 lakh to the West Bengal State Emergency Relief Fund and Rs 5 lakh to PM-CARES Fund. In his communication to the CM, Dhankhar said that the global community was fighting unitedly against Covid-19 and that was the only way to overcome this great menace to humanity. The governor appealed to well-meaning people to donate to the state relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-let-individuals-take-call-on-pms-9-min-plea/articleshow/74975763.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown is hard on lovers. I’ve not been able to see my bae Vishnu for three weeks now: Jwala Gutta||By Jwala GuttaI’ve been under lockdown for two weeks now and my life has remained the same more or less. I’m at home in Hyderabad with my parents and younger sister, Insi. In fact I’d been preparing for the lockdown from early February itself. My uncle, who lives in Shanghai had been telling us about everything they’ve been through while fighting coronavirus. So I was mentally prepared for an eventuality like that in India. What I wasn’t prepared for though was this long separation from my boyfriend Vishnu Vishal. It’s been three weeks since I saw him. We’ve been dating for two years now and this is the longest we’ve gone without meeting each other. This lockdown has been hard on us, like it’s been for any other couple staying away from each other. It’s not so much the long distance, ’cos we’re both used to that. He lives in Chennai and he’s a film actor, so he’s usually busy shooting and I’m busy with my academy work here. But no matter what, we make it a point to meet once in two weeks. Either he flies down or I go to Chennai. What is frustrating now though is that we can’t meet each other even if we want to! Ours isn’t a teenage romance full of drama like in the movies. We are both adults who’ve been through a lot and ours is a mature relationship. But earlier, at the back of my head, I knew that if I want to meet Vishnu, I can just take a flight and go see him. Now that is not an option any more, and I find it frustrating. In fact, I was supposed to go to Chennai to meet him just two days before the lockdown. At the last minute, we both decided that it was not the right time to travel. We don’t know how much longer this is going to last. But now we make do with incessant texting and video-calls. We are together, virtually, all the time. In fact, we’re talking so much that we’ve run out of things to talk about. Instead, we’re going into the minute details of our lives, like what we had for breakfast and with what accompaniment, etc. I think this crisis is going to bring us closer. Yes, it would’ve been nice to be with each other during a time like this but I think we’ll ride it out together (virtually at least) and come out of this stronger. All that said, our relationship woes seem trivial compared to what the world is going through right now. Nobody in their wildest dreams would’ve imagined that countries would go into lockdown one day. This is the kind of stuff you see in movies, and it’s happening to all of us. I think this crisis is a reality check for all of us to start taking hygiene more seriously and take precautions in day-to-day life even post-corona. In all of this, it’s the privileged lot like us who complain about trivial things like spending too much time at home or getting bored during quarantine. but it’s the poor who have suffered, were suffering and will continue to suffer more due to the economic crisis once this lockdown is lifted. I hope this will serve as a reality check to the privileged lot to do more for the underprivileged and to treat them with more compassion and respect. I don’t know how long we’ll have to stay in quarantine, but I imagine it’s a long road back to normalcy. China started putting people under quarantine in December and got back to normalcy only in late February. So it took them three months. In a vast, democratic country like ours, it could take at least three months or longer. We can only hope for the best and prepare for the worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-is-hard-on-lovers-ive-not-been-able-to-see-my-bae-vishnu-for-three-weeks-now-jwala-gutta/articleshow/74973134.cms||Suhas Yellapantula
April 4, 2020||Ranchi||Fake sanitisers, masks found in Jugsalai godown||Jamshedpur: Acting on the directives of state health minister Banna Gupta, police raided a godown and seized large quantities of fake sanitizers and masks in Jugsalai area here on Friday. The health minister’s office confirmed the seizure. Police said initial investigations indicate that the fake sanitizers were prepared at a local shop and kept for delivery in shops across the city. Banna said, “Instructions have been given to all authorities concerned to make sure that the common man is not fooled by unscrupulous businessmen.” Meanwhile, SSP Anoop Birthare has issued warned the youths in slum areas to not come out of their house at night. He has instructed the PCR vans not to use sirens, as many of the youths take cover on hearing the sound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fake-sanitisers-masks-found-in-jugsalai-godown/articleshow/74975661.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Food camps feed 5 lakh poor in 1 week||BENGALURU: Over 700 food camps in Karnataka supplied free meals to the poor every day last week, a huge effort to help struggling communities cope with loss of work and income in the wake of the lockdown. Migrant labourers were among the beneficiaries of the initiative. A section of the needy may be left out from Saturday as the state government announced late on Friday that free meals would be halted at Indira Canteens, an important chain in ensuring food access in Bengaluru. Subsidised dishes will be resumed at the canteens instead. According to government data accessed by TOI, 703 food camps — 536 operated by the government and 173 by NGOs — are being used to provide food to about 1.4 lakh people, including migrant workers in relief camps across Karnataka. Nearly 50,000 more migrants get food at camps and quarters set up by their employers. Another 3 lakh are fed in Bengaluru. Until now, over 2 lakh free meals were being served at Indira Canteens. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan defended the move to stop the canteen scheme, saying the government had started providing ration kits to poor families and migrants would get food from the labour department. “We are monitoring the situation and all care is being taken to address the problems of migrants and other needy people. While most of the camps run by the government and NGOs in districts deal with mostly migrants, in Bengaluru, food is also being distributed among members of economically backward groups,” said N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary (revenue) and the nodal officer for migrants. Activists welcomed the food camp initiative, but criticised the decision to charge the poor at Indira Canteens. A report on the condition of urban poor in Bengaluru by the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) highlights the grim situation: “Lockdown has meant that poor are paying more but are eating les Some families are on the verge of starvation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-food-camps-feed-5-lakh-poor-in-1-week/articleshow/74976157.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Sewing group makes masks for hospitals, cops||CHENNAI: For the last few days, 30-year-old Kamala Murali has been glued to her sewing machine whenever she gets some free time. With the help of YouTube tutorials, she manages to make about a dozen cotton masks a day, which can then be given to patients, healthcare professionals, sanitation workers and police in the city. "The masks are made of thick cotton and are made in such a way that filters can be inserted," says Kamala, who has her own textile company, Kambli. She is also part of a group of sewists and quilters in the city who are making masks at home to combat the increasing shortage. The initiative began a week ago, after the group began getting requests from doctors and hospitals. "We are a group of 150 people, called Inchworms, and we have used our skills to support community causes even earlier," says Tina Katwal, owner of The Square inch, an arts and crafts store in Thiruvanmiyur. "Now, about 20 of us are making masks as in a few weeks everyone will need it, be it your neighbours, sanitation workers or security personnel." The group began making masks about a week ago after they got a request from Madras Medical Mission (MMM). "We have about 200 dialysis patients who come on a shift basis. The patients undergo dialysis for four to five hours per session and therefore utmost precautions are being taken to make sure they don't contract any infection," says Dr P Rajeevalochana, nephrologist, MMM, adding that at present they are given surgical masks. "But it is expensive so to make it cost-effective we reached out to people who could make the masks at home." The masks are made in such a manner that they can insert N95 strips, says Rajeevalochana. "Once the masks are sanitised and the strips inserted, we will give them to dialysis patients. It is just for prevention." The Inchworms supplied MMM with 250 masks in just four days. "We will sterilise them, put the strips and then give it to people," says Rajeevalochana. "This way, surgical and N95 can be saved for people who really need them." To meet the demand, members of Inchworms have been watching YouTube tutorials and refining the techniques. "I found the tutorials rather tedious so I made a quick DIY mask, made a video and pout it out on our WhatsApp group so others could also follow it," says R Sowmyalakshmi, who specialises in making usually make fabric dolls. "Now, I make about 40 masks a day. "I have given some even to the security personnel in my building and even the police station next door." Other hospitals have also been contacting them, says Tina, who also has a pan-Indian FB group called Desi Quilters, which has 3,500 members. "Clinics and hospitals have been requesting us to make masks for dialysis patients and expectant mothers, so we plan to keep this initiative going. And now, quilters all over the country are doing it to meet the demand," she says. Sowmyalakshmi says they are also getting requests to help make waterproof PPE kits. "We can make the apron, shoe leggings, disposable bags, wraps and head covers, which are a part of the kit, at home and this would be of great help to doctors," she says, adding that hospital in Bengaluru has requested it for their hospital. "But we don't have access to raw materials. It would be great if someone would come forward to help us," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-sewing-group-makes-masks-for-hospitals-cops/articleshow/74976162.cms||Priya Menon
April 4, 2020||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa reaches out to Muslim leaders to expedite Tabligh testing||BENGALURU: With distrust derailing the testing and quarantining of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday reached out to Muslim leaders and legislators to dispel fear and rumours and bring back on track the state’s fight against Covid-19. On a day many Tabligh delegates tested positive in Delhi, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra and other states, Yediyurappa urged the leaders to take urgent confidence-building measures with the community and help the government trace all delegates and their contacts. A 75-year-old man died in Bagalkot on Friday hours after he was confirmed positive, taking the state’s toll to four. A kirana merchant by profession, he had been kept in isolation in the district hospital and was being treated for symptoms, DC K Rajendra said. He is the first patient from the district; with Bagalkot, 15 of the state’s 30 districts have come under the corona cloud. Assaults on health workers: CM calls for more awarenessAuthorities in Bagalkot said the victim had not travelled anywhere recently. His son and daughter had arrived from Bengaluru 10 days ago and they have tested negative. Test reports of another family member are awaited. Three test positiveEarlier in the day, three Tabligh delegates from Belagavi district tested positive for the infection. Along with the Bagalkot victim, they were the only Covid-19 cases to be reported in the state in 24 hours. The Centre had sent the state a list of 1,500 people linked to the congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz, which has since emerged as a super-spreader of the virus, triggering cluster infections in several states. With increasing incidents of assault of healthcare workers and resistance to testing and quarantine being reported, Yediyurappa said there was a need to create awareness. “We sought the help of community leaders to help us identify and trace those who attended the Nizamuddin Jamaat meeting,” Yediyurappa said. Among those present at the meeting were Congress MLAs Zameer Ahmed Khan, NA Haris and Rizwan Arshad; party MLCs CM Ibrahim and Nazir Ahmed and KPCC working president Salim Ahmed. Pledging support to the state’s fight against the pandemic, the leaders assured the CM that they would hold meetings with religious leaders and stress on testing as a means to contain the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-reaches-out-to-muslim-leaders-to-expedite-tabligh-testing/articleshow/74976166.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||KMC and police ensure trouble-free cremation at Dhapa||Kolkata: The last two Covid-19 victims in the state — one a resident of Belghoria and the other a resident of Nayabad off EM Bypass — were cremated at the Dhapa crematorium at 11pm on Thursday. Earlier, protesters had twice tried to thwart the cremations of two Covid-19 victims. Thursday’s cremations, however, were held without any resistance from locals, who were nowhere to be seen. Sources in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) said a strong message from chief minister Mamata Banerjee to the civic administration made the difference. “CM is very upset about the protests at a time when the entire state administration is fighting Covid-19. Her message is clear and we, along with the police, took adequate steps to ensure cremations were held smoothly,” a senior KMC official said. While speaking to journalists at Nabanna, Banerjee said: “Should we deprive a person of peace even after death?” Sources in the KMC and Kolkata Police said they adopted a two-pronged strategy to end protests at Dhapa crematorium. “The first was to reach out to the protesters directly. Local Trinamool Congress leaders, including councillor Swapan Samaddar, were asked to interact directly with the residents of three slums located close to Dhapa,who created a ruckus during earlier two cremations. The public representatives, civic officials and police officers made the protesters realize there was no fear of contamination from the cremation of a Covid-19 positive patient at Dhapa. This helped and there was no resistance on Thursday,” said a police source. The second strategy was to identify the leaders of the trouble-makers and isolate them. Civic and police officials also assured protesters that the KMC would sanitize the entire locality every time cremation takes place at Dhapa. The state health department, too, in its bid to dispel fears of virus transmission during cremation or burial of Covid-19 victims, on Thursday issued an advisory contending that no such risk was involved in the process as officials were taking necessary precautions. The department also stated there was no chance of airborne transmission as the disease spreads through droplets. KMC has reserved a two-furnace crematorium at Dhapa, another one at Topsia, and a burial ground at Baghmari for coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-and-police-ensure-trouble-free-cremation-at-dhapa/articleshow/74975110.cms||Saikat Ray
April 4, 2020||Kolkata||Somdatta CISCE||Kolkata: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked all its affiliated schools to follow the state government’s directive, asking schools to promote all students from classes I to VIII. State education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday had instructed all government and government-aided schools not to detain children from classes I to VIII. Earlier this week, the CBSE had also issued a smiliar instruction to its schools. A circular, which was sent by CISCE secretary and chief executive Gerry Arathoon on Friday, states the advice is being given out because of the extraordinary circumstances of the global spread of Covid-19 and the national lockdown. Sources said the advice is for 2019-2020 academic year as all the CISCE schools are scheduled to begin their new session once the lockdown is lifted. “A large section of the schools are yet to publish their report cards. Even those, who may have detained, will now have to abide by the Council’s advice and promote the students,” said a teacher. Most of the minority-run schools were out of the RTE purview and has continued with their detention policy. Such schools will also have to promote the students. “Every year, we have around 3 to 5 students who were detained in the classes between VI and VIII. In most cases, the candidates didn’t meet the expected academic performance. This year, we are yet to publish the results. I shall instruct my class coordinators and teachers to ensure that no student is detained up to class VIII,” said the principal of a CICSE affiliated school. Those who won’t be able to match the academic standard next year, might be denied a further promotion to Class-IX if they don’t improve their performance. “There can’t be any compromise in board results,” said a nother principal. Following the advice from CISCE, some schools have to work on their results again, which were already completed and distributed. “We will also have to re-evaluate the answer scripts and if necessary, hold parent-teacher meetings to inform the guardians on areas where the child needs to improve,” a teacher explained. Secretary of La Martiniere Schools, Supriyo Dhar said: “We will follow the Council’s advice.” However, for government and aided schools in Bengal, the academic session starts in January, so it will not impact them. Bikash Bhavan sources said due to the impact of the coronavirus, the reintroduction of detention policy in classes V and VIII in this academic year has been further deffered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/somdatta-cisce/articleshow/74975122.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 4, 2020||India||Four institutes get 1.3cr funding for Covid-19 solutions||The department of science & technology and the Science and Engineering Research Board have awarded initial funds to the tune of Rs 1.25 crore to four institutes, including three IITs, to develop a range of products that can help India fight the Covid-19 pandemic better, report Chethan Kumar & Rohan Dua . While IIT-Delhi will develop new formulations for decontamination of surfaces, Jawahar Lal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research in Bengaluru will produce antiviral surface coatings and IIT-Bombay will identify biomarkers for treatment among other innovations. The projects were selected after peer-review and assessment by a special expert committee for CoVID-19 projects. IIT-Bombay will work on identifying global metabolite biomarkers in infected patients for targeted therapy and developing antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/four-institutes-get-1-3cr-funding-for-covid-19-solutions/articleshow/74976168.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 4, 2020||Agra||Cops attacked for objecting to mosque crowds in UP towns||AGRA/KANPUR: A police team patrolling in a minority-dominated area of Aligarh was allegedly pelted with stones when it objected to a group of 25 people offering prayer in a mosque on Thursday night, even as the country was observing a lockdown. The cleric of the mosque and two other persons were later arrested and sent to jail, police said. According to police, a group of 25 people was found offering 'namaz' at Takia mosque in Aligarh's Banna Devi area by a patrolling team. When the policemen advised them to disperse and offer the prayers at their homes to maintain social distance, stones were hurled at them, an officer said. Circle officer Pankaj Srivastava told TOI, "Two policemen were injured."  In Kannauj, too, a group of namazis, who had gathered at a house in Qaziyan locality to offer Friday prayers defying lockdown norms, attacked and injured police and local intelligence unit personnel when they told the gathering to vacate the premises.  In Palia town of Lakhimpur district, some devotees misbehaved with cops when questioned about offering Friday prayers in groups at a mosque. On Wednesday, a sub-inspector and a police constable were injured after being attacked by a group of villagers in Muzaffarnagar.  Against the backdrop of such attacks, UP CM Yogi Adityanath has now directed police to take strict action under the National Security Act, against those who target policemen and other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-attacked-for-objecting-to-mosque-crowds-in-up-towns/articleshow/74976176.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 4, 2020||Hyderabad||With 75 fresh Covid-19 cases, Telangana sees sharpest spike in a day||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 75 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. This is the highest single day tally for the state since the pandemic broke out. Only Tamil Nadu and Delhi registered more cases than Telangana. Of the 75 cases, 73 have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in mid-March. The state also registered two deaths taking the toll to 11. As many as 15 people were discharged after their treatment was over and they tested negative. With this, the number of Covid-19 active cases in Telangana has reached to 229. Till now 32 people have been discharged. Authorities confirmed to TOI that two Rohingya men who had been living in the city for a while, too, have tested positive. They had been living in the Balapur area of the city. Authorities found them in mosque near Hyderabad. Health authorities told TOI that they have started focusing on the districts as well given the rise in cases in many of the interior areas of the state. The rise was noticed after Tablighi Jamaat members returned from Delhi and went back to their homes in different parts of the state. In Suryapet district, for instance, the wife of a man who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, was found to be positive. 4 fresh cases in KarimnagarIn Karimnagar, medical authorities found four fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. At least three of them had attended TJ meet, while one was first contact of Indonesian nationals who were also Tablighi Jamaat members and had visited the district in March. In Medak, three persons of the same family tested positive. The wife, daughter and daughter-in-law tested positive after a man returned from the Tablighi meet in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-75-fresh-covid-19-cases-telangana-sees-sharpest-spike-in-a-day/articleshow/74976211.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh sees 1st coronavirus death, positive cases jump to 164||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh reported its first Covid-19 death on Friday as authorities confirmed that a 55-year-old man who died in Vijayawada on March 30 was a coronavirus victim. With 14 new cases recorded on Friday, the number of positive cases in the state reached 164. The new cases came from Nellore (8), Visakhapatnam (3) East Godavari (2) and Kadapa (1) districts. About 140 cases have direct or first contact links to the Tablighi Jamaat meet held in mid-March in New Delhi. According to the health authorities, the 55-year-old man went to the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada at 11.30 am on March 30, citing illness. The doctors collected his throat swab samples and sent them for testing. The patient, however, died within an hour of admission. He had co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac issues. According to sources, the deceased man's son had come back from Delhi to Vijayawada on a flight on March 17. He later tested positive for Covid-19 on March 31. The assumption was that the man might have acquired the virus from his son. Dr A Srikanth, special secretary and state corona nodal officer, said the officials have identified 29 contacts of the family of the first Covid-19 victim and sent them to isolation wards. Andhra Pradesh minister: All 7 labs will be operational from Apr 6We have submitted to the Union government the details pertaining to the flight on which the young patient travelled from Delhi to Vijayawada. We have adhered to all the norms of the Covid-19 protocol,” said Srikanth. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state. AP health minister A Nani said 1,085 people from the state had attended the New Delhi religious congregation. “Tests were conducted on 880 Delhi returnees, out of which 108 turned out to be positive. As many as 32 contacts of the Delhi returnees were diagnosed with Covid-19. All the seven labs, including the proposed one in Visakhapatnam, would become operational from April 6 with a combined testing capacity of 900 per day,” said Nani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-sees-1st-coronavirus-death-positive-cases-jump-to-164/articleshow/74976219.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus hits doorstep waste collection in Lucknow, raises a stink||LUCKNOW: Door-to-door garbage collection has stopped in many parts of the city, affecting around one lakh households as a section of sanitary workers of Eco-Green, the company hired for the job, has stopped reporting for duty due to lockdown and fear of catching coronavirus infection. As a result, residents are forced to throw garbage in open. According to LMC records, of total 5.48 lakh households in the city, Eco-Green has the responsibility of collecting daily garbage from 3.78 lakh households, while the civic body itself covers 1.7 lakh households. Around 60,000 are yet to covered under the door-to-door system.LMC claimed that they are ensuring 100% garbage collection from 1.7 lakh households under it, Eco-Green officials said they are able to cover around 2.78 lakh units due to limited resources. TimesViewLaxity in garbage management may complicate things further for the administration, which is trying its level best to check the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city. Waste dumps pose a threat of other diseases, besides serving as a mosquito breeding ground. LMC authorities and private agencies should provide protective gears to sanitary workers so that they can work without fear of catching the infection.Eco-green project manager Abhishek Singh said, "Most of our workers have refused to work due to the lockdown and fear of catching infection. Some are even demanding extra wages. Even then we are trying to cover as many households as possible with limited hands." Partially or fully affected areas include Jankipuram, Chowk, New Hyderabad, Nishatganj, Daliganj, Niralanagar, Mahanagar, and some parts of Aliganj. Residents of Jankipuram Sector-F and Sector-G said no collection has taken place in their area for one week, Akhil Mishra, of Sector-F, said, "We are dumping garbage in a vacant plot in our locality"The problem is more severe in the Old City area of Chowk. In New Hyderabad, residents complain that garbage collectors show up only once a week, forcing people to hire private sanitary workers. Pawan Jaiswal, another resident said, "Workers have been coming only once or twice a week for 15 days." LMC environment engineer Pankaj Bhusan said, "We are receiving complaints about erratic garbage collection in some parts of the city. We are not relying on Eco-Green to collect household garbage as they have failed to ensure 100% garbage collection. Now, we are sending our workers to collect door-to-door garbage. "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-hits-doorstep-waste-collection-in-lucknow-raises-a-stink/articleshow/74976274.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Class IX, XI results to be out digitally in Chandigarh?||CHANDIGARH: Anticipating further extension of closure of schools, the UT education department is giving a rethink to its decision of announcing the results of classes IX and XI after reopening of government schools, and is exploring the possibility to announce the same digitally, said an official. According to him, the department is in touch with the principals of government schools to discuss announcing the results digitally within the next week, so that those who fail or need to reappear can prepare during the extended period of closure. In the wake of lockdown due to Covid-19 scare, the education department had decided on March 29 that the results of students of classes I to VIII of the government schools of Chandigarh would be declared digitally on March 31 and those of classes IX to XI after reopening of the schools. UT district education officer Alka Mehta said, "In classes IX and XI, some students fail or have to reappear. So, instead of waiting or schools to reopen, we are planning to declare the results digitally to facilitate the students, who need to reappear, and those who are promoted to prepare for the next classes." School education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, "Earlier, we wanted to hand over the results directly to parents in person, so that parents and students could be counselled. Many students fail in IX and XI and accordingly remedial plan could be made and shared with them. However, now we have got suggestions from principals and teachers, and CBSE had also issued an advisory in this regard (to announce results digitally)." Refused to comment on when the schools would reopen, Brar said, "It will be decided by the government and then the administration." However, a senior official from the department said, "It is unlikely that schools and colleges will open this month. If the situation is controlled, there is a possibility of schools opening in May."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-ix-xi-results-to-be-out-digitally-in-chandigarh/articleshow/74976276.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 4, 2020||Business||Many companies take 90-day no-layoff pledge||BENGALURU: A number of global companies – most with large presence in India – have assured employees that there will be no or insignificant layoffs while the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown continue. Some have taken a 90-day no-layoff pledge. Some have put a stop to all layoffs for this year. Some are protecting jobs by reducing fresh hiring. Coronavirus cases continue to spike: Live updatesAmong them are SAP, Morgan Stanley, Salesforce, Palo Alto Networks, PayPal, Citigroup, JP Morgan, Bank of America and Booz Allen Hamilton. A JP Morgan India spokesperson said the firm recognises its people are critical to its success. “That is why we are consciously making decisions designed to prevent any new layoffs as a result of Covid-19, including significantly reducing hiring – in many cases stopping it completely – and working with local governments and officials,” the spokesperson said. Sources have previously told TOI that JP Morgan has 34,000 employees in India, its largest workforce outside the US. SAP said it is committed to not making significant layoffs for 90 days. “We have our valued employees in our hearts and want to assure them that we have their backs as we deal with this health crisis now," a company spokesperson said. SAP India is estimated to have around 13,000 employees in India. Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman was quoted in the US media as saying that employees’ jobs would be safe this year. It has 3,300 technologists in India. Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff has pledged to do no significant layoffs for 90 days, Booz Allen Hamilton till July 1. Palo Alto Networks CEO Nikesh Arora tweeted his commitment to no Covid-related layoffs “to allay concerns of our employees.” The company has over 7,000 people in California, Tel Aviv and India. Arora tweeted about setting up a Covid Relief Fund. He said the company’s management and board would contribute $4 million. He also said the company would give four times the amount employees contribute. “Foregoing salary to contribute,” he tweeted. Today we announced a COVID Relief Fund - seed contribution from our mgmt, the board, the company and me of 4M+ - we… https://t.co/4QCahfZBbT— Nikesh Arora (@nikesharora) 1585671361000Most companies have seen a dramatic reduction in business because of lockdowns around the world. That affects revenue immediately, but companies have to continue paying their workforces even though there is less work, and less profit. Vijay Govindarajan, Coxe distinguished professor at Tuck at Dartmouth, said he is a firm believer in free markets and the process of creative destruction where weaker and inefficient firms fail, resulting in layoffs in those firms. But the current situation, he indicated, was different – a result of sensible government-mandated lockdowns. “Large companies like Google, Amazon, and Walmart must take the no-coronavirus layoff pledge and use their reserves to continue to pay employees, say, 75% of the salary and guarantee full health benefits,” he said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage 21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won't How to quarantine yourself at home Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Some companies are offering Covid leave, while others have set up funds to tackle the pandemic.Tata-Starbucks said that any of its employees diagnosed with Covid-19 would be granted paid leave until they recover fully and are medically cleared to return to work. And employees who need to self-quarantine will be granted an additional 14 days paid leave. Goldman Sachs will offer 10 days of `Covid-19 Family Leave’ to employees globally to care for family members, as needed, due to Covid-19 related illness or childcare needs. “This leave applies for 2020. This will be in addition to the existing leave policies offered by the firm," said Bentley de Beyer, global head of human capital management at Goldman Sachs. Booz Allen Hamilton has announced a pandemic resilience programme of more than $100 million to support its 27,000 employees and the communities where they live and work. Like Cognizant, cloud ERP company Workday has approved a one-time cash bonus equivalent to two weeks pay for each employee of Workday and its subsidiaries, excluding those serving at the level of vice president and above. The bonus is expected to add up to about $80 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/global-companies-pledge-not-to-lay-off-staff/articleshow/74976303.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat barber uses lockdown to exact revenge||AHMEDABAD: A barber landed five people in police net after he agreed to style their hair, called them outside his locked shop only to alert cops about illegal gathering violating lockdown norms. The barber reportedly held a grudge with one of the five men who entered into a scuffle with him in the past. Five persons from Santej village of Gandhinagar were booked by police on Thursday for gathering outside a barber's shop for a hair cut after consulting him. The cops swooped on the group after the barber alerted cops of the five congregating outside his shop near Vijay weigh bridge in Santej. The information was verified by cops of Gandhinagar Local Crime Branch (LCB) who found the five waiting for the hair cut and shave and booked them under the charge of violating a notification of home department imposing a lockdown of 21 days. A cop from Gandhinagar police said that they got complaints that various persons were gathering now and then and violating norms. Cops said that one of the five persons had entered into a scuffle with the barber in past. Holding a grudge, the barber took his sweet revenge when the time was ripe. "However as he helped police in maintaining law and order his identity will be protected," cops told TOI. Police have registered a case of violation of notification and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-barber-uses-lockdown-to-exact-revenge/articleshow/74976310.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops reach out to 1,656 elderly people||CHANDIGARH: Extending a helping hand to know about their well-being and ensure full assistance amid the lockdown, police have tried to reach out to 1,656 senior citizens over the phone in two days. But the cops could get through only 834 senior citizens, who answered the calls. A total of 34 senior citizens sought help after which cops visited their houses. Police said 18 elderly asked cops to provide them vegetables, sanitisers and fruits, while some sought help in withdrawing money from ATMs. Personnel from police stations in Sectors 17, 19, 26, 31, 34 and Sarangpur visited the houses of senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-reach-out-to-1656-elderly-people/articleshow/74976313.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 90 jail inmates contribute Rs 1.1 lakh to fight corona||CHANDIGARH: Not only the government or common man are financially contributing in the fight against novel coronavirus. Inmates of Model Burail Jail have set an example by contributing from their daily wages to the Red Cross Society. Virat, AIG prisons, said a total of 90 inmates of Burail Jail have contributed Rs 1.11 lakh to the Red Cross Society for Covid-19 fund. The inmates have contributed their 10 to 13 days of wages. "The inmates also offered their one-time meal for the poor. But as we have to take care of prisoners' health, this request was not accepted," Virat said. "The inmates are already making masks. Initially, they had made a single-layer cloth mask, but then they started making a three-layer cloth mask, which was approved by the UT health department. The price of the three-layer cloth mask is Rs 20, inclusive of taxes," he said. Two teams of 15 prisoners each make these masks in the jail's stitching centre. The UT health department has approved the masks for reuse after soaking it in an alcohol-based disinfectant. The masks are available at the jail's outlet, Srijan, in Sector 22, and at Gate Number 1 of the prison. Already, these shops stock prisoner-made furniture and food products. The jail's anti-coronavirus measures include sanitising barracks and closing of the gymnasium. One of the barracks is now a makeshift isolation ward for inmates in case they show symptoms of Covid-19. Officers are segregating prisoners who have cold or flu, while medical screening is done of new visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-90-jail-inmates-contribute-1-1-lakh-to-fight-corona/articleshow/74976324.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 4, 2020||Chennai||Curfew violation in Chennai: Police register 876 cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: The city police impounded at least 687 vehicles for violating the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC and not following traffic rules in the 12 hours from 6am on Thursday. Police slapped 876 cases against violators in the last 24-hour period from 6am on April 2 to 6am on April 3. Police impounded at least 358 vehicles including 337 bikes, nine cars and 11 autorickshaws in the city during the same period. The Chennai police registered 1,262 cases of traffic violation against people roaming on the city roads for the same period. Police booked at least 698 cases for riding bikes without wearing helmet. Police impounded 462 bikes, five cars and 14 autorickshaws from the traffic violators in the 24-hour period. Across the state so far, police booked 55,427 people and arrested about 54,817 and impounded 40,903 vehicles for violating the lockdown measures. They have collected more than 17 lakh fine from violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/curfew-violation-police-register-876-cases-in-24-hours-in-chennai/articleshow/74976328.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||No leopard proof from south: Chandigarh wildlife chief||CHANDIGARH: A Sector 8 resident of Chandigarh was nearly arrested after a photo of a leopard on a tree from the Masai Mara in Kenya was posted by him on his social media account with the claim that it was from his sector. That led to waves of panic in the city as it came in the wake of the leopard rescued from Sector 5 and people readily believed it was the second of two leopards that had wandered into residential areas. Seeking to dispel the panic and the floating of fake posts on social media, UT chief wildlife warden Debendra Dalai told TOI that "no evidence has surfaced of a leopard in the southern sectors of Chandigarh. People are making claims of a leopard killing a dog or having heard a roar or putting up photoshopped images. But when I met those people at the site, they claim that someone else had told them of the leopard. No pugmark of a leopard has been found in the southern sectors. But we are taking no chances and are investigating each complaint. I have divided the wildlife wing into two groups: one for night response and the other for a day response to such complaints/alerts." Referring to the Sector 8 resident who put up a fake post and circulated it, Dalai said he personally went to that resident's house. "The man deleted it from his social media account after he was warned of the consequences including arrest. There are two types of people circulating fake photos and videos of leopards. One lot is genuinely apprehensive and are scared and that leads to them circulating fake posts in an effort to alert the citizenry. The other lot is mischievous. Sifting through fake and real information has become a very challenging task for the department. It is best that the citizens ensure they are making credible claims and inform the administration first," Dalai added. On Friday, videos went viral of the leopard caught from Sector 5 on Monday but posted as the "second leopard" caught on Friday from Sector 47. Claims of the leopard having killed a dog and three dogs having disappeared in Chandigarh's south added to the panic with the numerous complaints putting great stress on the wildlife rescue staff. "When I met the person who claimed that a leopard had killed the dog, he passed the buck to the safai contractor, claiming that he had been told of this by the contractor. But there was no contractor to verify the claim,'' Dalai added. Wildlife biologist and India's leading expert on leopard-human conflict, Vidya Athreya, said this 'panic pandemic' would continue till the media spreads awareness. "We faced a similar situation in the Mumbai suburbs adjoining the Sanjay Gandhi National Park as leopards ventured often into human areas. Then, the Maharashtra forest department drew up a list of 'dos and don'ts' for people and disseminated these guidelines. After that, the situation was brought under control and people lost their exaggerated fear of leopard presence in their proximity," Athreya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-leopard-proof-from-south-chandigarh-wildlife-chief/articleshow/74976354.cms||Vikram Jit Singh
April 4, 2020||Business||1st flush tea wiped out, Darjeeling tea may lose 2nd too||KOLKATA: For the first time in the history of the iconic Darjeeling tea, the entire lot of the expensive and exportable first flush leaves withered away amid the suspension of garden operations due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Garden experts confirm that it will take a few weeks to a month to get the tea bushes back in shape after re-opening on April 15, which may also affect the equally prized second flush crop of May-June. Tea planters in the Hills are already grappling with losses of Rs 150-200 crore for the erosion of the first flush. Now, they fear a never-seen-before liquidity crisis. Famous for its light-coloured and flowery muscatel aroma, the Darjeeling first flush is generally plucked during the spring — mid-February to early April — at an interval of not more than five days to maintain quality. The prized revenue-earning period produces about 20% of the annual output and accounts for 35-40% of revenue. According to Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) chairman Binod Mohan, it is unfortunate that the lockdown has coincided with “our prime first flush plucking season”, which generates revenue to meet half the year’s expenditure. “So, there will be economic consequences, which may increase depending on how long the lockdown continues.” The planters believe that the industry will find it difficult to move past the current crisis, considering the carry-over deficits that had resulted from the 104-day-long Hills shutdown in 2017. “Darjeeling tea estates are yet to recover from the blow received during the 2017 strike. The incident forced many top global importers to drop Darjeeling tea from their list. Another disruption in supply could be fatal for the variety,” said Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA) chairman Anshuman Kanoria. Goodricke MD Atul Asthana estimates the total loss for the tea industry at close to Rs 1,500 crore. “Even if the gardens open around April 15, we will lose the entire crop of April. Darjeeling will be the worst hit.” Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling produce around 353 million kg (mkg) of made tea annually and it may come down by 45-50mkg this year. There are 3.5 lakh labourers (along with their 15 lakh direct dependents) on payroll across the 290 tea gardens (Dooars 158, Darjeeling 87 and Terai 45) in north Bengal. Meanwhile, the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA), the largest apex body of tea associations in India, wrote to the central government requesting a relief package. “The industry is facing a severe cash crunch, impeding its ability to cope with wage and other related obligations of the 1.2 million workers,” wrote Vivek Goenka, the chairman of both CCPA and ITA. He has asked for an assistance of Rs 1,000 per week for three months for each tea garden worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1st-flush-tea-wiped-out-darjeeling-tea-may-lose-2nd-too/articleshow/74976357.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
April 4, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu cop sings to spread awareness on Covid-19||CUDDALORE: A head constable from Cuddalore, Pon Sivaperuman, 41, who shot to fame in social media for penning and singing songs to create awareness on traffic rules and regulations among people particularly the school children, has now come out with a Covid-19 awareness song. The two-minute song was penned, set in tune and sung by him. He sent the video to the administrator of the Cuddalore district police social media wing, who promptly posted it on the district police's Facebook account, inviting appreciation from different quarters including the public. The cop in the music video urged people to lend a helping hand to the Tamil Nadu government in containing the spread of Covid-19 and eradicating the virus from the state and country. The only thing people need to do is to stay at their houses. Pointing out that the virus infects all sections of people irrespective of caste, creed, religion and nationality he said the only way to prevent the incidence is to adhere to social distancing norms. "The original video was close to five minutes. I rendered the stanzas twice in the original video. The music in between stanzas was also a bit lengthy. My seniors suggested to cut short the song as in this fast world however important is the message people will not have time and patience to watch a lengthy video. So it was edited to less than two minutes carefully without losing its main theme," said Sivaperuman. The cop inculcated the habit of penning songs, setting tunes and rendering them on a variety of themes since his school days. "I was selected for the police force and underwent training for one year before joining the force. I used to write songs on our experiences during the one-year training and sing them to my batchmates. But after joining the force I did not have much time for extracurricular activities. Of late my batchmates requested me to resume my passion," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tami-nadu-cop-sings-to-spread-awareness/articleshow/74976363.cms||Bosco Dominique
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Renowned shrines deserted in the wake of Covid-19 curfew||BATHINDA: With the the Covid-19 lockdown being strictly implemented, famous shrines of various religions are almost deserted. Devotees even stayed away from temples, which were closed anyway, during the Navratras. Hundreds of devotees visit Takhat Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo every day. With Baisakhi drawing close, this number increases manifold. But now, there is only a smattering of devotees here. A functionary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which looks after the Takht, said, “Due to curfew, very few people are turning up. Usually, people from far and wide visit the shrine in these days.” The famous Shiva Temple at Ranike village on Barnala-Dhuri road is usually thronged by hundreds of devotees every day but only a few people from nearby places visit the shrine these days. The Dargah of Hazrat Sheikh, also called Baba Haidar Sheikh in Malerkotla draws huge crowds on Thursday nights. People from far off places, including Haryana and Rajasthan pay obeisance here on Thursdays. Barring a few residents of Malerkotla, there is hardly anyone to be seen here these days. The Sufi saint to whom the shrine is dedicated is known as the founder of Malerkotla. Malerkotla resident Mohammad Iqbal said every Thursday, thousands of people of various religions visit the shrine but now it is almost empty. Tilla Baba Farid in Faridkot is another busy shrine lying deserted in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown. Gurdwara Tutti Gandi Sahib in Muktsar, where hordes of people reach for Maghi is also deserted due to curfew, an SGPC employee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/renowned-shrines-deserted-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-curfew/articleshow/74975865.cms||Neel Kamal
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm labourers from Mansa village stuck in Haryana||MANSA: A number of farm labourers who had gone to Sirsa district of Haryana to undertake harvesting operations are stuck in the neighbouring state. After they nearly finished harvesting of mustard, the labourers wanted to return but were stranded due to imposition of curfew. With labourers unable to buy essential provisions, representatives of farm and labourers’ organisations raised the issue with the Mansa deputy commissioner, who assured that he would approach his Sirsa counterpart to help provide the labourers with essentials. The labourers from Kot Dharmu village in Mansa had gone to Nejia Khera village in Sirsa in late February for harvesting of mustard. They were to return to Punjab by March 31 for wheat harvesting. Speaking to TOI over the phone from Nejia Khera, one of the labourers, Janta Singh said, “We have completed harvesting operations and wanted to return but we are not allowed to move around. We do not have much ration and our families back home are worried.” Labourers Manpreet Singh and Pala Singh said they want to return to be with their families and to undertake harvesting operations in Punjab. Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) representative Malkit Singh said, “The farm labourers stuck in Haryana called us and informed us about their predicament. They are worried about families back home as there is not much ration left in homes as well. We provided ration to their families in Mansa village and have taken up the issue with the Mansa deputy commissioner to help them return to their village.” Mansa DC Gurpal Singh Chahal said, “Representatives of labourers met me. I have taken up the matter with Sirsa deputy commissioner to provide them with essentials and make arrangements for their return as early as possible. My Sirsa counterpart has assured all possible help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-labourers-from-mansa-village-stuck-in-haryana/articleshow/74975864.cms||Neel Kamal
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t pressurize parents for school fees, Haryana tells private schools||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has directed private schools in the state not to pressurise students’ parents to deposit any type of fees during the lockdown period. Collection of all kinds of fees has been banned with immediate effect. An official spokesperson of the Haryana School Education department said directions have been issued to all district education officers and district primary education officers of the state to inform private schools in their respective areas about the directions of the state government. He said all educational institutions in the state have been closed till further orders to prevent the spread Covid-19. “However, it has come to the notice of the directorate that a few private schools are pressurising parents of students to deposit the fees immediately. So the state government has banned all types of fees with immediate effect. The fees will be collected only after the situation returns to normal and schools reopen,” he said. The department has directed all district education officers to ensure strict compliance of these orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-pressurize-parents-for-school-fees-haryana-tells-private-schools/articleshow/74975868.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cops claim they tracked Tablighi workers within 48 hours||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana police claimed to have tracked down more than 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat workers in 15 districts of Haryana within 48 hours of receiving information from central agencies. Most were immediately placed under quarantine in various centres established across the state. Of these, around 500 admitted to having visited “Banglewali Masjid” in Nizamuddin area of Delhi, also known as “Markaz.” After testing, eight persons, three each from Palwal and Nuh and two from Ambala, have tested positive for Covid -19 so far. Around half of the Tablighi workers tracked throughout Haryana were found in Nuh. In fact, 636 Jamaat workers, including 57 foreigners and 528 from other states were tracked in Nuh district alone. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava said that Haryana police were alerted on March 31 by central agencies about the Nizamuddin situation. A detailed plan was prepared and all the district police units were pressed into action to track down the jamaats linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in different parts of Haryana. Clear directions were given that these Jamaat workers constituted a high risk group and should be handled carefully as per protocol. As a result, the Haryana Police have so far been able to track 1,305 workers of Tablighi Jamaat from 15 different districts of Haryana, Yadava claimed. Of these, 106 workers are foreign nationals who have been tracked from five Haryana districts — Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Palwal and Nuh. These foreigners belong mostly to Indonesia, the Philippines, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Thailand. All of them have been placed under quarantine and their passports have been seized. Five separate FIRs have been registered under the relevant provisions of IPC and Foreigners' Act in these five districts. Of some 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat workers in Haryana, 933 belong to different states like Maharashra, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar. The ones who were in Haryana for Tabligh-related work have also been tracked down and all of them have been placed in quarantine centres or mosques where they were found. Their samples have been collected and sent to concerned laboratories for examination. The remaining 266 Tablighi Jamaat workers belong to Gurgaon, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Nuh, Sonipat, Jind and Palwal in Haryana. They had visited different states for Tabligh-related work and had returned home during last 10 days. As they also could be carriers of coronavirus, they have been placed under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cops-claim-they-tracked-tablighi-workers-within-48-hours/articleshow/74975847.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Meet these three traffic marshalls who could stay at home, but chose to help cops||LUDHIANA: It is not just police personnel, who are standing guard amid lockdown, but some civilians too are working selflessly the whole day — called traffic marshals, these men and women can be seen working dedicatedly at different chowks and roads of the city, stopping commuters, convincing them to stay indoors. TOI met up with three such traffic marshals — a homemaker, an owner of a hosiery unit and a worker with a hosiery unit. Thirty two years old Pooja is a homemaker. She lives with her family consisting her father-in-law, mother-in-law, husband (a labourer) and two children — a six-year-old toddler and one-and-half years old baby. Every day, this mother of two cycles from her Hussainpura village, which is nine kilometres away from city, to perform her duty as traffic marshal at Kapoor hospital chowk. “I joined as traffic marshal two months ago. The pastor of the church that I go to regularly, told me about this and made me fill the form. I have been able to work as a traffic marshal because of the support of my family. They are cooperative enough. It is them who take care of my little children,” says Pooja. As for working amid corona fear, Pooja says, “I take all precautions. After reaching home, I take a bath before I go near my family members. I feel fortunate enough that I got this opportunity to serve the society.” Earlier, Pooja used to work from 4pm to 6 pm. However, after lockdown, she has increased her duty hours. Now, she works from 7am to 6pm, taking a break in the afternoon for her lunch — langar, distributed by some NGO or the other. Her motivation, says Pooja, is her husband. “He says he is proud of me that in this time when everybody is indoors, I am helping the cops.” For Rohit Kumar, 32, a marketing department employee of a hosiery unit from Dolat Colony, this is a brand new experience. “I joined as traffic marshal 15 days before coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, I used to work for two hours, from 8am to 10am and them used to go to work. But now since factories are closed, I work the entire day,” says Rohit. Rohit is deputed at Basti Jodhewal chowk and he remains there from 10am to 9.30pm. “Not just my family but the factory where I work want me to stop doing this duty. My family wants me to sit at home. Even my employers are concerned for me. But I think not everyone gets this opportunity to serve society,” adds Rohit. Rohit says he gets great insights into people’s behaviour. “When we stop people on road, at times they listen but mostly they argue and behave rudely. They don’t understand that we are standing on road for their safety. Now I understand how cops must feel when civilians misbehave with them.” Owner of a hosiery unit from New Sundar Nagar area, Sanjeev Kumar, 32 is also deputed at Basti Jodhewal chowk as traffic marshal. Sanjeev is not only managing his family life but also his business, while serving as traffic marshal. Sanjeev is serving as traffic marshal for the last month and a half. Earlier, he used to work from 11am to 3pm. However, now he is working full day — from 9am to 8pm. Sanjeev says, “My family does not like it at all. They keep asking me to sit at home, as they are worried that i would catch the coronavirus. But I somehow manage to convince them. I also take all precautions while working here. I feel good that I could do something for the society, specially in this testing time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/meet-these-3-traffic-marshalls-who-could-stay-at-home-but-chose-to-help-cops/articleshow/74975835.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Needle in haystack: States go really slow on Covid-19 testing||CHANDIGARH: The rate of coronavirus (Covid-19) tests conducted in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh continues to be poor, leaving a high possibility of several cases of the killer virus being untraced. Punjab, till Friday, had conducted as many as 1,585 Covid-19 tests. When taking into account its population of more than three crore, the rate of testing in Punjab comes to just 52.7 tests per 10 lakh people. Chandigarh, which has a population of about 11.93lakh, has a testing rate of 110.6 tests per 10 lakh. It has tested 132 suspects so far. Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have done the worst. While Haryana, which has a population of 2.9 crore, has conducted 1,325 tests so far and testing rate is 45.6, Himachal Pradesh, which has a population of 70 lakh and had conducted only 296 tests till Friday, has a testing rate of 42.2 per 10 lakh. In the line with the protocol issued by the central government, state health authorities initially focused on screening people coming from virus-hit countries and tested only those who showed symptoms. Family members of positive cases and people who came in their contact were also tested. Now, health authorities have started testing all patients with respiratory illnesses and pneumonia for coronavirus. Till March 23, the Punjab government had tested only 251 cases, or 8.3 tests per 10 lakh. It has now set a target of conducting 800 tests in a day. Health experts said mass testing was not feasible, but the state would have to increase “focus” testing. This is important because, according to data complied by authorities, 55,669 NRIs/foreign travellers arrived in Punjab through Mohali and Amritsar international airports between January and March. The figure of thsoe who came via Delhi-based Indira Gandhi International Airport is unavailable. The government has not been able to trace all these travellers, forcing it to direct all NRIs, who have not been contacted by health officials and local administration, to submit a self-declaration to the deputy commissioner of their respective areas. Dr D Behera, department of pulmonary medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh said it was important to contact each person with a travel history to foreign countries. Acknowledging practical difficulties in tracking each case, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Punjab chapter president Dr Navjot Dahyia urged people to support the government by voluntarily coming forward and reporting to health authorities so that screening could be done. “The government cannot run after each individual. People will have to support the government, like in developed countries,” said Dr Dahyia. Dr Deepak Parasher, member of IMA, Punjab, said the government needed to ramp up testing and people should also support the government at the same time. “The virus has still not spread in the community. To keep it that way, there is a need to increase testing,” said Dr Parasher. Health economist Aswini Kumar Nanda of the Chandigarh-based Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) termed high testing rate “unfeasible” in India, considering vast geographical area, huge population and resource constrain. “By and large, central and stategovernments are on the right track. All we need is focused testing, instead if testing everyone,” said Prof Nanda. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state had been following the guidelines issued by the Centre. “We have increased the rate of testing and the numbers are there for everyone to see. The health department aims to test as many people as possible for controlling the virus,” said Sidhu. Punjab to launch community testingAware of the gravity of the situation, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday issued directions to the health department to start community testing for severe acute respiratory illness in hotspots which have witnessed outbreak of Covid-19 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/detecting-corona-like-finding-needle-in-haystack/articleshow/74975860.cms||Vinod Kumar
April 4, 2020||Shimla||Before shutdown, over 1 lakh pilgrims reached Himachal shrines||DHARAMSHALA: More than one lakh pilgrims reached pilgrimages in Himachal Pradesh in March, after which the government ordered complete shutdown of these temples. Mass gatherings of pilgrims were expected to take place in the state during the Navratris from March 25 to April 2. The closure of the shrines was announced on March 17. People in the hill state said temples were not closed on such a large scale even during Partition. Himachal has five major shrines in Kangra, Una and Bilaspur districts. Devotees from across the world gather in these shrines, which are known as Shakti-peeths. Temple officer Manoj Kumar at the Chintpurni shrine in Una district said around 6,000 pilgrims visited the temple every day before the lockdown. “This is the daily average. The number increased sharply during the weekend,” he said. At Jawalamukhi temple in Kangra district, temple records stated that around 47,000 people visited the shrine in March before it was closed. Chamunda temple received 10,000 devotees while Brajeshwari shrine received more than 15,000 devotees till March 17, official sources said. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati was the first to announce the complete closure of shrines here. A few clashes were reported between police and pilgrims after his orders but the order was strictly executed. “I had to take this step as this is the most densely populated district in the state and pilgrims had started reaching the place from across the country due to Navratris,” he said. Two days later, two residents of the district with a history of travel to coronavirus affected countries tested positive. Deputy commissioner, Bilaspur Rajeshwar Goel said a major fair that was to be held at Deodsidh and Naina Devi temples from March 14 was cancelled. Pilgrims had been staying put in the hill state for the fair. The pilgrims who assembled in the hill state were from across the country and the world. Many foreign nationals were also stranded. Recently, French and German embassies evacuated nearly 48 international visitors from here. All the tourists were quarantined. The state closed its borders from March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/before-shutdown-over-1-lakh-pilgrims-reached-himachal-shrines/articleshow/74975844.cms||Shri Puri
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||MC witnesses decline in complaints in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The complaint cell of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has witnessed a decline in the complaints related to delivery of groceries, vegetables, medicines, milk products in the last week of March till April 1. As the supply of the essential items is smooth in almost every part of the city, the online supply has given more comfort to residents. As per records of the civic body, on March 27, the complaint cell of the MC had received 80 complaints related to grocery supply and 97 related to vegetable supply, while the same reduced to 3 and nil on April 1. Besides this, complaints related to medicines, milk and dairy products have also come down to nil. “The moment the curfew was announced by the authorities concerned, people were scared and calls started pouring in related to supply of essential items, mainly groceries and vegetables. There was panic in most part of the city. But, situation came in control with CTU buses carrying fruits and vegetables and opening of grocery shops for a limited time period,” said an official. The MC has already constituted different teams for different areas and locations of the city to check availability of essential items daily. Moreover, complaints related to municipal services have also reduced. The MC had received 80 complaints relate to water supply and 107 complaints related to leakages on March 27, these came down to 24 and 2, respectively, on April 1. “We have constituted multiple teams of the engineering department to attend to the complaints,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-witnesses-decline-in-complaints/articleshow/74975841.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Five linked to Ambala man who died of Covid-19 test negative||AMBALA: Samples of five persons linked to the 67-year-old man, who died due to Covid-19, have tested negative, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh on Friday. “Five samples, including those of four tenants and a relative of Harjit Singh (67) of Ambala Cantonment, who died due to coronavirus infection on Wednesday at PGIMER in Chandigarh, have tested negative,” he said. The health authorities on Friday also sent samples of the deceased’s son, wife and daughter-in-law for examination to PGIMS, Rohtak and their reports are expected on Saturday. Meanwhile, samples of three persons, who attended a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, were also sent on Friday for examination. “These persons are asymptomatic but we have sent samples as a precautionary measure,” the civil surgeon said. He further said the seventh sample sent for examination on Friday is that of a coronavirus symptomatic man, a resident of Ambala Cantonment. Dr Singh said, “The condition of 21-year-old man of Ram Nagar village in Patiala district and of the 66-year-old Nepal resident who tested positive is stable. The third positive patient of Bhiwandi, Maharashtra was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh on Thursday and reportedly his condition is also fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-linked-to-ambala-man-who-died-of-covid-19-test-negative/articleshow/74975866.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana students studying abroad weather lockdown with help of parents back home||LUDHIANA: According to the Ministry of External Affairs, more than 7,50,000 Indian students are studying overseas — 7,52,725 to be exact — in more than 90 countries of the world. A majority of them in many countries are from Punjab. At this time, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared Covid-19 a pandemic, parents in Punjab are talking to their children in different countries with their heart full of worries and doubts. Manavjot Singh (22) from Ludhiana said, “Right now, I am in Canada, and I am here since December 2019, but I never imagined this kind of thing would have happened in the world. I am studying for a post-graduate diploma in Operation and Supply Chain. In this problematic hour of the world, I miss being at home and close to my parents physically. As I am the only son of my parents, I feel the tension on their mind when we chat or do video calls on Whatsapp.” His dad said, “It’s really important to stay inside. Whether it’s Canada or India, we have to follow the instructions of the government, in which we can’t move out. We sure miss him being here, but I am relaxed that he is safe there in a good environment, and he is taking care of himself in a good way.” Ashu Chopra, a student from Sydney in Australia, said, “I am more worried about my mom than myself, as she is working in the healthcare department in Mohali, where they have found some positive cases of coronavirus. Whenever I talk to her on video call, I tell her I am fine, first let’s talk about you, as I am the one sitting at home, and she is the one fighting in this time, and working with her full power. Even though I am in Australia, I fully support her and respect her, that in this time, she is there for our country and helping the people.” His mother Kiranjeet Chopra said, “I cry sometimes while talking to my son, as it’s not easy to stay away, but what can we do now, nothing can be done. The only solution is to stay safe. When the situation was normal, I used to call him once a day, but now sometimes, he calls or I call him nearabout five calls a day. If there is a chance I can get him back from Australia, I would have taken it, because I am really worried about him, as the situation is going really bad now. I just hope everything gets fine quickly.” Vibha Bajaj, a private employee in Sydney, said, “Normally, my parents or my brothers used to call me twice a day at the most, that too voice call, but now all they do is video call to check whether I am inside or whether I am taking care of myself properly or not. I understand their concerns and their worries. Even I am worried that my parents are in Jalandhar, and it is not safe to go outside, whether you are in Jalandhar or in Sydney. Talking to my parents gives me relief that everything is going to be fine and good.” Her father Sunil Bajaj, a businessman from Jalandhar, said, “I pray daily for children who are not with their parents right now, as I can understand the situation of every parent whose children are not with them. My daughter is in Australia for the past four years, and I trust her that she is taking care of herself properly, but still as a parent, my heart always says I should call her and check on her. Even late at night, I call her to ask if she is fine and what she is doing? Sometimes to time pass together, we play online games like Ludo and Tambola. If there is anything I wish for, then it’s I should get her back safely in the house, so she can be in front of my eyes whenever I wake up in the morning. I request everyone to stay at home, and don’t lose hope. Everything is going to be alright.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-students-studying-abroad-weather-lockdown-with-help-of-parents-back-home/articleshow/74975800.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ldh Rly stn to have coaches as isolation wards||Ludhiana: Taking a crucial step in the battle against the outbreak of Ccovid-19, railway authorities of Firozepur Division have began the process of preparing modified isolation coaches for dedicated corona patients. Ludhiana railway station has been identified by the officials as potential “emergency hospital”. Northern railway authorities have been assigned the task of preparing almost 400 to 500 isolation beds by using coaches of trains for tackling Covid-19 at different cities. Railways officials said, “To facilitate isolation coaches, we have to remove middle berths from all nine cabins of the premium coaches and equip them with air conditioning system.” While lower berths will serve as the bed for the patient, upper berths can be utilised for storing patient’s baggage and one cabin nearby toilet will be used for medical department. Ladders for climbing up berths have also been removed. One toilet out of four has been converted into bathroom in each coach for patient’s convenience. “We are converting the existing toilet into bathroom by plugging the toilet pan and installing shower facilities. We are also hooking the coaches to grid for regular power supply. Bedding, including two bedsheets, a hand towel and a pillow with cover,. will be provided to patients,” said sources. Rajesh Aggarwal, divsional railway manager of Firozepur Divison, said “We will soon deliver these coaches at different stations. We have involved the railway engineers to prepare the coaches. These will play a crucial role in providing heathcare services to Covid-19 patients in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ldh-rly-stn-to-have-coaches-as-isolation-wards/articleshow/74975833.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||58-year-old Karnal man tests positive||KARNAL: A 58-year-old man of Rasin village in Karnal on Friday tested positive for coronavirus. He is the first person from the district to have contracted the infection. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the patient was suffering from severe respiratory illness and had been admitted to the Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital on March 25. On April 1, he was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. His sample was taken on Thursday, and on Friday, he was declared a confirmed case of Covid-19. The man is undergoing treatment at an ICU in the PGIMER. The DC said, “The patient has no foreign travel history. We will examine the cause behind the disease. All 10 members of his family have also been isolated at the medical college and their samples will also be sent for testing.” “We have declared Rasin village a containment zone for the next two weeks and it has been sealed. No movement in and out of the village will be allowed. Adjoining villages, Hasanpur and Hugli, have been declared buffer zones, in which a door-to-door survey will be conducted by the health workers to trace suspected cases. Arrangements have been made to ensure supply of essential items to the villagers,” Yadav said. The administration has urged the people no to need to panic, as they are monitoring the situation. People need to stay at home, the DC added. Civil surgeon Ashwini Ahuja said so far, the health department has collected 59 samples. Of these, 53 have tested negative and one positive, while reports of the remaining are awaited. He said they have screened 658 passengers with history of travelling abroad and their close contacts. Out of them, as many as 293 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine and remained asymptomatic. A total of 315 persons are still under surveillance. Of these, 81 persons are on 14-day home-quarantine and 234 on 14-28 day home-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/58-yr-old-karnal-man-tests-positive/articleshow/74975869.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Boy, found buried alive in sand near Satluj, rescued||LUDHIANA: A four-year-old boy was found buried alive in the sand near Satluj river on Friday afternoon. Some slum children noticed his face and feet and raised an alarm, after which people huddled there rescued the child. The boy has been admitted to civil hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. Hanish Kapoor of Noorwala Road said they were distributing food and medicines among the needy near Satluj river. Meanwhile, some slum children approached him and informed about the boy buried in the sand. They rescued the child and rushed him to hospital and informed the police. Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, SHO at Ladhowal police station, said, “During investigation, the police identified the child roaming around the area from Thursday morning. However, nobody knows him. The boy is in shock, and is not revealing his name. Locals also said they saw a woman with the child. The police are scanning CCTVs installed near the area for further investigation.” The police have informed other police stations to know if any missing report regarding the child has been registered with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/boy-found-buried-alive-in-sand-rescued/articleshow/74975795.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Police warn those spreading misleading Covid-19 news||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police have warned of strict action against those sharing misleading and unverified information related to coronavirus (Covid-19) on social media platforms. Rumourmongers will be booked under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Haryana additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said on Friday that citizens should be more careful about the authenticity of Covid-19 information before sharing/forwarding them on social media. Several instances of spreading factually incorrect and unverified information on social media have been being noticed, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-warn-those-spreading-misleading-covid-19-news/articleshow/74975846.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Two more Jamaat returnees test positive in Mohali||MOHALI: Two more persons, who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali district and put in isolation, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Friday. Their contacts are being traced now, he added. Meanwhile, the district health department officials said of all the contacts of the positive cases in Jagatpura area of Mohali, samples of 48 have tested negative, while reports of three are awaited. Besides, out of the contacts of other positive cases, samples of 14 are negative, while the results of five others are awaited, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-more-jamaat-returnees-test-positive-in-mohali/articleshow/74975853.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, Punjab residents get essentials through government app||CHANDIGARH: Punjab residents can use the government’s COVA mobile app to request for delivery of essential goods and grocery during the coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown period. The app is available on Android PlayStore and iOS AppStore. It will help deliveries through local vendors. The feature has been built into the app with support from a private firm, said Punjab additional chief secretary (governance reforms and public grievances) Vini Mahajan. The module will enable vendors to register themselves as suppliers and enlist delivery executives for passes. This will empower the district administration to approve/reject the vendor, and also act as a monitoring authority if a complaint is registered by the citizen on the grounds of overpricing or adulteration. A citizen will only need to select his/her location and the app will populate the nearby vendors. The citizen can place an order on the app itself and pay post-delivery of the items. This is an additional feature in the app which was already providing solutions to help citizens access authentic information, report gatherings, and access medical advice from doctors, Mahajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-get-essentials-through-govt-app/articleshow/74975856.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Day’s haul in Hisar: 12 held, 24,000 liquor bottles seized||HISAR: With the coronavirus lockdown bringing the shutters down on liquor shops temporarily, smuggling of alcohol has risen up in Hisar district of Haryana. On Friday, police arrested 12 people with thousands of bottles of country and English liquor. Two others are on the run. Police have seized 21,600 bottles of country liquor, 168 half bottles of country liquor and 2,784 bottles (232 boxes) of English liquor. A container was seized near Talwandi Rana village and seven men arrested after they were found smuffling 5,964 bottles of country liquor. A man was arrested with 1,176 bottles of country liquor at Jakhodkhera village. ,Other seizures included 180 bottles of country liquor and one arrest at Matryashyam village, 13,800 bottles of country liquor and two arrests at Pabda village, 168 bottles and 168 half bottles and one arrest at Azad Nagar, and 2784 bottles of English liquor and one arrest at Faridpur village. There were other seizures too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/days-haul-in-hisar-12-held-24k-liquor-bottles-seized/articleshow/74975838.cms||---
April 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Northern railway to resume service from April 15||LUDHIANA: Northern railway will resume its service from April 15. Ferozepur Division of Northern Railway has been asked to make arrangements for restoring 23 trains, whose rakes are available at Amritsar, Jammu Tawi, Sri Vaishno Devi Katra and Ferozepur railway stations. Sources in railway department said, “Local railway officials have received directions from higher authorities to make necessary arrangements on Friday.” Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, chief ticket inspectors and in-charges of reservation and parcel offices have been asked to deploy staff on duty accordingly, said sourc The letter, which has been accessed by TOI, mentioned that authorities concerned should pitch in to ensure all safety and security measures are made. Firozpur Division has been asked to run as many as 11 trains. From Amritsar, Saharsa Garib Rath Express, New Delhi Express, Banmankhi Jan Sewa Express, Haridwar Express, Katihar Express, Jaynagar Saryuyamuna Express, Saharsa Weekly Jansadharan Express, Bilaspur Chhatisgarh Express, Darbhanga Jannayak Express, Dehradun Express and Pathankot Ravi Express. From Jammu Tawi, four trains — Begampura Express, Ajmer Express, Shalimar Express and Rajdhani — will resume services. From Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra railway station, Swaraj Express, Hemkunt Express, Uttar Sampark Kranti and Shri Shakti Express will be restored. Four trains that will be restored from Ferozepur Cantonment railway station include Hanumangarh Express, Chandigarh Express, Delhi Intercity Express and Sutlez Express. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “After getting instructions from higher authorities of the northern railway, we have asked the local officials to make necessary arrangements for Smooth running of trains and ensure the safety and security of passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trains-to-resume-service-from-april-15/articleshow/74975831.cms||---
