April 5, 2020||India||Govt fears waste of milk & vegetables as enough local produce don't reach market||NEW DELHI: The government is concerned over some reports of milk and vegetable going waste in certain parts of the country as local supplies are not being lifted. It’s also concerned about the shortage of labourers and less number of mandis operating across states. Sources said these issues were flagged at a meeting of a high powered secretaries group on Saturday, which discussed the ways out to tide over such problems. They added that the Prime Minister’s Office has reportedly received certain reports of wastage of milk and vegetables. TOI has learnt that the issue of at least 10 states where less than 30% of the mandis are operational also came up during the discussion. Recently, office bearers of Asia’s largest vegetable mandi, Azadpur, had shared a video of truckloads of vegetables standing there and sharp drop in buyers. “If mandis won’t operate, farmers produce won’t get access to market and so, either they will dump their produce or go for distress selling in their localities,” said an official. Sources said the group of secretaries was told that not a single mandi is operating in Assam, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya. Though milk supply across states is more than 90%, distribution has been hit in Punjab, Maharashtra, Andhra and Bihar because of close down of packaging material manufacturing units. On Thursday, the home ministry allowed manufacturing units for packaging material to operate during the lockdown period. The group was also informed that it’s taking more than 24 hours to unload the railway wagons that are carrying essential items to states including , West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh due to shortage of labourers. TOI has learnt that some of the ministers would interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon through video conference to share their assessment of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-fears-waste-of-milk-vegetables-as-enough-local-produce-dont-reach-market/articleshow/74988151.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: Centre fights virus on the one hand, polarisation on the other||NEW DELHI: As it battles the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, the government is also having to contend with growing communal polarisation in the wake of Tablighi Jamaat's link to rise in positive cases. Senior government sources said that feedback from across the country suggested that the disproportionately large number of positive cases and callous disregard shown by Jamaat members to the well-being of care providers have embittered inter-faith ties, aggravating the challenge at a time when the government is fighting an unprecedented public health challenge. The concern led Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urge chief ministers to enlist the support of faith leaders. They should be told that their respective faiths would survive only if they unitedly defeated coronavirus, sources quoted the PM as telling the CMs. Sources said the conduct of TJ leaders, who disregarded the need to maintain social distancing at the Nizamuddin Markaz in the capital, as well as the way the Jamatis subsequently behaved with doctors and nurses in different hospitals has evoked revulsion among a large section of the populace. Feedback collated from hundreds of places across the country pointed to the damage caused by images of mobs assaulting doctors who went to screen suspected cases as part of contact tracing exercise — something that is crucial to stop community transmission — with individuals spitting at doctors, paramedics and cops as well as boasts that the "faithful" were endowed with ironclad immunity. On Friday, the telecom department told country representatives of Tik Tok, the popular video sharing platform, to take down objectionable material and put in place algorithms to screen out potentially inflammatory content. Sources said the conversation between the two sides was not pleasant with DoT representatives bluntly talking about the "drastic powers" that the government has at its disposal. The government is also in touch with representatives of WhatsApp and Facebook to stanch the surge of hostility, but feels it is facing a daunting task. "It is time to unequivocally condemn what is indefensible and to involve all communities in the fight against the virus," said a senior government source. He expressed hope that Modi's "light a-lamp" campaign may help shift the conversation away from TJ on Sunday evening but more efforts were needed to ensure that governments were not burdened with a law and order challenge at this time. That the risk of communal tension is real was underscored during a meeting the chief minister of a state had convened to discuss the plans to fight coronavirus. Midway through the conversation, a doctor stunned the gathering by saying that the plans were unlikely to succeed as doctors were wary of approaching the Tablighis who had tested positive. "The problem is that the Islamic proselytisers don't realise that they have done anything wrong or that they need to submit themselves to the norms required for dealing with a full-blown public health emergency," the veteran doctor said. His forthright comments were endorsed by all the attendees at the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-centre-fights-virus-on-the-one-hand-polarisation-on-the-other/articleshow/74988248.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||83% of Covid-19 patients in India are aged below 60 yrs||NEW DELHI: Over 83% of Covid-19 patients in India are below the age of 60 years. The majority of people (41%) infected by Covid-19 in the country are in the age group of 21-40 years, according to health ministry data. While the elderly are said to be the most vulnerable to the disease, people above 60 years account for only 17% of total cases in the country till now. This implies others are also susceptible and the younger age group, particularly in the 21-40 bracket, may be more representative of foreign travellers seen to be the source of Covid-19 in India. They include professionals and students, who have returned to India, apart from other categories. However, the mortality rate, warn experts, is higher among the elderly. Reports of deaths so far indicate that age with accompanying conditions (co-morbidities) like diabetes, cardiac diseases and hypertension increase mortality. The health ministry did not provide data on age profiles of those who have succumbed to the disease. An age profile analysis of all the positive cases of Covid-19 cases in India so far shows 8.61% of positive cases are in between 0-20 years, 41.88% cases in the age group of 21-40, 32.82% in 41-60 and 16.69% in the people are above 60 years of age. Also, India reported 58 critical cases of Covid-19 and these were mainly found in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. “It has been observed that most of the deaths are being reported from elderly people or people having co-morbidities such as diabetes, kidney and cardiac ailments . Hence, all people falling in the high risk category need to follow all precautions,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. He said, “We are dealing with a highly infectious and communicable disease. We are battling with this on a day-to-day basis. Still, the case-doubling rate in India is less than other countries.” India has so far reported 2,902 positive cases of Covid-19. Of this, 601 have been reported in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data. Besides, the total deaths stood at 68, including 12 deaths in last 24 hours. According to World Health Organisation, around 9,72000 cases have been reported globally so far with an average 75,800 cases in one day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/83-of-covid-19-patients-in-india-are-aged-below-60-yrs/articleshow/74988310.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: ICMR gives nod for rapid antibody tests||NEW DELHI: Expanding the testing strategy in line with its containment plans in high-risk areas and Covid-19 hotspots, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory on Saturday to start rapid antibody-based blood test for coronavirus. The strategy for using the test includes clusters (containment zone) and large migration gatherings or evacuees’ centres. “As a matter of abundant precaution, all symptomatic ILI (influenza-like illness) are to be monitored in health facilities. Any surge in cases to be monitored and brought to the notice of surveillance officer/CMO for additional investigation,” the advisory said. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageIt added all ILI persons should be home- quarantined for 14 days. At facility level, all symptomatic people with influenza-like illness having cough, cold, low-grade fever and sore throat will be tested with rapid antibody tests. If a patient tests positive after a rapid antibody test, decision will be taken based on clinical assessment and treatment in hospital will follow. As per protocol, contact tracing will also be done. In case of negative results, RT-PCR may be done if warranted. The revision in the strategy came in view of the increasing number of cases in last few days needing an immediate check on migrant workers, who left cities for their homes, for Covid-19. The exodus, followed by the rise in numbers linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, led to the government identifying hotspots and high-risk zones and devising its strategy accordingly. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe decision was taken by the empowered group, one of 11 formed to consider various aspects of the Covid-19 crisis, that is looking at disease surveillance, testing and availability of hospitals and isolation beds. On Saturday, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said over 75000 samples have been tested so far and the numbers are increasing gradually depending on the case load. The number of tests conducted per day has increased to more than 10,000 now, as compared to around 5000 a week ago, Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-icmr-gives-nod-for-rapid-antibody-tests/articleshow/74988392.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Cash reaches 40% of 20 cr women beneficiaries||NEW DELHI: The largest-ever cash transfer scheme launched on Friday to put Rs 30,000 crore in Jan Dhan accounts of women has validated the evangelical push for implementation of the Jan Dhan scheme which saw the government exhorting crores of people to open bank accounts. By Saturday, the accounts of around 40% of the 20-crore women beneficiaries had seen cash deposits of Rs 500 each. Similarly, around 8 crore beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme will get close to Rs 5,000 crore in their bank accounts to purchase cooking gas cylinders for three months. The swift transfer of money at a time of countrywide lockdown is being seen as the success of the Jan Dhan scheme launched by the Narendra Modi government in its first term. The transfer into the accounts, which have been seeded with Aadhaar, is likely to ensure the money reaches those for whom it is intended. “The prescription to fund the unfunded is proving to be an effective remedy, proving the efficacy of the architecture of schemes, including the weaponisation of Aadhaar as a welfare dispensing instrument, which was put in place five years ago,” said a senior source in the government. In addition, a payment of Rs 16,000 crore as the next installment of Kisan Samman stipend is expected to go directly into the account of 8.7 crore farmers. Another Rs 3,000 crore will be put into the accounts of senior citizens, widows and the differently-abled, categories which need succour in these challenging times. As the Covid-19 pandemic has swept through the world, threatening to lay waste both developed and developing economies, countries responded in two different ways to tackle the fallout. First was through fiscal and monetary measures, but the second was through income support programmes to the most vulnerable and small businesses. The latter, according to economists and policy experts, is the key to bridging the gap between a devastating economic downturn and hopefully an eventual recovery. Interestingly, when PM Narendra Modi held a video conference with Indian envoys around the globe, one of the things that emerged was a similarity between Indian and the US approaches on income support policies. This, even as Washington and New Delhi took very different paths in tackling the pandemic. On March 26, the Modi government announced a set of cash transfer and related benefits that would use the JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) backbone to implement largescale, technology-enabled and real-time direct benefit transfers. Having set this system up in the first term of the government, this would be an ideal time to use it. As Jahangir Aziz of JP Morgan Chase Bank wrote, “The government’s efforts over the last five years make India one of the best placed economies to deliver such cash transfers.” The government’s announcement will see 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders get Rs 500 per month for the next three months; increase in MGNREGA wage to Rs 202 a day from Rs 182 to benefit 13.62 crore families; ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to 3 crore poor senior citizens, poor widows and poor disabled. The government will also front-load Rs 2,000 paid to farmers in the first week of April under the existing PM Kisan Yojana to benefit 8.7 crore farmers, as well as extend insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per health worker fighting Covid-19. On March 27, US President Donald Trump also announced a set of similar income support measures. Most adults will get $1,200. For every qualifying child aged 16 or under, the payment will be an additional $500. Single adults with social security numbers who have an adjusted gross income of $75,000 per year or less will get the full amount. Married couples with no children earning $150,000 or less will receive a total of $2,400. Since the US Internal Revenue Service already has taxpayers’ bank account information, it will transfer the money to them via direct deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-cash-reaches-40-of-20-cr-women-beneficiaries/articleshow/74988432.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||New one-day high: 586 fresh corona cases, Maharashtra leads surge||Close to 600 new coronavirus cases were reported from across the country on Saturday, the highest single-day count so far, even as the death toll from the pandemic neared the 100 mark at 97. As many as 586 new cases emerged in the country with Maharashtra, the worst-affected state by far, recording 145, the highest count of cases in a 24-hour period reported by any state so far, surpassing the 141 cases reported in Delhi earlier this week. Maharashtra has so far reported 635 coronavirus cases, way more than the second-placed Tamil Nadu (485) or Delhi (445). Eleven deaths due to the virus were reported during the day, with Maharashtra accounting for six, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh two each, and one in Rajasthan. The total tally of Covid-19 cases in India has risen to 3,670, according to information received from states. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has also gone up to 226, which is a positive sign. The health ministry has confirmed 3,072 Covid-19 cases and 75 deaths. Of the 445 positive cases in Delhi, state health authorities said 15 require ICU care while eight others are on oxygen support. The state has witnessed six Covid-19 deaths of which one person was 36-year-old and the rest were above 60. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Aggarwal said on Saturday most deaths due to Covid-19 in the country were among the elderly people and those with co-morbities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Four more Covid-19 cases were reported in Noida on Saturday — all linked to Cease Fire, the firm to which 67% of the 58 cases in the district can now be traced, with the infection chain moving from gated societies to urban villages and a slum cluster. Noida is also now one of the 10 Covid-19 hotspots in the country. In Madhya Pradesh, the state health department’s principal secretary and another senior IAS officer, who were spearheading the battle against Covid-19 in the state, tested positive for the virus on Saturday. A day ago, another IAS officer who had a key role in the state’s corona task force tested positive. Two patients died due to Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, taking the total death toll to three and number of cases to 485 in the state. State health secretary Beela Rajesh said 422 (87%) of those who tested positive belong to a group of people who had travelled to Delhi to attend a three-day Tablighi Jamaat conference and their close contacts. Rajasthan crossed the 200-mark on Saturday, with 25 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Saturday. Karnataka witnessed its highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases on Saturday as 16 more people, including a radio jockey in Bengaluru, testing positive. The state’s tally now stands at 144, climbing from 128 on Friday. In the latest cases, seven people from Mysuru district tested positive, five from Bengaluru, two from Dakshina Kannada, and one each from Ballari and Udupi. Two new Covid-19 patients are women. Andhra Pradesh on Saturday registered 26 new covid-19 positive cases taking the state’s tally to 190. In Telangana, officials said 43 new cases have been recorded taking their tally 272. Most of the fresh cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Delhi, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-one-day-high-586-fresh-corona-cases-maharashtra-leads-surge/articleshow/74988446.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Many having nothing to do with Tablighi meet also quarantined||Nagpur: Wasim Pathan (name changed) is a staunch Barelvi sect member and holds top position in its local body here. Pathan is 83-year-old and had recently suffered a heart attack. Despite his failing health and belonging to a sect ideologically opposed to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ), Pathan now finds himself in institutional qurantine at Ravi Bhavan. Though Pathan had been to Delhi to pay obeisance to Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, a practice proscribed by the TJ, he has been allegedly bracketed in the same group since he is a Muslim.Similarly, two more Muslim youths belonging to Ahle Sunnat Jamaat have been quarantined at Vanamati. A newly married Muslim man and his friends too have been quarantined while the bride is stuck in Delhi. Some couples who had gone for honeymoon to North India are also being quarantined.Lack of understanding about these sects and their ideologies among government officials have led to their journeys to Delhi being attributed to TJ congregation.“It is blasphemous to being linked to TJ, which propagates the concept of Da'wah (invitation) and proscribes sufism,” says a Barelvi sect member. The feud over conveying Allah’s message through Dargah culture or Tabligh is centuries old and have kept the sects at loggerheads.Even the Tablighis are at the receiving end of government’s drive in isolating each Delhi returnee though the directorate of health department’s circular rules out quarantining most of these people. The circular categorically states people who are connected to Nizamuddin meet between March 8 and 10 must be traced and quarantined. The officials apparent overkill is quickly filling up rooms at MLA hostels, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati beside straining the testing labs at Mayo hospital and AIIMS. On Friday, 60 TJs were quarantined at these three facilities though they have been in city since February 28. “The local administration has to show they didn’t leave anyone,” said a source. On Friday, the administration had asked Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel to counsel Muslims at the quarantine centres. Bari himself was shocked when he met the Muslims who subscribe to different sects. “I appeal to the administration and police to clearly mention in the form before each name exact details of each person. If a Muslim has visited Markaz it must be mentioned in the form so that exact number of people who went to that meet is found out,” he said.Bari added, “What I understood from the counselling session at MLA and Vanamati that not all who returned from Delhi were at Markaz. I also found out that two had gone in individual capacity to Markaz”Bari said the police, NMC and revenue officials were doing excellent job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-having-nothing-to-do-with-tablighi-meet-also-quarantined/articleshow/74997862.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Ailing tiger dies during treatment in MP Pench||Nagpur: A full-grown male tiger, found ailing in Pench Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh, died during treatment on Saturday morning. With this, the tiger death toll in the country since January 1, has gone up to 18. According to Pench field director Vikram Singh Parihar, the 10-year-old tiger (T-21) was suspected to be ailing for the last six days. On Friday, it was spotted by the staff near a water body. The team of wildlife veterinarians led by Dr Akhilesh Mishra along with Parihar and others reached the spot and tried to push the tiger out but it could not move. “Even elephants failed to push the animal out,” Parihar said. “The tiger was suffering from fever. The vets administered drugs with the help of dart even while T-21 was in water. Antipyretics like paracetamol and pain killers were also given,” said Parihar. The staff continued to monitor the tiger near the water body on Friday. However, it died around 9 am on Saturday. All requisite samples and body parts have been collected for forensic tests. Parihar said that it was a natural death. Three days ago on April 1, six wild dogs were found dead in compartment 329 in Kothar under mysterious circumstances near Khawasa in the buffer zone of MP Pench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ailing-tiger-dies-during-treatment-in-mp-pench/articleshow/74996539.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Ailing tiger dies during treatment in MP Pench||Nagpur: A full-grown male tiger, found ailing in Pench Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh, died during treatment on Saturday morning. With this, the tiger death toll in the country since January 1, has gone up to 18. According to Pench field director Vikram Singh Parihar, the 10-year-old tiger (T-21) was suspected to be ailing for the last six days. On Friday, it was spotted by the staff near a water body. The team of wildlife veterinarians led by Dr Akhilesh Mishra along with Parihar and others reached the spot and tried to push the tiger out but it could not move. “Even elephants failed to push the animal out,” Parihar said. “The tiger was suffering from fever. The vets administered drugs with the help of dart even while T-21 was in water. Antipyretics like paracetamol and pain killers were also given,” said Parihar. The staff continued to monitor the tiger near the water body on Friday. However, it died around 9 am on Saturday. All requisite samples and body parts have been collected for forensic tests. Parihar said that it was a natural death. Three days ago on April 1, six wild dogs were found dead in compartment 329 in Kothar under mysterious circumstances near Khawasa in the buffer zone of MP Pench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ailing-tiger-dies-during-treatment-in-mp-pench/articleshow/74996549.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Goon out of jail murders cop’s wife||Nagpur: A cop’s wife was on Saturday allegedly murdered by a goon who was granted interim bail as per Supreme Court guidelines to decongest prisons following Covid-19 outbreak. In another case, liquor bottles were stolen from two bars, in a likely fallout of the lockdown. Also, in an incident which too seems related to the lockdown, a traffic police head constable and three of his associates were arrested for transporting 55kg country-made liquor in their car. The constable has been suspended. Sushila Muley (52), wife of ASI of crime branch, was stabbed to death by Navin Gotefode at her residence near Ramna Maroti. Gotefode was upset as Sushila was not allowing him to meet her son whose name is also Naveen. Nandanvan police have arrested Gotefode. Sushila’s husband Ashok had just left for work when the incident took place. Sushila’s son received some injuries on hand when he tried to rescue her. Ashok said that his son and Gotefode were classmates but they were on different tracks. After committing a murder in 2017, Gotefode was sent to jail but later granted bail. He was again sent to jail for stealing a bike and released around a week ago. In the first burglary, several liquor bottles were stolen from a bar near Nara ghat in Jaripatka. In another incident, cash and liquor bottles were stolen from a bar at Gaddigodam. The stolen items are estimated to be worth lakhs. In another incident, traffic police head constable Prakash Bawangade and three of his associates were arrested by ACP, Sakkardara division, Vijay Dhopaokar for transporting country-made liquor illegally. In Ganeshpeth, the gang war between Bunty Kalambhe and externed goon Sonu Pawar led to the death of Shailesh Ughade.  who was attacked at New Shukrawari couple of days ago, on Saturday. Kalambhe’s rival gang had ransacked several vehicles and damaged properties in his neighbourhood. Many from Kalambhe’s locality alleged that detection wing of Ganeshpeth police is helping Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-out-of-jail-murders-cops-wife/articleshow/74997953.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Onions, potatoes slide lower but veggies rule high||Nagpur: If the lockdown has led to spurt in vegetable prices in general, onion prices in the bulk market have hit rock bottom. Traders at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard at Kalamna are offering onions for Rs 10 a kg. Even the rates of potatoes touched Rs 15 a kg in the bulk market as against Rs 20 before the lockdown. APMC Kalamna is among the handful markets open throughout the state during the lockdown. This has led to supplies from everywhere reaching the city. It has caused a glut bringing down the prices. As movement is restricted, even buyers are not turning up here. Jaiprakash Wasani of Pankaj Traders said the buyers who would normally reach the Kalamna market are now getting their supplies directly from farms. With no takers, the traders are forced to clear their stock at throwaway prices. Wasani has circulated a message that the common man can buy onion at Rs 10-11 a kg from his shop but will have to lift at least 45 kg. Mohammed Afaque of M/s Afzal Trading said 100 trucks of onions reached Kalamna. The impact has not been seen in retail markets so far. Ram Bagle, a trader at Gokulpeth market, said both onions and potatoes continue to be sold at Rs 30 a kg. The vendors on handcarts would be charging slightly more, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/onions-potatoes-slide-lower-but-veggies-rule-high/articleshow/74997121.cms||Shishir Arya
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Food and groceries priority of citizens, says VNIT’s Covid-19 study||NAGPUR: A group, comprising a VNIT professor, his students, government officers and young professionals, has developed a risk perception assessment tool for Central India to recommend to the government Covid-19-related problems and preparedness of citizens. Under the banner of Confederation of Risk Reduction Professionals (CRRP), the group has been surveying citizens zone-wise in real time to know their vulnerability and preparedness for the health disaster and the situation arising out of it – complete lockdown. So far, health was people’s priority which has now shifted to uninterrupted supply of food, power and water as the city and nation drift towards the next stage of the contagious disease. The ‘Response to Coronavirus Pandemic’ survey is being conducted by VNIT, Nagpur, in collaboration with Keio University, Japan. The group is trying to understand key priorities and establish an improved understanding of the community risk perception. The five-minute survey seeks personal details such as age, gender, occupation, area of residence (NMC zone) and recent history of viral fever. This is followed by queries on the source of information which could be social media, government, newspapers or TV. The most important part is regarding immediate priorities. Participants are given a range of options, including social interaction, travel and transportation, food, water, power, job, access to banking services and education. Sameer Deshkar, professor at VNIT’s architecture department, said the questionnaire assesses the vulnerability and preparedness of citizens. “Based on the survey, we will recommend to the government the status of people and their needs,” he said. The online survey started on March 24 when the nationwide lockdown was announced. “We have received around 320 responses so far. The trend of people’s priority is shifting from only health services to food and groceries,” he said. Data such as life support services, from where you are getting them, how reliable is it and the risk perception will be integrated with GIS mapping and shown in the final report to the government. As the Covid19 phase changes, the disaster priority of people, too, will change. “We are noting the emerging requirement of people in different zones. The lifestyle impact on the individual and community. Some questions have been posed to villagers, too. As the city is closing down, we want to know how it will impact them,” he said. The village survey is taking place through calls to every sarpanch, said Deshkar, who is the coordinator of the international centre of excellence on resilient cities. “CRRP is India’s member in the You Inspire initiative of the United Nations. SAARC nations are part of it. District disaster Management officer Ankush Gawande, VNIT students Harshita N, Vibhas and Shruti are part of the team,” said Deshkar, who is one of the directors on the CRRP board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/food-groceries-priority-of-citizens-says-vnits-covid-19-study/articleshow/74975049.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 5, 2020||India||A TOI initiative to help keep you and the nation safe||You’ve been washing your hands diligently and regularly. You’ve embraced social distancing. Now, add another layer of protection – if you haven’t already. The Union health ministry on Saturday recommended that you wear a “handmade reusable face cover’’ when you step out of home. The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) in the US has issued a similar advisory. A mask is easy to make — any old cotton T-shirt can be fashioned into one; even a dupatta will do. It’ll not only help keep you safe, it’ll also protect those around you. But remember, you absolutely need to keep it clean. Governments around the world have strongly urged the public not to stock up on medical grade masks; they’re in short supply and are needed a lot more by healthcare workers, patients and other at risk categories. Watch: Simple way of making cloth mask within secondsThe Times of India is today launching a # MaskIndia movement encouraging all Indians to wear simple, homemade masks to cover your nose and mouth. It’s about self-empowerment, it's about protecting yourself, your family, and your community - and it's about individual actions adding up to a greater good. We have a responsibility to help India win this war against the virus. Together we shall overcome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-toi-initiative-to-help-keep-you-and-the-nation-safe/articleshow/74988460.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Modi’s blackout call: Raut fears grid collapse, expert says no worries||Nagpur: What is going to happen on Sunday night when people switch off their lights at 9pm heeding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s blackout call? Contrasting views are coming out. While state energy minister Nitin Raut fears that the Indian grid will collapse, his predecessor Chandrashekhar Bawankule says that this was not possible. Power expert AP Ganguly says at the most only a few power generation units will trip. Meanwhile, MSEDCL officials are preparing to handle the sudden drop in demand. They say 2,585MW hydroelectric generation is available in the state, which can be switched off immediately if required. They are hoping that the demand does not reduce beyond this during the blackout. Raut has suggested a middle way to follow PM’s appeal and not endanger the grid. He has asked people to light candles without switching off electric lights. In a video released to the media, Raut says, “The demand in the state has already reduced from 23,000MW to 13,000MW due to the lockdown. It is not possible to reduce generation further. So if everybody switches off lights it will cause the grid frequency to shoot up and the Indian grid will collapse. It will take 16 hours to restart generation units and a week before India limps back to normalcy.” Ganguly says that this fear was without any basis. “The safe frequency zone for the grid is 48.5 Hz to 50.5 Hz. Ideally, the frequency should be 50 Hz. If the demand drops suddenly then the frequency will at the worst cross 50.5 Hz. This will cause relays connected to some power generation units to trip. As soon as some units stop generation, the supply will reduce and the grid frequency will come down. Thus the entire grid can’t collapse. Cascade tripping is only possible when demand is far higher than supply as it used to happen some years ago,” he told TOI. Ganguly further said that electric lights do not have much load and hence there was practically no chance of any problem when people switch them off. Bawankule has called Raut’s claim political and said that turning off hydroelectric generation will control the grid frequency. “When solar units stop generating after sunset there is no grid disturbance. The state government is reprehensibly indulging in fear mongering even though we are fully supporting it in the fight against coronavirus,” he said. MSEB Workers’ Federation (MSEBWF), a communist power employees’ union, has appealed to people not to switch off their lights to prevent a grid collapse. PowerGrid, central government’s power transmission company, has asked it officers to be alert on Sunday evening to take action if grid frequency shoots up threatening its stability. A former MSEDCL officer trashed claims of grid collapse by pointing out that load suddenly went down in western countries during the Earth Hour but nothing untoward ever happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/modis-blackout-call-raut-fears-grid-collapse-expert-says-no-worries/articleshow/74997188.cms||Ashish Roy
April 5, 2020||Bareilly||Observe Shab-e-barat fromhome: Dargah Aala Hazrat||Bareilly: In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, Sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat, Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri, on Friday appealed to community members to observe the event of Shab-e-barat at their homes. On the night of Shab-e-barat, people usually go to graveyards to offer prayers for the departed souls. Shab-e-barat will be observed on April 9 this year. Many also visit mosques to offer prayers throughout the night. Nasir Qureshi, media coordinator, Dargah Aala Hazrat, said, “After Friday prayers, Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri appealed to community that they should observe Shab-e-barat from inside their homes on April 9.” He said the world is going through a difficult phase due to spread of Covid-19 and we should strictly follow lockdown. He also asked people to take care of poor and destitute. Meanwhile, several people who have been staying at Dargah Shahdana Wali complex for years were sent home with the help of police and local administration. Station house officer, Baradari police station, Naresh Kumar Tyagi, said, “People have been living here for years. However, we sent them to their homes as a precautionary measure.” Abdul Wajid Khan, caretaker, Dargah Shahdana Wali, said, “Scores of people along with their attendants have been living here. We requested police and local administration to shift these people from here. So, they were sent back home on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/observe-shab-e-barat-fromhome-dargah-aala-hazrat/articleshow/74974299.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||PM cites Vajpayee’s poem, reminds people to light diyas||NEW DELHI: Unfazed by opposition parties questioning his call to light ‘diyas’ or candles at 9pm on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday shared videos and messages, including one of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee reciting his poem “Aao Phir Se Diya Jalaye”, on social media platforms to inspire people to participate in the event. In his short video message to the nation, Modi had urged people to come out in their balconies and doorstep and light lamps, diya, torch or mobile flashlights for nine minute at 9pm on Sunday to show that the country is together in its fight against the coronavirus. Modi also shared video of spiritual Gurus like Morari Bapu who also urged people to take part in the event. Although opposition parties have questioned the move with Congress functionary Shashi Tharoor saying that it is inspired by Hindu astrology, several prominent persons extended support to the PM’s call. Modi’s call to people to clap for 5 minutes at 5pm on March 22 in support of ‘corona warriors’ had received an overwhelming response. “India is united in defeating Covid-19. This unity will be manifested tomorrow evening,” the PM tweeted sharing prominent filmmaker Shekhar Kapoor’s message. Supporting PM’s call, Kapoor had tweeted, “I don’t know about anybody else, but I’m definitely going to light a Diya on Sunday at 9pm for 9minutes.” He said, “To stand in solidarity with people of India, to honour our PM @narendramodi, to pray for courage and fortitude in this time as we do on Diwali to guide truth into our hearts.” Lyricist Prasoon Joshi, Bollywood actress Ravina Tandon and several other celebrities extended their support to the PM’s call. Sharing Amul Milk ad with the message about Sunday event, Modi tweeted, “These 9 minutes, at 9 PM on the 5th will bring our nation closer and strengthen the battle against Covid-19.” These 9 minutes, at 9 PM on the 5th will bring our nation closer and strengthen the battle against COVID-19.… https://t.co/BgFZWaDGJz— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1585984746000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-cites-vajpayees-poem-reminds-people-to-light-diyas/articleshow/74988476.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Nashik||3 held in Malegaon for uploading offensive video on social media||Nashik: Three suspects, in the age group of 23 and 27, were arrested on various charges for allegedly uploading objectionable coronavirus-related TikTok video in Malegaon on Friday. This is the second such arrest from Malegaon. A person was arrested by the Ramzanpura police on Thursday for posting similar message on social media. The trio was produced in a Malegaon court, which remanded them in police custody till April 6. The three suspects are residents of Raunakband, Nazmabad and 60-Foot Road in Malegaon, said the Azad Nagar police. They were arrested under section 153 (B) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Police said that the trio was arrested on the instructions of SP Arti Singh as the mischievous video was brought to her notice. Police appealed to citizens to not create, store or forward any objectionable messages on any social media platforms that can lead to rumours and unrest. Meanwhile, the rural police are also in touch with the officials of social networking sites to keep a check on provocative messages. Police have already started taking action against people who are found uploading such videos or posts on social media, in Nashik district. They have urged people to immediately delete such contents. Police said that people should not believe in rumours that are spread on social media handles and bring such matters to their notice, instead of reacting to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-held-in-malegaon-for-uploading-offensive-video-on-social-media/articleshow/74974544.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 5, 2020||Business||Deadline for claiming TDS relief extended||NEW DELHI: The Income Tax department on Saturday extended the deadline for submitting form 15G and 15H for claiming exemption from TDS to June 30, a move which is expected to help small taxpayers. “This will safeguard the small taxpayers against TDS where there is no tax liability,” the tax department said in a statement. The finance ministry had earlier extended the date for several tax and regulatory compliance to June 30 to ease the burden on citizens due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The department has said that all assesses who have filed application for lower or nil deduction of tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) for fiscal year 2020-21 and whose applications are pending for disposal and they have been issued such certificates for FY 2019-20 then such certificates would be applicable till June 20, of FY 2020-21 or disposal of their applications by the assessing officer, whichever is earlier for transactions and the dedicator or collector if any, for whom the certificate was issued for fiscal year 2019-20. It said in cases where the assessees could not apply for issue of lower or nil deduction of TDS/TCS but had the certificate for FY 2019-20, such certificates will be valid till June 20. But they need to apply at the earliest giving details of the transactions and the deductor/collector to the TDS/TCS assessing officer as per current norms. On payments to non-residents (including foreign companies) which have a permanent establishment in India, tax on payments made will be deducted at the subsidised rate of 10% including surcharge and cess on such payments till June 30 or disposal of their applications whichever is earlier. The department said in case of pending applications for lower/nil rate of TDS/TCS for FY 2019-20, the assessing officers have been directed to dispose of the applications through a liberal procedure by April 27 so that taxpayers may not have to pay extra tax which may cause liquidity issues to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/deadline-for-claiming-tds-relief-extended/articleshow/74988492.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hubballi||Koppal cops give roaming youngsters a coconut as a token of goodwill||Koppal/ Hubballi: The second week of the lockdown having started, police across the state are coming up with ever more novel methods to keep youngsters roaming without any cause chained to their respective homes. After cops made youngsters perform gruelling exercises, sweep streets and stations clean to varying results, Koppal police have decided to adopt a more generous and traditional approach. Across India, in most ritual ceremonies, guests are handed a coconut as a farewell gift, and many auspicious events are begun with the breaking of the coconut, and it is this tropical crop that Koppal cops are using to drive their message through. Koppal cops are handing youngsters wearing masks, but venturing out on bikes for no reason a coconut, and asking them to return home, while those stepping outside without covering their faces in any manner are having coconuts broken in front of their vehicles by police. Koppal deputy superintendent of police Venkatappa Nayak said that the cops shelled out money from their own pockets to purchase the coconuts. “Personally, I spent Rs 2,000 and bought 200 coconuts. These are being distributed to youngsters needless roaming the streets of Koppal town. We are requesting them to cooperate with cops by staying indoors,” Nayak told TOI. The deputy SP, however, said that the cops were ensuring that those leaving homes for genuine reasons such as purchasing medicines and other essential commodities are not stopped. “But we have found that many people are venturing outside without cause, and our intention is to make them understand the gravity of the situation. When such youngsters return home with coconuts in their hands, the members of their families will understand the reason behind the cops’ gesture, and word will soon spread among the public. In the end, this will prevent many others from straying outside their homes,” Nayak added. No mask, no fuel at Hubballi fuel station Keen on instilling a sense of responsibility among commuters at a time when the Covid-19 infection is spreading rapidly across the country and state, the management of a fuel station has decided against servicing customers who arrive without masks. The owners are equally strict when it comes to enforcing social distancing at the station, refusing to sell fuel to customers not keeping a safe distance from others. In addition to strict adherence to the norms of the lockdown, employees of the Mahaveer Petrol Pump in Hubballi have been distributing masks to those coming to the station with no protective equipment to cover their faces. Ashpaq Kunnibhavi, manager of the fuel station in question, said that, while they were operating as they had done prior to the announcement of the lockdown, the management had been requested by cops to refuse petrol to those loitering around the city needlessly. “So, we started a campaign, which entailed, besides refusing sale of fuel to those not wearing masks, and travelling around the city without any valid reason, appealing to our customers to cooperate with the cops in enforcing the lockdown,” said Kunnibhavi. Santosh Muttagi, the owner of the petrol pump, said that his employees had distributed masks to more than 500 people thus far. “The success of the lockdown will bode well for the city, state and country. We are also raising awareness among daily-wage labourers on the need for social distancing,” said Muttagi. Sohan Patil, who visited the fuel station without a mask recently, is among those who was given one by the employees there. “I was attending on a patient at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, and when the staff at the station asked why I was venturing out, I told them as much. They requested me with folded hands not to roam the streets needlessly and gave me a mask,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/koppal-cops-give-roaming-youngsters-a-coconut-as-a-token-of-goodwill/articleshow/74973583.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Lighter Side: Candles, Chants, Crackers||New Delhi: For nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday, it seemed as if people were celebrating Diwali — seven months in advance. Earthen lamps and candles were seen beautifully lined up outside houses and in balconies, with some people even bursting firecrackers in response to a call made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in solidarity with the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic. At some places, conch shells were blown followed by chanting of mantras. A few areas witnessed the singing of religious and patriotic songs and sloganeering as hundreds of thousands of Delhiites switched off the lights of their houses. Through a video message on Friday, Modi had urged people to switch off the lights of their houses at 9pm on April 5, stand at their doors or balconies and light candles, diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for nine minutes. The call was made to showcase that 130 crore Indians were “committed” through a “common resolve” to prevent novel coronavirus from spreading. In south Delhi’s Old JNU campus, people came out of their houses 15-20 minutes early. While families and the elderly lit dozens of diyas, the youngsters, mostly tenants, lit their mobile phone torches. In DDA flats and housing societies, bhajans and patriotic songs started being played on music systems. A few others started bursting crackers. Anish Tokas, a Munirka resident, said, “The Prime Minister is trying to emphasise that we are all in this together and will get through the crisi. However, the fireworks were a bit too much to show solidarity.” He was worried about power outage, but liked the collective gesture. Carrying his toddler to the terrace of his house in Govindpuri, Prakash Sharma, a senior manager with an IT firm, said, “It is more like Diwali for my daughter. I had put up the row of candles in the afternoon and have set them alight now.” Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, a resident of A-Block in East of Kailash, told TOI that it made her proud to be a part of “inclusive symbolism”. “We may need many such positive steps to rally around our countrymen. But we should assuage our people, calm them down and provide for the daily wager and the homeless,” she added. In Jangpura, the chanting of “Gayatri Mantra” reverberated in the air even as a drone could be seen flying above the buildings. Lawyer Anuj Mirdha and his wife Monica, a schoolteacher, were surprised to see bursting of firecrackers. This led to stray dogs getting scared and they started howling and running for cover. “The children may be having fun, but bursting of firecrackers should have been avoided as it affects the air quality,” Mirdha said. In west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, streetlights in most blocks were turned off before the clock struck 9. What followed was nothing short of celebrations, with chants of “Bhaag Corona Bhaag”, “Jai Shree Ram”, “Jo Bole So Nihaal” and “Hindustan Zindabad” ringing in the air. “The firecrackers didn’t stop after nine minutes. However, the streetlights were switched on at exactly 9.09pm,” said Prabhnoor Kaur Nanda, a resident of Tilak Nagar. In Janakpuri, people started turning off the lights from 8.30pm. For almost 20 minutes past 9pm, the area kept ringing with cracker sounds. Recalling the last request made by the PM, many came out in their balconies banging utensils. Divyansha Dhawan, a teenager living in B-Block, said she didn’t understand the concept of lighting diyas, but still did it. However, there were many who decided not to participate in the exercise. For Charu (35), an educator living in Mayur Vihar, this move was mere tokenism and a bid to distract people from asking tough questions. “Health workers are being harassed and doctors are dying due to lack of medical equipment. Questions regarding Covid-19 testing kits and arrangements for daily wage labourers remain unanswered by the government. We need to address these things as a community, not indulge in hollow acts like banging thaalis and lighting diyas,” she said. Pranesh of Govindpuri asked, “How can people have fun when there are hundreds dying across the world?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lighter-side-candles-chants-crackers/articleshow/75000279.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Peak demand declines by 726MW during blackout||NEW DELHI: Power infrastructure and supply faced no visible glitches even as peak power demand in the city dropped by 726MW during the 9pm blackout on Sunday. “Following PM’s appeal, an estimated 17 million residents in BSES area switched off their lights for 9 minutes and there was a reduction of 473MW in BSES areas,” a discom spokesperson said. A Tata power spokesperson said populace of 7 million residing in discom Tata Power-DDL’s distribution area of north Delhi participated in the voluntary event, during which the company successfully managed the meagre drop of 157MW in the power demand. Delhi consumers get electricity supplied by BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd, BSES Yamuna Power Ltd, Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd, Military Engineering Services (for Delhi Cantonment) and New Delhi Municipal Council. “The peak demand met around 9pm is about 2,000MW for Delhi. The residential load is about 80% of this demand and about 10%-12% of residential load is lighting load in Delhi,” a power official told TOI, adding that on Sunday Delhi’s demand reduced from 1,968MW to 1,242MW, which was a reduction of 726MW. Earlier, there were apprehensions that this (the blackout) might cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage may harm the electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced, power officials had said. All adequate measures were, however, taken to maintain the grid stability. This was not the first time the city and the country went for a blackout. Such exercises have been conducted for ‘Earth Hour’ and similar initiatives. This year, the city had saved 79MW, including 42MW in BSES discom areas, during the Earth Hour on March 28. Discom Tata Power Delhi Distribution consumers managed to save 15MW. Earlier, Power System Operation Corporation Ltd had issued an advisory to ensure reliable and secure grid operations during the Sunday night blackout. “This reduction in load of the order of 12-13 GW will happen in 2-4 minutes and recover nine minutes later within 2-4 minutes. This sharp reduction in load and recovery, which is unprecedented, will need to be handled through hydro and gas resources,” it stated. All domestic consumers were urged to keep domestic gadgets switched on so that the load-demand balance at the grid could be maintained. Local bodies were advised to keep street lights on to avoid any law and order problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/peak-demand-declines-by-726mw-during-blackout/articleshow/75000293.cms||Ritam Halder
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Awaiting results, man tries to kill self at Lok Nayak||NEW DELHI: A suspected Covid-19 patient allegedly tried to commit suicide by jumping off the third floor of the Lok Nayak Hospital late on Saturday night. Sarafat Ali (37), who stays at Mata Sundri Road, was admitted to the hospital in central Delhi on March 31 after developing fever and headache. He has survived with a fractured leg and is being treated at the hospital. Police have registered a case against him under IPC 309 (attempt to commit suicide). “On Saturday, Ali jumped off the building around 11:30pm and first landed on the tin roof before hitting the ground, fracturing his leg in the process. A doctor said he was stable and the result of his novel coronavirus infection test was still awaited,” said Sanjay Bhatia, DCP-central. Bhatia also made it clear that Ali was not related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation case. A fortnight ago, a person who had returned from Australia committed suicide by jumping off the roof of the Safdarjung Hospital. He was later tested negative. Ali’s family members told police he was scared. He was admitted to the hospital after developing fever and headache but don’t have any foreign travel history, one of them said. Since Ali is admitted to the coronavirus ward, police will record his statement once he recovers and the test results are out. Noting that the unusual circumstances arising due to the pandemic is generating stress, the mental health and substance use department at the World Health Organization has already developed a series of messages to support mental and psychosocial wellbeing of different target groups. In the earlier case, too, the 23-year-old killed himself after he couldn’t go home in Punjab after reaching the IGI Airport from Sydney and was sent to the hospital after complaining of headache.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/awaiting-results-man-tries-to-kill-self-at-lok-nayak/articleshow/75000316.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Surat||Eight nabbed from mosque for violating lockdown restrictions in Bharuch||SURAT: About eight people were arrested for assembling in a mosque in violation of lockdown restrictions imposed due to coronavirus threat in Bharuch on Friday. The arrests have been made due to fear of spread of COVID-19 as 62 people from Bharuch had attended a religious congregation in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March that led to spike in cases there. These 62 individuals are under home quarantine. Bharuch town police registered an FIR against the eight people under IPC sections 188 and 269 for disobedience and negligent act to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. They were noticed during a surveillance carried out by a drone over a mosque located at Ratan Talav in Bharuch. The accused are Ismail Patel, Imran Umarji Patel, Ashfaque Mohammed Qureshi, Wasim Lalu Khan, Mohammed Lalu Khan Pathan, Maulvi Khalid Aslam Shaikh, Mohammed Wasim Khalifa and Afran Shaikh. DP Vaghela, deputy superintendent of police (Dy.SP), Bharuch, said, “We reached the mosque with five panchs (witnesses) and nabbed the eight people, including the maulvi and the trustee of the mosque. After the Nizamuddin incident, there are clear directions from the state government to keep a close watch on illegal assembly of people at religious places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-nabbed-from-mosque-for-violating-lockdown-restrictions-in-bharuch/articleshow/74974965.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||No threat to grid from PM’s lights-out campaign: Power Minister||NEW DELHI: There is no threat to the stability of India’s electricity grid from Sunday’s 9-minute public blackout and “light-a-diya” call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show national solidarity in the fight against coronavirus pandemic, according to power minister R K Singh. “There is absolutely no threat. A robust protocol has been laid down to maintain grid frequency through the lights-out period. The national grid operator and national despatch centre will co-ordinate with regional and state load despatchers to ensure grid stability,” Singh told TOI on Saturday. He has been reviewing the steps with executives from national grid operator — POSOCO — and PowerGrid, the central utility that builds the grid, since Friday. Power engineers, too, stepped in by urging consumers to switch on fans for 15 minutes — from 8.55pm to 9.10pm — to make up for the lost load from lights. The government also issued a statement saying a robust system was in place and apprehensions over grid safety were unfounded. On March 24, TOI had first reported about national grid operator, POSOCO, putting in a special protocol to ensure grid stability after demand dropped as the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic curbed economic activities. “India’s grid is technologically one of the best in the world and has the advantage of being a ‘one-nation-one-grid’ under a single controller. There are isolators and islanding mechanisms in the system. We have ‘flexibalised’ — giving flexibility to — thermal plants, at least NTPC has tried it, to operate at a lower threshold of 55%. We also can switch on hydel units quickly to meet any surge. Eleven renewable energy management centres and static precipitators are there to deal with the intermittency of renewables,” Singh said. Households account for 33% of the total demand. The lights-out is expected to remove up to 15 GW (giga watt) of demand, or less than 4%, of the country’s total installed capacity. Such loss of demand like on Earth Day is easily handled in normal circumstances, when industrial and agricultural load, making up 59% of consumption, remains intact. But in the current situation, when power demand has dropped 25% due to the lockdown, loss of domestic load needs additional measures, industry sources said. Officials said the discoms may begin to shed load in a staggered way an hour before the Zero Hour to help thermal plants reduce output. Some plants have been advised to taper operations to their lowest threshold so that they can be switched off, if the need arises. Hydel plants have been put on standby and will be cranked up once demand surges. The grid frequency will be kept on the lower side in the run-up to allow headroom once demand begins to fall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-threat-to-grid-from-pms-lights-out-campaign-power-minister/articleshow/74988520.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant wants mins probed for lockdown ‘violation’||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren wants his cabinet colleagues to come clean on allegations of flouting lockdown norms that may have aggravated the spread of corona virus. Sources in the CMO said Hemant is unhappy with one of his ministers, Alamgir Alam, who arranged buses for ferrying labourers to Pakur and other parts of the state on March 29 despite the nationwide lockdown and no inter-district buses or trains operating. Another minister, Haji Hussain Ansari, is also said to be under the CM’s scanner after his son’s name cropped up in the Intelligence Bureau’s (IB) list of those who attended the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi. Though Ansari and his son Tanveer both denied that anyone from their family went to Delhi, IB sleuths reported approached the family on the basis of Tanveer’s mobile GPS location. “If a minister’s son is saying he never visited the Tablighi Markaz and IB has proof of his attendance there, then the matter can only be resolved through proper investigation,” Soren told media persons, adding, the minister in question and his family members have cooperated by accepting quarantine. While the minister is in home quarantine, his son has been taken to a government isolation centre. Alam on the other hand denied that he had violated lockdown norms. “The labourers would have died out on the streets so some arrangement had to be made and when I arranged for the buses, the lockdown was not prohibiting internal movement for essential purposes,” he said, adding that officials orders can be verified and claiming that he was open to join any inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-wants-mins-probed-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/74974509.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Make in India’ push for ventilators, PPEs||NEW DELHI: The government wants the private sector to ramp up production of ventilators and personal protective equipment, gloves and goggles to build capacity to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic even though the current requirement is well under control since a small percentage of patients are needing such support. The empowered committee led by Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant held a virtual interaction with senior industry leaders on Thursday to amplify the logistics supply chain for ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPEs), gloves, goggles and other such equipment for frontline medical professionals combating the Covid-19 outbreak. The increased availability of ventilators and other equipment will significant enhance medical facilities, particularly in smaller cities and towns where specialised services are less easily accessible. The government has cast its net wide for ventilators and has roped in public sector firms but now wants the private sector to use its resources to manufacture the items domestically to meet any additional demand in the event of the spread of the virus. “It was basically a message to ramp up manufacturing and less of imports,” said an industry source. The industry has promised to involve the auto sector to use its production line to manufacture ventilators and several companies such as Maruti, Mahindra, Tatas, Bharat Forge and others have committed to build a supply chain for such equipment, both for use domestically as well as for exports. The companies have promised to use 3D technology to meet the demand for such specialised equipment since some of the inputs of key components would require imports which my not be easy given the current turmoil. “The big companies have to be involved as it requires sustained and largescale manufacturing,” said another source. Industry leaders, largely from the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), also promised to encourage textile companies such as Gokuldas, Shahi Exports, Matrix, Arvind and others to ramp up manufacturing of gloves, PPEs and other equipment. Another area which the private sector has been asked to focus is the manufacturing of testing kits. Industry leaders have agreed to examine the issues and encourage its members to focus their attention to meet the surging demand. K Vijayaraghavan, principal scientific adviser to the PM, officials from the ministry of external affairs and PMO and other members of the empowered committee were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-make-in-india-push-for-ventilators-ppes/articleshow/74988501.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 doctors seek lodging, don't want to put family at risk||BENGALURU: Some doctors on Covid-19 duty in government hospitals have sought separate accommodation as they don’t want to return home and put family members at risk. They suggested the government’s Kumara Krupa guest house be earmarked for them. “We could be carriers of the virus. To avoid going home every day, we should be given accommodation close to the hospital,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. The doctors, including several women, said they had enquired at paying guest facilities near hospitals. “No one agreed to keep us. There is fear among the public. We end up commuting every day and most of us live on the outskirts,” said a woman doctor working in the Covid-19 ward at a hospital near Malleswaram. At another government facility, nurses staying in quarters go home once a week. “We get tested once in 14 days. We are tense till the results come negative,” said a nurse. Dr Srinivas GA, president of Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association, said: “Doctors are frontline workers who must be protected. They should be given accommodation near the hospital. They may not have an isolated room at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-doctors-seek-lodging-dont-want-to-put-family-at-risk/articleshow/74988544.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||No orders not to give fuel to public: Mumbai top cop||MUMBAI: A petrol pump owner from Jogshwari was detained at Meghwadi police station on Saturday for nearly three hours for dispensing petrol as requested by customers early Saturday morning. A policeman who too had come to the petrol pump to fill petrol objected to the staff dispensing petrol without checking the identity card of the customer. However, Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh, said that there are no orders not to give fuel. He added that no complaint has been filed against Chaturvedi. Chaturvedi, however, said that the police have asked them to check identities and not to dispense petrol worth over Rs 500 to those not on emergency duty. The Petrol Dealers Association warned that if the police or other officials “harass” pump owners, they will shut all pumps in protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-orders-not-to-give-fuel-to-public-mumbai-top-cop/articleshow/74988541.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 patients must restrict contact with animals: US advisory||After confirming that tiger in a zoo has tested positive for coronavirus, the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Veterinary Services Laboratories has issued an advisory that answers several doubts that would have cropped up in the minds of animal lovers and those who have pets. Anyone sick with Covid-19 should restrict contact with animals, out of an abundance of caution including pets, during their illness, just as they would with other people. Although there have not been reports of pets becoming sick with Covid-19 in the United States, it is still recommended that people sick with Covid-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus. If a sick person must care for a pet or be around animals, they should wash their hands before and after the interaction. Here’s a quick Dos and Don’ts issued by the USDA: Q. Can people give this virus to animals and, if so, what animals are at risk? A. This is the first case of its kind. We are still learning about this new coronavirus and how it spreads. This case suggests that a zoo employee spread the virus to the tiger. Further studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by Covid-19. State animal and public health officials will continue to work closely with USDA and CDC to monitor this situation and will conduct additional testing if it is warranted. Q. If multiple animals were showing symptoms, why was only one tested?A. Only one tiger was tested as the collection of diagnostic samples in big cats requires general anaesthesia. Since all tigers and lions were exhibiting similar respiratory symptoms, the attending veterinarian felt it was in the best interest of the animals to limit the potential risks of general anaesthesia to one tiger for diagnostics. If animals can catch the virus, can they give it back to people? At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that any animals, including pets or livestock, can spread Covid-19 infection to people. Q. Will this finding prompt additional testing of animals?A. No. This is an evolving situation, however, routine testing of zoo or personal animals is not recommended at this time. Public and animal health officials may decide to test certain animals that are showing signs of illness and that are known to have been exposed to the virus. Q. Should any animal showing signs of respiratory illness be tested?A. USDA and CDC do not recommend routine testing of animals for this virus. Because the situation is ever evolving, public and animal health officials may decide to test certain animals out of an abundance of caution. The decision to test will be made collaboratively between local, state or federal public and animal health officials. Q. Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick from coronavirus (Covid-19)? A. You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with Covid-19, just like you would with other people. Although there have not been reports of pets becoming sick with Covid-19 in the United States, it is still recommended that people sick with Covid-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus. When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. If you are sick with Covid-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food. If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets. Q. What should I do if I think my animal has the virus? A. Call your veterinary clinic with any questions about your animal’s health. In order to ensure the veterinary clinic is prepared for the household animal, the owner should call ahead and arrange the hospital or clinic visit. Make sure to tell your veterinarian if your animal was exposed a person sick with Covid-19, and if your animal is showing any signs of illness. Veterinarians who believe an animal should be tested will contact state animal health officials, who will work with public and animal health authorities to decide whether samples should be collected and tested. Q. Could this affect tigers or other animals at other zoos across the United States?A. There is no evidence of this virus affecting animals at any other facilities in the United States. However, anyone sick with Covid-19 should restrict contact with animals, including pets, during their illness, just as they would with other people. Although there have not been reports of pets becoming sick with Covid-19 in the United States, it is still recommended that people sick with Covid-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus. If a sick person must care for a pet or be around animals, they should wash their hands before and after the interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-patients-must-restrict-contact-with-animals-us-advisory/articleshow/75008677.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Factories shut, Yamuna water sparkles||NEW DELHI: What years of planning and huge allocations could not achieve has been ensured by a few days of lockdown. Stretches of the Yamuna that had become picture postcards for Delhi's pollution, showing the toxic foam - byproduct of industrial effluents - were sparkling blue on Saturday. The stench of a decaying river too had receded. The shutting down of industries has made all the difference. The relief is temporary but holds hope for the future if we can draw the right lessons.  The human assault on the river, though, has not stopped. Sewage through residential colonies that are not linked to sewage treatment plants continues to flow into it. Experts, however, say this is the ideal time to measure pollution levels in the river in order to let the agencies draw up a plan for acting against industrial pollutants in the future.  Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) says it will soon carry out a study to assess the change in water quality. "We are in the planning phase and samples will be collected soon. We have already analysed the impact of the lockdown on air quality and something similar will be done for the Yamuna," said Prashant Gargava, member-secretary, CPCB. The NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has also asked both CPCB and DPCC to carry out a study. "This can provide a good baseline for agencies to act. The Hindon river is showing similar signs and we are now seeing these clean images of the Yamuna, which shows how harmful industrial pollutants are for the river," said Manoj Mishra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan. Aquatic life in Yamuna may benefit in long run: ExpertMishra, who has filed several petitions in NGT on the polluted water of the river, says this can help the aquatic life in the long run. "A prolonged period like this can certainly help aquatic life thrive in the river. At present, though, there should not be much of an effect. We are already seeing an improvement in the terrestrial life on the Yamuna floodplains, including sighting of more birds along the stretch," said Mishra. Although the river flows only for 54 km, from Palla to Badarpur, through Delhi, a 22-km stretch from Wazirabad to Okhla, which is less than 2% of the total length of the river - 1,370 km from Yamunotri to Allahabad - accounts for about 76% of the pollution in the river, a report submitted by YMC had stated last year. Delhi alone has over 30,000 units in conforming areas while there is no official estimate for industries operating in non-conforming areas. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. had last year fined 910 industries for directly releasing toxic effluents into drains, which eventually end up in the Yamuna. Industries are required to be linked to a common effluent treatment plant (CETP). There are 28 industrial clusters in Delhi, out of which 17 are connected to 13 CETPs. The remaining 11 clusters are not connected to any such plant, YMC had said in a December 2018 report. A Delhi Jal Board report shows that out of 748 MGD of sewage generated in Delhi, only 490 MGD is being treated and over 250 MGD is going untreated into the Yamuna daily. While this can be solved by the Interceptor Sewage Project (ISP), it has already missed several deadlines, the last being December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-factories-shut-yamuna-water-sparkles/articleshow/74988548.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 5, 2020||Thane||KDMC readies hospitals as Covid-19 count climbs to 24||KALYAN: As cases of coronavirus infection increase in Kalyan-Dombivli, the civic health department has decided to start swab collection here and send the samples to designated testing laboratories in Mumbai. In another move to save people the trip to Mumbai, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has converted the civic-run Shastri Nagar hospital into a Covid-19 hospital and has tied up with a private hospital, Neon, for treatment of patients. On Saturday, three more patients, one from Dombivli (east) and two from Kalyan (west), were found positive, taking the number to 24. As of now, KDMC sends patients to Kasturba hospital in Mumbai for testing and treatment. Now, the department is sending teams to Mumbai for training on swab collection and other processes. Urban development and public works department minister Eknath Shinde, Thane collector, municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi, MP Shrikant Shinde and health officials discussed the preparedness of the KDMC. It was decided that along with readying the Shastri Nagar hospital in Dombivli, there would be a tie-up with a private hospital, and extra isolation centres would be set up. Shastri Nagar hospital has prepared 40 isolation beds, while Neon too has 40 beds. KDMC started eight clinics: two each in Dombivli (E) and Dombivli (W), and Kalyan (E) and Kalyan (W). Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kdmc-readies-hospitals-as-covid-19-count-climbs-to-24/articleshow/74988551.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Want 100% lockdown in state for next 10 days, says CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said the state government will double down for 100% compliance to the lockdown in the next 10 days, warning action against those found roaming the streets. Dismissing reports of a shortage of ventilators, he said the state was bringing in reinforcements over the next few days and expressed relief that none of the Covid-19 patients of the state has required a ventilator so far. "None of the Covid-19 patients are on ventilators; two of them require oxygen," Yediyurappa told reporters after he met ministers and MLAs of Bengaluru and apprised them of steps taken to fight the coronavirus pandemic. The CM said the government had placed orders for 1,570 ventilators, of which 17 have been supplied and another 20 would arrive by next week. The government has also ordered 18.3 lakh N-95 masks, of which more than 4 lakh have been supplied. To ensure a steady supply of hand sanitiser, manufacturing licences have been issued to 36 pharma companies and 29 distilleries. While the state readies the medical infrastructure, the CM urged the legislators, cutting across party lines, to ensure full compliance to the lockdown. "If people fail to cooperate with the government and respect the nationwide lockdown, there will be no option but to enforce it in a more stringent manner from Sunday," he said. As people continue to crowd markets amid growing fears of a shortage of essentials, the CM reiterated that all measures have been put in place to get the supply chain moving. He also assured that food will be provided to migrant workers and the poor. "There is enough stock of foodgrains and medicine in the state. The government has set a taskforce of ministers, 17 committees under additional chief secretaries, several helplines and a war room to fight the pandemic and they are all working round the clock," he said. The government has also issued direction to authorities to provide rations to those who do not have BPL or APL cards. Since many people from other states have settled in Bengaluru and they don't have ration cards, we have taken this decision," Yediyurappa said. On reports of many private hospitals being closed and refusing to treat patients, the CM said: "We have already warned private hospitals to remain open and provide treatment to patients failing which strict action will be initiated."  Kisan Nidhi, 2 months' pension by April 10 The CM said an installment of Rs 2,000 under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and two months' pension under the various social security schemes will be credited to bank accounts of beneficiaries by April 10. The process of crediting subsidy to 15 lakh beneficiaries under Ujjwala Yojana is on, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-want-100-lockdown-in-state-for-next-10-days-says-cm-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/74988556.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Virtual courts to hear urgent cases during lockdown||NEW DELHI: The judiciary has taken a giant leap by deciding to open virtual courts across the country to hear urgent cases during the lockdown period and provide video-recording of proceedings to litigants and lawyers. It also resolved to institutionalise e-processes even after normalcy returns. The Supreme Court’s e-committee chairman Justice D Y Chandrachud held extensive deliberations with chief justices and judges heading e-committees of 23 high courts on Friday afternoon and resolved that “e-filing will be enabled in all courts, including trial courts, across the country for hearing urgent cases through video-conferencing”. To dispel any doubt among litigants and lawyers about the efficacy of hearing of urgent matters through video-conferencing, it was decided that video-recording of proceedings in urgent matters will be hosted on websites of the courts concerned. “Based on assessment of technical issues like availability of sufficient bandwidth and facilities of hosting proceedings on dedicated servers, it was felt that the recordings (of the proceedings) should be hosted on court websites by the next day. This will ensure that people have access to electronic records of court proceedings,” an SC official said. The meeting decided to enable e-filing consistent with Section 6 of the Information Technology Act, which legalises all transactions by government authorities using electronic records and puts it at par with physical records. The judges led by Justice Chandrachud were unanimous about providing free facilities for e-filing, scanning and uploading to lawyers and litigants during the lockdown period. “Hearing should be done by providing two cubicles or porta cabins, equipped with camera, desktops etc for video-conferencing. The HCs could use unspent money from phase-II of e-courts project for this purpose,” they decided. Justice Chandrachud informed participants in the video-conference that “an e-filing system has been developed for trial courts by the SC’s e-committee in collaboration with NIC”. The CJs and judges of HC e-committees agreed that “such use of technology in judiciary, as is being employed during the lockdown period, must be institutionalised even after return of normalcy”. The meeting also decided that “apart from virtual courts for e-challans under the Motor Vehicles Act, the high courts will consider use of virtual courts for summary cases”. Justice Chandrachud said, “Any difficulty faced may be brought to the notice of the e-committee, which will step in to enhance the software.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/virtual-courts-to-hear-urgent-cases/articleshow/74988557.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||CNG price dips by Rs 2, piped cooking gas by rupee in Mumbai||Mumbai: The price of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and piped cooking gas will be reduced from Sunday morning. Following the reduction in price of domestically produced natural gas by Union government, Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) on Saturday said it will reduce its CNG price by Rs2/kg and domestic piped natural gas (PNG) by Rs1/unit in and around Mumbai from Sunday. Revised delivered prices, inclusive of taxes of CNG in and around Mumbai will be Rs47.95/kg, and for domestic PNG, it will be Rs29.60/unit (slab 1 of piped gas consumers) and Rs35.20/unit (slab 2) respectively. After this revision, CNG offers a saving of 55% and 28%, compared to petrol and diesel respectively at current price levels in Mumbai, an official said. "MGL's domestic PNG continues to deliver unmatched convenience, safety, reliability and environmental friendliness to consumers," the official added. Public transport in Mumbai, including autos, taxis, BEST buses and some aggregator cabs, depend on CNG, and the drop will come as a relief for them. Officials said auto and taxi unions have been demanding a fare hike recently, citing an increase in fuel cost. This is the second time in six months that CNG prices have fallen by Rs2. "A fare hike can be averted for the time-being," an official said, although unions are still keen on a hike in future.  Many private car-owners have welcomed the drop. The dip in PNG rates will impact seven lakh households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cng-price-dips-by-rs-2-piped-cooking-gas-by-rupee-in-mumbai/articleshow/74988560.cms||Somit Sen
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: BMC to use rapid tests for health staff||MUMBAI: Come Monday, the BMC will start using rapid blood tests to screen for coronavirus among 1,000 of its healthcare staff. The test will be voluntary as Indian Council for Medical Research has not yet come up with guidelines on the use of the rapid kits. Given the rapid spread of the virus among healthcare workers in the city with more than 20 doctors, nurses and helpers testing positive over the past two weeks, the authorities said the screening test would help establish how many are vulnerable. Rapid tests look for antibodies for the virus that develop as an immunological response in blood. The Covid-19 rapid tests will not diagnose if the person has the virus; nasal and throat swabs are needed to diagnose the virus. The BMC decision comes two days after the Centre and the state announced these tests would help screen for the virus. "It is not mandatory, it is voluntary. Any doctor, nurse or helper can undergo the test if they feel the need," said additional municipal commissioner S Kakani. BMC has tied up with a pharma firm that will provide the tests at Rs 350 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-bmc-to-use-rapid-tests-for-health-staff/articleshow/74988568.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's 4% death rate lower than Maharashtra, but more than national average||MUMBAI: The civic body has said that the city's Covid-19 fatality rate stands at around 4%, which is less than the state average (5%). It was, however, more than the national average of 3%. Mumbai had reported 18 deaths until Friday, the day BMC gave out the information. Speaking to TOI, BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi said testing was the key to win the battle against coronavirus. He said that the city has tested over 10,000 samples, which is even ahead of progressive states like Kerala. "Mumbai has carried out 658 tests per million and the positivity rate is around 3%," he said. In comparison, Maharashtra has carried out 51 tests per million, while India had done 36 tests per million. "It is through testing that we are able to detect and quarantine people early before they have full-blown symptoms and infect several others," Pardeshi said. Will quarantine 5,000 high-risk contacts: BMCComparing to other countries, Pardeshi said the city’s positivity rate was much lower than nations like the US that have a positive rate of 17% or Italy, which has 21%. He emphasised that the city’s weapon would be quarantining all the high-risk contacts. “We intend to quarantine 5,000 people in BMC facilities, unlike our previous strategy of home-quarantining them,” he said. When asked about the state being reportedly unhappy with the contract tracing numbers, Pardeshi denied it, saying that they have found more than 4 lakh contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Pardeshi stated that many hospitals, including small nursing homes that have been closed down due to various reasons, may be taken over by the BMC and converted into isolation facilities. He added that the BMC wouldn’t shy away from using force to keep people behind doors in their containment areas. He said there are various big challenges in the city, including congested population, close quarters and breach of supply line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-4-death-rate-lower-than-maharashtra-but-more-than-national-average/articleshow/74988584.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19 spread similar to H1N1, may not hit all areas uniformly||NEW DELHI: The geographical distribution of Covid-19 has a strikingly similar pattern with the H1N1 influenza in 2009, suggesting that though the spread in population could be high, it is unlikely to uniformly affect all parts of the country, the government said in its containment plan for large outbreaks. The plan, released on Saturday, detailed post-lockdown measures to deal with large outbreaks where efforts will be focused on active surveillance in identified geographical zones along with implementation of social distancing measures with strict perimeter control. Besides, intensified testing may be required among all suspect cases, high risk contacts and those with severe acute respiratory infection. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“The current geographic distribution of Covid-19 mimics the distribution of H1N1 pandemic influenza… This calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting strong containment efforts in hotspots,” the plan said. The government has drawn out the containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of Covid-19 cases have emerged in several states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana, Delhi and the UT of Ladakh. As per the risk assessment made in the containment plan, 211 districts across the country have reported Covid-19 cases and the risk of further spread remains very high. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe cluster containment strategy will be to contain the disease within a defined geographical area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and preventing its spread to new areas. The document detailed a strategic approach for possible scenarios such as travel-related cases, local transmission, large outbreaks amenable to containment and widespread community transmission if and when India becomes endemic for Covid-19. The document said, "Containment for large outbreaks through geographic quarantine strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined area where there is a single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission. "In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. Geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of Covid-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous." According to the document, the authorities will do extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in the containment zone, test all suspect cases and high risk contacts, isolate all suspect or confirmed cases, implement social distancing measures and intensive risk communication as part of the cluster containment strategy. For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the documents said the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19s-spread-similar-to-h1n1s/articleshow/74988540.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Grave-diggers pitch in with 1-month salary||BENGALURU: Grave-diggers and crematoria staff across the city have donated a month's salary to the fight against coronavirus. "Our job is our bread and butter. But we don't want bodies to line up in front of our graveyards and crematoria," said Sowri Raju, secretary of Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsha Samithi (ADSS). Ravi S, who works at Sumanahalli crematorium, said he is paid Rs 14,500 a month by BBMP, but rarely on time. "But we think we should do all we can in our own way to overcome this crisis," he said. Including Ravi, 148 graveyard diggers and crematoria employees have contributed their salaries to BBMP's Covid-19 relief fund. "We have learned to live with distress. The government does not care about paying us on time, so we know the value of money and hunger," said A Suresh, state general secretary of ADSS. "So we have asked BBMP to use our contribution to feed those who can't afford two square meals a day."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-grave-diggers-pitch-in-with-1-month-salary/articleshow/74988588.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corona warriors too in grip of virus||DELHI: Hospitals have become the new Covid-19 clusters in the capital, with at least 14 healthcare workers testing positive for the virus. A total of four Covid-19 cases among healthcare workers - one doctor and three nurses - has been confirmed by Delhi State Cancer Institute. The hospital's OPD has been shut down temporarily over fear of the spread of infection among other staff members and nearly 45 cancer patients, who were admitted under different departments, are being shifted to a private hospital, sources said. Last week, a senior resident at the hospital with history of contact to a relative who had returned from UK was confirmed positive for Covid-19. It is suspected that the nurses also got the infection from him. "We don't know how many more staff members have contracted Covid-19. But as a precautionary measure, OPD services have been shut and our admitted patients are being shifted out," Dr B L Sherwal, medical director of the cancer hospital told TOI . At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, another major private hospital, 108 staff members were advised quarantine on Saturday after two patients who visited the hospital last week were confirmed as Covid-19 positive cases. "About a week ago, the hospital received two patients, suffering from critical illness, but they did not show coronavirus symptoms. During the period of admission, these patients showed respiratory symptoms and were checked for Covid-19 as per the ICMR protocol. They were found positive," the hospital said in a statement, adding that these patients were shifted to designated facilities. "In all, 108 staffers, including doctors, nurses and ward boys, who were incidentally exposed to these patients have been quarantined. A total of 23 staff members have been quarantined at hospital and other attached facility, while the rest 85 have been quarantined at home," SGRH, in a statement, said. The hospital added that at present, none of the quarantined staff has shown any symptom suggestive of coronavirus. Three days ago, one senior resident at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested positive for Covid-19. His wife, who delivered a healthy baby on Friday, and brother have also tested positive for the disease. At least a dozen other staff at the hospital, including some of the doctors who had come in direct contact with the senior resident doctor, have been advised self-quarantine. Recently, two doctors at Safdarjung Hospital were also confirmed positive for Covid-19. While one of them had travel history, the cause of infection for the other doctor is still unknown. At least 50 healthcare workers, who had come in their contact over the past few days, have been advised to self-quarantine, hospital sources said. "A healthcare worker can spread the infection further among other co-morbid patients who are at risk of developing serious complications once they get infected. That's why we need more personal protective equipment for doctors and nurses," a senior doctor said. Across India, more than 50 healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 in the country - triggering demand for more PPEs and stricter screening of patients with Covid-19 symptoms. "In Italy, more than 60 healthcare workers have died. Many of their family members are also struggling with the disease," one of the doctors posted in the Covid-19 ward at Lok Nayak Hospital said. Recently, Delhi government came up with guidelines stating that doctors treating coronavirus patients at Lok Nayak and GB Pant hospitals will be accommodated at Hotel Lalit and the payment of the same shall be borne by the state. Similar, arrangements are being made by the health department for staff involved in Covid-19 management in other hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-corona-warriors-too-in-grip-of-virus/articleshow/74988566.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Coronavirus in Karnataka: Biggest single-day jump as 16 test positive||BENGALURU: Karnataka witnessed its highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases on Saturday as 16 more people, including a radio jockey in Bengaluru, tested positive. The state’s tally now stands at 144, climbing from 128 on Friday. In the latest cases, seven people from Mysuru district tested positive, five from Bengaluru, two from Dakshina Kannada, and one each from Ballari and Udupi. In Bengaluru, the case of the 43-year-old radio jockey has baffled the health department. “His wife had travelled to the US, but she tested negative. The man’s report is positive,” an official said. “The patient’s mother had tested positive on March 31; her condition is critical and she is on ventilator support at a private hospital.” The staff of the radio station where the RJ is employed have been declared as primary contacts. The health surveillance unit of Bengaluru Urban district has asked them to self-isolate. Two other cases in Bengaluru are the contacts of a Covid-19 patient, a 25-year-old woman who had returned from London on March 18. On Saturday, her father and house helper were confirmed to be infected. A 78-year-oldman, who returned from Dubai on March 17, and a 60-year-old man, who arrived from Germany recently, are among the new cases in the tech capital, which has recorded 55 cases so far. The two positive cases in Dakshina Kannada have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi. The two men are aged 43 and 52. Overall, 15 participants and one contact have tested positive in Karnataka. Minister S Suresh Kumar said 380 samples of people linked to the gathering had been tested and 214 reports had been received. Of these, 198, including samples of 19 foreigners, are negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-in-bengaluru-biggest-single-day-jump-as-16-test-positive/articleshow/74988599.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 5, 2020||Salem||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988621.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988608.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Trichy||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988620.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Erode||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988618.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Madurai||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988619.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988617.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Puducherry||Two die in 1 day in Tamil Nadu; coronavirus has no religion or caste, says CM EPS||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. TN had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. A 51-year-old school headmaster, who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Villupuram medical college hospital in the morning of respiratory failure. By afternoon, a 53-year-old woman, whose husband had who attended the Delhi meet, died at the Theni medical college hospital. "The virus can affect anyone regardless of caste and religion," the CM said in a statement. He said people should avoid looking at the infected people and families with disgust. Instead, they should treat them with love and compassion accepting that it could happen to anyone. "People should avoid religious events in accordance with the prohibitory order. They should adhere to social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the disease," the CM said. "Community leaders are requested to provide necessary facilities in schools, colleges and other buildings owned by them for quarantining people. They shall inform the Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner and district collectors," the chief minister said. More than 23 lakh people screened in containment areas in Tamil Nadu: Health secretaryHealth minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. Until Friday, the Tamil Nadu government recorded 364 Covid-19 positive cases among the 1,130 Tablighi Jamaat members who returned to the state after attending a three-day conference in New Delhi from March 21. Among the 400 people who remained in Delhi, two have died, one a man from Sirkali in Nagapattinam district and another from Namakkal. On Saturday, the number of people screened in the containment areas across tTamil Nadu went beyond 23 lakh from seven lakh households, health secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. The state health department has now asked the Chennaibased National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), to study why many of the infected remain asymptomatic. “They will be putting 45 of their employees on the job to track the source of the infection, the modus and its effect. They will also compare the morbidity and mortality rates in similar clusters abroad,” the health secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/two-die-in-1-day-in-tamil-nadu-coronavirus-has-no-religion-or-caste-says-cm-eps/articleshow/74988616.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Kill the lights to join PM Narendra Modi call, keep appliances on||BENGALURU: Switch off the lights for nine minutes on Sunday night to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of solidarity, but keep your home appliances and electrical equipment running. That was the state energy department’s advice to citizens on Saturday amid concerns that a sudden drop in power demand, even if brief, might unsettle the power grid. In a video message to the nation earlier this week, Modi urged everyone to show support for personnel engaged in the Covid-19 battle by turning off lights for nine minutes starting 9pm on Sunday and lighting lamps. The act is also intended to serve as a collective morale booster in the times of lockdown. “The per day power requirement in Karnataka is between 8,000MW and 13,000MW and the average load clocked during evenings is around 7,000MW. If everyone were to switch off lights at the same time, we expect the load to drop by around 800MW. The sudden drop might affect the grid, and it is in this backdrop that we suggest that other sources of power consumption, including streetlights, be kept on,” said a senior official in the energy department. “Do not switch off the mains on Sunday night; only switch off the lights while keeping electrical equipment, including refrigerators and air conditioners, running.” The state gets 49 million units of power from hydel sources every day, 42 million units from thermal units, 65 million units from the central government, 65 million units from non-conventional sources and 24 million units from other sources. Nearly 60 per cent of power generated in the night is from thermal plants. To ensure that there are no disruptions in the grid during the nine-minute switch-off, the state government has advised the thermal plants to keep power production at 50 per cent as it will be timeconsuming to scale up production immediately if the demand increases, according to some officials. They rejected reports about a possible grid collapse on Sunday night. “We will manage it in such a way that nothing goes wrong,” one official said. Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have either expressed apprehensions about the impact of the voluntary turn-off on the grid or issued a list of dos and don’ts. Karnataka has not sent out any official communication on the issue to electricity supply companies, or escoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kill-the-lights-to-join-pm-call-keep-appliances-on/articleshow/74988609.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 2, including actor, hurt as Jaguar rams bridge||BENGALURU: Two persons who went on a drive in a luxury sedan during the lockdown in the wee hours of Saturday were injured after it crashed into a pillar under the railway underbridge in Vasanthnagar. Police have identified one of the occupants as Sandalwood actor Sharmila Mandre. While Mandre, 33, reportedly suffered a hairline fracture in the jaw and nose, the other occupant, Lokesh Vasant, 35, ended up fracturing his right hand. In a press release, joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikante Gowda said the accident occurred around 2.30am. "Assistant sub-inspector Indra Shetty received a message saying a Jaguar car had met with an accident near Vasanthnagar underbridge. On visiting the spot, Shetty found the vehicle wrecked. Later, he got to know that the injured had been shifted to Fortis Hospital on Cunningham Road. Shetty visited the hospital and received a memo in which the injured claimed they met with the accident near JP Nagar. With no one providing a proper account of the accident, we registered a case under IPC sections 279 (rash and negligent driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others)," he said. It's not clear who was driving the Jaguar, which according to police was travelling at not less than 80 kmph at the time of the crash. Staff at High Grounds traffic police station said: "Vasant's right hand was fractured while Mandre sustained a hairline fracture in the jaw and nose. We are awaiting a report to know whether they were in an inebriated condition."  Police suspect the car had three occupants and rash driving led to the accident. The identity of the third person is yet to be established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-2-including-actor-hurt-as-jaguar-rams-bridge/articleshow/74988624.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to trace 700 guests at feast in home of Covid +ve||BHOPAL: Police and health teams in MP's Morena district are racing to track and isolate more than 700 people who had participated in a shraddh feast thrown by a family, 12 of whose members have tested positive for Coronavirus.  All the names were on an invitee list in a diary seized by officials from the patients' house on Saturday. Morena got its first Covid-19 patients when a couple tested positive on April 2. The husband had returned from Dubai recently but showed no symptoms of corona infection. Neither did his wife. But the administration decided to have the two of them tested.  A day after the couple tested positive, 10 members of the family - including eight children - tested positive. The man informed health minister on Friday that he had organised a shraddha feast at his home that was attended by friends and relatives. "According to the diary entry, 700 people from different villages in five blocks were invited to the feast. We have screened 500 of them on Saturday and no one has any symptom. But they have all been sent in home isolation. The feast was organized on March 20, and 14 days are already over. The remaining 200 people will be screened on Sunday," collector Priyanka Das. Morena chief medical and health officer Dr RC Bandil said, "This happened on March 20. By then, orders had been issued that gatherings of more than 50 people were prohibited, yet so many people participated in this feast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-to-trace-700-guests-at-feast-in-home-of-covid-ve/articleshow/74988625.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Out on Covid-19 bail, bike thief tries to steal another, held||CHENNAI: A 24-year-oldman who was released from Puzhal prison last week in view of the Covid-19 pandemic is back in judicial cusody after being arrested for stealing a bike at Thiruvanmiyur on Friday. Police said R Gajendran, a Sri Lankan refugee who stayed briefly at a camp in Tiruvannamalai district, was among the 3,934 remand prisoners released from various jails. He offered horse rides to people on the Marina Beach and slept there. Police said Gajendran started stealing parked bikes to meet his expenses. The Taramani police had arrested him for stealing bikes and a court sent him to Puzhal prison last month. However, he was released on March 26 as part of the measures taken by the prison authorities to reduce the risk of inmates getting Covid-19 infection. Gajendran who did not have any money decided to steal again, said police. On Friday night, when he was stealing a two-wheeler from Thiruvanmiyur MRTS station parking lot a security guard saw him and raised an alarm. However, Gajendran managed to escape. The guard alerted railway police and a case was registered at the Tiruvanmiyur railway police station. Police on patrol intercepted Gajendran at Chepauk and the vehicle was impounded. Investigation showed he was riding a stolen bike. He was handed over to the Tiruvanmiyur railway police and a court sent him to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-out-on-covid-19-bail-bike-thief-tries-to-steal-another-held/articleshow/74988643.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Don't switch off all appliances on Sunday, says TNEB||CHENNAI: TNEB's two arms, Tangedco and Tantransco, are gearing up to thwart any disruption to power infrastructure as the state is headed for switching off lights for nine minutes on Sunday night to light dhias as per the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The discom has to ensure balancing of the grid as there could be sudden increase in voltage when lights are switched off and sudden drop in voltage when all lights are switched on again after the nine-minute gap. As many countries went into national lockdown, the International Energy Agency, on March 23, had forewarned about grid failure and blackouts on account of drop in power demand. Many countries have reported more than 15% drop in power demand on account of Covid-19 outbreak. If conventional thinking is that power outages happen only when demand overwhelms supply, some of the most high-profile blackouts in recent times took place during periods of low demand, IEA executive director Fatih Birol had cautioned. Tangedco has made it clear that the discom would not resort to power cuts during the nine-minute period. It is up to the people to participate in the initiative proposed by the PM, said a senior TNEB official. "As of now, bulk of the consumption is in the domestic sector. The peak demand is less than 11,000MW. Even before the lockdown, peak demand used to drop on Sundays. We expect drop in demand by 3,000MW when people switch off lights for nine minutes," a senior Tantransco official told TOI. Senior officials of Tangedco and Tantransco, after a series of deliberations, have decided to keep thermal and hydro units on stand-by mode once demand drops. They would be restarted after the nine-minute break, said an official. Experts in TNEB have urged people to keep fans, refrigerators, ACs and other electrical equipment switched on during the nine-minute period to avoid any major voltage fluctuation. "If the grid collapses, power supply to all hospitals treating critical patients would stop. We will have a tough time managing this. People's cooperation is vital," said a chief engineer. Drawing a comparison with the Earth Hour, the official said, "During Earth Hour, lights were switched off, but industries and commercial establishments, which account of a sizeable share of power consumption, were running. That saved the grid," said the official. Meanwhile, senior officials of the two arms of TNEB have been told to be at the headquarters at 9pm on Sunday to ensure grid balance and carryout instructions from the State Load Despatch Centre (SLDC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-switch-off-all-appliances-on-sunday-says-tneb/articleshow/74988655.cms||Sivakumar B
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Liquor worth Rs 26,000 stolen from wine shop, first such theft in lockdown||SECUNDERABAD: An unidentified offender drilled a hole into a wine shop in Gandhi Nagar and made off with 26,000 worth liquor bottles and 8,000 in cash. Police are trying to identify the accused by checking the CCTV camera footage inside the shop. Senior Task Force officials said this was the first burglary committed in a wine shop after the lockdown was enforced. The burglary took place in the early hours of April 1. "The offender, suspected to be around 25 years, drilled the hole into the false ceiling of the wine shop and gained entry between 3 am and 4 am," said Gandhi Nagar SI Ajay Kumar. Even though the incident occurred on April 1, the shop owner noticed it only on Friday while checking the surveillance camera. "We will soon identify the offender and nab him. No fingerprints were, however, found at the scene," added the SI. A case was registered under sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night to commit offence) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house) of the IPC. A week ago, a wine shop worker attempted to steal liquor bottles at Himayathnagar. The offender was allegedly packing the bottles when the manager walked in after the owner found suspicious movement in the shop after looking at the CCTV footages. According to cops, the offender was caught stealing the liquor bottles which he intended to sell to customers. According to Radhakishan Rao, DCP, Task Force DC, Gandhi Nagar's theft was the first burglary incident in a wine shop in the city during the lockdown. "After the lockdown, a few persons were caught selling liquor illegally at a higher rate. But, this was the first theft case," he said. Following the theft, the Telangana Wine Dealers' Association has urged police to undertake patrolling near wine shops. "Amid the lockdown, theft incidents are likely to go up in wine shops as there is a high demand for alcohol. We have requested all the three police commissionerates to carry out patrolling near the wine shops," D Venkateshwar Rao, president of the association, said. He said the thefts in wine shops had taken place before. "But now, with the shops closed full time, the offenders are taking advantage. We are concerned about the stocks stored inside the shops," he added. The DCP, however, said the Task Force staff cannot specifically do patrolling near wine shops. "We are busy tracing Covid-19 patients, their contacts and implementing lockdown guidelines," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-liquor-worth-rs-26000-stolen-from-wine-shop-first-such-theft-in-lockdown/articleshow/74988689.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Surat||Surat: In a first, sugar cooperative starts making sanitizer||SURAT: A sugar cooperative in Bharuch district has forayed into mass production of sanitizers at its captive distillery, in a bid to fill the shortage in the market and arrest sky rocketing prices of the product. Shree Ganesh Khand Udhyog Sahkari Mandli Limited (Ganesh Sugar Mill), which has around 17,000 farmers as members, has started with production of about 5,000 litres of hand sanitizer daily by using its supply of extra neutral alcohol — a key raw material derived from sugar molasses — at its distillery in Bharuch. While other brands are selling 100 ml bottles between Rs 135 and Rs 150, Ganesh Sugar Mill is selling its 100ml bottles for Rs 35. Bulk of hand sanitiser — sold under the brand name of ‘Ganesh Care’ — is produced at the factory and supplied to local cosmetic companies for bottling. The final product is marketed and sold by the factory in entire Bharuch district. The cooperative’s chairman Sandip Mangrola told TOI, “Our aim is to make the humble hand sanitizer available at nominal costs to even the poor people given the current shortage. Our brewing team at the distillery is making the sanitizer liquid as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines. The liquid is supplied to the cosmetic companies for bottling work.” ‘Made 1 lakh bottles in four days’Mangrola further said that production at their mill started four days ago. “We have manufactured about 1 lakh bottles of hand sanitizer till now. At present, we are selling through retailers in Bharuch district only and are looking for government’s support to expand our reach across the state.” According to Mangrola, the sugar factory has written to the government to permit sale of the sanitizer at fair price shops across the state. He also said that corporate companies could fund the activity under their corporate social responsibility (CRS) to ensure that sanitizers, a primary hygiene product, are made available free-of-cost to the poor. “We have enough reserves of ethanol at our distillery and if need be we can produce more ethanol from the molasses. We want the government to help us in selling it across the state at nominal rates,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-in-a-first-sugar-cooperative-starts-making-sanitizer/articleshow/74988692.cms||Melvyn Thomas
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: Peace & quiet outside, unrest rocks homes||AHMEDABAD: Just days into the lockdown, a Maninagar-based business couple entered into a big fight over house work and finances which resulted in wife smashing husband's laptop on the floor. The angry husband reciprocated with a resounding thappad which sent the SOS 181 women's helpline phone ringing. "The couple is partners in life and business. Days into the lockdown, they were worried about the money getting blocked. Discussion over finances took a personal turn and wife ended up throwing her husband's laptop on the ground. He got angry and slapped her," said a 181 counsellor. The helpline team counselled the couple and matter cooled off only when the husband profusely apologized for the physical assault. With people virtually locked inside their homes ever since the national lockdown was imposed on March 25 to arrest spread of Coronavirus, even as outdoors have fallen silent, the four walls of domestic dwellings are reverberating with domestic arguments and squabbles. Infact, the 181 Abhayam Women's Helpline run by the state government is virtually ringing off its hook with more than theefold rise in the domestic fued complaints. "Earlier, we would get 10-odd calls daily of domestic discord which has risen to 35-40 per day. Majority cases of husband, wife getting in each other's hair due to lockdown and people forced indoors picking faults and arguments with relatives and neighbours leading to feuds," said Ahmedabad coordinator of 181 Abhayam Falguni Patel. Ghatlodiya-based couple entered into a major fight recently when the husband, dealing in plastic goods, who was rarely home due to demands of business suddenly was home due to lockdown. "The wife complained that with no work, the husband started picking faults with the wife saying she did not cook well, did not clean the house properly and even did not look after the children well," a counselor said. Not a good time to fight: ExpertsTired of repeated pickings, the wife asked the husband to mind his own business and leave house management to him. "The husband got angry and slapped the wife who dialled 181 seeking help," the counselor said. The couple was also counselled that Corona times was not a good time to fight over petty issues but time to be together and safe as a family! In another case, a woman with a four-month old infant was thrashed when she asked her mother-in-law to help her with household chores as she was overwhelmed managing the house along with a child and sans any domestic help during lock-down. The mother-in-law in turn complained to the husband who thrashed the wife prompting her to call 181 for help. A 16-year old girl who had eloped with her boyfriend four months back resulting in police complaint was sent to her paternal aunt's house in Sarkhej during the lockdown. Dr Hansal Bhachech, a city-based psychiatrist, said, “For first few days, people made most of the forced sabbatical from work but soon boredom set in. In one of the instances, a woman even tried to harm self after a domestic feud as now people have more time to mentally ponder over even trivial issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-lockdown-peace-quiet-outside-unrest-rocks-homes/articleshow/74988700.cms||Parth Shastri
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rs 1,500 cash offer draws ration card holders to fair price shops||HYDERABAD: It's not just the rice that is getting the ration card holders flock to the fair price shops (FPS) in the city and elsewhere in the state. It's the government's cash offer of 1,500 that is drawing the white ration card holders out in droves only to get disappointed on not being given cash at the FPS. The card holders were under the belief that 1,500 would be given only if they take the 12-kg rice offered by the government during the lockdown. Though the government had made it clear that 1,500 would be directly deposited into the bank accounts of the card holders, the control room numbers of the civil supplies department are ringing with thousands of callers asking whether taking rice is mandatory to get the cash and whether the cards on which rice has not been taken for a year are active or should be re-activated by availing the 12-kg rice offer. Senior officials said the exercise to deposit 1,500 into the bank accounts of the card holders would commence soon. Further, enquiries have revealed that there are lakhs of card holders who do not take subsidy rice given by the government through public distribution system (PDS) every month. A substantial number of these card holders are above poverty line specifications prescribed by the government to be eligible for a white ration card. However, they managed to get the white ration card through various means. Sources said they had obtained the white ration card mainly to avail Aarogyasri health scheme to get free medical treatment in corporate hospitals and also to get other benefits. Though the government had started weeding out bogus white ration cards, the exercise was stopped mid-way. Senior officials said the moment news spread that the government was deactivating the ration cards on which the subsidy rice is not being taken, the card holders started taking rice or coming to an understanding with the FPS dealer to keep their quota of rice after giving their thumb impressions on the biometric machine. The government saved a lot of money after crying halt to the deactivation process, officials said. Now, all the card holders see this as an opportunity to become active card holders by availing the 12-kg rice as well as the cash offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-rs-1500-cash-offer-draws-ration-card-holders-to-fair-price-shops/articleshow/74988708.cms||Roushan Ali
April 5, 2020||India||Lockdown effect? Abuse at home up||NEW DELHI: The quarantine is intended to save lives but for women locked up at home with an abusive partner, the consequences can be alarming. Across the world from Spain to Brazil, calls to hotlines and desperate texts seeking help have shot up. Back home, the National Commission for Women says that between March 23 and April 1, as many as 257 women have reached out to for help. Of these, 13 women have registered complaints of rape and attempt to rape, 69 women sought protection from domestic violence and 77 others had various complaints such as dowry and online harassment. Maximum complaints were from UP (90), followed by Delhi (37), Bihar and Odisha (18 each).  NCW chief Rekha Sharma said that the worrying thing is that women are scared to complain during a lockdown. "They do not want to go to the police as they fear that if the husband is taken away, the in-laws will abuse them as they are living in the same house. There is no option of moving out and going to the parents' house," Sharma pointed out.  The NCW chief cited the example of a woman from Nainital who had sought assistance to be moved out of her abusive husband's house to a hostel till the lockdown ends. "This woman's husband was beating and abusing her but she was not willing to go to the police as she feared what if the police released him and he returned home, he would beat her again. Her parents live in Delhi and she cannot reach them in these circumstances."  To help more women get help, WEFT (Women Entrepreneurs For Transformation) Foundation, a non-profit, has launched a new initiative called 'red dot' under which domestic violence victims can put a red dot on their palms to alert people. "Citizens who see the red dot on the palm can either get in touch with WEFT through social media or email weinfo@gmail.com or call 181 which is a toll free number to get support," WEFT founder Iti Rawat told agencies. The initiative launched three days ago has received over 20 complaints of domestic violence from across the country, said Rawat. Sharma shared that the Commission has taken action to help the complainants in 237 of the 257 complaints registered. All these are online complaints and currently the only point of access during the lockdown, as the Commission's public interface at its headquarters has stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-effect-abuse-at-home-up/articleshow/74988713.cms||Ambika Pandit
April 5, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Retired servicemen grab a second chance to serve the nation and people||RAJKOT: Had it not been for the helpline number run by ex-servicemen, Pramodbhai Trivedi's wife, a diabetes patient, would have to go with out her life saving medicines during the lockdown. However, the retired teacher who lives in Digvijay plot area of Jamnagar called up on the number seeking help for his wife, who had gone to stay with their son in Vadodara, to help her with the necessary medicine. True to their words, the medicine was delivered at her doorstep in Vadodara and that's not all - it was given free of cost! "I am grateful to them for providing my wife with her medicine free of charge. This is a very noble and appreciable work done for the senior citizens in these critical times. I cannot express my gratitude as it was a request not for Jamnagar, but Vadodara and they provided it at her doorstep within eight hours of my request," said Pramodbhai, his voice breaking with emotion. This is not the only example of beneficiaries of the voluntarily service by ex servicemen which started from March 30. These retired servicemen from the three forces - Army, Airforce and Navy - have joined hands to help senior citizens living alone. The service was launched in Jamnagar, but has now expanded to seven districts of Saurashtra. The group approached Jamnagar district collector Ravi Shankar expressing their willingness to serve the the country in such times of crisis, especially to those people who cannot help themselves. Coordinator of the group, retired Nay commander Sandip Jaishwal said: "We have created a team of volunteers of ex-servicemen who are not engaged elsewhere and are free during this lockdown period. Whenever we get a phone call asking for help, we assign the job to the nearest person, who provides medicine and essential commodities to the senior citizen seeking help." "This is the second chance to serve our nation after retirement," said Jaishwal, with pride ringing in his voice, while talking to TOI. He said that the team of 200 volunteers now serve people in seven districts of Saurashtra and in Jamnagar they have served 31 people in the last few days. They have extended their service to Devbhumi Dwarka, Porbandar, Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts in past five days. A resident of Patel colony area in Jamnagar, Vijay Khakharia said that medicines are his lifeline. "When I had no choice I called on the number given in the local newspaper. A person approached me, took my prescription and delivered me medicine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-retired-servicemen-grab-a-second-chance-to-serve-the-nation-and-people/articleshow/74988730.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Sirsa dera claims its chief had known about Covid-19 outbreak 8 years back||CHANDIGARH: As the world battles against the spread of Covid-19 by taking extraordinary measures and doctors and scientists research drugs for its treatment and and vaccines to prevent it, Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda's controversial preacher Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh claims to "have heard the knock of this deadly disease eight years back in 2012."  This claim has been made by the dera in an article, titled "How to Safeguard Yourself against the Virus that Shook the World - Corona," which has been uploaded on the dera's official web portal.  The Dera chief is presently lodged in Sunaria jail in Haryana's Rohtak district after his conviction in rape and murder cases. The special CBI court in Panchkula had on August 25, 2017 convicted him for rape of two sadhvis (female disciples) and sentenced him to 20-year imprisonment. Screenshot of the article posted on the Dera Sacha Sauda portal. On January 17, 2019, the CBI court had sentenced him to life imprisonment for the 2002 murder of Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatarpati. He is also facing trial in two more cases - one involving castration of almost 400 Dera followers in Sirsa and second involving murder case of former Dera manager Ranjit Singh. Sirsa dera chief’s article focuses on importance of hand sanitisationThe dera, which used to be one of the most influential groups in Haryana, is now run by a committee. The dera’s web portal also has facility of live satsang and is maintained by the committee, which has also been updating dera’s activities on it from time to time. The dera article also claims that its chief has been warning of these fatalities for decades. The article, uploaded by the dera management on March 14, emphasises on the importance of hand sanitization and regular washing of hands, terming it the basic and the most effective way to staying clear of the virus. “Incidentally, Guru Ji (the dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim) has even established a world record for most people sanitizing their hands in the year 2012... All we can see is Guru Ji may have heard the knock of this disease right then, to instil this habit in his disciples.” To prove their point, the dera has also shared a link of an article in which it has been stated that a record of the most people sanitising their hands simultaneously is 7,675 at an event organised by Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh Ji Insan and Shah Satnam Ji Green S Welfare Force Wing (both India) at SMG Sports Complex in Dera Sacha Sauda Sirsa, Haryana, India, in September 2012. Suggesting that people should follow some time-tested tips from ‘Dr MSG (messenger of God as the dera chief is referred to by his disciples)’ to stay away from the killer coronavirus, the article says, “Guru Ji Saint Dr Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh Ji Insan has been warning of these fatalities for decades… Apparently the cause of this havoc is the practice of eating wild animals like bats and snakes. As this virus emerged in China, and the Chinese are known to eating all sorts of insects and animals, this was a much-predicted scenario. This also means that the world really needs to choose what it takes on its plate with a lot of caution.” The article also advocates following traditional way of greeting: “Our wise rishis could sense the dangers in the womb of earth thousands of years ago and therefore they have created this timeless lifestyle called Hinduism. Guru Ji is often seen quoting this above sentence in his satsangs too, but it’s only in times like these, can one really connect all the dots”. The dera also suggests people should drink cow milk to tackle Covid-19 and also reminded them “how Guru Ji has also promoted cow milk to be used as a party drink and even established a world record for the biggest cow milk party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sirsa-dera-claims-its-chief-had-known-about-covid-19-outbreak-8-years-back/articleshow/74988765.cms||Ajay Sura
April 5, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus in Rajasthan: After a four-day break, Bhilwara sees fresh case||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s relief at Covid-19 ground zero Bhilwara not reporting any new infections in four days proved short-lived on Saturday with a test report confirming the textile city’s 27th novel coronavirus case. The person who tested positive is among those who had visited the OPD of the private hospital that has emerged as the epicentre of the outbreak in Bhilwara. Of the 27 Covid-19 cases in the town so far, 18 are members of the medical staff in that hospital. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said, the fresh case wasn’t quite a setback. He also said, the two of the earlier Covid-19 patients had fully recovered and returned home during the day. A huge team of health workers stationed in Bhilwara till April 13 is waiting to see how the 6,500-odd residents under self-quarantine do in the second phase of confinement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coronavirus-after-a-four-day-break-bhilwara-sees-fresh-case/articleshow/74988753.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four, including 76-year-old woman, return home cured||KOLKATA: Four Covid-19 patients were cured and sent home from ID Hospital on Saturday, taking the total count of discharged patients to seven. Three of the five Tehatta family members tested negative for novel coronavirus in the second round, but doctors have deferred their release as two among them are mothers of two kids who are yet to test negative. With these three, the total number of cured patients in Bengal stands at 10. Aong the discharged four was a 76-year-old woman, who conquered the virus in spite of being the most vulnerable owing to lower immunity and co-morbid conditions, such as COPD and hypertension. She is also on immunosuppressant drugs. "But she did not require any intensive care. We are happy that we could manage her symptoms well," said a doctor at ID Hospital. The Egra resident, along with a 56-year-old relative, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 28, two days after another 66-year old family member-who was a resident of Nayabad in Kolkata-was found infected. All had attended a wedding in Egra. While the 56-year-old is yet to recover, the 66-year-old died a few days ago. The three others who were cured were a 22-year-old from Ballygunge, who had returned from London and tested positive on March 20, their domestic help (20) and a 55-year-old UK-returnee living in New Alipore. "Our spirits are high. We will send many more home in days to come. All our patients are fine," said an ID doctor. The first three patients to be cured were discharged on March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-four-including-76-year-old-woman-return-home-cured/articleshow/74988793.cms||Sumati Yengkhon
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Good news: 4 defeat coronavirus in Chandigarh, say isolation fight not easy||CHANDIGARH: Positivity was the common thread that connected four Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals after treatment in the city on Saturday, battling the highly infectious virus in isolation for more than two weeks. "I felt homesick. I used to listen to devotional songs to keep calm," said the 48-year-old mother of the city's first novel coronavirus patient. She was discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, after 15-day stay in a small private room with her daughter. "It has not been easy. I used to play online games on my mobile with friends," said the 21-year-old youth who had travelled to Dubai and had tested positive for the virus 15 days after he had returned. His mother is fighting the virus in PGI's Covid hospital. She was his primary contact. "So, he cannot have food cooked by me until I join him," she said. A 42-year-old Mohali resident was the other patient to be discharged from Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, after two of his tests came negative, said a doctor. The man, who had a travel history to the UK, was admitted on March 19. His three family members are in isolation wards in various hospitals The UK-based 27-year-old doctor who was the first to be discharged from PGI said she was suffering psychological effects of being in isolation for 14 days and not being able to see her family. The homecoming was not of warm hugs, but cheerful smiles, as all have to stay in quarantine for 14 days as a prevention. "On arrival, I kept my stuff in a separate room (which was later sanitised) and took a hot water bath. We are still keeping a distance from each other in the house (sitting farther way from each other in a room whenever we wish to be together) and practicing strict hand hygiene," she said. Some of these patients had high fever for few days, dry cough, while some lost their smell sensation for a while. "I had mild fever and dry cough in the hospital. But I recovered well. The first thing I did was took a shower and cleaned up the mess in my room," said the 48-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/good-news-4-defeat-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-say-isolation-fight-not-easy/articleshow/74988820.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: More checkpoints come up to cordon off Peth areas||PUNE: The city police from Saturday resorted to setting up check points in different parts of the city while completely sealing off the Peth areas to ensure that vehicles do not unnecessarily ply on the roads. Despite the lockdown and restrictions on use of vehicles, hundreds of people can be seen driving in the city without valid reasons, forcing the department to undertake fresh measures. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, "A mix of static and dynamic nakabandi has been implemented. Dynamic checking points were required since people were becoming aware about the regular points and were taking short cuts to avoid checking." On where such dynamic nakabandi will be set up, Singh said, "This has been left to the police stations to implement as per local observations and behaviour of the public in general." Yash Jalan, a resident of Bhandarkar Road, said, "I had stepped out on Saturday morning to purchase a prescription medicine for my grandmother. I noticed that a police checkpoint had been set up just beyond the turning for Kamala Nehru Park on Bhandarkar Road," He said he was on his two-wheeler and was stopped by the police on both ways. "While going to the medical store, I told them I was going to buy a medicine and while returning I had to show the medicine to them. I had not seen nakabandi in this area before Saturday,"he added. Meanwhile, in the Peth areas of Pune, the police have completely blocked the roads at several important junctions using bamboos to stop movement of vehicles. A policeman on duty near Appa Balwant Chowk, which too has been blocked, said they have completely blocked all entry into the core city area on Saturday. "Since this is the first weekend of the month and salaries have just been credited, we were expecting heavy movement of traffic into the city areas for purchases. We have blocked the entry as we do not want even a single vehicle to come here. People must buy the essentials from stores in their own neighbourhood and not venture so far out,"the policeman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-more-checkpoints-come-up-to-cordon-off-peth-areas/articleshow/74988824.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No reason to panic, say discharged Covid-19 patients||HYDERABAD: Relieved on recovering from the Covid-19 infection, patients discharged from city hospitals, on Saturday, said that they were content with the treatment provided at the facilities. While asking people not to panic, some of them that STOI spoke to said that their only issue was the poor communication with doctors in the isolation wards. “Maybe because the patient load is so high, doctors take a long time to respond at times,” said a patient who landed in the city from London last month and was being treated at Gandhi Hospital. He added: “Suddenly I had chest pain one day and alerted doctors. But no one turned up for hours. I thought I would die. But later the doctor came and explained that it was just a mild panic attack...Though I was offended initially, I realised the situation when I was told that the doctor was busy attending to a critical patient.” Another patient discharged from Chest Hospital said that it took more than 36 hours for doctors to inform that she had tested positive for coronavirus. “By then a medical bulletin was already released. The description of one patient there matched my case, but there was no official confirmation. Even today, police was informed about my discharge even before I got an intimation,” the patient said suggesting that a nurse or compounder be assigned to isolation wards so that some weight is taken off the doctors and patients’ problems too are heard promptly. “There is no need to worry to be anxious. I am proof that people can recover with medication,” said another patient adding that most of those discharged were given fever, antiviral, anti-allergic medication. They did not need ventilators or intravenous therapy. While acknowledging that all medical information is not revealed to a patient or their attenders, P Sravan Kumar, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital, said: “We are not supposed to share any information with the patient. This is done for greater good as there is a chance that a patient, once discharged, may create panic among public.” He added: “Doctors go, see the condition of patients and come out. There is no interaction... Yes, there might have been some delay in providing facilities at times, as we are dealing with a huge crowd, daily. I just want people to look at a bigger picture here — that many patients are getting cured of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-no-reason-to-panic-say-discharged-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74988843.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three-day shutdown in Wagholi||PUNE: The Wagholi gram panchayat on Saturday enforced a complete shutdown for three days to keep people at home. All the shops, including vegetable and grocery outlets, will remain shut till Monday. Only medical stores and hospitals will remain open during the three-day shutdown.  Gram panchayat members said they had sought support from residents to execute the shutdown effectively, following a meeting on Friday. Sandip Satav, former deputy sarpanch of the panchayat, said, "Barring milk supply, hospitals and medicine shops, everything else was closed on Saturday." Shivdas Ubale, former member of the gram panchayat, said, "We decided for the three-day closure to stop people from stepping out without valid reasons amid the lockdown."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-three-day-shutdown-in-wagholi/articleshow/74988856.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath dials Mayawati, says thanks for her gesture||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath reciprocated to BSP chief Mayawati's call to her MLAs to donate generously to CM Corona fund by dialling her up and conveying his gratitude for her support in his fight against the disease. When most Opposition parties are trying to find fault in the state government's efforts to combat Covid-19, CM Yogi and BSP chief have found a common ground in this time of crisis, say political analysts. It's a political masterstroke by Yogi to win over his political rivals, they say. An official spokesman of the government confirmed that telephonic conversation between Yogi Adityanath and Mayawati took place on Saturday. Earlier on Friday, the BSP chief appealed to her party MLAs to donate to the relief fund created by the chief minister to fight against the Covid-19 disease. She also appealed to them to support the Yogi government's efforts to combat the cororavirus spread. BSP MLA from Rasra, Uma Shankar Singh, was in fact the first MLA to donate to the fund after the call of his leader and a similar call given by Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit. Losing no opportunity to reach out to the formidable opposition leader with a vast Dalit support behind her, the chief minister called her up on Saturday and thanked for her support to his government at this critical juncture. The two powerful political personalities exchanged pleasantries for a few minutes before ending their conversation, which was first in many years, confirmed a BSP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-dials-mayawati-says-thanks-for-her-gesture/articleshow/74988861.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lockdown: Owner finds vend picture with booze delivery lure on Facebook||CHANDIGARH: A liquor vend owner in Sector 22 has filed a complaint with the police that his name and pictures of his vend had been posted on social media for home delivery of booze. Gulshan Kumar, the complainant, said his friends had told him that some miscreants had put up his shop's pictures on Facebook and other websites a few days back. When he checked, he found that a message stating that people could call for home delivery of liquor had been posted with a mobile number. Kumar approached the operation cell of the Chandigarh Police. When cops dialled the number, a man answered. The cop demanded two liquor bottles. The fraudster told him to make payment through UPI before delivery. The cop tried to persuade him for cash on delivery but the fraudster did not relent. The cop then revealed his identity, leading to the fraudster disconnecting the phone. His mobile was later found switched off, Kumar said. Later, Kumar received a call from the excise and taxation department after its officials noticed the message. They advised Kumar to file an official complaint. Kumar said he then lodged a complaint against unknown person at the SSP public window. The matter was forwarded to cyber cell for further investigation. No arrests have been made so far.  Kumar said the accused later switched on his mobile number and added one more mobile number with the picture of his liquor vend. The cyber cell found that one SIM card was registered in the name of Mahavir Singh, a resident of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-owner-finds-vend-picture-with-booze-delivery-lure-on-facebook/articleshow/74988862.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 5, 2020||Ghaziabad||26 linked to Nizamuddin Markaz test positive in NCR||GURGAON/GHAZIABAD: The infection chain from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin last month reached new areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Saturday, with five people in Faridabad testing positive, the first cases of Covid-19 in the city neighbouring Delhi and Noida linked to the congregation. Twelve more tested positive in Palwal the same day and nine in Ghaziabad, taking the day’s tally to 26. Reports of many more quarantined in various hospital wards are awaited. The total number of Covid patients who have a Jamaat link in four districts of Haryana — Faridabad (5), Palwal (15), Mewat (3) and Gurugram (1) — is now 24. In Ghaziabad, the new patients came from outside the geographic area that monitoring efforts have focused on, the Dasna-Masuri stretch. Of the nine linked to the event at Alami Markaz who tested positive, four are from Pasona, three from Muradnagar and two from Loni, expanding the radius for Covid screening. In Faridabad, the health department said it had tested 83 of the 117 identified attendees. The results for 30 came in on Saturday, with five testing positive. Three other people, with no Jamaat link, also tested positive, taking Faridabad’s total to 14. One person has been discharged. “The five patients who attended the Nizamuddin meet have been admitted to Al-Falah hospital. We are trying to identify others too,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, Faridabad deputy chief medical officer, said. He added that quarantine facilities had been set up in Surajkund, Pali and other areas. Officials said that out of 117, around 18 are from foreign countries, who have temporarily taken shelter in Faridabad. In Palwal, all 12 people who tested positive on Saturday had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat. This takes the district’s total to 16 cases — 15 with a Jamaat link and one more person who has recovered. “Containment zones have been created in some villages and 84 people are in quarantine,” Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu said, adding that three patients are Bangladeshis and 12 are Indians. The new cases have led to a massive step-up in the containment and quarantine exercise by the health departments and the local administrations, with more testing, surveillance and sanitisation to be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/26-linked-to-nizamuddin-markaz-test-positive-in-ncr/articleshow/74988872.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 5, 2020||Faridabad||26 linked to Nizamuddin Markaz test positive in NCR||GURGAON/GHAZIABAD: The infection chain from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin last month reached new areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Saturday, with five people in Faridabad testing positive, the first cases of Covid-19 in the city neighbouring Delhi and Noida linked to the congregation. Twelve more tested positive in Palwal the same day and nine in Ghaziabad, taking the day’s tally to 26. Reports of many more quarantined in various hospital wards are awaited. The total number of Covid patients who have a Jamaat link in four districts of Haryana — Faridabad (5), Palwal (15), Mewat (3) and Gurugram (1) — is now 24. In Ghaziabad, the new patients came from outside the geographic area that monitoring efforts have focused on, the Dasna-Masuri stretch. Of the nine linked to the event at Alami Markaz who tested positive, four are from Pasona, three from Muradnagar and two from Loni, expanding the radius for Covid screening. In Faridabad, the health department said it had tested 83 of the 117 identified attendees. The results for 30 came in on Saturday, with five testing positive. Three other people, with no Jamaat link, also tested positive, taking Faridabad’s total to 14. One person has been discharged. “The five patients who attended the Nizamuddin meet have been admitted to Al-Falah hospital. We are trying to identify others too,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, Faridabad deputy chief medical officer, said. He added that quarantine facilities had been set up in Surajkund, Pali and other areas. Officials said that out of 117, around 18 are from foreign countries, who have temporarily taken shelter in Faridabad. In Palwal, all 12 people who tested positive on Saturday had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat. This takes the district’s total to 16 cases — 15 with a Jamaat link and one more person who has recovered. “Containment zones have been created in some villages and 84 people are in quarantine,” Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu said, adding that three patients are Bangladeshis and 12 are Indians. The new cases have led to a massive step-up in the containment and quarantine exercise by the health departments and the local administrations, with more testing, surveillance and sanitisation to be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/26-linked-to-nizamuddin-markaz-test-positive-in-ncr/articleshow/74988873.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 5, 2020||Gurgaon||26 linked to Nizamuddin Markaz test positive in NCR||GURGAON/GHAZIABAD: The infection chain from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin last month reached new areas in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Saturday, with five people in Faridabad testing positive, the first cases of Covid-19 in the city neighbouring Delhi and Noida linked to the congregation. Twelve more tested positive in Palwal the same day and nine in Ghaziabad, taking the day’s tally to 26. Reports of many more quarantined in various hospital wards are awaited. The total number of Covid patients who have a Jamaat link in four districts of Haryana — Faridabad (5), Palwal (15), Mewat (3) and Gurugram (1) — is now 24. In Ghaziabad, the new patients came from outside the geographic area that monitoring efforts have focused on, the Dasna-Masuri stretch. Of the nine linked to the event at Alami Markaz who tested positive, four are from Pasona, three from Muradnagar and two from Loni, expanding the radius for Covid screening. In Faridabad, the health department said it had tested 83 of the 117 identified attendees. The results for 30 came in on Saturday, with five testing positive. Three other people, with no Jamaat link, also tested positive, taking Faridabad’s total to 14. One person has been discharged. “The five patients who attended the Nizamuddin meet have been admitted to Al-Falah hospital. We are trying to identify others too,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, Faridabad deputy chief medical officer, said. He added that quarantine facilities had been set up in Surajkund, Pali and other areas. Officials said that out of 117, around 18 are from foreign countries, who have temporarily taken shelter in Faridabad. In Palwal, all 12 people who tested positive on Saturday had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat. This takes the district’s total to 16 cases — 15 with a Jamaat link and one more person who has recovered. “Containment zones have been created in some villages and 84 people are in quarantine,” Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu said, adding that three patients are Bangladeshis and 12 are Indians. The new cases have led to a massive step-up in the containment and quarantine exercise by the health departments and the local administrations, with more testing, surveillance and sanitisation to be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/26-linked-to-nizamuddin-markaz-test-positive-in-ncr/articleshow/74988870.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 5, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown: Loneliness worries senior citizens in Patna||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 has compelled senior citizens of the city to remain completely isolated from the society. While some have welcomed this 'confinement', others are struggling with loneliness, restricted mobility and lack of financial security. Eighty-year-old Ramesh Prasad Singh, a resident of Anandpuri locality in west Patna and his ailing wife are facing great hardship in having their meals regularly. As the maid and the cook have stopped visiting Singh's house after the declaration of lockdown and he does not know how to cook, they are facing some difficulties in getting food and medicines on time. "Thanks to our neighbours residing in the apartment where we live in, we are getting some food and also the essential medicines," said Singh, a retired bank employee. Seventy-eight-year-old Mahesh Chandra, a retired professor of Magadh University, who resides at Rajendra Nagar, manages the things somehow with the help of his domestic help, but he is feeling restless ever since the lockdown has been enforced. He used to visit parks and spend considerable time with the relatives and friends residing in the neighbourhood, but now he is confined entirely to his flat. "This has made me desperate and sometimes I get nervous," he said. However, 90-year-old Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, state's former director of higher education, hardly finds any perceptible change in his life during lockdown. He continues reading books and composing poems and essays on topics of his interest. The only change in his daily routine these days is that he has stopped guiding students for various competitive examinations as most of them have left for their native homes. He has been teaching physics to a number of undergraduate students free of cost for the last several decades. "Mobile and newspapers keep me busy these days," he said. Eighty-two-year-old Bishwanth Verma, a retired officer of a reputed medical firm, resides with his wife at S K Puri locality. His siblings are settled in the USA and Japan and hence, he had visualized this lockdown more than a fortnight ago. He does not get bored even for a second as he always keeps himself busy with his usual practice of laughter therapy. Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh (80), who resides with his doctor wife at Kankarbagh, is utilizing the lockdown period in cleaning his house and rearranging his bookshelves and almirahs. He has got more than 5,000 books in his possession and he is arranging all these books subject wise. Singh spends some time in gardening, his very old hobby. Seventy four-year-old Narbdeshwar Dayal, retired director of Geological Survey of India, said, "The lockdown has compelled us to remain confined to ourselves and lead a disciplined life. Even though I have stopped walking on the road, I do regular exercise and yoga to keep myself physically and mentally fit. I hardly find any difference in my daily routine following the lockdown," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-lockdown-loneliness-worry-senior-citizens-in-patna/articleshow/74988883.cms||B K Mishra
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Machine to free staff, deliver food||CHANDIGARH: Doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, have developed a robotic machine to deliver food and medicines to the suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients in a move to avoid unnecessary contact by medical staff. "Robotic machines were used to deliver food and medicine in Wuhan, China. So, we thought about it and collected whatever we could to assemble a robot here," said Dr Nishit Sawal, a neurologist in GMCH. The machine is designed to follow a black line on the floor. The line can be created using electrical tape or black paint. The machine is programmed to follow the line using light sensors mounted on the bottom of the chassis. The machine - can take a payload of up to 4 kg - has a tray on the top housing an ultrasonic sensor. It can detect when something is placed on the tray by a healthcare provider and when it is taken off by a patient. Additionally, the robotic machine has two rotational sensors connected to its motors which provide feedback. When the food or medicine is picked up, the machine says, "Get well soon." "The machine aims to eliminate the need of health care workers who usually work in eight-hours shifts. It means at any given day, three hospital attendants are working in the Covid-19 ward. Their job is mainly to supply food/fruits to the patients. Their work, being non-technical, can be replaced by this robotic delivery system," said Dr Hargunbir Singh, a member of the team who developed the robot. Tanish Modi, a final year MBBS student in GMCH, too helped the team. The team of doctors feel that novel coronavirus needs novel solutions and collaboration with scientific organisations, most of which are closed due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-machine-to-free-staff-deliver-food/articleshow/74988892.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 5, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus lockdown: Stranded at camps in Patna, people long to go home||PATNA: It's an anxious wait for a young Uttarakhand couple with a two-year-old child, who arrived in Patna on March 24, but got stranded as the nationwide lockdown came into effect. The couple, 28-year-old Ishtiaq Alam, his 26-year-old wife Rukhsar Begum and child, are among more than 700 people who have been kept at the 60-odd quarantine centres-cum-community-kitchens being run by the Patna district administration. Ishtiaq, who runs a grocery store in Dehradun, said, "We are just waiting for lockdown to end so that we can return home immediately. We are getting food twice a day but it's little tough for my son. Somehow I managed to get biscuit for my son a day back but no milk." The couple have been put up at Bankipore Girls' High School. A district administration official later said they didn't know about the child's requirements. "We will make arrangement for milk today itself," he said.  The family had gone to Araria to meet a friend who had lost his minor daughter. "We reached Patna, but got stranded. Initially we stayed at a hotel near the bus stand but left it after exhausting all our money. Unfortunately the debit card which I am carrying, is blocked," Ishtiaq said. There are scores of others, mostly stranded migrant workers, who have been put in these quarantine camps and are anxious to return home. Around 300 people are staying in the camps in the urban centres, while 400-odd are at the centres in the rural areas. TOI visited the quarantine camps at the Bankipore school and the Miller High School on Saturday. Cleanliness, sanitisation and social distancing norms are being maintained at the centres. Akhilesh Kumar Singh, Radheshayam Singh and Raj Babbar are migrant workers from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh who were working at a cement factory at Daniyawan in Patna and got stranded after lockdown. They managed to reach the quarantine centre at Miller High School on Beer Chand Patel Path on April 1 after failing to get any transportation for Mirzapur. Akhilesh said, "If we reach Mirzapur now, we might again get quarantined as co-villagers will complaint to the administration." He added, "We have nothing to do here. We are provided food twice a day which is of good quality and are confined till the corridor outside our rooms."  Another camp inmate, Sukumuni Munda, who is from Ranchi, said she just listens to song on her cellphone daylong. "I used to wash dishes at a hotel near Patna junction. I used to get Rs 250 per day. I am just waiting for the lockdown to end," she said. Meanwhile, officials at these quarantine centres expressed apprehension about the huge gathering of people from neighbouring areas who come for the free food twice a day as they are not maintaining social distancing norms. "We are handling them as best as we can amid fear of infection. It would have been better if the government had provided them with ration for a fortnight instead of making arrangement for cooked food," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-lockdown-stranded-at-camps-in-patna-people-long-to-go-home/articleshow/74988917.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 5, 2020||Patna||Educational institutes in Patna opt for online classes due to lockdown||PATNA: Several educational institutes in the city have switched to online classes amid the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Schools, colleges and even coaching institutes have started virtual classes and providing online study materials or e-contents to the students to keep the new academic session going without any delay. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has also asked all private schools to conduct online classes, share assignments and recorded lessons of teaching as per the syllabus, e-content and study materials to keep students engaged in academic activities. "This way, the teachers would also become tech-savvy and their teaching methodology would improve. Besides, the school academic session would not get delayed and kids education would continue," he said on Saturday. "It is a golden opportunity for kids to improve themselves and even parents can also help their wards in academic activities. Parents can help their kids prepare for online lesson from the safe environment of their home," Agarwal said. Meanwhile, several private schools have started virtual classes for five hours every day from Monday to Saturday. Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, president of Patliputra Sahodaya Complex (a group of CBSE affiliated schools in Bihar), said the students were being advised to download the virtual books from e-Pathshala, a web portal of National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). "Some schools are using their own mobile applications for coordinating about the online classes and home assignments," he said. Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC), a wing of education department, has also launched a mobile application 'Unnayan: Mera Mobile Mera Vidyalaya' for classes VI to XII of government-run schools in the state. The app was jointly developed by United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) Bihar and Eckovation. Besides, the BEPC has also booked a slot with Doordarshan to telecast the videos of study materials of classes IX and X. AIR is also likely to air the audio of lessons for both the classes. Kiran said the students of other classes can download study material from Unnayan app. The universities, colleges and institutes of management, engineering, fashion and law have also geared up for conducting online classes. Indian Institute of Technology, Patna has started virtual classes from Friday under the guidance of its director Pushpak Bhattacharyya. The institute conducts more than 20 classes simultaneously for several departments. "This session was to monitor both the bandwidth and the storage requirements. Barring minor hiccups, there was no major issue," the director said. National Institute of Technology, BIT-Mesra (Patna), St Xavier's College, Central University of South Bihar, Amity University and several colleges have also started sharing study materials and conducting online classes through mobile applications. Besides, coaching institutes are also uploading videos of teaching on their web portals and sending assignments on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/educational-institutes-in-patna-opt-for-online-classes/articleshow/74988955.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Spend quality time with kids, Arvind Kejriwal tells parents||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and director of education Vinay Bhushan faced a volley of questions during the live video interaction session—“Parenting in the time of corona” held on Saturday. They answered queries from both parents and children. Educator Seemant Dadwal also attended the session. Kejriwal and Sisodia insisted that while the world was going through a crisis, this could be an opportunity for parents to spend quality time with their children. The CM also spoke about concerns of parents over private schools taking fees during the lockdown. “Some families are facing a financial crisis and hence finding it difficult to pay the fees, while private schools depend on the fees to pay the salary to their teachers and staff. This is a tough situation, and I will request the experts to give us suggestions on how we can solve such issues,” the CM said. The live ses- sion, conducted by the government, was to assist parents and students currently at home due to the lockdown. Sisodia said that there are around 44 lakh students in Delhi’s schools. “As a result of the lockdown, children are at home. It is very important to understand how to sail through these tough times. The aim is to effectively utilise our time during the isolation, and that is why we are holding this discussion.” When a student asked why they can’t go out and play, the CM asked parents to explain to their children that this virus is contagious and spreads through direct contact. Throughout the live feed, both Sisodia and Kejriwal insisted that the lockdown was an opportunity for students and parents. “It’s a crisis that we should convert into an opportunity. We have such a fast-paced life and people never sit and talk to each other. This is the first time that parents and children are at home and can spend quality time together,” said Kejriwal. On the students missing out on their happiness classes, Sisodia said that “it is a good time for parents to learn what the children learn at happiness classes and maybe it’ll help them too. Parents can do meditation with their children.” Some students asked about ways to beat boredom. Bhushan replied that already parents have been advised to conduct activities at homes for their wards. There were parents who posed the question of countering the negativity caused due to the news about coronavirus and deaths. To this, Dadwal who is also the CEO of Meraki Foundation said that people should be away from social media. “Start doing activities at home and create positivity. Let your children express themselves more. Do not suppress them or be angry at them.” Sisodia said that parents should make sure that students don’t go into depression due to the situation. Kejriwal later said that the government would extend this programme and conduct such sessions on a regular basis with various experts. “Our motive is to change this time of crisis into an opportunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-lockdown-spend-quality-time-with-kids-arvind-kejriwal-tells-parents/articleshow/74988957.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: SP president Akhilesh Yadav demands financial aid for poor||LUCKNOW: Demanding that the government immediately halt revenue collection, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the state must also ensure that interest on farm loans are waived during the lockdown. He also demanded a financial relief of Rs 1000 and ration to those not covered by PDS or below poverty line. The former UP chief minister said the pandemic has left its impact on all, but farmers and those living below poverty line are the worst hit. There are lakhs of poor who neither have a ration card nor any government registration. "The government should make arrangements to ensure they also get relief and also waive fees of students," he said. The SP chief pointed out that the prime minister had during the Lok Sabha polls announced Rs 2000 aid to farmers for three months and in the present crises, farmers have been hit hard again. "Relief to farmers and rural folk was hit by the gross negligence of lekhpals who have been assigned to supervise distribution of ration and food packets to poor," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-demands-financial-aid-for-poor/articleshow/74988966.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||China opens Everest climb for nationals||BEIJING A group of Chinese mountaineers has begun an expedition on Mount Everest as China limped back to normalcy after the coronovirus outbreak. The site, however, remains closed to foreign climbers. The peak stands on the border of China and Nepal and can be climbed from both sides. China has closed its side to foreign climbers while Nepal has cancelled all expeditions. Only Chinese climbers are permitted this spring season because of the pandemic, operators told BBC. More than two dozen Chinese climbers tackling the peak are expected to reach the advanced base camp at an altitude of 6,450 metres on Friday, expedition operators in touch with the China Tibet Mountaineering Association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-opens-everest-climb-for-nationals/articleshow/74988985.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Patna||'Keep appliances on, switch off only lights'||PATNA: Centre and the state energy department have appealed to residents to keep fans and other usable electrical appliances running during the nine-minute voluntary lights-off exercise at 9pm on Sunday as appealed by PM Narendra Modi. Officials and engineers said operation of other appliances will prevent any sudden fluctuation in power demand and grid destabilization, even though they are only expecting a 10-15% dip in power demand during the nine minute exercise. Sanjeev Nandan Sahai, secretary in the ministry of power, wrote a letter to principal secretaries of every state on Saturday evening, elaborating on the steps being taken to handle the switch-off appeal made by the PM. "The National Load Dispatch Centre has worked out the procedures for grid balancing during the period...The appeal of the honorable prime minister to the people is to voluntarily switch off only the lights at 9pm on April 5. There is no call to switch off either streetlights or appliances, like TVs, refrigerators and ACs in homes," the letter reads. It adds, "Adequate arrangement and protocols are in place to handle the variation in (power) demand. People should be assured not to worry and continue running all the appliances as usual...The lights in hospitals and other essential services will remain on." State energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav too made an appeal to people to keep other electrical appliances on to avoid any major fluctuation in power demand. "The government of India is monitoring the situation with regard to the appeal made by PM Modi for switching off household lights for nine minutes starting 9pm on Sunday. While it has been made clear that only household lights should be switched off, residents are advised to keep on other electric appliances in order to avoid any sudden fluctuation in the power demand," the energy minister told TOI on Saturday. Officials of NTPC claimed that they are making preparations for a sudden plunge in power demand at 9pm and when the demand shoots as people switch on the lights after nine minutes. "Though there is nothing to be worried, but we are assessing the situation and keeping standby measures ready for 9pm and 9:10pm onwards. Our engineers have studied the power demand profile around 9pm over the last seven days. We have predicted that there can be 10-15% plunge in power demand during the nine-minute switch-off exercise on Sunday," chief public relations officer, NTPC-Patna, Vishwanath Chandan, said. He added, "Thus, the power generation will be done accordingly. In order to tackle any issues, like line-tripping, when people will switch on their lights, we have kept our hydro and gas-based power plants ready," Chandan added. He further said that the power demand of Bihar has already gone down from 4,500MW- 5,000MW on usual days to the range of 2,000-2,500MW during the prevailing lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/keep-appliances-on-switch-off-only-lights/articleshow/74988989.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: Death toll rises to four||CHENNAI: A 71-year-old man, who died in Chennai’s Stanley Medical College Hospital on Thursday, was suffering from Covid-19, test results showed on Saturday evening. With this, Covid-19 death toll in Tamil Nadu rose to four. The man’s body was taken to Keezhakarai in Ramanathapuram district where it was buried on Friday. Public health officials in Ramanathapuram were asked to track the family members who travelled with the body and all others who took part in the last rites. Late on Saturday night, directorate of public health issued revised protocols making it mandatory for all deaths following severe acute respiratory infection to be considered Covid-19 until tests show they are negative. The man, who returned from Dubai on March 16, came to hospital on Thursday with severe breathing difficulties. “He was admitted to hospital at 9am and was declared dead by 11am. Duty doctors took samples and sent them to the laboratory for test,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. The hospital packed the body in a body bag as per protocol and handed it over to his family members. Doctors told the family member that his test results were awaited. The family members took the body to Ramanathapuram in an ambulance. They reached Keezhakarai the next day. His body was buried at a mosque around 10am on Friday. Inquiries revealed that around 50 members had attended the last rites. “In all the deaths so far, hospital authorities and district officials ensured that there were not more than three or four people near the body. We do not allow them to open the bag. They can just see the face of the deceased,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy. “We are told that they had not opened the body in Ramanathapuram too, but we are verifying it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadus-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-four/articleshow/74988984.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Delhi||No central help for Delhi: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday slammed the Centre for not providing any financial assistance to Delhi government to fight coronavirus. He also wrote a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, expressing his disappointment. “The whole nation is suffering from the coronavirus, and Delhi government and the people of Delhi are working collectively with the Centre to fight a battle against it. On Friday, the central government provided an emergency disaster management relief assistance worth Rs17,000 crore to all the states and Delhi was not given a single rupee. This has come as a huge shock and a disappointment to us. The Centre is not expected to play politics in such a situation, neither in a federal structure nor in these times of a calamity that has arisen before us,” Sisodia said in a statement. “When the whole country is fighting a battle against corona collectively, keeping Delhi out of the ambit of providing relief is disappointing. We have requested the Centre to provide more PPE and testing kits to Delhi government. But, in these times, we should be united and not play politics,” Sisodia added. In the letter, the deputy CM said it was unfortunate that Delhi had been kept out of the allocation of Rs17,287 crores to various states as an emergency disaster management assistance, despite complete assurance by the Centre that states would be provided relief from the Disaster Fund. Sisodia said Delhi has been at the forefront of fighting the battle against coronavirus, collectively with the Centre. “The government is providing food to over 6.5 lakh people twice a day and has developed the capacity to provide food to around 10 lakh people. It has initiated a provision of 7.5kg ration to 71 lakh beneficiaries and is launching a scheme to provide ration to non-ration card holders. In such a situation, Delhi being kept out of the ambit of the relief fund is unfair to the people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-central-help-for-delhi-manish-sisodia/articleshow/74989006.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 5, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus in Bihar: One more tests +ve, 4th patient recovers||PATNA: A 65-year-old Bhagalpur native tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of such cases to 32 in the state. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the sexagenarian had returned from the United Kingdom on March 18. He belongs to Naugachia in Bhagalpur district. Sources said his wife, son and daughter-in-law had accompanied him from the UK and their test reports were awaited. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar said the family travelled from Manchester to Kolkata via Dubai. "We are tracing their travel route and those with whom they had come in contact," said Pranav. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 positive person undergoing treatment at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) was released from the isolation ward on Saturday after her two consecutive tests were found negative. The 21-year-old worked as a nurse in a private hospital on Bypass Road where the Munger man had undergone treatment before his death at AIIMS-Patna on March 21. She was admitted to the NMCH on March 28 after being tested Covid-19 positive. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said the woman was fit now and had no Covid symptoms. Two other employees of the same hospital had also tested positive for the virus. While the second report of one of them is negative, sources said another staff had tested positive for the virus even for the second time. The nurse is the third person to be relieved from the NMCH after recovering from coronavirus. Earlier on April 1, two youths were discharged after their two subsequent tests were found negative for Covid-19. One was a 25-year-old Phulwarisharif resident with travel history from Scotland while another was a 29-year-old Patna City resident, who had returned from Gujarat. Dr Sinha said test reports of four Siwan natives with travel history from the Middle-East countries have also come negative on Friday. "We will wait for their another test," he added. A 45-year-old Digha woman admitted to AIIMS-Patna was the first person in Bihar to be cured and relieved. Meanwhile, chief secretary Deepak Kumar has asked all the DMs to screen all those people who reached the state from abroad besides Mumbai, Pune, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Delhi after March 22. Officials have been given six days to get screened around 1.8 lakh such immigrants who entered Bihar amid lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-in-bihar-one-more-tests-ve-4th-patient-recovers/articleshow/74989017.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. Update at 11.15pm: A woman, admitted to the isolation ward of a state-run hospital here with coronavirus-like symptoms, has given birth to a baby boy, a senior doctor at the medical facility said on Sunday. The condition of the mother and the child is stable but both have been kept under observation, he said. Update at 10.20pm: Kolkata Port Trust has carried out a major sanitisation drive in all berths at Haldia dock system to bring its operations to the normal level which slumped to 50 per cent after a dock employee was tested positive to coronavirus on Saturday. However, even as activities were low, work on essential cargo was intact, an official said on Sunday. Update at 9.25pm: West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar lights earthen lamps at his residence in solidarity with PM Modi's 9pm, 9 minutes call. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar turns off all the lights of his residence & lights earthen lamps. (ANI)… https://t.co/R2PXrBFUmA— TOI Kolkata (@TOIKolkata) 1586101765000Update at 8.30pm: A Trinamool councillor of Madhyamgram municipality has tested positive for Covid-19. His condition is said to be critical. Update at 7.30pm: After facing stiff protest over cremation of COVID-19 victims, the West Bengal government seems to have convinced people that there is no health risk involved and adequate precautionary measures are taken during the process. The state health department issued an advisory to ensure hassle-free cremation of those who died of the disease after persuading people that ashes from the burning of such bodies do not automatically put residents of the nearby surroundings at risk, a senior official said on Sunday. Update at 7pm: In what can be termed as an ugly turn of politis over '9 baje, 9 minute' event, a member of the West Bengal child's rights body and a known "TMC intellectual" Prasun Bhoumick has taken to Facebook to put a post warning people of Bengal against switching off lights on Sunday at 9PM, as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to show solidarity with Corona warriors like doctors, nurses, and police. He warned that those who will not pay heed to it, their residences will be marked by a chalk, leaving the opposition BJP call it intimidation tactic. Update at 6.30pm: 132 arrested and 30 arrested for deliberate violation of "Total Safety Restrictions” since morning to 12pm on Sunday *Supply hitches left prices of some commodities unstable. *The egg price, for instance, has nosedived where supply is smooth. It remains dearer where supply line gets disrupted because of transportation issues. This is why egg price varies a lot from place to place. The egg price in Barisha, Behala, Khidderpore, Janbazar, Bhawnipore markets has cooled off significantly, with supply being steady. However, in northern part of the city, like Dum Dum, Nagerbazar, Ultadanga or even further south like Garia, Patuli and Bagha Jatin, egg prices remained on the higher side on Sunday. But egg wholesalers assured that supply of egg to Kolkata has no issue. In the intra-city transportation, there are issues which need to be addressed. *Papaya, price of which soared high because of supply issue, has now cooled off. The papaya price plunged to Rs50-60/kg on Sunday from Rs80-90/kg on Wednesday. Severe shortage of loading and unloading labourers and carriage cleaners has been affecting the supply-line to a great extent. *The price fluctuation has become an issue whenever there is an issue with the supply line. “Taking the advantage of the situation, even a small goods carriage is charging with what I could have hired a big truck,” said Sunil Jana, a vegetable vendor at Behala market. *115 joyride and carriage horses starving at Maidan after the lockdown  A tour of the city is never complete without a visit to the iconic Victoria Memorial and this includes a ride around the majestic structure in Maidan area on a gleaming horse carriage. But the area is deserted now due to the lockdown as a result of the coronavirus outbreak, except for many horses, turned pale due to lack of care, loitering around. More than 100 horses, which in normal circumstances draw beautifully bedecked carriages for tourists and city-dwellers on a day out, or carry children on their backs during joyrides around the famous Victoria Memorial here, are now an abandoned lot, said Ajay Daga, a senior member of People For Animals (PFA). The NGO has come forward to feed these animals till the situation normalises, Daga said on Sunday. *Kolkata is set to see a jump in the number of Covid-19- treatment units by next week with both state and private hospitals adding more isolation beds. *Howrah neighbourhood turns into battleground after PPE-clad authorities try to bury a body on Friday evening Howrah neighbourhood turns into battleground after PPE-clad authorities try to bury a body. #CautionYesPanicNo… https://t.co/mFMiCXCPgy— TOI Kolkata (@TOIKolkata) 1586069845000*The price of the highprotein diet that doctors recommend to help you fight against the novel coronavirus is finally stabilising in Kolkata. *West Bengal police have warned citizens against sharing fake news. While Kolkata police has begun questioning WhatsApp group administrators and those who forwarded fake messages. *Mental health related queries see 50% spike since lockdown: Indian Psychiatry Society. Queries on mental health grew by 80% in the metro cities in the last two weeks while consultations in tier 2+ cities grew by 35%. *One youth was killed and another was injured in a clash between two groups on Saturday over opening a Covid-19 quarantine centre in West Bengal's Birbhum district, the police said. According to the locals, the disturbance began after a team of government officials reviewed the proposal to open a quarantine centre at a village in Parui area and left. * Update at 11.32am: Manipur CM urged people to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9pm and illuminate home and surroundings with candles and lamps, as advised by PM. *The price of several varieties of fish has dipped by Rs 50 a kg as trucks with stock from Andhra Pradesh have started arriving in Kolkata. *50 beds in the annexe building at Salt Lake’s AMRI Hospitals have been reserved for Covid-19 patients *Update at 9:23am: Sourav Ganguly encourages people to read newspapers for authentic information at a time when there is so much fake news going around. .@SGanguly99 encourages people to read newspapers for authentic information at a time when there is so much fake ne… https://t.co/Hd1gaW2COl— TOI Kolkata (@TOIKolkata) 1586058782000*Egg price can stabilize at Rs 4 each if supplies remain regular *There has been a sharp drop in home delivery orders since customers are wary to order food from restaurants *Covid-19 scare has led online food delivery platforms Swiggy and Zomato to switch to electronic modes of payment as part of their social distancing norms. *11 fresh cases in West Bengal, active Covid-19 cases at 49 *M R Bangur finalizes infrastructure push to take in Covid-19 patients *Four hospitals to add 150 isolation beds to meet corona demand *50 beds in the annexe building at Salt Lake’s AMRI Hospitals have been reserved for Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coronavirus-in-kolkata-latest-news-updates-on-kolkata-corona-cases-deaths-5-april-2020/articleshow/74988990.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown heroes: Within touching distance of virus, but duty calls||NEW DELHI: The story of Safdarjung Hospital nursing officer Amit Kansal deployed in the coronavirus ward is one of spirit and dedication. Across India, more than 50 healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 and the fear of infection looms over the hospitals. Yet an undaunted Kansal spends over eight hours every day in the risky ward attending to the virus-positive patients and motivating them to fight it out. The 37-year-old has been working in the corona ward for two months. “The virus-positive patients have all the facilities inside the room and we monitor them digitally,” he explains when TOI met him during his night shift on Friday. “We talk to them over phone and visit them from time to time.” It has been a trying time for the Kansal couple, the wife too a nursing officer at Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences in Dilshad Garden. At home, he and his wife eat in separate utensils and use separate washrooms. His heart is torn when he cannot play with his two kids after returning from work. “I leave my shoes in the car, phone my mother to keep the doors of the house open so I don’t touch any object while entering,” he relates. “Regardless of whether I am tired or sleepy, I go straight for a hot-water bath and wash my clothes in hot water too.” Kansal, whose widowed mother is constantly fretting about his safety, hasn’t for tunately faced any discrimination in his housing society due to his daily nearness to the dangerous virus. But for the healthcare workers, it is an unnerving experience to be so close to Covid-19 patients and to think they could be risking the safety of their family. Kansal was terrified a few days ago when his 10-year-old daughter had cold and mild fever. It turned out it was only an ailment brought on by the change in season. “I will make all the sacrifices I have to while continuing to serve the country which needs all healthcare workers at this hour of crisis,” avers Kansal. At the newly constructed block at Safdarjung Hospital, which has been turned into the corona ward, over 30 patients are currently admitted. Treatment protocols are strictly followed by the healthcare workers, but there is a sense of foreboding in the corridors. Kansal’s determination overpowers his fears. “When we are required to go into the isolation rooms to give medicines, we wear personal protective equipment and the moment we come out, we discard the PPE kit to avoid infection,” says Kansal. While meeting the isolated patients, Kansal has encouraging words for them. “I tell them that confidence is the key,” he says. The nursing official has seen patients recover and go home. They are given a phone contact that they can dial in case they need help. Kansal’s advice to health workers is to follow the government guidelines strictly at work and to maintain social distancing at home, no matter how frustrating that can be. This is the only way to emerge victorious in the war against the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-heroes-within-touching-distance-of-virus-but-duty-calls/articleshow/74989057.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 5, 2020||India||Trump requests Modi to release Hydroxychloroquine ordered by US||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump has said that he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release the amount of Hydroxychloroquine ordered by the United States after India last month banned the drugs for exports. Trump said that he spoke to Prime Minister Modi on Saturday morning and made a request to release Hydroxycholoroquine for the US. "I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of Hydroxychloroquine. India is giving it a serious consideration," Trump said at his daily news conference at the White House on Saturday. India's Directorate General of Foreign Trade on March 25 banned the export of Hydroxychloroquine but said that certain shipments on humanitarian grounds may be allowed on a case-by-case basis. With more than three lakh confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and over 8,000 fatalities, the US has emerged as the worst sufferers of the deadly coronavirus diseases to which there has been no cure. Scientists across the world in particular in the US are racing against time to find either a vaccine or a therapeutic cure to the virus that has so far killed more than 64,000 people and infected 1.2 million in more than 150 countries. Based on some initial results, the Trump administration is banking heavily on using Hydroxychloroquine, a decades old malaria drug, for the successful treatment of coronavirus. Following a quick provisional approval from the US Food and Drug Administration last Saturday, the malaria drug along with a combination of some other drug is being used in the treatment of about 1,500 COVID-19 patients in New York. According to Trump, the drug is yielding positive results. If successful, he told reporters that it would be a gift from heaven. In the next several weeks, health experts in the US has projected between 100,000 to 200,000 deaths due to coronavirus, which due to human-to-human transmission is spreading like a wildfire in the US. In anticipation of it being a successful drug in the treatment of coronavirus, the US has already stockpiled some 29 million doses. It is in this context Trump requested Modi to help US get millions of doses of Hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug that can be produced at mass scale in India. Trump said he would appreciate if India releases the amount of Hydroxychloroquine that the US has ordered. "And I said I would appreciate if they (India) would release the amounts that we ordered,” he said, without mentioning that quantity of Hydroxychloroquine that has been ordered by US companies from India. The Trump administration has made Hydroxychloroquine as part of its Strategic National Stockpile. Trump said that people in malaria affected-countries take Hydroxychloroquine and not many people are infected by coronavirus. Trump said that he would take Hydroxychloroquine, if needed. "I think people should if it were me, in fact, I might do it anyway. I may take it, Ok? I may take it. And, I'll have to ask my doctors about that, but I may take it,” he said in response to a question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trump-requests-modi-to-release-hydroxychloroquine-ordered-by-us/articleshow/74989063.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||Trump requests Modi to release Hydroxychloroquine ordered by US||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump has said that he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release the amount of Hydroxychloroquine ordered by the United States after India last month banned the drugs for exports. Trump said that he spoke to Prime Minister Modi on Saturday morning and made a request to release Hydroxycholoroquine for the US. "I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of Hydroxychloroquine. India is giving it a serious consideration," Trump said at his daily news conference at the White House on Saturday. India's Directorate General of Foreign Trade on March 25 banned the export of Hydroxychloroquine but said that certain shipments on humanitarian grounds may be allowed on a case-by-case basis. With more than three lakh confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and over 8,000 fatalities, the US has emerged as the worst sufferers of the deadly coronavirus diseases to which there has been no cure. Scientists across the world in particular in the US are racing against time to find either a vaccine or a therapeutic cure to the virus that has so far killed more than 64,000 people and infected 1.2 million in more than 150 countries. Based on some initial results, the Trump administration is banking heavily on using Hydroxychloroquine, a decades old malaria drug, for the successful treatment of coronavirus. Following a quick provisional approval from the US Food and Drug Administration last Saturday, the malaria drug along with a combination of some other drug is being used in the treatment of about 1,500 COVID-19 patients in New York. According to Trump, the drug is yielding positive results. If successful, he told reporters that it would be a gift from heaven. In the next several weeks, health experts in the US has projected between 100,000 to 200,000 deaths due to coronavirus, which due to human-to-human transmission is spreading like a wildfire in the US. In anticipation of it being a successful drug in the treatment of coronavirus, the US has already stockpiled some 29 million doses. It is in this context Trump requested Modi to help US get millions of doses of Hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug that can be produced at mass scale in India. Trump said he would appreciate if India releases the amount of Hydroxychloroquine that the US has ordered. "And I said I would appreciate if they (India) would release the amounts that we ordered,” he said, without mentioning that quantity of Hydroxychloroquine that has been ordered by US companies from India. The Trump administration has made Hydroxychloroquine as part of its Strategic National Stockpile. Trump said that people in malaria affected-countries take Hydroxychloroquine and not many people are infected by coronavirus. Trump said that he would take Hydroxychloroquine, if needed. "I think people should if it were me, in fact, I might do it anyway. I may take it, Ok? I may take it. And, I'll have to ask my doctors about that, but I may take it,” he said in response to a question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-requests-modi-to-release-hydroxychloroquine-ordered-by-us/articleshow/74989027.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. * ANI update at 9.15pm: People form the map of India, by lighting earthen lamps in Chennai, following the call of PM Modi to switch off all the lights of houses today at 9 PM for 9 minutes, and just light a candle, 'diya', or mobile's flashlight, to mark India's fight against coronavirus * IANS update at 8.30pm: Immigration officials at Chennai International Airport on Sunday detained 10 Malaysian nationals who had travelled to India under tourist visa and had attended the conference held by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month. They had concealed their participating in the Delhi conference and had come here. The ten are part of 127 Malaysian group that was stranded in the country due to the 21-day lockdown and was ready to fly on a special flight to Kuala Lumpur. * Update at 6.00pm: Tamil Nadu: 86 coronavirus positive cases reported on Sunday; total in state reaches 571. * Update at 4.05pm: A temporary vegetable market has been set up at Cantonment school at Pallavaram in Chennai * Update at 3.45pm: A vegetable market set up at playground in Venkatanarayana road, to ensure that people maintained social distancing, was sealed due to violation of safety precautions. *1.21pm: Disinfectant being sprayed on road users on Poonamallee High Road near Maduravoyal police station in Tamil Nadu. *11.42am: Mental health related queries see 50% spike since lockdown: Indian Psychiatry Society Queries on mental health grew by 80% in the metro cities in the last two weeks while consultations in tier 2+ cities grew by 35%. Most of the queries related to mental health were from Delhi NCR, followed by Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chennai. In Non-T7 cities, most of the queries came from Phagwara, Rewa, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad and Jaipur. *10.41am: People throng in large numbers at fish markets and meat stalls on the outskirts of Salem city on Sunday. City police have ensured social distancing. *10.43am: District administration and corporation have set up a disinfectant tunnel near the new bus stand in Salem on Sunday. *9.49am: No prayer in churches Today on Palm Sunday in Chennai. *09.25am: A 61-year-old Covid-19 patient dies at Stanley Medical College Hospital. Tamil Nadu's death toll rises to 5. *Don’t switch off all appliances on Sunday, says TNEB *School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Saturday warned private school managements of strict action if they were to collect any fee from students and appealed parents to bring such issues, if any, to the concerned authorities. *The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense. *Starting Sunday, health workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation will survey every house within the city limit for people with fever, flu or other symptoms of Covid-19. *TNEB’s two arms, Tangedco and Tantransco, are gearing up to thwart any disruption to power infrastructure as the state is headed for switching off lights for nine minutes on Sunday night to light dhias as per the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. *Chennai division of Southern Railway will modify 55 coaches at its three yards into isolation coaches in case they are needed for Covid-19 patients, official sources have said. *Avadi, Tambaram civic bodies deliver veggies at doorsteps *Health minister C Vijayabaskar said all patients who show symptoms of flu in the containment regions across the state will be moved into isolation or quarantine units. *Tamil Nadu had 74 fresh positive cases in all, taking its Covid-19 positive tally to 485, with 437 from the TJ cluster. *Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to people not to paint the Covid-19 outbreak in communal colours as the state registered two more deaths and 73 more Covid-19 positive cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-in-chennai-latest-news-updates-on-chennai-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989000.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. Update at 11pm: Siddhivinayak temple during '9pm, 9-minutes' event Update at 9.35pm: Glimmer of diyas in a Mumbai suburb marks PM Modi's '9pm, 9-minutes' call. Glimmer of diyas in a Mumbai suburb mark PM Modi's '9pm, 9-minutes' call. #9baje9minute #Coronaviruslockdown https://t.co/SrWFLXHves— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1586102682000Update at 9.05pm: All vegetable markets in Vasai- Virar region shut for four days from Monday to Thursday. Update at 8.35pm: 13 COVID-19 patients die in Maharashtra on Sunday; toll rises to 45. Out of these, 30 deaths are from Mumbai. Update at 7.35pm: As many as 80 Muslim IAS, IFS, IPS and officers of allied services, many retired but mostly serving, have appealed to the Muslim community to “act responsibly and stand out as examples for fellow citizens in the fight against coronavirus.” In this hour of crisis, the officers said, Muslim community should come forward and strengthen the hands of the government and follow the directions of the ministry of the health and WHO to fight the coronavirus. Update at 6.35pm: The Mahim Police have arrested eight people for assembling for namaaz on Friday despite the nationwide lockdown in force to curb the spread of coronavirus. Update at 6pm: Family members of a 71-year-old man from Vakola in Mumbai who died of coronavirus infection on Friday have claimed that civic-run Kasturba Hospital had refused to admit him when they failed to provide his travel history. One of the two sons of the deceased said on Sunday that family members came to know about the exact cause of the death only after local police informed them. Update at 5pm: As many as 29 people tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai on Sunday, taking the total number of such cases in Maharashtra 690, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. With this, 406 COVID-19 cases have been reported from Mumbai alone, he said. Update at 4pm: We have focused all the isolation beds in a few hospitals. Now we have 3,500 beds dedicated to Covid19 patients, says BMC chief Update at 3.35pm: 29 new COVID-19 cases in Mumbai; Maharashtra tally jumps to 690: Health Minister Rajesh Tope Update at 2.45pm: One more Covid-19 positive case reported in Mumbai’s Dharavi area. Update at 1.50pm: Stern action will be taken against those spreading misleading / hate videos about Nizamuddin incident, says Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh Update at 1.20pm: 10 Filipino nationals have been booked in Vashi area of Navi Mumbai under Sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC, Section 14 of Foreigners Act 1946 & Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 regulations, reports ANI. Update at 12.45pm: Civic body to use rapid tests for health staff Update at 11.05am: Cleric urges Muslims in Navi Mumbai to cooperate A cleric of Tablighi Jamaat, Markaz Nizamuddin, has appealed to Muslims in Taloja to cooperate with police by offering namaaz at home. He also appealed to those who have returned from the Delhi congregation to inform police about their attendance there. Update at 10.10am: Owner of press with staff from Worli tests Covid-19 positive A senior citizen living in Dadar tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, with authorities saying he was likely to have contracted the novel coronavirus from one of his employees at his printing press in Prabhadevi. Update at 9.35am:Medicine supplies delayed as doorstep delivery halts in Mumbai, ThaneAvailability of daily essentials continues to remain sporadic owing to a shortage of transportation, drivers and loaders. A matter of growing anxiety is the delay in supply of essential medicines to local chemists. Drug stores in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are reporting procurement delays. Update at 8.54am: BMC amps up fight against Covid-19 with mobile medical squads, home visits for swabsEven as the civic authority has a 10-day stock of personal protection equipment (PPEs) for its healthcare staff, it has introduced mobile medical squads, free home collection of throat swabs, and rapid upscale of the number of beds available for quarantine and isolation. Update at 8.30am: Ward with tony SoBo areas second only to Worli in number of Covid-19 cases The city’s D ward, which boasts of some of the most affluent addresses such as Malabar Hill, Napean Sea Road and Walkeshwar, had reported 30 Covid-positive cases until Friday. It has emerged as the second highest ward in terms of number of cases among the 24 civic administration wards in the city. Four more new cases were reported in the ward until Saturday evening. * Mumbai’s 4% death rate lower than state, but more than national averageBMC has said that Mumbai's Covid-19 fatality rate stands at around 4%, which is less than the state average (5%). It was, however, more than the national average of 3%. Mumbai had reported 18 deaths until Friday, the day BMC gave out the information. * Maharashtra logs 145 cases, its sharpest 24-hr rise in tally; 4 die in Mumbai Even as Mumbai registered four more deaths due to Covid-19, Maharashtra witnessed its sharpest 24-hour rise in tally by 145 to reach 635 cases by Saturday evening. The coronavirus tally in Mumbai, possibly the worst-hit city in the country, too rose significantly by 52 cases to climb to 377 so far. * Maharashtra govt bars sale of PPE sans its approvalCracking down on black marketing and hoarding of masks and personal protective equipment, the state has invoked provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to restrain manufacturers from selling them without its nod. It said it would fix the rates and the products can be sold only to organisations approved by it. * 22 of Maharashtra's total 32 corona deaths have been in MumbaiWhile Maharashtra saw the highest number of cornonavirus cases in a day on Saturday, taking the total number of cases from 490 to 635, Mumbai saw four more deaths. The BMC health update for Satuday said that out of the four deaths in the city, three were of patients with co-morbidities and one of a person with other age-related risk factors. * Neighbour of Tablighis’ host among 2 new Dharavi casesA 30-year-old woman from the housing society where Tablighi Jamaat members were hosted by a garment businessman before Covid-19 claimed him and a 48-year-old man from another place in Dharavi tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The test results took the number of positive cases from Dharavi to five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-in-mumbai-latest-news-live-updates-on-mumbai-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989090.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||ICMR nod to Goa firm’s device for Covid-19 testing||PUNE: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday night allowed use of Goa-based Molbio Diagnostics' portable devices to test more people, especially from the district- or taluka-level, to rule out Covid-19 infection. Known as Truenat, the fully automated battery-operated testing devices by Molbio are simple to use and provide results within one hour of sample collection without requiring any special storage conditions, ICMR officials said, adding that the device allowed real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing . The results can be seen on the screen or printed or shared wirelessly through GPRS, wi-fi and Bluetooth to any remote device/ server. Every device can store up to 20,000 results automatically, they said. "The approval will allow testing of more people at district and even sub-taluka level without the need of air-conditioned laboratories," Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, told TOI. Founder director and chief technical officer of Molbio Diagnostics Chandrashekar Nair said the company had installed 257 units in Andhra Pradesh, which were being used for TB and H1N1 testing. "These installed units can potentially do Covid-19 testing as well. These have been set up in community health centres and primary health centres, eliminating the need for moving samples for testing," he said. Dr Anoop Kumar, the consultant on Covid-19 to the Kerala government and the company's key opinion leader, said the collection medium provided with the kit killed the virus immediately after transfer of the sample. "Thus, precautions and personal protective equipment are required only during the sample collection process," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/the-indian-council-of-medical-research-icmr-on-friday-night-allowed-use-of-goa-based-molbio-diagnostics-portable-devices-to-test-more-people-especially-from-the-district-or-taluka-level-to-rule-out-covid-19-infection-/articleshow/74988991.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||NEW DELHI: Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Delhi. Update at 11.12pm: No fresh coronavirus positive case was reported on Sunday in Gautam Buddh Nagar, even as the number of COVID-19 tests saw a sharp spike to cross the 1,000-mark, officials said on Sunday. (PTI) Update at 11pm: The power consumption load in Delhi dropped by around 726 MW as people switched off electric lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday and lighted candles, diyas and flashed mobile phone screens to express unity in the fight against coronavirus, discom officials said. (PTI) Update at 10.40pm: Update at 10.40pm: Residents of the national capital on Sunday night joined people across the country in expressing India's resolve to collectively fight Covid-19, lighting up 'diyas', candles and flashing torchlight from mobile phones in a symbolic gesture of solidarity following the prime minister's call. (PTI) Update at 10pm: Delhi airportduring #9baje9minutes #DelhiAirport is shining bright in solidarity with the rest of the nation as #IndiaFightsCorona. #StayHome… https://t.co/rwGm7awKvS— Delhi Airport (@DelhiAirport) 1586101544000Update at 8.55pm: Of the total cases in Delhi, 18 have been discharged and one has migrated out of the country. Update at 8.40pm: Gautam Buddh Nagar police extends for another nine days restrictions imposed in the district under Section 144 of CrPC in view of the nationwide lockdown which will continue till April 14. Update at 8.05pm: Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Sunday directed officials to check overcharging of essential items by retailers in the wake of the lockdown imposed to combat the coronavirus threat. (PTI) Update at 7.40pm: Of the 503 positive cases, 320 are from Nizamuddin Markaz, say authorities. Update at 7.20pm: Number of coronavirus cases climbs to 503 in Delhi; death toll rises to 7, PTI quotes authorities. Update at 6.40pm: NDMC hospital's 30 staffers who came in contact with Covid-19 positive sanitation worker placed under home quarantine: Officials. (PTI) Update at 6.20pm: Sanitation worker at NDMC's Charak Palika hospital in Moti Bagh tests positive for Covid-19, PTI quotes officials. Update at 5.40pm: Police have requested district magistrate to place the 8 Tablighi Jamaat members from Malaysia in quarantine, who were intercepted by Delhi's IGI immigration department today when they tried to board Malindo Air relief flight for Malaysia: Delhi Police. (ANI) Update at 5.25pm: The Delhi cabinet has given the nod for procurement of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits by city hospitals from local manufacturers and suppliers at market rate not exceeding Rs 1,087.47, amid an increasing demand amid the coronavirus spread. (IANS) Update at 5pm: Homeless people line up for food in Delhi Update at 4.35pm: The CISF is 'augmenting' Covid-19 protective gear and healthcare paraphernalia for its over 40,000 personnel who will begin having close physical interaction with lakhs of passengers once airports and the Delhi Metro re-start operations, PTI quotes a top official as saying. Update at 3.56pm: Delhi LG tells health dept to identify private hospitals that can be taken over by govt to treat Covid-19 patients, PTI quotes sources. Update at 3.30pm: Our staff is well trained and will make sure that pregnant women undergoing labour pain reach hospital comfortably. So far we have helped 155 such women: Poonam Parik, PCR South Zone Incharge, Delhi. (ANI) Update at 3.06pm: Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Sunday visited Covid-19 camp in Delhi at Narela and interacted with the doctors, including those from the Army. Update at 2.38pm: Gautam Buddh Nagar DM Suhas LY orders educational institutes not to collect fee from students of the lockdown period, reports ANI. Update at 2.36pm: A team of Forensic Science Laboratory has also arrived at Markaz Nizamuddin to investigate the case. Update at 1.58pm: The stoppage of industrial pollutants and industrial waste has definitely had a positive effect on water quality in Yamuna river. We will conduct testing of the water to ascertain the percentage of improvement in the quality: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha Update at 1.26pm: The process, to hand over the 8 Tablighi Jamaat members from Malaysia, to Delhi Police is now under way. As per rules, all the members will go through quarantine in India, reports ANI. Update at 1.01pm: A team of Delhi Police Crime Branch has arrived at Markaz Nizamuddin for an investigation into the case Update at 12.50pm: Man suspected to have contracted coronavirus attempts suicide at Delhi hospital. Update at 12.19pm: Eight Tablighi Jamaat members from Malaysia intercepted by Delhi’s IGI immigration department today when they tried to board Malindo Air relief flight for Malaysia. They will be handed over to the authorities (Police), reports ANI quoting Immigration sources. Update at 11.45am: Mental health related queries see 50% spike since lockdown: Indian Psychiatry Society * Queries on mental health grew by 80% in the metro cities in the last two weeks while consultations in tier 2+ cities grew by 35%. Most of the queries related to mental health were from Delhi NCR, followed by Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chennai. Update at 11.38am: Delhi Police urge citizens not to come out of their houses to celebrate Shab-e-Barat on April 8/9, amid lockdown; cops also urge cooperation from religious leaders and RWAs in maintaining lockdown. Update at 11.02am: The national capital continues to enjoy a better quality of air with the AQI recorded under the 'satisfactory' category at 82. According to SAFAR, while there is 63 per cent reduction in nitrogen oxides in the city, PM 2.5 has reduced by 49 per cent due to lockdown which has been imposed as a containment measure to curb the spread of coronavirus, reports IANS. Update at 10.43am: Two more nursing staff of Delhi State Cancer Institute have been tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, four staff including a doctor were found positive at the hospital, reports ANI. Update at 8.19am: Total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district in UP rises to 58 including 8 fresh positive cases: District surveillance officer. From next week, ration for even those without cards* All non-ration cardholders living in Delhi would be able to collect ration at subsidised rates from fair price shops of the city from the middle of next week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at a press conference on Saturday. * “We had already announced that the Delhi government would give 7.5kg free ration to the 71 lakh people who had ration cards. There are around 6.5 lakh people who had applied for the card but did not get it. We have decided to give these people also the benefit of free ration. Many poor people did not have any ration card. We created a website for registering such people. After the registration, we would provide ration to all of them,” Kejriwal said. Factories shut in Delhi, Yamuna water sparkles* What years of planning and huge allocations could not achieve has been ensured by a few days of lockdown. Stretches of the Yamuna that had become picture postcards for Delhi’s pollution, showing the toxic foam — byproduct of industrial effluents — were sparkling blue on Saturday. The stench of a decaying river too had receded. The shutting down of industries has made all the difference. The relief is temporary but holds hope for the future if we can draw the right lessons. * The human assault on the river, though, has not stopped. Sewage through residential colonies that are not linked to sewage treatment plants continues to flow into it. Experts, however, say this is the ideal time to measure pollution levels in the river in order to let the agencies draw up a plan for acting against industrial pollutants in the future. Noida firm chain reaches JJ colony* Four more Covid-19 cases were reported in Noida on Saturday — all linked to Cease Fire, the firm to which 67% of the 58 cases in the district can be traced, with the infection chain moving from gated societies to urban villages and a slum cluster. * Noida is also now one of the 10 novel coronavirus hotspots in the country. * All of the 39 cases linked to Cease Fire can be traced to one of three suspected sources — two employees who had travelled abroad and an external auditor from the UK. While three of the four cases on Saturday were from Sector 62 — wife (42) and sons (13 and 10) of an employee who has not tested positive yet — the fourth person is a resident of an urban village, Wajidpur. Govt to give transit passes to foreigners for going home* Delhi government has decided to issue transit passes for foreign nationals who have been stranded in different parts of the city due to the lockdown and want to go back to their home countries. * According to the standard operating procedure prepared by Delhi government, after the ministry of foreign affairs endorses the evacuation requests of foreign countries, the district magistrates of the area where the foreign nationals are staying will issue transit pass for vehicles deployed for their movement. The local transport arrangement from the place of stay to the point of embarkation will be arranged by the local embassy/consulate of the respective foreign government. The chartered flight will be arranged by the concerned foreign government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-in-delhi-latest-news-live-updates-on-delhi-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989088.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Send report on doing the PM's diya task, Chandigarh schools told||CHANDIGARH: District education officer (DEO) Alka Mehta on Saturday asked all schools to send a compliance report of the Sunday 9pm ritual of lighting diyas and downloading Arogya app, as asked by the Prime Minister, by Monday. The DEO, following orders by the ministry of human resource and development, asked schools to send details of how students were informed about downloading the app and how many followed the 9pm-9minute diya task. The circular was issued to principals of government, government aided and private schools. Schools in their report have been asked to include "whether advisory was given to field functionaries, the mode of communication to schools, teachers, students and parents, the number of teachers and parents who downloaded the app and students who participated in candle lighting. On Friday, the CBSE had sent a circular to schools to ensure parents, teachers and students comply with the PM's message. A school principal, who is a member of Independent Schools Association, said, "It is difficult to understand why CBSE has been giving us deadlines to inform parents and ensure compliance and the education department is seeking compliance report. We would rather spend time on enhancing modes of online teaching."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/send-report-on-doing-the-pms-diya-task-chandigarh-schools-told/articleshow/74989132.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Hyderabad. * Update at 10.50pm: 62 coronavirus cases reported in Telangana on Sunday; total number of cases now 289 * Update at 10.10pm: As a mark of solidarity in the fight against coronavirus, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday night led the people of the state by switching off lights at their residences in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and lit diyas and candles. *Update at 9.30pm: Families come onto their balconies and terraces in Hyderabad as they switch off lights and participate in the 9 baje 9 minute call given by PM Modi. Families come onto their balconies and terraces as they switch off lights and participate in the #9baje9mintues cal… https://t.co/QhV30yQIGb— TOI Hyderabad (@TOIHyderabad) 1586101266000*Update at 8.30pm: Coronavirus cases spiked across Kurnool and Chittoor districts in the Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. According to the medical bulletin released by the officials, 23 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported at various parts of Kurnool district on Sunday morning. While 11 cases were reported in Kurnool city alone, three cases each, were reported at Nandyal town and Kodumur, two cases at Nandikotkur, and one case each were reported at Atmakur, Banaganapalle, Gadivemula and Panyam. * Update at 7.30pm: 26 more coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; total number of cases now 252. * Update at 6.35pm: Cops seized 2,370 bottles of liquor being transported by concealing them in milk cans at Piduguralla in Guntur district. * Update at 6.05pm: Police officials across Telangana were on Sunday directed to form Whatsapp groups with doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in dealing with Covid-19 cases to ensure their security. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Sunday directed the entire police force across the state to ensure safety and security of all doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in dealing with Covid-19 cases. * Update 5.15pm: An ophthalmologist at a state-run medical institute has been placed under hospital quarantine in Telagana after he attended the preparatory meeting for the Tablighi Jamat congregation in Delhi last month and his test results are awaited, officials said here on Sunday. * Update at 4.35pm: State nodal officer Dr Srikanth Arja said that the maximum number of positive cases was 23 from Kurnool, followed by Chittooru with 7 positive cases. Two results each from Ongole and Nellore also came positive during the night. * Update at 1.35pm: Keeping in view the scarcity of PPE in hospitals, the AP Chambers of Commerce has handed over Rs 2.41 lakhs with another 50,000 earmarked for PPE for Drs in Chest Hospital and GIMSAR designated hospital for Covid 19 through the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Each set costs about Rs 1,600. Total 150 PPE sets were handed over today. * Update at 12.56pm: SCB officials along with Telangana fire department spray disinfectant at Anna Nagar X-road, Tadbund x road and Hanuman Temple, Tadbund. * Update at 12.14pm: Ordnance factory, Medak has undertaken repair of ventilators in various hospitals in Hyderabad. * Update at 11.50am: Mental health related queries see 50% spike since lockdown: Indian Psychiatry Society. Queries on mental health grew by 80% in the metro cities in the last two weeks while consultations in tier 2+ cities grew by 35%. * Update at 11.03am: High demand and fall in supply have led to rise in the price of mutton in Vizag and Vijayawada and few other parts of Andhra Pradesh. A kilogram of mutton which was sold at Rs 700 has now been shot up to Rs 800- 900. Similarly, the price of fresh water fish has increased by 30 per cent in most parts of the state. * Update at 10.57am: 36 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, taking the total number of those infected in the state to 226 *With misinformation on Covid-19 flooding the social media, researchers have now created a multi-institutional, multi-lingual science communication portal ‘CovidGyan’ to bust various myths on the pandemic. *Telangana Transco and Genco chairman and managing director (CMD) D Prabhakar Rao has dismissed rumours that the power grid will collapse due to sudden dip in demand at 9pm on Sunday. *Some doctors at the frontline of the Covid-19 war in Hyderabad have decided not to wait for the government to give them personal protective equipment (PPE) and started a crowdfunding initiative for the gear. *With occupancy rates low due to the nationwide lockdown, many star hotels in Hyderabad are finding different ways to stay connected with their consumers. Some of them have even started free home delivery of food — in most cases, within a radius of five kilometres. *Narayana Group of Institutions and Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions Group have started conducting online classes and tests for Intermediate students amidst the ongoing lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-in-hyderabad-latest-news-updates-on-hyderabad-corona-cases-deaths-5-april-2020/articleshow/74989016.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Eight travellers from Andhra Pradesh test positive in Latur village||AURANGABAD: Eight of 12 travellers from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, who had arrived at Nilanga in Latur district from Haryana on April 2, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Latur district collector G Shreekanth said the group was travelling from Ferozepur in Haryana in two vehicles on rent to Nilanga via Mathura and Dhule. "They were issued emergency pass by the revenue department of Haryana, with help of which they crossed the borders." Shreekanth said the group had been to Delhi before going to Haryana, but it is yet to be ascertained whether they attended the Tablighi event or came into contact with those who had attended. The group members, however, said they did not attend the Tablighi Jamaat event. With the latest cases, the count of current Covid-19 patients in Marathwada has reached 13. The group claimed that was going back home from Ferozepur in Haryana, but the driver of their vehicle dropped them midway and disappeared, following which they chose to stay at a religious place in Nilanga taluka. On learning of the group's travel history, the Latur administration moved them to the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Science Institute (VDGMSI). Although they did not have symptoms, their throat swabs were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Girish Thakur, dean of VDGMSI, told TOI that those who tested positive have been admitted to the medical college and are being treated according to government protocol. "Currently, they are in an isolation ward and their condition is stable," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/eight-travellers-from-andhra-pradesh-test-positive-in-latur-village/articleshow/74989155.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. * PTI update at 10.45pm: Millions of people in Gujarat switched off the lights at their homes and lit candles, diyas or turned on mobile phone torches for nine minutes starting 9 pm on Sunday, in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in its fight against coronavirus. After switching off the lights, people stood in balconies or terraces of their houses where they lit earthen lamps, candles and waved mobile flashlights. * Update at 9.30pm:  A view of 'Diya Jalao' campaign in various parts of Ahmedabad * ANI update at 9.15pm: People turned off the lights of their houses & lighted earthen lamps in Ahmedabad * Update at 8.40pm: Surat municipal corporation declared Hathi Faliya in Begumpura as mass quarantine area after 65 year old man was tested positive of CVOID-19 on Sunday. There are over 1100 houses and 6,000 people under mass quarantine. * Update at 8.00pm: GMERS Gotri Hospital in Vadodara has been declared as coronavirus hospital. All positive cases of Central Gujarat will be treated at Gotri hospital * Update at 7.45pm: Fifth patient discharged from SSG Hospital in Vadodara . The 32-year-old male patient is son of coronavirus victim who passed away on Thursday. Earlier, his mother, wife and sister were discharged from the hospital * PTI update at 7.30pm: As 16 more attendees of the religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin were traced in Gujarat on Sunday, the number of such people found in the state so far has gone up to 126, of whom eight have tested coronavirus positive, a top police officer said. * Update at 6.30pm: There are total 5 persons including a 14-month-old child tested positive in Saurashtra in single day. Two are from Bhavnagar and one each from Kutch, Morbi and Jamnagar. * Update at 5.10pm: A 50-year-old male from Adajan Patia in Surat with no travel history tested positive of coronavirus. Total COVID-19 cases in the city climbs to 14. * Update at 5.00pm: Jamnagar witnesses first case of Covid-19 after a person tested positive for coronavirus infection * Update at 4.45pm: 16 more people have been identified from Gujarat who had attended Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Total goes up to 126 : DGP * Update at 4.40pm: Police have banned citizens from distributing food and water in public places in Vadodara. The move came after a man was tested positive for coronavirus in Nagarwada. * PTI update at 4.30pm: The Gujarat government on Sunday announced Rs 25 lakh compensation in case santitation and health workers, revenue and food supplies staff, fair price shop owners died of the coronavirus infection while working in the frontline to combat the outbreak. * Update at 2.52pm: Two people of Ajwa Road in Vadodara arrested for making Sev Usal and taking home delivery orders. *1.48pm: Surat police commissioner orders closure of wholesale vegetable and fruit market of the city till April 14 after reports of heavy rush and crowding. *12.22pm: Two Corona positive patients of Rajkot - a 75-year-old woman and her 42-year-old son discharged from hospital. *11.42am: Mental health related queries see 50% spike since lockdown: Indian Psychiatry Society Queries on mental health grew by 80% in the metro cities in the last two weeks while consultations in tier 2+ cities grew by 35%. Most of the queries related to mental health were from Delhi NCR, followed by Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chennai. In Non-T7 cities, most of the queries came from Phagwara, Rewa, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad and Jaipur. *11.23am: Chhota Udepur district in Gujarat registers its first coronavirus case as a 60-year-old man tests positive. The patient had travelled to Delhi and is currently admitted at the isolation ward of Chhota Udepur general hospital. *11.01am: A resident of Nagarwada area in Vadodara tests positive for Covid-19. The patient was admitted to SSG Hospital on Saturday after which samples were sent for test. His specific travel history is not known so far. The total number of cases in the city has risen to 10. *10.50am: 14 new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat; tally jumps to 122: Official (PTI) *GSDP loss of over Rs 70,000 cr likely in Gujarat due to 21-day Gujarat lockdown. *Due to the first of its kind 21-day lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak, the state will have to pay a big economic and social price in the coming days. So far, neither the state government nor the government of India has done any survey of job loss or economic loss due to the lockdown but according to experts, the impact is likely to be huge. *Rapid Antibody Testing (RAT) will be initiated in the Covid-19 hotspots in Gujarat including Ahmedabad, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Saturday evening. *The municipal commissioner of Ahmedabad has appealed to citizens to stay indoors for the next ten days as the city reports cases of local transmission of Covid. *The city police commissioner has issued a notification banning the movement of all types of vehicles. People will have to prove they had a dire need to use their vehicles. *Jyoti CNC, the Rajkot-based firm that was tasked with making ventilators in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, is all set to make the cost-effective life-support equipment on a mass scale. *The state government on Saturday said wearing of mask by people visiting public places was highly advisable and that international experts too feel even simple home-made mask can protect a person from getting infected with coronavirus. *Gujarat crossed 100 cases of Covid-19 positive cases with the tally climbing to 105.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coronavirus-in-ahmedabad-latest-news-updates-on-ahmedabad-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989147.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vendors crowding outside Market Yard to face action||PUNE: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Pune with the local police will ensure stricter implementation of lockdown measures near the Gultekdi market, where retail vegetable and fruit vendors have been crowding to sell their produce. The APMC has also told wholesalers to not indulge in retail business, to curb the footfall of individual buyers on the premises. An official said the vendors line up at the entrance gates of the wholesale market. Authorities from the APMC said they had been urging the vendors to not occupy the open spaces. They have identified around seven to eight locations where vendors have been crowding. ". During the national lockdown period, we want retail vendors to avoid occupying the roads and footpaths. We are also urging retail customers to not visit the wholesale market, as it is causing overcrowding," a senior official said. The APMC has sought help of the local police during weekends when the market witnesses higher footfall. The APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh said, "The retailers will face action in the next few days. We have also told our staff present at various gates to remain alert. The action is being jointly planned with the police. We are also putting barricades at all places to prevent people who are not required from coming to the market." "We will take action to ensure obstacle-free business at the wholesale market at Gultekdi. The action against vendors will be intensified as per the requirements. We are providing adequate force for the same," SS Nimbalkar, senior inspector of Market Yard police station, said. A wholesaler from APMC said that the administration had already put restrictions on the timings for trade. "We are ready to cooperate with the administration to streamline daily business and avoid unnecessary crowds," the trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-vendors-crowding-outside-market-yard-to-face-action/articleshow/74989182.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 5, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Santrampur man dies of Covid-19 in Kuwait||VADODARA: A man from Santrampur town of Mahisagar district died in Kuwait after getting infected with novel coronavirus. The victim Vinay Chauhan and his brother Rajesh had gone for employment to Kuwait a few years back. Family sources said that they used to work there as tailors. The family lives in Patel Falia locality in Santrampur. Vinay had taken ill about a week back and had even seen a doctor. When his condition did not improve despite medication, a test to ascertain if he was suffering from COVID-19 was conducted. "He tested positive and admitted in a hospital. Rajesh also tested, but his reports were negative and he was discharged from the hospital," said Kanchan Chauhan, Vinay and Rajesh's sister. Kanchan, who also stays in Santrampur, said that the family was informed about Vinay's death at around 1.30am on Saturday. She said that Vinay's last rites will be performed in Kuwait itself. Rajesh too will not be able to return home to be with the grieving family due to the lockdown and suspension of flights. Vinay is survived by his wife and two children who live in Santrampur with his parents. His father Devchand is in shock after learning about the death and was advised rest. Kuwait has reported nearly 479 cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/santrampur-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-kuwait/articleshow/74989185.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Growing or greying, tresses add to stress||MUMBAI: Prancing peacocks and dancing dolphins are all very well, but one of the less palatable things that nature has brought home thanks to the lockdown is-hair. While men are desperately seeking barbers and finally risking their wives to trim their locks, women are waking up in the mornings not recognising their grey selves.  "There's no silver lining in silver hair," says a homemaker, adding her husband was not even aware of how grey she had gone. "Women are going mental without access to the parlour -the big issues are grey hair and bushy eyebrows," adds hairstylist Aneesha Virani. Hair and beauty expert Kanta Motwani of Kromakay Salons says she gets an average of one call a day from women in distress. "One of my clients called to say this (visiting the parlour) is the only thing that keeps her sane. You see, for many women, going to salons is therapy. When a client sits on a hairdresser's chair, its also about the conversation. We are like their caregivers-many don't even have the products they need to shampoo and condition their hair."  Men don't worry much about the grey. Some have grown their hair to make a ponytail. "Or they can just go bald, the hair will grow back," Motwani adds. "But if women really have a problem with the grey showing, I tell them, wear a scarf or tie it up, or cover it with a bandana, if it bothers them. But at least give it a little TLC by giving yourself a massage." Some give their hair a break from colouring, blow-dryingOne south Mumbai school teacher says, “I’m actually letting my hair recover from all the colour and blow-drying... oiling it twice a week and letting it dry naturally. It’s quite liberating actually.” South Mumbai-based hair stylist Jehanbux Mogal says a few clients still ask if they can come over. “But I refuse because it’s not safe,” he says. While some rebellious teenagers are threatening to go bald, children are complaining about the heat and their overflowing sweaty strands. Recently, Jay Patel, a Malad-based education consultant, got so tired of his five-year-old son complaining crankily about his itching scalp, “I found a pair of clippers and decided to do it myself. I saved a thousand bucks and Trishaan was extremely happy.” Suresh Naik, a media professional, has been miserably searching for a barber since the lockdown. He found one outside Ghatkopar station. “When I besieged him, he told me he wouldn’t do it even if I paid him Rs 10,000,” says Naik with a groan. Social media has been buzzing with jokes and memes about home haircuts. One branded salon posted a ‘how to’ on cutting your own hair, and just as the viewer starts paying attention, the stylist stops and says, “Don’t even think about doing it on your own. Just wait until the lockdown is over.” In one post, actor Anushka Sharma can be seen giving her cricketer husband Virat Kohli a haircut. Meanwhile, actor Neena Gupta gave her fans a tip on dealing with the grey showing up. With no irony whatsoever, she whispered conspirationally to them on her Instagram handle: “Use your mascara to touch it up. It really works!” There is some concern that with men growing hair and women growing moustaches, gender parity may get a whole new look.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/growing-or-greying-tresses-add-to-stress/articleshow/74989190.cms||Namita Devidayal
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||LUCKNOW: Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Lucknow. * Update at 11.00pm: In a late evening development, one of the Indonesian, who attended Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi on March 12 and 13 and arrived in Prayagraj on March 22, was tested positive for coronavirus infection here on Sunday. * Update at 9.40pm: Deputy CM Keshav Maurya carry earthen lamps for '9pm-9 minutes' call at his official residence in Lucknow * Update at 9.30pm: Demand for power dropped by 4000 Mw in Uttar Pradesh at 9pm * Update at 9.15pm: Massive fire works also took place in Varanasi * Update at 9.10pm: UP CM Yogi Adityanath lights earthen lamps to form an 'Om', at his residence. * Update at 8.30pm: A 55-year-old resident of Varanasi who died on April 3, became the third Covid-19 casualty in Uttar Pradesh after his coronavirus test came positive on Sunday. “This is the third coronavirus related death in the state,” said principal secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. * Update at 6.45pm: After district administration of Varanasi and GB Nagar waived off 3 months advance school fees in view of businesses shut due to lockdown. Lucknow district administration also issued an order to school authorities on Sunday to not charge fees of April, May and June from parents rather continue teaching and later take this fees. * Update at 5.00pm: Indian Forest Service Association, UP, contributes Rs 19 lakh to CM disaster relief fund to fight against coronavirus * Update at 4.28pm: Three new novel coronavirus cases surfaced in Agra on Sunday morning taking the district’s tall to 48. While two of them are the mother and brother of a Covid-19 positive Dunai returnee, the other one is a a TB patient with no travel history or known contact with any coronavirus patients. * Update at 4.20pm: Water supply in at least 10 localities in Agra was affected on Sunday due to leakages in supply pipelines and other mechanical faults. * Update at 4.17pm: 138 pople with Tablighi Jamaat connection have tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, says ACS (Home) Awanish Awasthi * Update at 4.15pm: A person, who died on April 3 in Varanasi, tested positive to coronavirus infection on Sunday. Update at 3.10pm: Uttar Pradesh Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state have been reported in the last three days and the government is taking all possible steps to contain its spread. Update at 2.40pm: Lockdown will end on April 15. Have to ensure crowding does not take place: UP CM Yogi Adityanath Update at 2.01pm: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath interacted with Members of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh through video conference over Covid-19 situation in the state Update at 1.35pm: Ghazipur: Two more people have been found positive for Covid-19, taking the total cases in the district to 5, says District Magistrate Om Prakash Arya. With two deaths & 19 cured people, total cases in Uttar Pradesh stand at 227, reports ANI. Update at 12.35pm: People in UP's Moradabad purchase earthen lamps to light them at 9pm today as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a gesture to win over darkness in this time of despair due Update at 11.52am: Six pockets in Kanpur district have been declared 'red zones' after six Tablighi Jamaat members, including two foreign nationals, who attended a congregation in Delhi and visited a number of places here, tested positive for coronavirus, reports PTI. Update at 10.51am: 23 Tablighi Jamaat attendees test negative for Covid-19 in Mathura, reports ANI. Update at 10.46am: Banda man who attended Nizamuddin congregation tests positive for coronavirus, reports ANI. Update at 9.57am: Lucknow Cantonment area was sealed for 48 hours after 12 Tablighi Jamaat returnees in Sadar Bazaar area tested positive for Covid-19. Only Quick Response Teams and medical teams will be allowed entry into the area, reports ANI. Update at 9.43am: Yogi Adityanath will chair a meeting of officers of the 11 committees constituted to oversee the situation following the enforcement of lockdown and 12 nodal officers, at 10am today. Update at 8.50am: 16 people have tested positive for Coronavirus: King George's Medical University, Lucknow, reports ANI. Update at 8.33am: Three more people (contacts of earlier positive cases) in Agra test positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 48. Veggies’ prices soar amid supply hiccups* Despite action against over 12 vegetable vendors and grocers for violating rates fixed by the district administration, overpricing of essential commodities continued on Saturday. * In a reality check, TOI found that prices of commodities, including vegetables and fruits continued to rise in markets like Jankipuram, Chowk, Yahiyaganj, Daliganj, Thakurganj, Indiranagar and Chowk. DMs to be held responsible if people are hungry, says Yogi Adityanath* If anybody goes hungry anywhere in the state, the district magistrate will be held responsible. This was the terse message from chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday. The CM sought a list of districts, where community kitchens have still not been set up along with names of DMs. * “We should not be getting calls on the helpline about people not getting food. The district supply officer should be told to swiftly issue ration cards and transfer Rs 1,000 to accounts of those not receiving ration,” the CM said. * Municipal councillors, local body employees and gram pradhans should be mobilised to ensure swift distribution of food, he said. Their help should also be sought for distribution of LPG cylinders, medicines and other essential goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-in-lucknow-latest-news-updates-on-lucknow-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989180.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||What impact is coronavirus having on Middle East conflicts?||BEIRUT: The novel coronavirus has put global trade on hold, placed half of the world population in confinement and has the potential to topple governments and reshape diplomatic relations.  Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage 21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won't How to quarantine yourself at home Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The United Nations has appealed for ceasefires in all the major conflicts rocking the planet, with its chief Antonio Guterres on Friday warning "the worst is yet to come". But it remains unclear what the pandemic's impact will be on the multiple wars roiling the Middle East. Here is an overview of the impact so far on the conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Libya and Iraq: The COVID-19 outbreak turned into a pandemic just as a ceasefire reached by the two main foreign power brokers in Syria's nine-year-old war -- Russia and Turkey -- was taking effect. The three million people living in the ceasefire zone, in the country's northwestern region of Idlib, had little hope the deal would hold. Yet fears the coronavirus could spread like wildfire across the devastated country appear to have given the truce an extended lease of life. According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, the month of March saw the lowest civilian death toll since the conflict started in 2011, with 103 deaths. The ability of the multiple administrations in Syria -- the Damascus government, the autonomous Kurdish administration in the northeast and the jihadist-led alliance that runs Idlib -- to manage the coronavirus threat is key to their credibility. "This epidemic is a way for Damascus to show that the Syrian state is efficient and all territories should be returned under its governance," analyst Fabrice Balanche said. However the pandemic and the global mobilisation it requires could precipitate the departure of US-led troops from Syria and neighbouring Iraq. This in turn could create a vacuum in which the Islamic State jihadist group, still reeling from the demise of its "caliphate" a year ago, could seek to step up its attacks. The Yemeni government and the Huthi rebels initially responded positively to the UN appeal for a ceasefire, as did neighbouring Saudi Arabia, which leads a military coalition in support of the government. That rare glimmer of hope in the five-year-old conflict was short-lived however and last week Saudi air defences intercepted ballistic missiles over Riyadh and a border city fired by the Iran-backed rebels. The Saudi-led coalition retaliated by striking Huthi targets in the rebel-held capital Sanaa on Monday. Talks have repeatedly faltered but the UN envoy Martin Griffiths is holding daily consultations in a bid to clinch a nationwide ceasefire. More flare-ups in Yemen could compound a humanitarian crisis often described as the worst in the world and invite a coronavirus outbreak of catastrophic proportions. In a country where the health infrastructure has collapsed, where water is a rare commodity and where 24 million people require humanitarian assistance, the population fears being wiped out if a ceasefire doesn't allow for adequate aid. "People will end up dying on the streets, bodies will be rotting in the open," said Mohammed Omar, a taxi driver in the Red Sea port city of Hodeida. Much like Yemen, the main protagonists in the Libyan conflict initially welcomed the UN ceasefire call but swiftly resumed hostilities. Fierce fighting has rocked the south of the capital Tripoli in recent days, suggesting the risk of a major coronavirus outbreak is not enough to make guns fall silent. Turkey has recently played a key role in the conflict, throwing its weight behind the UN-recognised Government of National Accord. Fabrice Balanche predicted that accelerated Western disengagement from Middle East conflicts could limit Turkish support to the GNA. That could eventually favour forces loyal to eastern-based strongman Khalifa Haftar, who launched an assault on Tripoli one year ago and has the backing of Russia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. Western countries have been hit hardest by the pandemic, which could prompt them to divert both military resources and peace-brokering capacity from foreign conflicts. A report by the International Crisis Group said European officials had reported that efforts to secure a ceasefire in Libya were no longer receiving high-level attention due to the pandemic. Iraq is no longer gripped by fully-fledged conflict but it remains vulnerable to an IS resurgence in some regions and its two main foreign backers are at each other's throats. Iran and the United States are two of the countries most affected by the coronavirus but there has been no sign of any let-up in their battle for influence that has largely played out on Iraqi soil. With most non-US troops in the coalition now gone and some bases evacuated, American personnel are now regrouped in a handful of locations in Iraq. Washington has deployed Patriot air defence missiles, prompting fears of a fresh escalation with Tehran, whose proxies it blames for a spate of rocket attacks on bases housing US troops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/what-impact-is-coronavirus-having-on-middle-east-conflicts/articleshow/74989098.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad road repair work in full swing||HYDERABAD: Road restoration works under Comprehensive Road Maintenance Plan (CRMP) are being executed during day amidst the lockdown. Before the lockdowm was announced, he works were executed during night because of traffic restrictions. Under CRMP, 401 stretches covering 709 km of main roads in Hyderabad have been handed over to private agencies for five years at Rs 1,827 crore. The road near CII-Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre juncton (opposite Google office), Borabanda main road, Secunderabad Clock Tower Road, the road connecting Marriot to Musheerabad (lower Tank Bund), the road near Sant Nirankari Satsang Bhavan (Lakdikapul) and NMDC Road (Masab Tank) are some of the streches which are getting a facelift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-road-repair-work-in-full-swing/articleshow/74989264.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Manpower crunch hampers supply chains||The mass exodus of migrant labourers, who were left without work and means to earn two square meals a day when the lockdown was imposed, has disrupted the entire supply chain from manufacturer to retailers. A large part of white collar workers remaining indoors due to the lockdown has further added to the woes of essential goods makers and suppliers. While manufacturers are struggling with low production capacities, the impact has trickled down all the way till the distributors, transporters and even retailers, who are reeling under manpower crunch causing supply chain woes. Industry players say that whatever supplies are being pushed to retail counters are through the pipeline stock that was stuck at state and district borders and is eventually being released and that not much supply of essentials and medicines has been shipped from manufacturing units to retail counters. Here’s a detailed analysis of the impact of labourer shortage on the food-processing sector. Less than 5% of transport vehicles on roadTransport companies have barely opened operations as manpower shortage is proving to be a major bottleneck. According to estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA), less than 5% of transport vehicles are moving on the roads. “Godown operations for loading and unloading isn’t taking place because manpower crunch is severe. While the migrant labourers have left for their villages, those who are there are not able to reach the godowns in the lockdown situation. Many of them don’t even have passes to be able to move in the lockdown,” said Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA. “The inflow of commodities, be it essential commodities or else, is very less because of sealing of state borders along Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he added. Pharma industry sees only 30% turnout of workersThe pharma industry is currently witnessing only 30% of its total workforce reporting to work. The absence is more in case of lower level workers. “Being essential item makers, the industry is supposed to maintain supply of medicine. With reduced workforce, one can focus only on production of the most essential medicines,” said an industry player. Supply chain has been disrupted and production has taken a beating. Pharma industry players were expecting the manpower strength to grow from Monday this week with the government issuing permits to smoothen transportation of workers to their workplaces. However, there has been no improvement in turnout due to the scare. Edible oil units operating at 40-50% of their capacityEdible oil factories and refineries are operating with skeleton staff. The workforce issues are felt across units, which are allowed to function to make essential goods. Edible oil industry is labour intensive. Mass exodus of labourers has created a shortage of manpower. Adequate labourers are not available for even loading and unloading goods, which has slowed down dispatches. Only onethird of staff strength is turning out. According to the Solvent Extractors Associations of India, edible oil units currently are operating with 40-50% capacity with all due precautions. Food processing unitsFood processing units, be it flour, spices or else, are either shut or are operating at 50% of the production capacity due to shortage of manpower,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). “Labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity. We are operating at 75% of our labour requirement. With transport relaxation, there is slight improvement in the situation but things have not normalized completely. We are also facing issues at distributor-level who don’t have enough manpower,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. FMCG distributors resume work but operations still in low gearWith relaxation on transport for essential and non-essential items announced by the state government earlier this week, distributors of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) are a little at ease in terms of shipping goods. “While this has surely eased the supply-chain to some extent, labourer shortage continues to remain. Most distributors are currently operating at 50% of the total labourer requirement,” said Rajat Diwan, vice-president, Federation of Gujarat Distributors Association (FGDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-manpower-crunch-hampers-supply-chains/articleshow/74989272.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Manpower crunch hampers supply chains||The mass exodus of migrant labourers, who were left without work and means to earn two square meals a day when the lockdown was imposed, has disrupted the entire supply chain from manufacturer to retailers. A large part of white collar workers remaining indoors due to the lockdown has further added to the woes of essential goods makers and suppliers. While manufacturers are struggling with low production capacities, the impact has trickled down all the way till the distributors, transporters and even retailers, who are reeling under manpower crunch causing supply chain woes. Industry players say that whatever supplies are being pushed to retail counters are through the pipeline stock that was stuck at state and district borders and is eventually being released and that not much supply of essentials and medicines has been shipped from manufacturing units to retail counters. Here’s a detailed analysis of the impact of labourer shortage on the food-processing sector. Less than 5% of transport vehicles on roadTransport companies have barely opened operations as manpower shortage is proving to be a major bottleneck. According to estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA), less than 5% of transport vehicles are moving on the roads. “Godown operations for loading and unloading isn’t taking place because manpower crunch is severe. While the migrant labourers have left for their villages, those who are there are not able to reach the godowns in the lockdown situation. Many of them don’t even have passes to be able to move in the lockdown,” said Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA. “The inflow of commodities, be it essential commodities or else, is very less because of sealing of state borders along Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he added. Pharma industry sees only 30% turnout of workersThe pharma industry is currently witnessing only 30% of its total workforce reporting to work. The absence is more in case of lower level workers. “Being essential item makers, the industry is supposed to maintain supply of medicine. With reduced workforce, one can focus only on production of the most essential medicines,” said an industry player. Supply chain has been disrupted and production has taken a beating. Pharma industry players were expecting the manpower strength to grow from Monday this week with the government issuing permits to smoothen transportation of workers to their workplaces. However, there has been no improvement in turnout due to the scare. Edible oil units operating at 40-50% of their capacityEdible oil factories and refineries are operating with skeleton staff. The workforce issues are felt across units, which are allowed to function to make essential goods. Edible oil industry is labour intensive. Mass exodus of labourers has created a shortage of manpower. Adequate labourers are not available for even loading and unloading goods, which has slowed down dispatches. Only onethird of staff strength is turning out. According to the Solvent Extractors Associations of India, edible oil units currently are operating with 40-50% capacity with all due precautions. Food processing unitsFood processing units, be it flour, spices or else, are either shut or are operating at 50% of the production capacity due to shortage of manpower,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). “Labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity. We are operating at 75% of our labour requirement. With transport relaxation, there is slight improvement in the situation but things have not normalized completely. We are also facing issues at distributor-level who don’t have enough manpower,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. FMCG distributors resume work but operations still in low gearWith relaxation on transport for essential and non-essential items announced by the state government earlier this week, distributors of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) are a little at ease in terms of shipping goods. “While this has surely eased the supply-chain to some extent, labourer shortage continues to remain. Most distributors are currently operating at 50% of the total labourer requirement,” said Rajat Diwan, vice-president, Federation of Gujarat Distributors Association (FGDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-manpower-crunch-hampers-supply-chains/articleshow/74989254.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 5, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Manpower crunch hampers supply chains||The mass exodus of migrant labourers, who were left without work and means to earn two square meals a day when the lockdown was imposed, has disrupted the entire supply chain from manufacturer to retailers. A large part of white collar workers remaining indoors due to the lockdown has further added to the woes of essential goods makers and suppliers. While manufacturers are struggling with low production capacities, the impact has trickled down all the way till the distributors, transporters and even retailers, who are reeling under manpower crunch causing supply chain woes. Industry players say that whatever supplies are being pushed to retail counters are through the pipeline stock that was stuck at state and district borders and is eventually being released and that not much supply of essentials and medicines has been shipped from manufacturing units to retail counters. Here’s a detailed analysis of the impact of labourer shortage on the food-processing sector. Less than 5% of transport vehicles on roadTransport companies have barely opened operations as manpower shortage is proving to be a major bottleneck. According to estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA), less than 5% of transport vehicles are moving on the roads. “Godown operations for loading and unloading isn’t taking place because manpower crunch is severe. While the migrant labourers have left for their villages, those who are there are not able to reach the godowns in the lockdown situation. Many of them don’t even have passes to be able to move in the lockdown,” said Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA. “The inflow of commodities, be it essential commodities or else, is very less because of sealing of state borders along Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he added. Pharma industry sees only 30% turnout of workersThe pharma industry is currently witnessing only 30% of its total workforce reporting to work. The absence is more in case of lower level workers. “Being essential item makers, the industry is supposed to maintain supply of medicine. With reduced workforce, one can focus only on production of the most essential medicines,” said an industry player. Supply chain has been disrupted and production has taken a beating. Pharma industry players were expecting the manpower strength to grow from Monday this week with the government issuing permits to smoothen transportation of workers to their workplaces. However, there has been no improvement in turnout due to the scare. Edible oil units operating at 40-50% of their capacityEdible oil factories and refineries are operating with skeleton staff. The workforce issues are felt across units, which are allowed to function to make essential goods. Edible oil industry is labour intensive. Mass exodus of labourers has created a shortage of manpower. Adequate labourers are not available for even loading and unloading goods, which has slowed down dispatches. Only onethird of staff strength is turning out. According to the Solvent Extractors Associations of India, edible oil units currently are operating with 40-50% capacity with all due precautions. Food processing unitsFood processing units, be it flour, spices or else, are either shut or are operating at 50% of the production capacity due to shortage of manpower,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). “Labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity. We are operating at 75% of our labour requirement. With transport relaxation, there is slight improvement in the situation but things have not normalized completely. We are also facing issues at distributor-level who don’t have enough manpower,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. FMCG distributors resume work but operations still in low gearWith relaxation on transport for essential and non-essential items announced by the state government earlier this week, distributors of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) are a little at ease in terms of shipping goods. “While this has surely eased the supply-chain to some extent, labourer shortage continues to remain. Most distributors are currently operating at 50% of the total labourer requirement,” said Rajat Diwan, vice-president, Federation of Gujarat Distributors Association (FGDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-manpower-crunch-hampers-supply-chains/articleshow/74989273.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 5, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Manpower crunch hampers supply chains||The mass exodus of migrant labourers, who were left without work and means to earn two square meals a day when the lockdown was imposed, has disrupted the entire supply chain from manufacturer to retailers. A large part of white collar workers remaining indoors due to the lockdown has further added to the woes of essential goods makers and suppliers. While manufacturers are struggling with low production capacities, the impact has trickled down all the way till the distributors, transporters and even retailers, who are reeling under manpower crunch causing supply chain woes. Industry players say that whatever supplies are being pushed to retail counters are through the pipeline stock that was stuck at state and district borders and is eventually being released and that not much supply of essentials and medicines has been shipped from manufacturing units to retail counters. Here’s a detailed analysis of the impact of labourer shortage on the food-processing sector. Less than 5% of transport vehicles on roadTransport companies have barely opened operations as manpower shortage is proving to be a major bottleneck. According to estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA), less than 5% of transport vehicles are moving on the roads. “Godown operations for loading and unloading isn’t taking place because manpower crunch is severe. While the migrant labourers have left for their villages, those who are there are not able to reach the godowns in the lockdown situation. Many of them don’t even have passes to be able to move in the lockdown,” said Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA. “The inflow of commodities, be it essential commodities or else, is very less because of sealing of state borders along Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he added. Pharma industry sees only 30% turnout of workersThe pharma industry is currently witnessing only 30% of its total workforce reporting to work. The absence is more in case of lower level workers. “Being essential item makers, the industry is supposed to maintain supply of medicine. With reduced workforce, one can focus only on production of the most essential medicines,” said an industry player. Supply chain has been disrupted and production has taken a beating. Pharma industry players were expecting the manpower strength to grow from Monday this week with the government issuing permits to smoothen transportation of workers to their workplaces. However, there has been no improvement in turnout due to the scare. Edible oil units operating at 40-50% of their capacityEdible oil factories and refineries are operating with skeleton staff. The workforce issues are felt across units, which are allowed to function to make essential goods. Edible oil industry is labour intensive. Mass exodus of labourers has created a shortage of manpower. Adequate labourers are not available for even loading and unloading goods, which has slowed down dispatches. Only onethird of staff strength is turning out. According to the Solvent Extractors Associations of India, edible oil units currently are operating with 40-50% capacity with all due precautions. Food processing unitsFood processing units, be it flour, spices or else, are either shut or are operating at 50% of the production capacity due to shortage of manpower,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). “Labourers have left for their home states and even though factories are up and running, the production is not at full capacity. We are operating at 75% of our labour requirement. With transport relaxation, there is slight improvement in the situation but things have not normalized completely. We are also facing issues at distributor-level who don’t have enough manpower,” said Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd, which has three edible oil manufacturing plants in Gujarat. FMCG distributors resume work but operations still in low gearWith relaxation on transport for essential and non-essential items announced by the state government earlier this week, distributors of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) are a little at ease in terms of shipping goods. “While this has surely eased the supply-chain to some extent, labourer shortage continues to remain. Most distributors are currently operating at 50% of the total labourer requirement,” said Rajat Diwan, vice-president, Federation of Gujarat Distributors Association (FGDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-manpower-crunch-hampers-supply-chains/articleshow/74989274.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Shah Rukh Khan’s office in Khar as home quarantine||Actor Shah Rukh Khan and his wife Gauri have temporarily handed over their unoccupied office building at Khar (west) to the BMC to use it as a home quarantine facility. The BMC said that it's a standalone building and suitable to be used as an institutional home quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shah-rukh-khans-office-to-be-used-for-home-quarantine/articleshow/74989305.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||RAT to be used for quicker identification of cases in Gujarat: Jayanti Ravi||AHMEDABAD: Rapid Antibody Testing (RAT) will be initiated in the Covid-19 hotspots in Gujarat including Ahmedabad, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Saturday evening. The sample collection was ramped up for the city as well - according to state health and family welfare department officials, Ahmedabad district alone tested 119 samples compared to 174 for the rest of Gujarat. "Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has, late on Friday, approved use of the RAT in affected areas and have also provided guidelines for the same. The CM in a meeting today has directed the authorities to conduct it in hotspots," said Ravi. Experts said that RAT can in less than 30 minutes detect if the test subject has any past or present Covid-19 infection. It is considered to be one of the most effective methods to survey a large population in relatively less time. Over 550 households in Ahmedabad have already been put under quarantine by the authorities on Friday in a step to prevent further spread at cluster level, whereas survey in several areas have also been initiated. Ravi said that currently Gujarat has 2,390 testing kits for Covid-19 including 1,000 at Ahmedabad for conventional testing. The conventional testing can take anything between one to three days. Persons identified through RAT can be subjected to RT-PCR test later, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rat-to-be-used-for-quicker-identification-of-cases-in-gujarat-jayanti-ravi/articleshow/74989327.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Vadodara||Seven more Markaz attendees identified in Gujarat, total now 110: DGP||AHMEDABAD: Seven more persons from Gujarat who had gone to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz have identified. All seven belong to Navsari. The total figure of attendees from the state is now 110, said DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that the seven persons identified on Friday were given medical check-ups and home quarantined. Jha said a list of 1,350 persons who were either from Gujarat and went to the Markaz or came to the state subsequently, was given to them by the Centre. "The process to identify them is still on. He also urged that those who had gone to the markaz and come to the state should come forward get themselves checked," added Jha. Addressing the media, Jha said that offences will be registered against those came from Markaz before their quarantine period ended. Jha said to abide by the lockdown is the responsibility of all citizens. "Those violating lockdown rules are being booked with the help of drones and CCTV footage. CCTV cameras on the roads have an automatic number plate recognition system, using which we will identify moving frequently on the roads and book them," Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-more-markaz-attendees-identified-in-gujarat-total-now-110-dgp/articleshow/74989403.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Surat||Seven more Markaz attendees identified in Gujarat, total now 110: DGP||AHMEDABAD: Seven more persons from Gujarat who had gone to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz have identified. All seven belong to Navsari. The total figure of attendees from the state is now 110, said DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that the seven persons identified on Friday were given medical check-ups and home quarantined. Jha said a list of 1,350 persons who were either from Gujarat and went to the Markaz or came to the state subsequently, was given to them by the Centre. "The process to identify them is still on. He also urged that those who had gone to the markaz and come to the state should come forward get themselves checked," added Jha. Addressing the media, Jha said that offences will be registered against those came from Markaz before their quarantine period ended. Jha said to abide by the lockdown is the responsibility of all citizens. "Those violating lockdown rules are being booked with the help of drones and CCTV footage. CCTV cameras on the roads have an automatic number plate recognition system, using which we will identify moving frequently on the roads and book them," Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-more-markaz-attendees-identified-in-gujarat-total-now-110-dgp/articleshow/74989406.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seven more Markaz attendees identified in Gujarat, total now 110: DGP||AHMEDABAD: Seven more persons from Gujarat who had gone to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz have identified. All seven belong to Navsari. The total figure of attendees from the state is now 110, said DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that the seven persons identified on Friday were given medical check-ups and home quarantined. Jha said a list of 1,350 persons who were either from Gujarat and went to the Markaz or came to the state subsequently, was given to them by the Centre. "The process to identify them is still on. He also urged that those who had gone to the markaz and come to the state should come forward get themselves checked," added Jha. Addressing the media, Jha said that offences will be registered against those came from Markaz before their quarantine period ended. Jha said to abide by the lockdown is the responsibility of all citizens. "Those violating lockdown rules are being booked with the help of drones and CCTV footage. CCTV cameras on the roads have an automatic number plate recognition system, using which we will identify moving frequently on the roads and book them," Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-more-markaz-attendees-identified-in-gujarat-total-now-110-dgp/articleshow/74989374.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Rajkot||Seven more Markaz attendees identified in Gujarat, total now 110: DGP||AHMEDABAD: Seven more persons from Gujarat who had gone to the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz have identified. All seven belong to Navsari. The total figure of attendees from the state is now 110, said DGP Shivanand Jha. He added that the seven persons identified on Friday were given medical check-ups and home quarantined. Jha said a list of 1,350 persons who were either from Gujarat and went to the Markaz or came to the state subsequently, was given to them by the Centre. "The process to identify them is still on. He also urged that those who had gone to the markaz and come to the state should come forward get themselves checked," added Jha. Addressing the media, Jha said that offences will be registered against those came from Markaz before their quarantine period ended. Jha said to abide by the lockdown is the responsibility of all citizens. "Those violating lockdown rules are being booked with the help of drones and CCTV footage. CCTV cameras on the roads have an automatic number plate recognition system, using which we will identify moving frequently on the roads and book them," Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/7-more-markaz-attendees-identified-in-gujarat-total-now-110-dgp/articleshow/74989405.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Ward with tony SoBo areas second only to Worli in number of Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: The city’s D ward, which boasts of some of the most affluent addresses such as Malabar Hill, Napean Sea Road and Walkeshwar, had reported 30 Covid-positive cases until Friday. It has emerged as the second highest ward in terms of number of cases among the 24 civic administration wards in the city. Four more new cases were reported in the ward until Saturday evening. Most patients from the area are those who had travelled abroad in the last couple of months or are close family contacts of the travellers. In two instances, the security guard of a building and a driver contacted the virus from their employers, said BMC officials. The security guard had been living in a temporary structure within the premises of a building which had three members of a family who tested positive. The driver was living in along with three fellow employees, and all four tested positive. BMC officials stated that those from these areas are following the civic body’s home quarantine directives and are not posing any difficulties for the administration. Till Saturday morning, the G South ward that covers Worli, Lower Parel and Prabhadevi had reported 44 cases, the highest among all the wards in the city. While D ward came second, the thirdhighest number of cases were reported from K East ward, areas comprising Andheri East and Vile Parle East. The international and domestic airport come under the K East ward. Though these three wards are at the top, the maximum number of people put in home quarantine – 786 – are in P North ward which covers Malad East and West, where 15 positive cases have been found. It is followed by R-Central comprising Borivli East and West which has 677 homequarantined persons and 3 positive cases. The third highest number of those homequarantined are 652 in KWest ward, an area covering Andheri West and Juhu, where 18 positive cases have been found. The BMC has placed around 5,168 people in home quarantine across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ward-with-tony-sobo-areas-second-only-to-worli-in-number-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/74989393.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 5, 2020||World||'COVID-19 cases in Pak may top 50,000 by April end'||ISLAMABAD: The number of coronavirus cases in Pakistan might be over 50,000 by the end of April — 2,392 critical patients needing intensive care, 7,024 serious patients and 41,482 others who would have mild symptoms and just require isolation at their homes, the Supreme Court was informed. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageIn a report submitted to the apex court on Saturday, the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination (NHSRC), however, explained that these figures were mere projections based on assumptions made from trends of the outbreak in other countries, reports Dawn news. The report said that the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus after 35 days of its outbreak in Pakistan remained low as compared to reported cases in European countries and Iran. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe NHSRC in its report explained that 13,000 health facilities across the country have been entrusted with collecting surveillance data besides developing public awareness messages for dissemination to all modes of media. Moreover, the Public Health Emergency Operation Centre, activated at the National Institute of Health (NIH) has been assigned to conduct surveillance, prepare daily situation report, risk assessment, date analysis and to follow up suspected patients. The NHSRC said that more than 1.4 million travellers were restricted for strict screening at major points of entry in the country — 1.1 million passengers at seven airports and more than 300,000 passengers at three land crossings, adding that 222 suspected patients were identified and quarantined, Dawn news reported. The Ministry's report comes as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Pakistan has increased to 2,800, with 44 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/covid-19-cases-in-pak-may-top-50000-by-april-end/articleshow/74989411.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||After 500km walk, migrant labourer delivers baby boy in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: She is a picture of grit and determination. In her advance stage of pregnancy, the 24-year-old impoverished woman walked more than 500 kilometres from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh to Panna with thousands of other migrating labourers from the National Capital Region following the outbreak of Covid-19. Kalli Bai, a resident of Panna district, started her journey on March 29. Before she reached her village on March 31, she had not only walked a long distance, but also travelled five times in trucks - the only mode of travel available for some fortunate labourers during their arduous homeward journey. Kalli Bai delivered a healthy baby boy on Thursday and aptly named him Ram. "He is Ram because he is born just a day before Ram Navami, the birthday of Bhagwan Ram", she told doctors at a quarantine facility in remote Bariyarpur Bhumiyan village in Ajaygarh tehsil of Panna district. Both Kalli Bai and Ram are healthy and are looked after by us, said Dr K P Rajput, the in-charge at the isolation centre. Before the Covid-19 crisis, Kalli Bai and her husband Ramdeen Kevat were working near Mathura, but they lost their job after the construction site was closed. "Everybody started going home, we too joined them without any clue how we would reach our distant destination", said Ramdeen. After walking a few kilometres, a truck driver gave us lift but we were dropped at a place some 22 kilometres away from Agra, Ramdeen said. "We started walking again and reached Agra when another truck driver stopped and agreed to carry us. After travelling 200 kilometres, we were dropped at Jhansi, but the journey was extremely arduous ", he said. The couple used trucks thrice again to first reach Barua Sagar, near Jhansi, Harpalpur in Chhatarpur district and then Bamitha village, some 40 kilometres away from Ajaygarh.  On April 2, Ram was born after a "normal delivery without any complication", doctors told the local media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-500km-walk-migrant-labourer-delivers-baby-boy/articleshow/74989439.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||BMC amps up fight against Covid-19 with mobile medical squads, home visits for swabs||MUMBAI: Even as the civic authority has a 10-day stock of personal protection equipment (PPEs) for its healthcare staff, it has introduced mobile medical squads, free home collection of throat swabs, and rapid upscale of the number of beds available for quarantine and isolation. Over the past two days, Kasturba Hospital’s molecular diagnostic laboratorythe main lab for Covid-19 tests —has collected 600 swabs from people’s homes. This service is mainly for people stuck in home quarantine and cannot move out or cannot afford to pay Rs 4,500 for tests in the private sector. As the number of cases and hotspots in the city increase, BMC officials said the number of quarantine and isolation beds will increase from over 200 now to 10,000 next week. “We can increase this count to 20,000 at a short notice, if needed,” said additional municipal commissioner S Kakani. The Covid-19 infection has claimed 22 lives in Mumbai so far. While Nanavati in Juhu is a private hospital to be converted to a fully Covid-19 hospital, new isolation facilities have been activated in three public hospitals as well. All asymptomatic cases below 60 years of age will be taken to seven designated centres while those with symptoms will be taken to the five isolation facilities of either the BMC or a few private hospitals. Efforts are also being made to gather more personal protection equipment (PPEs), though Kakani said, “If PPEs are used judiciously, we have stocks of N95 masks, gloves and PPEs to last us for 10 days.” The BMC has also started fever clinics in containment zones, especially in Worli and Dharavi, that will work from 9am to 1pm. A BMC release said a team comprising a doctor and nurses will be posted to collect samples if they suspect Covid-19. So far, 16 mobile clinics have been conducted and 85 flu patients have been screened for the virus. A BMC release said over nine lakh people have been surveyed and screened across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-amps-up-fight-against-covid-19-with-mobile-medical-squads-home-visits-for-swabs/articleshow/74989523.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||How another pandemic gave rise to Karnataka’s health services||The Covid pandemic has disrupted life all over the world, and three week lockdown, despite being necessary, has created a set of problems of its own. There’s an aura of fear and paranoia in the atmosphere. But then, pandemics are not new to India. It’s just that advances in technology and hygiene have made us forget them. It was August 11 of 1898 and a train of the Southern Mahratta Railway chugged into Bangalore Cantonment from Bombay via Hubli. A railway loco superintendent, followed by his butler, disembarked at the station. The railways had physical screening for plague as the illness had spread in Bombay presidency then, and a police constable would escort the passenger home to ascertain their residence and had to report for checks for 10 consecutive days. Similarly, railway staff realised that the butler showed symptoms of the epidemic. He goes into history as the first patient in Bangalore when he was confirmed with plague the following day and died on August 15, 1898. British official PR Cadell’s Report on the Outbreak of Plague in Bangalore 1898-99 records this incident but also points to a train with grains halting at Bangalore city station around the same time. Authorities quarantined the load workers, 22 of them, to the good shed area (then Godownpet) to contain the disease. The approach seemed successful until September 9. After that, the plague went out of control, spreading rapidly to the Cottonpet and Akkipet areas. The Bangalore District Gazetteer of 1998 recorded the rapid rise of mortality in Bangalore from September 19 as 105 deaths per week. By October, 1,393 plague attacks were recorded and 2,807 died in the pete area alone. That December, the cantonment had 1547 casualties. Dozen rats, three annasThe Bangalore yearly administration report of 1898-99 had recorded the government allotting Rs 2,45,790 as Plague Fund to control the epidemic and a Plague Commission being appointed. The municipality purchased 22 carts with 22 pairs of bullocks for Rs 2,565 and handed them over to new sweepers to remove dead bodies from drains, dustbins and even public toilets. The Commission began supervising plague control and observation through special camps set up on Magadi Road, then on the city outskirts. Celebrations and festivals were cancelled, the Yeswantpur railway station was converted into a medical inspection spot for persons coming into the city. Persons showing mild symptoms of plague were quarantined in 588 sheds for a 10-day period with compulsory segregation. Handbills and notices spreading awareness and explaining symptoms of the epidemic were distributed on bullock carts. Drains were cleaned, 18,438 houses disinfected, 651 houses declared inhabitable demolished and 36,259 people inoculated as plague prevention. Municipal authorities offered six annas for a dozen dead bandicoots, three annas for a dozen rats and two annas for a dozen mice - in an effort to reduce the rodent population, believed to be plague vectors. The reward remained in force till 1911. Birth of Basavanagudi, MalleswaramIn 1896 as part of a city expansion plan, plots for sale were divided in Basavanagudi and Malleswaram layouts by local authorities. But there were hardly any takers. The plague epidemic in Bangalore drastically changed that with people who remained in the city during the spread moving to the two areas and pitching tents to escape the outbreak. “People were desperate for good and spacious living conditions, fresh water and wider roads like never before after witnessing the rampant spread of plague in cramped Petta areas. Thereafter, Basavanagudi and the Malleswaram areas that were mostly open grounds were occupied by people later leading to the development of the localities,” said Suresh Moona, city historian and columnist. Padmanabhan Palpu, a famous doctor and bacteriologist from Kerala, was posted as the first health officer for a monthly salary of Rs 400 during the plague outbreak. He played a key role in containing the spread in Bangalore. The Mysore Maharaja later felicitated Palpu for arduous service to state and he was instrumental in setting up the Victoria Hospital here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-another-pandemic-gave-rise-to-karnatakas-health-services/articleshow/74989519.cms||Petlee Peter
April 5, 2020||Thane||Medicine supplies delayed as doorstep delivery halts in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Availability of daily essentials continues to remain sporadic owing to a shortage of transportation, drivers and loaders. A matter of growing anxiety is the delay in supply of essential medicines to local chemists. Drug stores in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are reporting procurement delays. Factories are facing hitches in manufacturing due to non-availability of Chinese raw material. Also, local labourers, loaders and drivers are back to their hometowns, causing delays in delivery. People queued up at medical stores in Thane's Vasant Vihar on Saturday. "We usually buy a month's medicines online, but this time they said it will take nine days for delivery. So we stepped out to buy ourselves," said one resident. A member of the Thane chemist and druggist association said there is shortage due to lack of manpower to transport new stock to distributors and retailers. "Also, many have stockpiled large quantities fearing they will be out of stock," he said. Navi Mumbai chemists also point to a demand-supply mismatch. They also accuse cops of troubling retailers while transporting medicines in private vehicles. Questions are being raised about hoarding. Ghansoli resident Samadhan Patil said, "I had to wait for two days to get tablets for my father who is diabetic. The local store reported that doorstep delivery has stopped..." Wholesalers say shortage of manpower has derailed the delivery system though medicines are available. Sunil Chhajed, secretary of Navi Mumbai Medical Association said, "There's no shortage of medicines. But lack of manpower has prompted us to stop doorstep delivery which is inconveniencing our retailers." NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal said, "Wholesalers should restore doorstep delivery xwith their own transportation facility to avoid crowds gathering at their shops...."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/medicine-supplies-delayed-as-doorstep-delivery-halts-in-mumbai-thane/articleshow/74989591.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Medicine supplies delayed as doorstep delivery halts in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Availability of daily essentials continues to remain sporadic owing to a shortage of transportation, drivers and loaders. A matter of growing anxiety is the delay in supply of essential medicines to local chemists. Drug stores in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are reporting procurement delays. Factories are facing hitches in manufacturing due to non-availability of Chinese raw material. Also, local labourers, loaders and drivers are back to their hometowns, causing delays in delivery. People queued up at medical stores in Thane's Vasant Vihar on Saturday. "We usually buy a month's medicines online, but this time they said it will take nine days for delivery. So we stepped out to buy ourselves," said one resident. A member of the Thane chemist and druggist association said there is shortage due to lack of manpower to transport new stock to distributors and retailers. "Also, many have stockpiled large quantities fearing they will be out of stock," he said. Navi Mumbai chemists also point to a demand-supply mismatch. They also accuse cops of troubling retailers while transporting medicines in private vehicles. Questions are being raised about hoarding. Ghansoli resident Samadhan Patil said, "I had to wait for two days to get tablets for my father who is diabetic. The local store reported that doorstep delivery has stopped..." Wholesalers say shortage of manpower has derailed the delivery system though medicines are available. Sunil Chhajed, secretary of Navi Mumbai Medical Association said, "There's no shortage of medicines. But lack of manpower has prompted us to stop doorstep delivery which is inconveniencing our retailers." NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal said, "Wholesalers should restore doorstep delivery xwith their own transportation facility to avoid crowds gathering at their shops...."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/medicine-supplies-delayed-as-doorstep-delivery-halts-in-mumbai-thane/articleshow/74989575.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Medicine supplies delayed as doorstep delivery halts in Mumbai, Thane||MUMBAI: Availability of daily essentials continues to remain sporadic owing to a shortage of transportation, drivers and loaders. A matter of growing anxiety is the delay in supply of essential medicines to local chemists. Drug stores in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are reporting procurement delays. Factories are facing hitches in manufacturing due to non-availability of Chinese raw material. Also, local labourers, loaders and drivers are back to their hometowns, causing delays in delivery. People queued up at medical stores in Thane's Vasant Vihar on Saturday. "We usually buy a month's medicines online, but this time they said it will take nine days for delivery. So we stepped out to buy ourselves," said one resident. A member of the Thane chemist and druggist association said there is shortage due to lack of manpower to transport new stock to distributors and retailers. "Also, many have stockpiled large quantities fearing they will be out of stock," he said. Navi Mumbai chemists also point to a demand-supply mismatch. They also accuse cops of troubling retailers while transporting medicines in private vehicles. Questions are being raised about hoarding. Ghansoli resident Samadhan Patil said, "I had to wait for two days to get tablets for my father who is diabetic. The local store reported that doorstep delivery has stopped..." Wholesalers say shortage of manpower has derailed the delivery system though medicines are available. Sunil Chhajed, secretary of Navi Mumbai Medical Association said, "There's no shortage of medicines. But lack of manpower has prompted us to stop doorstep delivery which is inconveniencing our retailers." NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal said, "Wholesalers should restore doorstep delivery xwith their own transportation facility to avoid crowds gathering at their shops...."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/medicine-supplies-delayed-as-doorstep-delivery-halts-in-mumbai-thane/articleshow/74989592.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989635.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989640.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989633.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989634.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989596.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989639.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: ‘We are ready for rapid Covid-19 tests, numbers will soon be down’||As Tamil Nadu geared up for a tough phase of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, health minister C Vijayabaskar says the state had ordered one lakh rapid test kits that will help public health authorities screen hot spots. “We will be ready before the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) releases its final advisory on the use of rapid test kits,” he tells TOI. Excerpts from the interview by Pushpa Narayan & Jaya Menon Experts say the peak is yet to begin. How will TN handle it?Besides setting aside beds in government hospitals, declaring some as exclusive Covid-19 facilities, we are talking to private hospitals and medical colleges. Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Porur has promised to allot 1,500 beds, Saveetha Medical College and MIOT have promised 500. Do not have enough testing kits?We have placed orders for one lakh rapid test kits. They will arrive on April 10 and will be used in several hot spots. In a week, ICMR will come out with an advisory on using these kits. We will be ready by then. The test used now, called PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, uses a nasal or throat swab for screening. The results take five hours. The rapid test uses a blood sample and gives results based on detecting certain antibodies that react with the coronavirus protein. Tamil Nadu is accused of not testing enough people when asymptomatic people can be spreading the disease. Testing is being done as per ICMR protocol. Of the 170 testing centres across India, we have 17. This includes 11 in the government sector. We will add 10 more this week. People with travel history, contacts with people with travel history who tested positive, people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory infections are all being tested. Are you interacting with medical experts abroad?We have been interacting with the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta, World Health Organisation, World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and several senior physicians, virologists and infectious diseases experts. We have discussed the guidelines for testing, isolation, treatment and contract tracing methodologies given by ICMR which has reassured us that we are on the right path. What are the lessons from such interactions?We learned the success and failure paths from countries. For instance, we realised that lockdown wasn’t effective in the UK. They continued to have incoming flights from Italy. We decided not to follow their herd immunity theory. We realised that our lockdown has to push back the virus. We also learned to disinfect areas, like China did. Is the health department working with medical colleges and experts within the state?Yes. We are collaborating with the Christian Medical College in Vellore to isolate the strain of the virus. We want to study if there is a mutation. Why are we seeing a lot of cases during the lockdown?Because it is a cluster. We tracked every (Tablighi Jamaat) member who attended the conference (in Delhi last month), isolated and tested them. We have launched a micro containment plan and screenings show no community spread. We expect the numbers to come down soon. How will you ensure private hospitals don’t jack up bills of patients?Up to 70% of the population is covered by some form of government insurance. Most of them have cashless cards where no additional payment is required. Many others who work in corporates have group medical insurance. For the small percentage of people who don’t have any insurance, treatment is free at all government hospitals. You have declared it as a disaster. Do you have adequate funds to handle the situation?The state released ₹60 crore initially. The CM announced ₹500 crore relief in the assembly. Now we have ₹3,200 crore. The CM is monitoring the contingency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-naduwe-are-ready-for-rapid-tests-numbers-will-soon-be-down/articleshow/74989636.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government allows Karaga festival with a strict rider||BENGALURU: The state government on Saturday granted permission for the annual Karaga, Bengaluru's oldest and hugely popular festival, but with a rider. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said not more than five people would participate in the event which starts at the Dharmaraya Swamy Temple in Nagarathpet, Old Bengaluru. The government banned all festivals and fairs last week after the lockdown kicked in to ensure social distancing. He relaxed the lockdown norms for the Karaga, reportedly under pressure from local MLAs who believed that doing away with the ritual would incur divine wrath and portend bad times.  The event, associated with the Thigala community, attracts lakhs of devotees every year. It's scheduled to be held on April 8 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-allows-karaga-festival-with-a-strict-rider/articleshow/74989647.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka government allows Karaga festival with a strict rider||BENGALURU: The state government on Saturday granted permission for the annual Karaga, Bengaluru's oldest and hugely popular festival, but with a rider. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said not more than five people would participate in the event which starts at the Dharmaraya Swamy Temple in Nagarathpet, Old Bengaluru. The government banned all festivals and fairs last week after the lockdown kicked in to ensure social distancing. He relaxed the lockdown norms for the Karaga, reportedly under pressure from local MLAs who believed that doing away with the ritual would incur divine wrath and portend bad times.  The event, associated with the Thigala community, attracts lakhs of devotees every year. It's scheduled to be held on April 8 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-government-allows-karaga-festival-with-a-strict-rider/articleshow/74992538.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Trichy||Walking and hitch-hiking: How 7 returned to Tamil Nadu from Maharashtra||TRICHY: Seven people from Tiruvarur district, who were stranded at their workplace in Maharashtra due to the nation-wide lockdown, covered around 1,000km distance in six days by hitchhiking and walking till Trichy. On Saturday, the seven, after availing vehicle pass from the district administration were dropped at their native villages by good Samaritans. The seven, in their early 20s and employed in an agriculture-based manufacturing company in Solapur district of Maharashtra claimed that they were stranded at their workplace after the lockdown was announced. With all modes of public transportation suspended, they reached Solapur vegetable market on March 29. From there, they hitchhiked in a Tamil Nadu-bound onion-laden truck. After six days, they reached Salem early on Saturday morning. After covering a certain distance by foot, they again hitchhiked on multiple trucks carrying essential commodities and reached Musiri in Trichy district via Namakkal district. "Since we could not find trucks from Musiri, we walked all the way to Trichy city. Though shelter and food were provided at our workplace in Solapur, we were desperate to return home and meet our families," S Rahul, one of the youths told TOI. At Thiruvanaikoil, locals assured to help them after hearing about their inter-state journey Subsequently, they approached the district administration with the required documents seeking permission to travel. Upon verification, the seven were immediately provided with a vehicle pass to travel between Trichy and Tiruvarur. One Thiruvanaikoil-based photographer J Arunkumar pitched in to help the youths and hired a van to drop the seven at their villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/walking-and-hitch-hiking-how-7-returned-to-tamil-nadu-from-maharashtra/articleshow/74989656.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 5, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka bureaucrat is UP CM’s pick to fight Covid-19 in Noida||MYSURU: An IAS officer, hailing from the Old Mysore region, has been handpicked by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to lead the fight against Covid-19 in the state’s border district of Noida, which has reported a surge in the number of infections in the recent past. Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, 37, born in Hassan and raised in Mandya and Shivamogga, is a 2007-batch IAS officer, who has held various administrative positions in UP. An alumnus of the National Institute of Technology Karnataka in Dakshina Kannada, Lalinakere was serving as the special secretary in the Uttar Pradesh planning department before he was posted as district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar, which is home to many multinational firms and, consequently, has witnessed en masse migration of labourers to their villages. Suhas had his task cut out with the UP CM making it clear that he wants a complete lockdown enforced in Gautam Buddh Nagar. It was his sterling record in service that recommended Lalinakere, an ace badminton player to boot, for a position of such responsibility. Having served as the DM of Azamgarh, Allahabad and Sonabhadra among other places, Lalinakere’s services were recognised by the UP government, which conferred on him the Yash Bharti, the state’s highest civilian honour. His mother Jayashri CS, who lives in Shivamogga, said he had worked for an MNC in Bengaluru for two years. The bureaucrat wasted no time in getting down to the job after he took up his posting in Noida. In around 72 hours, 14 additional rapid response teams were constituted to deal with medical emergencies. “We have arranged 300 additional beds for isolation and 1,000 more for quarantine for standby. The integrated control room has gone live, with call centre professionals being employed. As many as 30 calls can be handled simultaneously here,” he said. “To keep the morale of healthcare personnel high, we are keeping them quarantined at five-star hotels, using funds provided by private firms under CSR initiative,” said Lalinakere. His wife Ritu Suhas is also a bureaucrat and the couple has two children. “I was keen on participating in the Para Olympics this year. But I have decided to forgo my dream given the present situation in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-bureaucrat-is-up-cms-pick-to-fight-covid-19-in-noida/articleshow/74989662.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 5, 2020||Noida||Karnataka bureaucrat is UP CM’s pick to fight Covid-19 in Noida||MYSURU: An IAS officer, hailing from the Old Mysore region, has been handpicked by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to lead the fight against Covid-19 in the state’s border district of Noida, which has reported a surge in the number of infections in the recent past. Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj, 37, born in Hassan and raised in Mandya and Shivamogga, is a 2007-batch IAS officer, who has held various administrative positions in UP. An alumnus of the National Institute of Technology Karnataka in Dakshina Kannada, Lalinakere was serving as the special secretary in the Uttar Pradesh planning department before he was posted as district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar, which is home to many multinational firms and, consequently, has witnessed en masse migration of labourers to their villages. Suhas had his task cut out with the UP CM making it clear that he wants a complete lockdown enforced in Gautam Buddh Nagar. It was his sterling record in service that recommended Lalinakere, an ace badminton player to boot, for a position of such responsibility. Having served as the DM of Azamgarh, Allahabad and Sonabhadra among other places, Lalinakere’s services were recognised by the UP government, which conferred on him the Yash Bharti, the state’s highest civilian honour. His mother Jayashri CS, who lives in Shivamogga, said he had worked for an MNC in Bengaluru for two years. The bureaucrat wasted no time in getting down to the job after he took up his posting in Noida. In around 72 hours, 14 additional rapid response teams were constituted to deal with medical emergencies. “We have arranged 300 additional beds for isolation and 1,000 more for quarantine for standby. The integrated control room has gone live, with call centre professionals being employed. As many as 30 calls can be handled simultaneously here,” he said. “To keep the morale of healthcare personnel high, we are keeping them quarantined at five-star hotels, using funds provided by private firms under CSR initiative,” said Lalinakere. His wife Ritu Suhas is also a bureaucrat and the couple has two children. “I was keen on participating in the Para Olympics this year. But I have decided to forgo my dream given the present situation in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/karnataka-bureaucrat-is-up-cms-pick-to-fight-covid-19-in-noida/articleshow/74989661.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 5, 2020||Pune||Despite drop in crime rate, cyberfraud takes top spot in Pune||PUNE: The city has witnessed a major drop in crime rate during the lockdown, but cybercrooks have continued to target people, police data show. While conceding that the number of cybercrime complaints was far less than the monthly average, Pune police said it still accounts for the lion's share of crime-related instances in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. In March, the police received 639 complaints - mostly relating to debit/credit card, online marketing, online insurance, job and lottery fraud and social media crime. The previous month, 1,085 complaints were lodged, while in January, 986 people complained. Over the course of 2019, the cyber police had received a total of 7,795 complaints. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale attributed the drop to the lockdown, which has restricted the movement of cyber criminals in hotspots like Noida, Delhi, Kolkata, Rajasthan and Jharkhand. "Also, police action on illegal call centres in places like Delhi has contributed to the drop," he said. Between March 12 (when the initial Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the city) and March 29, the police received 305 complaints. "We are conducting an inquiry into all 305 complaints, but no offence has been registered yet," Morale said. The ACP said most cybercrime is committed outside the state and even the country. "It is imperative that we create awareness among the public. We have formed dedicated teams for this purpose. People must be on their guard, even though crooks use innovative methods. If we are vigilant, cybercrime will drop on its own," Morale said. "The average number of daily complaints to the cybercrime police station has dropped to three-and-a-half," deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam told TOI. An official from the cyber police station said educated youths from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, most of whom work at illegal call centres, have returned home after the virus outbreak - one reason for the drop in such crime. "That said, Puneties continue to receive calls from fraudsters impersonating bank officials, urging them to upgrade KYC details and share their OTPs, among other details," the officer said. "Fraudsters have launched apps and websites and send links related to coronavirus to fool people into transferring money," cybersecurity expert Niranjan Reddy said, adding, "They cheat people by sending messages regarding coronavirus tests, donations to buy ventilators for patients, or even giving money to the PM's or CM's relief funds. People are keen to help and fall prey."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/despite-drop-in-crime-rate-cyberfraud-takes-top-spot-in-pune/articleshow/74989655.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Phase-wise removal of lockdown or extension plan?||MUMBAI: After the Centre-imposed lockdown ends on April 14, the state government may either continue it for another 28 days or stagger it with fiveday break periods for certain sectors, it is learnt. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday had indicated that he personally felt the lockdown cannot be lifted in certain areas. On Saturday, he had said, “We are still to take a call on the method to be followed. But everything depends on how people behave. For now, they need to follow the rules (and stay indoors).” However, sources in the health department said that two main options were to either continue the lockdown for another 28 days or stagger it with periods of breaks that would help people buy stuff or continue with their jobs. “A new study from Cambridge University has said that a 49-day period is the best way to break the transmission chain most effectively,” said the official. However, not many are in favour of this method because of the economic hardships it would mean for the people. The other method is to provide a partial relaxation for five to seven days. This could be regionwise or at the corporation-level, even at the ward-level. “Depending on our data, we could work out a system where the worst hotspots could be continue to be sealed for a longer period,” said the official. The Cambridge University paper had suggested that the best lockdown method is to first observe it for 21 days, and thereafter, with two five-day breaks, continue it for 28 days and another 18 days. Experts say that the two-month-plus lockdown is the best to break the infection completely, with the Cambridge model suggesting that less than 50 cases would remain at the end of the entire lockdown. Bhopal-based public health specialist Dr Anant Bhan said that there cannot be a total return to normalcy at the end of April 14. “It has to be gradual and in some parts of the country where Covid-19 cases are high, the lockdown has to continue in some form,” he said. The decision will have to be taken on evidence and data generated during the ongoing lockdown, said experts. “Focus areas could have more of the lockdown, while other areas could have higher movement,” said Dr Bhan. However, health minister Tope said lifting the lockdown – even in a phase-wise manner – would depend on “people’s discipline” and their willpower to not gather in crowds”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/phase-wise-removal-of-lockdown-or-extension-plan/articleshow/74989714.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Can’t let down guard even after lockdown ends: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said we cannot let down our guard and it is imperative to continue the practice of social distancing and follow all prescribed preventive measures if the 21-day lockdown is lifted on April 15 or else there will be chaos. Interacting with MLAs and MLCs through video conferencing, CM Yogi said if coronavirus spread is not curtailed before winter. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“We have to lift the lockdown in phases to ensure that there are no crowds. We need your support to implement this. UP’s health system needs strengthening for which we have started a fund and request you to donate to it. We have to control the spread of the virus before winter. Till now, we thought we had it under control, but the Tablighi Jamaat triggered infection and we saw a sudden spike in cases,” CM Yogi said. “UP’s first positive case was reported on March 3 and 121 patients had tested positive till April 2. However, between April 3 and 4, these numbers went up suddenly,” he added. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“Out of 227 cases so far, 94 are those who attended Delhi jamaat and came here. This figure is likely to go up because of violation of social distancing norms and lack of awareness,” he said. Yogi appealed to legislators to prepare list of dailywagers like rickshawpullers, labourers, vendors and their bank details so that government can transfer Rs 1,000 in their accounts as assistance. He sought their assistance in getting ration cards made for those who do not have food so that they can get free ration. Yogi also appealed them to encourage people to participate in PM Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights at 9pm on Sunday and light up diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for nine minutes. “Fans, air-conditioners, coolers, street lights and hospital lights will remain on. Only lights are to be switched off,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cant-let-down-guard-even-after-lockdown-ends-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/74989712.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. *Update at 10.45pm: Governor of Karnataka, Vaju Bhai Vala lightings a candle at Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru. *Update at 10pm: People light earthen lamps and candles in the balconies of their houses in Bengaluru in solidarity with the 9pm, 9 minutes call given by PM Modi. People light earthen lamps and candles in the balconies of their houses in Bengaluru in solidarity with the 9pm, 9… https://t.co/ILT4ukAJ1L— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1586104019000*Update at 9.30pm: The first coronavirus patient in Dakshina Kannada district, a 22-year-old youth from Bhatkal, has recovered and will be discharged on Monday. The results of his swab samples taken on April 2 and 3 have turned out negative and he has fully recovered, district administration said in a release here. No new cases of coronavirus infection were reported from DK and Udupi districts on Sunday. *Update at 8.30pm: An entire residential complex at Thokkottu in Dakshina Kannada district has been quarantined and the town sealed since Saturday evening after a 52-year-old man, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus, police said. The decision to quarantine the area was taken on the direction of the district health department, they said. *Update at 8pm: The Karnataka government has formulated protocols to tackle any big rise in number of Covid-19 cases, according to an official here on Sunday. At a meeting of top health officials, roles and functions of the personnel were defined to deal with the situation in the event of the contagion spreading exponentially, said the official. *Update at 7.15pm: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday appealed to the people to strictly adhere to the lockdown in view of increasing number of coronavirus cases in the state. Expressing concern over the gradual increase in cases of COVID-19, Yediyurappa said the damage caused by the virus worldwide is known to everyone and accordingly the Prime Minister has announced nationwide lockdown till April 14. *Update at 6.45pm: Out of the seven persons found positive today, an elderly couple from Bengaluru had returned from Dubai on March 22, four from Belagavi and one from Ballari had attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. *Update at 6.30pm: Seven Covid-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka today; total in the state reaches 151. *Update at 6.15pm: The 28-day quarantine period of residents of Udupi district who returned from abroad ended on Sunday. As a precautionary measure, their blood samples have been sent for testing, noted Shobha Karandalaje, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru member of parliament. * Update at 4.35pm: The COVID-19 related lockdown has substantially improved the air quality of Bengaluru, taking it from satisfactory level to good, a senior state pollution control board offcial said here on Sunday. "During the course of the lockdown 19 problem, we reached good position from satisfactory. It is between zero to 50 AQI (Air Quality Index) now. We have good quality air," the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board member secretary Basavaraj Patil told PTI. * Update at 2.55pm | Bengalur police commissioner Bhaskar Rao: Are you able to take care of their poor Indie cousins and birds? Contact your nearest police station for assistance. * Update at 1.34pm |  Karnataka: Two with travel history to Dubai test positive for coronavirus in Bengaluru; state's count rises to 146. * Update at 12.34pm | Hubballi: APMC Hubballi gets disinfection tunnel to prevent the spread of Covid-19. This is said to be first of its kind in the state inspired by the initiative of Young India organisation in Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu. District in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar inaugurated it on Sunday. *Update at 11.53am: Ex-Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy alleges PM Narendra Modi's appeal for lighting lamps in context of fight against coronavirus is BJP's "hidden agenda"; challenges PM to give credible scientific, rational explanation for his call. * Live yoga session from April 7 Yoga buffs have something to look forward to for the next one month. Beginning Tuesday, Akshar Yoga and Times Foundation are organising ‘Yoga at home’, an exclusive free yoga session which will go live from 8am to 9.30am and 5pm to 6.30pm every day. The session includes asanas, pranyama, meditation and Q and A. To know more on online training with Akshar Yoga, call 9986121226/ 9606438181 or email info@aksharyogaonline.com. * Psychiatrists offer free services to help people beat isolation bluesWith Covid-19 casting a shadow over the state, several psychiatrists are voluntarily coming forward to help people deal with issue like stress, boredom, depression, anxiety and even obsessive compulsive disorders. They are joining hands with the 104 helpline to counsel anyone in need of help. * Cyclist-volunteers supply essentials to senior citizens trapped indoorsOver 40 cyclists have been volunteering to help those in need during the lockdown in Bengaluru. The Relief Riders, whose tagline is ‘We carry supplies, not virus’, have supplied groceries and medicines to 20 senior citizens and people with medical conditions over the past week in many areas, including Indirangar, Sanjaynagar, Malleswaram, Koramangala and HBR Layout. The Relief Riders are an initiative of the cycling group — #CycleToWork. * Grave-diggers and crematoria staff across Bengaluru have donated a month’s salary to the fight against coronavirus. “Our job is our bread and butter. But we don’t want bodies to line up in front of our graveyards and crematoria,” said Sowri Raju, secretary of Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsha Samithi (ADSS). *Want 100% lockdown in state for next 10 days: BSYChief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the state government will double down for 100% compliance to the lockdown in the next 10 days, warning action against those found roaming the streets. Dismissing reports of a shortage of ventilators, he said the state was bringing in reinforcements over the next few days and expressed relief that none of the Covid-19 patients of the state has required a ventilator so far. *  Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa: Opening Kerala roads like inviting deathChief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday rejected former PM HD Deve Gowda’s request to open the state border to Kerala. In a reply to Gowda’s letter seeking relaxation of the border restrictions on ‘humanitarian’ grounds, the CM opening the state’s border for Keralites will prove detrimental for the people of Karnataka. The CM added that opening the border will be like “inviting death”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-in-bengaluru-latest-news-live-updates-on-bengaluru-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989728.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Online platforms switch to e-payment mode in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 scare has led online food delivery platforms Swiggy and Zomato to switch to electronic modes of payment as part of their social distancing norms. Customers on the Swiggy app were greeted with a ticker that said the move was meant 'to minimize contact between you and the delivery partner'. There has been a sharp drop in home delivery orders since customers are wary to order food from restaurants, said Hotel and Restaurants' Association of Eastern India secretary Sudesh Poddar. "For most standalone restaurants, it is not feasible to operate kitchens depending solely on online delivery. Those which have always depended on home delivery orders, however, are operating for a reduced period. With the pandemic still raging, we don't see a return to normalcy soon," said Poddar. He said even if restaurants operated their kitchens for online orders, the volume of business is likely to be extremely low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-platforms-switch-to-e-payment-mode-in-west-bengal/articleshow/74989774.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Neighbour of Tablighis' host among 2 new Dharavi cases||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old woman from the housing society where Tablighi Jamaat members were hosted by a garment businessman before Covid-19 claimed him and a 48-year-old man from another place in Dharavi tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The test results took the number of positive cases from Dharavi to five. While the BMC said her case was an example of community transmission, the woman claimed she had had no contact with the businessman, his family or the five Tablighi Jamaat members he put up in a flat he owned in a different building in their housing complex. The Jamaat members were returning from a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi in the second week of last month, an event that has emerged as the single-largest source of positive novel coronavirus cases in the country. The deceased man's guests and their family stayed three days. They flew to Kerala just before commercial flights were grounded. While the police informed their Kerala counterparts about them, the Jamaat members said to the Kerala police that they had returned directly from Delhi. The BMC contended the claim, saying it had proof these members stayed in Dharavi. Officials believe the Jamaat members were the source of Covid-19 in the society. The BMC tested all contacts of the businessman after his death on Wednesday. His wife, daughters, son and doctor tested negative. "We surveyed the entire society," assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said. "There are 162 senior citizens and 36 others with fever or cough and cold. We examined all of them and collected samples of some." The 30-year-old woman's sample tested positive. "We will examine all the society member again as a result," Dighavkar said. Dharavi is dominated by slums; even the nine-building society where the deceased lived is surrounded by slums. The society has 308 flats and 2,500 residents. The remaining two cases in Dharavi had been found positive on Thursday, one a doctor living in the vicinity and working at Wockhardt Hospital and the other a municipal sweeper in the area whose residence is in Worli. The BMC sealed all areas with positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-neighbour-of-tablighis-host-among-2-new-dharavi-cases/articleshow/74989798.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: Over 1,000 Tablighi Jamaat members infected, account for 30% of all India cases||NEW DELHI: As many as 1,023 Covid-19 positive cases found in 17 states have been traced to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, accounting for 30% of all cases in India, the health ministry said. Referring to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation that was held last month in the Nizamuddin markaz, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said around 30% were linked to “this particular place” which he said could not be managed. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageAgarwal said “proactive, preemptive and graded” response of the government had ensured that doubling of Covid-19 cases in India was less as compared to other countries. The Tablighi incident resulted in a spike that was not consistent with the trend line. However, with no room for complacency, one slip meant going back to square one, he added. Read AlsoCoronavirus: 10 deaths, 300 hospitalisations linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet in NizamuddinIn a sudden outbreak and detection of multiple coronavirus cases, the Delhi-based headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin West has turned into a hotspot. It had hosted a congregation this month which was attended by followers from abroad and India. Nine Indians who attended – six in TelenganaThe home ministry’s control room, along with administrations of states, has launched a massive effort to track Tabilighi members, including hundreds of foreigners, who were in the markaz in numbers that violated the Delhi government’s restrictions on religious gatherings. The Centre also remained concerned about reports of some Tablighi members in medical facilities misbehaving with female nursing staff and senior sources in government said their conduct was under watch. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government said 22,000 Tablighi members and their contacts related to the religious event had been quarantined and many others were being traced. Read AlsoHow Tablighi Jamaat meet led to Covid-19 spreadOf the total Covid-19 cases in the country, almost 20 per cent have been found to be with linked to Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet. Also, 19 people connected to the meet have died in different states and toll is likely to rise. Telangana reported nine deaths, Delhi, Maharashtra and J&amp;K reported two“Massive efforts are going on in across 17 states which have reported cases related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation,” home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said. The 17 states (and Union territories) are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The Tablighi Jamaat held two conferences last month and a large number of members remained cooped up even after a national lockdown was ordered. “It is an everyday battle for us. As soon as cases came to light, contact tracing starts and it is a continuous process. We are faced with a new challenge even if one case is hidden,” Agarwal said in an apparent reference to Tablighi Jamaat incident. The health ministry has confirmed 2,902 Covid-19 cases in the country so far and said cases rose by 601 since Friday. Besides, 68 deaths, including 12 since Friday, have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-cases-in-india-over-1000-tablighi-jamaat-members-infected-account-for-30-of-all-india-cases/articleshow/74988433.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Death toll in India rises to 77, number of cases to 3,374||NEW DELHI: The number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 77, according to Union Health Ministry data. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 3,030, as many as 266 people were either cured of the disease and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. In its updated data around 9 am, the health ministry reported two new fatalities -- one each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. According to the ministry, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 24, followed by Gujarat 10, Telengana seven, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi six each and Punjab five. Karnataka has reported four deaths, while West Bengal and Tamil Nadu each have recorded three fatalities. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh each have reported one fatality, according to the data. The highest number of confirmed cases was reported from Maharashtra at 490, followed by Tamil Nadu at 485 and Delhi 445. Kerala has 306 positive cases so far, while the number of cases has gone up to 269 in Telangana and 227 in Uttar Pradesh. There are 200 cases in Rajasthan and 161 cases in Andhra Pradesh. COVID-19 cases have risen to 144 in Karnataka, followed by 105 in Gujarat and 104 in Madhya Pradesh. Jammu and Kashmir has 92 cases so far and West Bengal has 69. Punjab has reported 57 infections so far, followed by Haryana at 49. Thirty people are afflicted with COVID-19 in Bihar, while Assam has 24 cases. Uttarakhand has 22 cases, followed by Odisha at 20 cases, Chandigarh at 18 infections, and Ladakh with 14. Ten cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Chhattisgarh has nine infections. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 cases, followed by Himachal Pradesh with six and Puducherry with five cases. Jharkhand and Manipur have reported two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradeh have reported one infection each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the Union health ministry said on its website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-death-toll-in-india-rises-to-77-number-of-cases-to-3374/articleshow/74989854.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Madurai||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989988.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989888.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Puducherry||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989983.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Trichy||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989991.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Erode||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989986.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Salem||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989993.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Coimbatore||112 private hospitals across Tamil Nadu to treat Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday released a list of 112 private hospitals across the state including 11 in Chennai that will provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. Patients wanting to get treated in private hospitals can do so at these approved establishments at their own expense.  The list includes 11 hospitals in Chennai and two from neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The list also includes 25 private medical colleges from 10 districts including 13 colleges from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu.  The health and family welfare department issued the order on April 3 which said a section of people desired to get treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals. Considering the spread of the disease in the state, the government decided to include private hospitals for treating of Covid-19. According to the order, hospitals were directed to follow the treatment protocol prescribed by the Union government and to send a daily report on the treatment given to patients to the director of public health and preventive medicine. Based on the situation, the list of hospitals shall be modified, the order said. Two days ago the state designated 22 government medical college hospitals in 18 districts, including four from Chennai, as 'exclusive Covid-19 hospitals'. Director of medical and rural health services S Gurunathan said, "Apollo Hospitals in Ayanambakkam has expressed willingness. The hospitals branches in Trichy and Madurai have been added," he said. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been selected to treat Covid-19 patients at their premises, of which three are private medical college hospitals -- Karpagam faculty of medical sciences and research, KMCH institute of medical sciences and research and PSG institute of medical sciences and research. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said 200 beds at PSG hospital, 150 at Karpagam medical college hospital, 120 at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital and 20 beds at KG hospital were earmarked for Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms of the virus. In Tirupur, Sri Kumaran Hospital and Revathi Medical centre were approved. Joint director of public health Krishna said, "If any patient who is tested positive for Covid-19 wants to undergo treatment at the approved private hospitals, we can shift them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/112-private-hospitals-across-tamil-nadu-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/74989984.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Wear homemade masks to keep coronavirus at bay, says govt||NEW DELHI: Amid rising scare about Covid-19, the health ministry on Saturday issued an advisory on the use of homemade protective cover for the face and mouth, asking people to wear such homemade masks particularly when they step out of their houses. “We are aware that social distancing and personal hygiene are keys to prevent Covid-19 infections. Certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face cover for the general public. Such homemade face cover is a good method for maintaining personal hygiene. Such usage certainly will help in maintaining overall hygienic health conditions,” the advisory said. The advisory came in the wake of a manual released by the principal scientific adviser to the PM suggesting homemade masks as a strategy to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageIn the US, President Donald Trump has asked all citizens to voluntary use non-medical masks as an additional public health measure to fight the deadly coronavirus while keeping medical-grade masks available for health workers. The US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended that Americans wear basic cloth or fabric masks that can be either purchased online or simply made at home. The health ministry’s advisory underlined that use of homemade masks would certainly help in maintaining overall hygiene while cautioning that the face cover was not recommended for either health workers or those working with or in contact with Covid-19 patients or patients themselves as these categories of people were required to wear specified protective gear. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“It is suggested that people who are not suffering from medical conditions or having breathing difficulties may use the handmade reusable face cover, particularly when they step out of their house. This will help in protecting the community at large,” it said. The advisory also prohibited sharing of such face covers and advised that two sets of such face covers be made so that one could be washed while the other was used. “Hand washing would still remain essential criteria and hand should be washed before wearing the face cover. Such face covers should also not be thrown anywhere but kept safely, washed properly with soap and hot water and dried properly before they are used,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wear-homemade-masks-to-keep-virus-at-bay-says-govt/articleshow/74988335.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Howrah, Secunderabad special train helps tackle goods shortage||HYDERABAD: A special parcel train between Secunderabad and Howrah shipped 3,005 packages of essential and general goods weighing 91.7 tonnes on Friday. “The items on the train included cartons of eggs, general goods such as chocolates, biscuits, garments, medicines, medicinal equipment, machinery parts from twin cities, musk melons, mangoes from Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, ghee tins from Anakapalle and lemon gunny bags from Vijayawada,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, South Central Railway (SCR) told TOI. “As it is a point-to-point service, we are ensuring that stations like Rajahmundry and Anakapalle are receiving medical supplies,” he added. Many people who are sending these supplies have their families residing in Ultadanga, Kankurgachi, Noapara, and Majrhati in West Bengal, where there is shortage of grocery items, masks and sanitisers. “My parents live in Kankurgachi where there is a shortage of grocery items. So we have sent vegetables, eggs, and milk,” said Binod Kumar, resident of Kacheguda. There is also a huge demand for frozen fish products from Bhubaneswar, Kharagpur and area snear Howrah. “Fish boxes were picked up from Guntakal and Vijayawada,” informed an SCR official. Several individuals who used the train service and railway staff informed that towns on the outskirts of Kolkata reported a shortage of health essentials. The next special parcel train from Secunderabad to Howrah will run on April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/howrah-secunderabad-special-train-helps-tackle-goods-shortage/articleshow/74989907.cms||Arya Sharan
April 5, 2020||Noida||Eight more Covid-19 cases in Noida, count in district reaches 58||NOIDA: Noida city of Gautam Buddh Nagar district has reported eight new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally in the district to 58. According to officials, four people were found positive in the JJ Colony of Sector 5 of the city, three victims are the residents of Designer Park Society of Noida Sector 62 and one from Vajipur village. Out of the total, eight people have recovered so far and the remaining 50 are undergoing treatment for the infection. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday said that there are 3,072 coronavirus positive cases in India, including 2,784 active cases, 213 cured/discharged/migrated people and 75 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/eight-more-covid-19-cases-in-noida-count-in-district-reaches-58/articleshow/74989929.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops bring ambulances, cars of medical staff under search ambit||KOLKATA: Hours after two people were caught using duplicate e-passes that are originally issued by Kolkata Police, Lalbazar has instructed its men at checkpoints to closely look into every suspect vehicle. On Saturday itself, 25 traffic guards ended up checking 2,600 vehicles in the first four hours in the morning. A large section of them involved ambulances and those claiming to be on emergency duty like electricity and hospitals. "We have set certain rules to enforce this shutdowm. One of them is to ensure only the most necessary cars ply on the road. We have set 20 seconds to complete checking of an ambulance and 30 seconds to complete checking of a medical staffer's car," said an officer from the Bhowanipore traffic guard. Till 12 noon on Saturday, the cops had seized 47 vehicles, taking the total count to 221. Seventy-nine faced challans for not wearing helmets and 44 for carrying more than two persons on a two-wheeler. The maximum offenders were from Shyambazar-Cossipore and Jorabagan-Kumoortulli in the north and Ripon Street-Mullickbazar and Regent Park in south Kolkata. On Friday, the cops checked 8,752 vehicles and seized 174. "We found several types of violations. But most importantly people are realizing that there is a reason why they must fall in line now," said joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey. "There are two types of violations. The first type includes typical two-wheeler users out on joyrides with flimsiest of excuses. The second type includes ambulance and commercial vehicle drivers violating the rules by claiming that they are on emergency duty," said another IPS officer. Police commissioner Anuj sharma again took to Twitter to remind citizens to follow the lockdown rigorously after missives from both Union home department and Nabanna. "StayHomeStaySafe. Today @KolkataPolice @KPTrafficDept initiated 246 FIRs against #lockdown violators and arrested 800 persons and seized 148 vehicles. I once again humbly appeal not come out without emergent reasons. We shall continue our drive against violators," he wrote. Police have so far arrested around 6,000 people for breaking lockdown provisions. Both Kolkata Police and Bengal Police have yet again warned citizens against sharing fake news. While Kolkata Police has begun questioning WhatsApp group administrators and those who forwarded fake messages, questioning over 120 persons in the process, Bengal police recently announced it has arrested 30 persons and warned 98 others to refrain from posting fake news. But, despite appeals by cops and administration, people were seen outside their homes for absolutely no reason in some areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-cops-bring-ambulances-cars-of-medical-staff-under-search-ambit/articleshow/74989809.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Online classes for Intermediate students||HYDERABAD: Narayana Group of Institutions and Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions Group have started conducting online classes and tests for Intermediate students amidst the ongoing lockdown. Apart from teachers available online to guide the students, assignments, solutions, audio lectures, and videos are sent directly to the students' mobile phones via apps."In order to ensure that students of Narayana continue to learn at home in safety even during the lockdown period, we have launched online classes, tests and deep learning apps, nLearn and Narayana online test series," read a release from Narayana group. The institute is streaming a daily average of 10,000+ live online classes across the country for more than 75,000 students, including schoolchildren. Sri Chaitanya representatives said that they are using professionals and technology to conduct the online classes. "The director of the institute is monitoring the teachers tutoring various subjects. In fact, millions of students are accessing the institute's web portal and are able to keep a tab on their progress," read a release from Sri Chaitanya. The institute started offering classes for entrance tests such as JEE and NEET to students through local news channels from Saturday to help them in their preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-online-classes-for-inter-students/articleshow/74989935.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Artist finds opportunity in lockdown||KOLKATA: The lockdown may have disrupted the lives of many but for artist Swaroop Mukerji, it's been his most productive week. With no guests dropping by and nowhere to step out, Mukerji has been able to finish a canvas and start work on two others. By the time the lockdown is over, he hopes to have a corona collection that would reveal vignettes of life in a city when it was on pause mode. "The lockdown has provided me with an opportunity to concentrate on the canvas. I start in the morning and am fully immersed in painting as long as I can. It has taken me seven days to complete the first canvas, much quicker than I would probably have had the lockdown not been in place. The absence of distraction has provided me with the leisure to do what I love," recounted Mukerji. The painting that he has completed, titled 'Ballygunge Pavement Eatery', depicts a man seated on a bench, peeling a vegetable in the company of a mongrel. Mukerji says he has been aware of the man, who runs a pavement eatery opposite Ballygunge Science College, for several years. "I would often pass the eatery and see the man, Subhas, and the dog. It was perhaps the equanimity with which he carried on with his life, unhindered by the hustle and bustle on the road, that drew my attention," he said. While the man may have been difficult to sight when life went on as usual, the lockdown has made his presence conspicuous on the deserted street. "While we may have been hassled by the lockdown, he appeared unnerved and as composed as ever. What struck me was the diligence and dignity of the man and the obvious loyalty of his pet. I hope I have been able to get this across in the painting," the artist said. The Sunny Park resident, who was invited by APJ Abdul Kalam to do a series on Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2004 when he was President, and has even done a series on Raj Bhavan in Kolkata in 2008 on former Governor Gopal Krishna Gandhi's request, hopes to present his artwork at an exhibition in London once the battle against coronavirus is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/artist-finds-opportunity-in-lockdown/articleshow/74989944.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Owner of press with staff from Worli tests Covid-19 positive||MUMBAI: A senior citizen living in Dadar tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, with authorities saying he was likely to have contracted the novel coronavirus from one of his employees at his printing press in Prabhadevi. Some of his employees were residents of Worli Koliwada, which was identified as a hot spot for the virus and sealed off some days ago, and he informed the BMC that a few of them had been found positive. The senior citizen had no recent travel history. The G-South Ward, which comprises Worli and houses various offices, had reported 44 cases when data was compiled early in the day, the highest number in any of the 24 wards in the city. Many of these cases were from Worli Koliwada and adjoining Adarsh Nagar and Janata Colony. During the day, municipal health workers kicked off a house-to-house survey of over 14,000 residential units in these areas for more symptomatic cases. Close contacts of these patients have been placed in the temporary quarantine facility at MA Podar Hospital. Residents of Koliwada continued to suffer with essentials like milk, eggs and LPG cylinders hard to find. "I have not bought fresh vegetables in the past 10 days," a woman resident said. "We get milk once every few days and that too is rationed." Residents said the BMC or state government had not heeded to their request to allow delivery of essentials at their doorstep or to grant them permission to step out of the area for milk, groceries and gas. A resident, Vaibhav Worlikar, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray with a list of issues. "To maintain social distancing, the authorities should deliver groceries, milk, gas cylinders at the doorstep," he said. He said local Shiv Sena corporator Hemangi Worlikar had failed to make groceries available. "Doctors practising here are not allowed to enter the sealed area, causing inconvenience to senior citizens and children," he said. Another resident, who requested anonymity, said people had to wait for hours to buy medicines at outlets. "We have waited for seven hours to get a new cylinder," a resident said, also speaking on condition of anonymity. Corporator Worlikar claimed four to five medical shops were open in the area. "Now, I have made arrangements of special passes for those doctors practising in Koliwada area but who reside outside it," she said, adding that three temporary ATMs had become available. Worlikar claimed that 1,000 packets of groceries, which included rice, edible oil, onions and potatoes, were supplied by local MLA Aaditya Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/owner-of-press-with-staff-from-worli-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/74989962.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two NIMS doctors in quarantine after examining Covid-19 suspect||HYDERABAD: Two resident doctors in Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) have been placed under self-quarantine after a nephrology patient, who was examined by them, turned out to be a Covid-19 suspect. The 25-year-old nephrology patient reported to the hospital complaining of headache and stood in three different queues before being checked by the resident doctors. When the doctors asked him a few questions about his medical condition, the patient told them that he had been suffering from high fever and cough for 10 days. Four family members also had similar symptoms. "On learning about the history, doctors alerted the resident medical officer who, in turn, activated the Covid-19 teams and informed police after which the patient was shifted to Gandhi Hospital," said a resident doctor. Calling it a wake-up call, Dr Jay Singh Arora, convener, resident doctors' association, NIMS, said: "Unless a patient comes up at the OPD counter, there is no way of filtering the patients who have fever or other symptoms. Since younger Cvid-19 carriers can be asymptomatic, even if one such patient surpasses the protocol, the hospital can become a hotspot for transmission. Therefore, non-essential OP should be shut down like it has been in institutes like AIIMS and PGIMER, Chandigarh."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-nims-doctors-in-quarantine-after-examining-covid-19-suspect/articleshow/74989963.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu minister tells schools not to collect fees||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Saturday warned private school managements of strict action if they were to collect any fee from students and appealed parents to bring such issues, if any, to the concerned authorities. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating mobile vegetable markets in Gobichettipalayam town in the district. The minister said about 90% of textbooks for the upcoming academic year was ready. "They will be sent to schools across the state before they reopen." The minister also discussed with municipality officials about the huge disinfectant sprayer that was manufactured by BHEL-Trichy. He said such huge sprayers were used in the state for the first time. "For now, two such sprayers will be used in Erode and Gobichettipalayam municipal corporation limits."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-minister-tells-schools-not-to-collect-fees/articleshow/74990006.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||China reports 30 new coronavirus cases; nine districts in Wuhan classified as ‘low-risk'||BEIJING: China has reported 30 new cases of the novel coronavirus, including five locally transmitted infections, even as nine of the 13 administrative districts of virus-hit Wuhan city were declared ‘low-risk areas' signifying a gradual return to normalcy, officials said on Sunday. China's National Health Commission (NHC) in its daily report said other than the 30 new confirmed COVID-19 cases reported in the mainland on Saturday, 47 new asymptomatic cases were also reported. The NHC said 1,024 asymptomatic cases were still under medical observation, including 244 from abroad. Asymptomatic coronavirus cases are those who test positive for the virus but do not show any symptom and have the potential to cause sporadic infection clusters. Three deaths were also reported on Saturday -- all from virus epicentre Hubei Province -- taking the coronavirus death toll in China to 3,329 people. The overall confirmed cases in the mainland reached 81,669 on Saturday, including 1,376 patients undergoing treatment and 76,964 others discharged from hospitals after recovery. With another administrative district being classified as ‘low risk' for the infection, there are nine district in total in Wuhan marked as ‘low risk'. The other four districts of Wuhan are classified as medium-risk, state run Xinhua news agency reported. On March 27, Wuhan's coronavirus risk evaluation was downgraded from ‘high risk' to ‘medium risk'. Now, Hubei Province has no cities or counties marked as ‘high risk'. Hubei province, which has a population of 56 million, was put under lockdown on January 23. Officials say the province is gradually being opened up as the virus has abated with fewer new infection cases in recent weeks. According to the risk criteria defined by the Chinese government, counties and districts with no newly confirmed cases in the last 14 days are categorised as 'low-risk' areas, those with fewer than 50 cases or those with over 50 but without a concentrated outbreak are classified as 'mid-risk' areas, and those with over 50 cases as well as a concentrated outbreak are classified as 'high-risk' areas. Signifying the slowdown of the virus in the country, China on Saturday held a nationwide memorial for martyrs and victims of the coronavirus in the country. Chinese President Xi Jinping led the national mourning from Beijing. Three minutes' silence was observed all over the country and flags flew half-mast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-reports-30-new-coronavirus-cases-nine-districts-in-wuhan-classified-as-low-risk/articleshow/74989921.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Cleric urges muslims in Navi Mumbai to cooperate in fight against coronavirus||NAVI MUMBAI: A cleric of Tablighi Jamaat, Markaz Nizamuddin, has appealed to Muslims in Taloja to cooperate with police by offering namaaz at home. He also appealed to those who have returned from the Delhi congregation to inform police about their attendance there. Senior inspector Kashinath Chavan said around 20% of the 3 lakh population were Muslims in Taloja. After several of those who went there tested positive for Covid-19, it was necessary to create awareness as some people were secretly performing namaaz in groups on building terraces, he said. "We requested Yasin Kasmi to appeal to the community members to not assemble at mosques or on their building terraces to offer namaaz, so as to maintain social distancing. The cleric agreed and has made a video of the appeal, which we have circulated to ensure that it reaches members of the community." Chavan further said, "The cleric has even appealed to his community members who have returned from the Tablighi markaz in Delhi, to approach local police and civic administration. ." George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cleric-urges-muslims-in-navi-mumbai-to-cooperate-in-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/74990017.cms||George Mendonca
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Keep burial grounds closed on Shab-e-Barat, board urges KMC||KOLKATA: The Mohammedan Burial Board has written to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to keep the burial grounds in the city closed on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat next week. Members of the Muslim community visit the burial grounds and mosques at night to pray for the deceased in their families. Thousands of people visit the four burial grounds in the city on the occasion of shab-e-barat which falls in the middle of the three-week lockdown. The board has also urged people to pray at home and not venture out to visit the burial grounds and mosques on Shab-e-Barat. "We have to take utmost care to break the transmission chain of coronavirus. Any assembly of people will defeat the purpose of lockdown and social distancing. We have written to the KMC and received assurance that the burial grounds will be closed on Shab-e-Barat. Only those coming for burial on that day will be allowed and that too only very close relatives of the deceased," said Sheheryar Ali Mirza, member of the Mohammedan Burial Board. The four burial grounds in the city are managed by the health department of the civic body and Mohammedan Burial Board decides on several important issues pertaining to the burial grounds and advises the health department on the same. For the past two weeks, Friday prayers have been stopped in the mosques. People have been offering prayers at home. Management authorities of several mosques have also issued notifications urging people to pray at home on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-keep-burial-grounds-closed-on-shab-e-barat-board-urges-kmc/articleshow/74990018.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. Update at 1.30pm:Punjab minister Manpreet Badal spearheads expression of gratitude to medics, cops, sanitation workersUpdate at 12.23pm: Mohali: Son of 62-year-old man who attended Tabilighi Jamaat event tests Covid-19 positive A 30-year-old son of the man who attended Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi also tested positive of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the count to 16. He is son of the 62-year-old man who tested positive for coronavirus earlier. Two Tablighi Jamaatis are positive out of 15 traced and now one contact has also tested positive, said DC Girish Dayalan. Update at 11.40am: Two women who attended Tablighi Jamaat test positive for coronavirus in Fatehgarh Sahib * Update at 10.45pm: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal on Sunday said that Rs 150 crore have been released to all the districts in the state for undertaking relief measures, whereas Rs 50 crore are released for purchase of medical equipment and other items needed by health authorities.  * ANI update at 10.25pm: People in Amritsar lit earthen lamps, candles, torch lights and car flashlights following PM Modi's appeal to switch off all lights of houses today at 9pm for 9 minutes * Update at 10.20pm: Amid the COVID-19 outbreak situation in the state, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has warned of strict action, including impounding of passports, of those who fail to declare their travel history. * PTI update at 10.15pm: The death toll due to coronavirus rose to seven in Punjab on Sunday after two elderly women succumbed to the infection in the state, an official said. While one of them belonged to Ludhiana, the other was a Pathankot resident. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Kumar said over the phone that a 69-year-old woman died at a private hospital there. The woman, a resident of Shimlapuri area in Ludhiana, was admitted to the hospital in a serious condition on March 31. She was a heart patient and suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes, he said. Earlier, she had gone to Mohali to meet her relatives. * Update at 9.00pm: The langar sewa started by Youth Akali Dal, Ludhiana with the help of social organisations and residents entered day 15 on Sunday. The langar has been served to 15,000 needy people daily, said Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha. * Update at 8.30pm: Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala has manufactured a prototype ventilator 'JEEVAN' within a week, that has an original design and will cost much less than what a regular ventilator cost. The ventilator prototype will now go for final testing at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before being put to production to aid the country's fight against COVID-19. * Update at 6.45pm: Seven coronavirus positive patients – all contacts of late Baldev Singh of village Pathlawa who was the first coronavirus casualty in Punjab – tested negative on Sunday, including 78-year-old Sant Gurbachan Singh. Four grand children of Baldev Singh also tested positive on Sunday while his one son has also been declared cured after his second sample also tested negative. * Update at 6.25pm: Mohali: "In a major boost to the containment efforts being made by the district administration owing to coronavirus, 71 samples out of 103 collected from all across the district were tested today and were found negative while the results of 32 are awaited," said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Sunday. * Update at 5.25pm: Independent School Association (ISA) has taken the responsibility of ensuring supply of food packets to over 1000 needy people twice daily in Chandigarh. For this they have opened a community kitchen at member school and for all these schools they have contributed Rs 50,000 * Update at 4.30pm: Muslim community members are preparing food for the needy persons in the Rehmani Masjid situated at Ram Darbar in Chandigarh * Update at 3.45pm: With 6 new coronavirus cases today, tally in Haryana reaches 76 * Update at 2.55pm: A 44-year-old woman from Sekha road locality of Barnala tests positive for Covid-19. She has no travel history. * Update at 2.45pm: Attempt to murder charges for not disclosing travel history that would lead to spread of coronavirus and deaths: Himachal Pradesh DGP * Update at 1. 10pm: Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan visits AIIMS dedicated centre for Covid-19 in Jhajjar. He says, "All 162 patients admitted here are in stable condition", reports ANI. * Update at 12. 12pm: 4 Tablighi Jamaat returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Mewat, taking the total number of cases in the district to 7, reports ANI. * Update at 10. 50am: Hundreds of people throng to vegetable market at Sector 26 in Chandigarh on Sunday morning. Covid-19 lockdown: Hundreds of people throng to vegetable market at Sector 26 in #Chandigarh.#21daysLockdown… https://t.co/isacpCfDDI— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1586063899000* Update at 10. 55am:  People flout social distancing norms at Sector 26 vegetable market on Sunday morning. Chandigarh: People flout social distancing norms at Sector 26 vegetable market.#COVID19Lockdown #Chandigarh… https://t.co/nzHo0H6MyT— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1586064390000* Punjab government collects around Rs 3,250 crore per month from tax revenue and Rs 306 crore per month from non-tax revenue. Since the movement of almost all vehicles, except emergency vehicles, has come to a halt, the state government will lose revenue on account of collection of value added tax (VAT) from diesel and petrol. Similarly, the state government is losing excise duty because of closure of liquor vends. * Punjab post office circle will home deliver cash during Covid-19 lockdown. Customers can call a helpline to place a maximum order of Rs 10,000 and a minimum of Rs 100. The helpline numbers are 0172-2711765 or 2703325 for customer care, 0172-2722495 for officer supervisor, and 9417111654 for IPPB branch manager. Customers will require mobile phone for OTP (one-time password) validation. The payment is based on biometric authentication. * Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has traced 123 contacts of five city residents who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi and quarantined them at their homes for 14 days. * A fake news that local private hospital Ivy was closing its Mohali and Panchkula branches set rumour mill running in the district until the administration called this socialmedia bluff. * The Punjab government on Saturday announced a special health insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh each for the police personnel and sanitation workers, who are in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19. The relief is on the lines of that announced for health workers by the Centre. * Taking serious note of shutdown of operations by several private hospitals, the state cabinet decided on strict action against them. Chief minister Amarinder Singh suggested that the health department should cancel the licences of hospitals refusing to treat Covid-19 patients. * The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Punjab touched 66 on Saturday, with nine fresh ones being reported from across the state. * Bathinda district authorities have identified 44 members of Tablighi Jamaat in the district. They have been kept in isolation at Bathinda civil hospital. * After tracking and putting into quarantine around 40,000 NRIs who entered Punjab since January, the Punjab government has stopped searching for the remaining around 2,500 who are still untraced as it believes they are not a threat anymore. * A group of city advocates, retired and sitting judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court and Supreme Court, along with a businessman, on Saturday handed over 450 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to PGI director after collecting Rs 15 lakh. * Twenty-six persons, including 23 linked to Tablighi Jamaat, have on Saturday tested positive in Haryana. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone up to 70, including two deaths. * Three new coronavirus cases, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat, were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of people infected by the disease in the state to nine. * The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Punjab touched 66 on Saturday, with nine fresh ones being reported from across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-latest-news-updates-on-chandigarh-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74989945.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||60-year-old Covid-19 positive patient dies in Chennai; Tamil Nadu toll rises to five||CHENNAI: A 60-year-old, who tested positive for Covid-19 and took part in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, died at the Stanley Medical College Hospital in the early hours of Sunday. His death takes the Covid-19 toll in the state to five. Hospital authorities say he was admitted on Wednesday (April 1) with symptoms of fever, cough and chest congestion. He later tested positive for the viral infection. “He was initially stable. He had diabetes and hypertension both of which are risk factors for mortality,” said a doctor attending on him. On Saturday, he developed respiratory distress and was connected to the ventilator at 7pm. “Despite resuscitative measures he could not be revived. He died of cardio – respiratory arrest at 1.45am on Sunday,” the doctor said. His family members have been isolated and their samples have been taken for test. On Saturday, the hospital announced that a 71-year-old man, who died on Thursday, was Covid-19 positive. The test results arrived on Saturday evening. By then his body was taken to Keezhakarai in Ramanathapuram district where it was buried in a Mosque on Friday. Public health officials in Ramanathapuram were asked to track the family members who travelled with the body and all others who took part in the last rites. They will be disinfecting his house and the mosque as well. The district health authorities were instructed to disinfect his house, mosque, and quarantine family members and the ambulance driver for 28 days. Samples will also be drawn from all of them for tests. “We have now told all hospital authorities that families should be given two options if death happens before the results arrive,” Dr Kolandasamy said. “If they want to bury or cremate the body immediately, they should do as per our protocol that limits number of people and restricts opening body bag or washing the body. Otherwise, they can wait for the test results. If the results are negative there will be no restrictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/60-year-old-covid-19-positive-patient-dies-in-chennai-tamil-nadu-toll-rises-to-five/articleshow/74990048.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990105.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Salem||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990109.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990108.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Puducherry||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990104.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Erode||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990106.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990107.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown: Read books, M K Stalin tells people||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday advised people to read books, speak to senior citizens in the homes and maintain social distancing norms within families till April 14 to remain healthy. In a nine-minute video released by DMK, Stalin said it would be boring for people, who have led an active life, to remain confined to their homes. But there was no other alternative to prevent spread of the virus attack, he said. "It is my practice to meet people daily, but after the lockdown started, I am not able to meet anyone. That is why I am communicating to you through this video," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-read-books-m-k-stalin-tells-people/articleshow/74990054.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray warns those trying to spark communal trouble||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned of stern action against those creating communal disharmony in the present hour of crisis. "I will go to any extent to punish those creating false videos to promote communal disharmony," Thackeray said in a video message to the state on Saturday. On the other hand, MNS president Raj Thackeray struck a strident note on the Tablighi Jamaat congregation row and said those who put religion above nation should be shot dead. Also, following the communally charged hatred videos and audio messages doing the rounds on the social media, Mumbai police commissioner said they have launched an inquiry and will take stern action against such rumour-mongers. Earlier in the day, Uddhav said the tally of positive cases in the state had reached 490 to 500. Of these, 51 patients have been cured and sent home. More testing centres and hospitals devoted exclusively to handle Covid-19 cases have been started, he added. "Revoking lockdown would depend on us," he said, indicating that citizens' responsible behaviour was the key component in the on-going fight against the pandemic. Thackeray said all religious, political and sports events have been cancelled till further notice in view of the unprecedented situation prevailing in the state. In contrast, Raj slammed those humiliating or assaulting doctors and medical staff. "Such persons should be publicly whipped and their videos made viral," the MNS president said in a video message. "Those who put religion above nation should be shot dead," he added, referring to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Since a few days, an audio message on social media says one should not buy anything from hawkers of a certain community. "This audio and other such videos are fabricated," said the police chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-uddhav-thackeray-warns-those-trying-to-spark-communal-trouble/articleshow/74990095.cms||Ambarish Mishra
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Centre's directive to schools sparks row in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: In a move that has triggered criticism, the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan's (SSA) Tamil Nadu project directorate has directed headmasters of government and aided schools to collect the details of how many teachers and students respond to the Prime Minister's call to light lamps and candles and switch on cellphone torchlights on Sunday night. Maneesh Garg, joint secretary, department of school education and literacy, Union ministry of human resource development, has issued a direction to all states to gather information on advisory to schools, mode of communication to students and parents, and number of students who participated. The SSA state project directorate has forwarded his letter to all chief educational officers and district educational officers directing headmasters to gather the details. "Since there are no platforms to communicate with students and their parents studying in government and government-aided schools, it is not possible to gather the information," said a headmaster from a city school. Officials have forwarded the directions through WhatsApp. "This exercise is useless. Instead of gathering information on how many students are lighting candles, we may gather information on how many students are getting food during the lock down," said A Peter Raja, president, Tamil Nadu High and Higher School Headmasters' Association. Tamil Nadu Students Parents Welfare Association president S Arumainathan said there was no need to involve the teachers and students in the exercise as it would not lead to any "meaningful outcome". Officials from Samagra Shiksha Abhiyhan were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centres-directive-to-schools-sparks-row-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/74990115.cms||A Ragu Raman
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai churches prepare to stream Holy Week services due to lockdown||MUMBAI: For the first time in living memory, the Christian community is unable to attend church over Holy Week owing to the coronavirus lockdown. Not just the archdiocese of Bombay but also individual churches are reaching out to their parishioners by broadcasting masses and rituals through their own YouTube channels, and living streaming on their web sites and apps. The spiritual cleansing of Lent enters its final week at Palm Sunday today. Easter Sunday falls April 12. Palm Sunday marks the start of Holy Week, the most significant seven days on the Christian calendar. Maundy Thursday sees the washing of the feet ceremony by priests while special masses and vast processions unfold at Good Friday. In fact even those members of the community who are unable to visit church throughout the year make sure to attend Good Friday and Easter mass. However, the landscape is virtually altered this season. The archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, will broadcast all services including Palm Sunday, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter on the YouTube channel of the archdiocese. Churches citywide are following his live streaming since the lockdown. "We shall do the same for the Holy Week," said Daniel Lobo, a parishioner of RC Church Colaba. Fr Frazer Mascarenhas SJ, parish priest of St Peter's Bandra, said, "Not being able to gather is painful, but it is an opportunity for us to keep the balance between religious activities at home and in church. Our parish will live stream the religious ceremonies this week, which will be conducted by only three or four priests in the church at the usual times. We encourage our people to make these into special family events by praying together." Fr Vincent Vaz of Holy Family Chakala said, "On Maundy Thursday we will stream a special mass for the sick where during the symbolic ritual of washing of the feet we will pray for the coronavirus victims, caregivers and civic authorities. That the Lord may wash away the illness and the pain." Rev. Bharat Solanki of the Centenary Methodist Gujarati Church, Grant Road, said, "We have recorded the worship service which will be uploaded on Whatsapp on Palm Sunday, Passion Week, Good Friday and Easter." Activist Joseph Dias whose organisation CSF organises the grand Good Friday procession in Kalina-Vakola, said, "It will be for the first time in over 32 years that it is not possible to enact the Stations of the Cross live on Good Friday. But I have put up a YouTube channel since we are unable to do so. We have uploaded scenes from the earlier years. We are also releasing the regular musical version of this, universally the most popular devotion, before Good Friday." Roshan D'Souza, an active parishioner of Holy Family, said, "The lockdown has given new meaning to this season. We have had to sacrifice going out on our outreaches, services in church and other activities. But it has also shown us new ways to move closer to God. Spending more time with our families, reaching out to our neighbours in need, learning to live frugally. (Just like) Jesus' resurrection was not possible without the Cross, there is no Easter without Good Friday. This (trial) too shall pass."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-churches-prepare-to-stream-holy-week-services/articleshow/74990118.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
April 5, 2020||Surat||61-year-old dies of Covid-19 in Surat, second death in city||SURAT: The diamond city reported its second death due to Covid-19 on Sunday after a 61-year-old woman from Palanpore Canal Road in Pal breathed her last at the Seventh Day Mission hosiptal. The woman was admitted to the hosiptal on Friday with severe symptoms of the virus and that her test confirmed her as Covid-19 positive. She had no travel history. Health officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that the health of the woman deteriorated on late Sunday night and that she breathed her last at about 1.15am. Sources said that the woman's son owns a shop at the Radha Krishna Textile market at Moti Begumwadi in Sahara Darwaja, where a Covid-19 positive case was detected few days ago. Her son had returned from Mumbai a couple of days ago. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) Dr Ashish Naik said, "The woman breathed her last at Misson hospital. The last rites were performed at the Jehangirpura crematorium as per the government protocol at about 4am. This is the second death due to Covid-19 in the city." Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 positive cases were detected in the city on Sunday. A 65-year-old male from Begumpura and a 40-year-old female from Pandesara, both having no travel history were tested positive. The 40-year-old woman is the mother of the sales executive of DMart who had tested positive of Covid-19 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/61-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-in-surat-second-death-in-city/articleshow/74990129.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
April 5, 2020||India||People feel 50-80% Covid-19 news on social media 'fake': Survey||NAGPUR: A majority of people think that 50 to 80 per cent of coronavirus-related information or news appearing on social media is 'fake', according to a survey. Amid the lockdown, a number of people have been relying on e-papers to keep themselves updated, said the survey conducted from March 28 to April 4 among nearly 1,200 people by the Mass Communication department of Nagpur's Rashtrasant Tukoji Maharaj University. The respondents included students, government and private employees, businessmen, professionals and home-makers. "To a question on fake news, 39.1 per cent respondents said 50 to 80 per cent of information on social media was false. About 10.8 per cent felt over 80 per cent information on social media was fake," said Dr Moiz Mannan Haque, the mass communication department head who led the study. It becomes clear that people are aware of the presence of fake news, but a disproportionately large number still said they get their information from social media, he pointed out. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsTo a question on how they found out that a particular news item or post was false, 36.5 per cent respondents said they knew this after they saw an official clarification or correction by a government source, he informed. "This proves that the proactive communication by health, police, local administration and other government sources does have a positive effect," Haque said. On whether the media was 'overplaying' the pandemic at the cost of other important news, 34.9 per cent respondents chose to remain neutral. However, 32.7 per cent chose the 'strongly agree' and 'agree' options for this, while 32.3 per cent chose the 'other way round' option. "So, opinions are quite equally divided on this count. At a time when a large number of people are consuming mass media content, it becomes important to understand the users perceptions. If people do not attach credibility and veracity to a particular source, it becomes difficult to mobilise them for safety and precaution, he said. During the lockdown, the use of digital news media went up by 5.8 per cent and television viewership as the main source of news consumption went up by a little over eight per cent, he said. "One must realise here that for a period of time, hard copies of newspapers were not available. Many of them were either reading e-papers or web news portals," Haque said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/people-feel-50-80-covid-19-news-on-social-media-fake-survey/articleshow/74990141.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chennai||Can't cite 'work from home' to go to hometowns: Madras high court to bankers||CHENNAI: Clarifying that work from home does not mean employees can go to their home towns, the Madras high court has directed 168 employees of Tamil Nadu Grama Bank to rejoin work immediately. They had all gone to their home towns in different parts of the state after the nationwide lockdown came into effect last month.  Pointing out that the bank has commenced work and has to distribute cash doles to beneficiaries, Justice K Ravichandrabaabu directed the employees attached to Tamil Nadu Grama Bank of Salem district to approach the nodal officer concerned in their respective native place and make arrangements to work from the nearest grama bank immediately. If such permission is denied, they have to approach the authority concerned to get a pass to travel to Salem immediately. The Tamil Nadu Grama Bank Workers Union moved the HC challenging the March 31 circular issued by the general manager, Tamil Nadu Grama Bank, Salem.  On March 23, in view of the lockdown, a circular was issued to run the bank with 50% staff. The others were asked to work from home on rotation. Subsequently, the March 31 circular asked staff to return to work. The bank said it did not give permission for the 168 employees to leave the place of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cant-cite-work-from-home-to-go-to-hometowns-madras-high-court-to-bankers/articleshow/74990146.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Council polls pushed back, Uddhav Thackeray in a fix||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is facing a piquant situation after the postponement of the legislative council election, which he needs to win before May 28 to keep his chair. In view of the spread of the coronavirus, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday postponed the April-end polls to the nine seats of the upper house to be voted on by members of the legislative assembly. A similar decision was taken for Bihar. Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of the legislature, was sworn in as chief minister on November 28. The law stipulates that he must become a member of the house within six months. A bureaucrat said there were still two options before Thackeray. First, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari could make him a nominated member of the council. Two seats from the governor's quota are vacant following the resignation of Ramrao Wadkule and Rahul Narvekar after they won the assembly polls. If the governor agrees to such a proposal, Thackeray's tenure will be for two months only, till June. After that, he will have to again be nominated or elected. The second option is to resign on November 28 and immediately take oath again to continue in the chair for six months more. If Thackeray does so, the entire cabinet will have to take oath anew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/council-polls-pushed-back-uddhav-in-a-fix/articleshow/74990167.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 5, 2020||India||It's everyone's collective duty to help, protect health workers: Priyanka Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday that it is everyone's collective duty to help and protect health workers who are in the frontline in the fight against Covid-19. In a tweet using hashtag 'WeAreProudOfYou' she urged people to send their message to these "brave warriors". "In this war against coronavirus, our doctors, nursing staff, technicians and sanitation workers are the warriors who are staking their lives to manage the disease. It is everyone's duty to help them, keep them and their families safe and to support them. Send your message to these brave warriors," the Congress general secretary said in the tweet in Hindi. हमारे डॉक्टर्स, नर्सिंग स्टाफ, टेक्नीशियन, सफाईकर्मी कोरोना के खिलाफ जंग में योद्धा हैं जो जान की बाजी लगाकर काम कर… https://t.co/se1T6QYvE3— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1586059756000Her message comes in the wake of reports of some attacks on doctors and paramedic staff in some parts of the country. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-everyones-collective-duty-to-help-protect-health-workers-priyanka-gandhi/articleshow/74990254.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown: ECR adopts village in Rohtas district||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has adopted a village in Rohtas district for supply of essential commodities and fulfilment of basic needs of the poor during the 21-day lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railway employees of the signal and telecom (S&T) wing working at Dehri-on-Sone under the ECR's Mughalsarai division have taken the initiative to serve the residents of Mundiyar village under Akorhigola block in Rohtas district. Trained railway staff have launched an awareness campaign in the village to ensure adherence of precautionary measures by the villagers. "A dedicated team of railway employees started this community service from April 1 and they have been visiting the village every day to distribute essential commodities, including rice, wheat and vegetables among the villagers. The railways is also supplying safe drinking water bottles and snacks to the villagers," the CPRO added. Mughalsarai additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) Atul Prasad, who is looking after the community service at Mundiyar village, said that the railways has formed a "corona warriors' team under the supervision of senior railway employee of Dehri-on-Sone Birendra Pasad. "Twenty-five employees are voluntarily working to fulfil the basic needs of the poor in the village. These employees work after their duty hours with full enthusiasm. Railways intends to set up a medical camp in the village in due course of time," he added. Health staff of railways distributed 1,000 face masks, 500 soaps and sanitizer bottles among the villagers so far. They also hold counselling sessions at the village. "Police and the district officials have extended full cooperation to the railways in distribution of essential commodities among the villagers. The railways will continue this service till the end of the lockdown," the CPRO said. Meanwhile, Railway Protection Force (RPF) posted at different places in ECR's five divisions have so far distributed 22,000 food packets among the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-lockdown-ecr-adopts-village-in-rohtas-district/articleshow/74990331.cms||Kumod Verma
April 5, 2020||Business||ONGC's SOS to govt: Cut cess, royalty, free gas price to help company survive||NEW DELHI: India's top oil and gas producer ONGC has sent an SOS to the government seeking a cut in taxes as well as being granted pricing and marketing freedom for gas to help it weather the slump in prices that has made sustaining operations difficult and may force a cut in investments. The slump in international oil prices to low-20s ($/barrel) and natural gas prices falling to a decade low of $2.39 per million British thermal unit is threatening to push the company into making cash-losses on a monthly basis, sources with direct knowledge of the development said. While the gas price is way below the cost of production, high tax incidence is resulting in cash losses even on crude oil output. State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) last month wrote to the government seeking abolition of oil cess if price realised by producers is less than $ 45 per barrel. Also, it wants the 20 per cent of price paid as royalty to state governments be halved. Currently, the government levies 20% ad-valorem cess on the price that producers get. Also, ONGC/OIL are required to pay 20 per cent royalty on the price of crude oil it extracts from onland oil blocks to the state governments. Sources said ONGC wants the formula of pricing domestically produced natural gas at rates prevalent in gas-surplus nations such as US and Russia. The rates using the formula came to $2.39 per million British thermal unit from April. This price is the lowest that the company will realise since 2010 when the government had moved towards deregulating gas pricing. In May 2010, the Cabinet had approved an Oil Ministry proposal to raise the rate of gas sold to power and fertilizer firms from $ 1.79 per mmBtu to $4.20. ONGC and OIL got $3.818 per mmBtu price for the gas they produced from fields given to them on nomination basis and after adding 10 per cent royalty, the fuel cost $4.20 per mmBtu for consumers. The Congress-led UPA had approved a new pricing formula for implementation in 2014 that would have raised the rates but the BJP-led government scrapped it and brought a new formula. The BJP-led government had in October 2014 adopted a formula that takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (UK), Alberta (Canada) and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 each year. Sources said OID cess, which has increased from $3 to $13 over the years, is causing a lot of stress on current and new oil and gas projects. OID Cess is levied on crude oil produced as excise duty under the Oil Industries (Development) Act of 1974. The cess is being levied on crude oil from nominated blocks and pre-NELP exploratory blocks only. The OID cess was raised from Rs 2,500 per tonne to Rs 4,500 per tonne in March 2012. The price of the Indian basket of crude oil stood at around USD 110 per barrel then. With the fall in global crude oil prices in mid-2014, companies asked for reducing the levy and converting it into 8-10 per cent ad-valorem. The government had changed the levy of the cess to 20 per cent ad-valorem in March 2016. Sources said ONGC has communicated to the government that the current rate of taxes is threatening to push the firm into cash losses and will impact its planned capex. Unless profits are made, future investments are at a risk, they said, adding ONGC fields are old and past their prime and it would be a "big, big mistake" to believe they would behave as they did a decade back without investments in pulling up recovery rates. Sources said cutting the cess rate will make over 200 million barrel of oil equivalent of production viable at the entire industry level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongcs-sos-to-govt-cut-cess-royalty-free-gas-price-to-help-company-survive/articleshow/74990330.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Isolated in hotel room, but with fave shows for company||KOLKATA: Paresh Chowdhary (name changed) has been living far from the madding crowd for the past week, secluded in a hotel room with good food and his favourite shows and movies. He is among 20 people who have been staying in paid quarantine in different hotels across the city. Chowdhary came back from Mumbai on March 23, just before the lockdown was announced. He went for quarantine in a state facility the same day. But after four days, he came to know about the paid quarantine facility in some good hotels, which were ready from March 27. "I immediately shifted. I have been here for the past seven days and am having a good time watching my favourite films and catching up on some great innings of Sachin, Sourav and Dravid on Youtube," he said. The owner of the hotel, a 3-star facility, pointed out that it is offering breakfast, lunch and dinner to the guests as part of the isolation package. "Those who are in self isolation are given single rooms with facilities like cable TV, AC and toilet, along with connectivity to Amazon, Hotstar and other entertainment apps. We are offering both vegetarian and non-vegetarian food with Indian and Chinese options," he added. According to the owner, the quarantine guests are not allowed to get out of their rooms. "The food is served in the room with disposable utensils. The hotel staff is serving food at the door. Besides the food we are providing as part of the package, the guests can order anything else. But mostly nobody is asking for anything apart from tea," the owner said. The rooms are also cleaned and sanitized by designated people once every two days. Former national president of Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India (FHRAI) T S Walia told TOI that two persons who had opted for paid quarantine have already checked out after staying for 14 days and obtaining permission to leave from the health department. "There was one each from Kolkata and Siliguri in hotels for six days after staying eight days in state centres," he added. Incidentally, Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) had offered 645 rooms in 32 hotels and guest houses for this facility. The Bengal government had sought help from hoteliers to arrange room for paid isolation on March 22. The health and tourism departments had requested their members to assign rooms for this purpose. The average rent of the rooms range between Rs 2,200 and Rs 7,000. HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar had, in a letter on March 22, said, "It's time to prove ourselves to be a body that cares for and supports the society from where we have been taking."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-isolated-in-hotel-room-but-with-fave-shows-for-company/articleshow/74990360.cms||Udit Mukherjee
April 5, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown: Stranded Americans have left for Kolkata, says Patna SSP||PATNA: Three stranded Americans, including a one-year-old child, were on Saturday allowed to go to Kolkata in a bus by the Patna district administration on the instruction of the ministry of external affairs (MEA). These US nationals were left stranded in the city after the lockdown. From Kolkata, the three are expected to fly to Delhi in a special Air India flight on Sunday before leaving for the US. The three, including a 23-year-old man and a 32-year-old woman, boarded a bus near Kargil Chowk which had come from Kolkata to pick them up. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said they had received a letter from DGP that 30 US citizens are stranded in Bihar due to lockdown. "However, only three citizens, including the child, boarded the bus near Kargil Chowk. They were allowed to travel to Kolkata after screening," he said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the two Americans had contacted the local administration and also sought permission from the MEA to travel to Kolkata. "They were allowed to go as the MEA had requested their request," he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stranded-americans-have-left-for-kolkata-patna-ssp/articleshow/74990474.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Nod for mass production of ventilators||GANDHINAGAR/RAJKOT: Jyoti CNC, the Rajkot-based firm that was tasked with making ventilators in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, is all set to make the cost-effective life-support equipment on a mass scale. With coronavirus cases shooting up by the day, India is facing a shortage of ventilators. On Saturday, the Gujarat government cleared the mass production of ventilator, which has been christened 'Dhaman-1,'developed by the Rajkot firm promoted by first generation entrepreneur Parakramsinh Jadeja. The indigenously developed ventilator was tested successfully at the Ahmedabad Covid-19 special hospital in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel on Friday. Jyoti CNC successfully made the ventilator within a week despite the constraints of time and availability of key parts. Talking to TOI, Jadeja said they requested the centre and state governments and got nearly 26 companies manufacturing different parts of ventilator opened as they were closed for the lockdown. "The first challenge was that we had to make ventilators from the parts available in the country during lockdown situation. We did not have the option to import any parts," Jadeja added. The other challenge to develop the ventilator as fast as possible given the pandemic situation. "We have taken the first step successfully by completing the design and getting the regulatory approval. We aim to start mass production in the next three to four days. We expect to start making 100 ventilators per day in next five days," the C&MD added. The medical concept was designed by Rajkot-based firm promoted by Rajendrasinh Parmar that is engaged in maintenance and service of ventilators while Jyoti CNC will be manufacturing. Rupani said successful development of the cost-effective ventilator is a major leap towards addressing the acute shortage of ventilators across the country. "This will help the country in meeting the demand of ventilators for treating patients in the time of coronavirus outbreak. It is also very cost-effective also so it will help us provide quality medical services to the masses."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-nod-for-mass-production-of-ventilators/articleshow/74990592.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Nod for mass production of ventilators||GANDHINAGAR/RAJKOT: Jyoti CNC, the Rajkot-based firm that was tasked with making ventilators in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, is all set to make the cost-effective life-support equipment on a mass scale. With coronavirus cases shooting up by the day, India is facing a shortage of ventilators. On Saturday, the Gujarat government cleared the mass production of ventilator, which has been christened 'Dhaman-1,'developed by the Rajkot firm promoted by first generation entrepreneur Parakramsinh Jadeja. The indigenously developed ventilator was tested successfully at the Ahmedabad Covid-19 special hospital in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel on Friday. Jyoti CNC successfully made the ventilator within a week despite the constraints of time and availability of key parts. Talking to TOI, Jadeja said they requested the centre and state governments and got nearly 26 companies manufacturing different parts of ventilator opened as they were closed for the lockdown. "The first challenge was that we had to make ventilators from the parts available in the country during lockdown situation. We did not have the option to import any parts," Jadeja added. The other challenge to develop the ventilator as fast as possible given the pandemic situation. "We have taken the first step successfully by completing the design and getting the regulatory approval. We aim to start mass production in the next three to four days. We expect to start making 100 ventilators per day in next five days," the C&MD added. The medical concept was designed by Rajkot-based firm promoted by Rajendrasinh Parmar that is engaged in maintenance and service of ventilators while Jyoti CNC will be manufacturing. Rupani said successful development of the cost-effective ventilator is a major leap towards addressing the acute shortage of ventilators across the country. "This will help the country in meeting the demand of ventilators for treating patients in the time of coronavirus outbreak. It is also very cost-effective also so it will help us provide quality medical services to the masses."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-nod-for-mass-production-of-ventilators/articleshow/74990475.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan crosses 200 mark with 25 new cases||JAIPUR: Twenty-five people including 12 linked to the Tablighi Jamaat meet tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday taking the total tally to 205 in the state. Out of this, 111 cases were reported in just the four days of this month. The death toll also went up to four after a 60-year-old Bikaner woman breathed her last. Two persons from Bhilwara and one from Alwar had fallen prey to the virus earlier. On the brighter side, the total number of cured patients went up from 21 to 25 after four patients tested negative post treatment. Seven cases were reported from Jodhpur. Five relatives of a 26-year-old woman, who had travelled to Ahmedabad, tested positive. The infected include her uncle, aunt, sister, brother and one more relative. The husband and daughter of another woman, who had tested positive on April 2, have also been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jhunjhunu too, seven persons were found infected. All of them are related to the Tablighi Jamaat. No new virus case in Jaipur on SaturdayThey have been shifted to Bikaner for treatment. A person linked to the Tablighi meet has been found infected at Hindon in Karauli district. A 70-year-old, relative of a person linked to the Nizamuddin meet who had already tested positive, has also contracted the virus in Tonk. Meanwhile, one evacuee from Iran kept in an isolation facility in Jodhpur has tested positive. So far, 28 Iran evacuess has tested positive. Banswara also reported its first two cases, while Bhilwara and Bikaner reported one case each. Two cases each were also reported from Churu and Bharatpur. In Jaipur, none was diagnosed with the disease on Saturday. In curfew-bound Ramganj, 32 teams conducted surveys of 1,687 houses and screened 8,261 people for Covid-19. The teams found 17 people suffering from influenzalike illness. At RUHS College, 55 people who had tested positive in the past few days in Jaipur and its neighbouring districts are undergoing treatment. “As a WHO protocol, a positive Covid-19 patient is declared negative only when his two consecutive samples taken in a gap of at least 24 hours test negative,” said Dr Narendra Khipal, a senior professor at Institute of Respiratory Disease and nodal officer at RUHS hospital for Covid-19 management. He said a specialised team of chest physicians at the Institute of Respiratory Disease, a wing of SMS Medical College, including faculty members and resident doctors are taking care of the corona patients round-the-clock at RUHS College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rajasthan-crosses-200-mark-with-25-new-cases/articleshow/74992575.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan crosses 200 mark with 25 new cases||JAIPUR: Twenty-five people including 12 linked to the Tablighi Jamaat meet tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday taking the total tally to 205 in the state. Out of this, 111 cases were reported in just the four days of this month. The death toll also went up to four after a 60-year-old Bikaner woman breathed her last. Two persons from Bhilwara and one from Alwar had fallen prey to the virus earlier. On the brighter side, the total number of cured patients went up from 21 to 25 after four patients tested negative post treatment. Seven cases were reported from Jodhpur. Five relatives of a 26-year-old woman, who had travelled to Ahmedabad, tested positive. The infected include her uncle, aunt, sister, brother and one more relative. The husband and daughter of another woman, who had tested positive on April 2, have also been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jhunjhunu too, seven persons were found infected. All of them are related to the Tablighi Jamaat. No new virus case in Jaipur on SaturdayThey have been shifted to Bikaner for treatment. A person linked to the Tablighi meet has been found infected at Hindon in Karauli district. A 70-year-old, relative of a person linked to the Nizamuddin meet who had already tested positive, has also contracted the virus in Tonk. Meanwhile, one evacuee from Iran kept in an isolation facility in Jodhpur has tested positive. So far, 28 Iran evacuess has tested positive. Banswara also reported its first two cases, while Bhilwara and Bikaner reported one case each. Two cases each were also reported from Churu and Bharatpur. In Jaipur, none was diagnosed with the disease on Saturday. In curfew-bound Ramganj, 32 teams conducted surveys of 1,687 houses and screened 8,261 people for Covid-19. The teams found 17 people suffering from influenzalike illness. At RUHS College, 55 people who had tested positive in the past few days in Jaipur and its neighbouring districts are undergoing treatment. “As a WHO protocol, a positive Covid-19 patient is declared negative only when his two consecutive samples taken in a gap of at least 24 hours test negative,” said Dr Narendra Khipal, a senior professor at Institute of Respiratory Disease and nodal officer at RUHS hospital for Covid-19 management. He said a specialised team of chest physicians at the Institute of Respiratory Disease, a wing of SMS Medical College, including faculty members and resident doctors are taking care of the corona patients round-the-clock at RUHS College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajasthan-crosses-200-mark-with-25-new-cases/articleshow/74992576.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan crosses 200 mark with 25 new cases||JAIPUR: Twenty-five people including 12 linked to the Tablighi Jamaat meet tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday taking the total tally to 205 in the state. Out of this, 111 cases were reported in just the four days of this month. The death toll also went up to four after a 60-year-old Bikaner woman breathed her last. Two persons from Bhilwara and one from Alwar had fallen prey to the virus earlier. On the brighter side, the total number of cured patients went up from 21 to 25 after four patients tested negative post treatment. Seven cases were reported from Jodhpur. Five relatives of a 26-year-old woman, who had travelled to Ahmedabad, tested positive. The infected include her uncle, aunt, sister, brother and one more relative. The husband and daughter of another woman, who had tested positive on April 2, have also been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jhunjhunu too, seven persons were found infected. All of them are related to the Tablighi Jamaat. No new virus case in Jaipur on SaturdayThey have been shifted to Bikaner for treatment. A person linked to the Tablighi meet has been found infected at Hindon in Karauli district. A 70-year-old, relative of a person linked to the Nizamuddin meet who had already tested positive, has also contracted the virus in Tonk. Meanwhile, one evacuee from Iran kept in an isolation facility in Jodhpur has tested positive. So far, 28 Iran evacuess has tested positive. Banswara also reported its first two cases, while Bhilwara and Bikaner reported one case each. Two cases each were also reported from Churu and Bharatpur. In Jaipur, none was diagnosed with the disease on Saturday. In curfew-bound Ramganj, 32 teams conducted surveys of 1,687 houses and screened 8,261 people for Covid-19. The teams found 17 people suffering from influenzalike illness. At RUHS College, 55 people who had tested positive in the past few days in Jaipur and its neighbouring districts are undergoing treatment. “As a WHO protocol, a positive Covid-19 patient is declared negative only when his two consecutive samples taken in a gap of at least 24 hours test negative,” said Dr Narendra Khipal, a senior professor at Institute of Respiratory Disease and nodal officer at RUHS hospital for Covid-19 management. He said a specialised team of chest physicians at the Institute of Respiratory Disease, a wing of SMS Medical College, including faculty members and resident doctors are taking care of the corona patients round-the-clock at RUHS College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-crosses-200-mark-with-25-new-cases/articleshow/74990488.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Raipur||Markaz member from Nagpur tests positive for Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: A 16-year old Markaz member from Nagpur tested positive for Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district on Saturday, sending health officials scrambling to find how he caught the virus when he hadn’t travelled to Delhi. The boy hails from Kamptee area, about 20km from Nagpur, and was staying in Katghora town of Korba for past month, says sources. Now, there are six active Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh till Saturday. “The teenage is a Markaz member, who came to Chhattisgarh from Nagpur in the first week of March. He was in a group of 16 people from Maharashtra. We are tracing his travel details but as of now there is no record of him visiting Delhi in the past month,” said Korba Collector Kiran Kaushal. Last month, Korba administration learnt that two religious groups, of 14 and 16 members, had come to the state from Maharashtra, which was then already topping the Covid-19 chart. One group arrived on February 25 and the other in the March. The teenage, the only minor, was in the second group. Since they had come from a corona hotspot, the Korba administration in mid March ordered them to remain in home isolation, say officials. They stayed put in two mosques in Katghora town, said a Korba official. Last week, when scores of attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi turned out Covid-positive and the Centre alerted states, Chhattisgarh administration identified 101 people who had returned from the Delhi congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz. Hence, the Korba administration isolated these two mosques immediately. Though these 30 people were not on the government’s list of 101, they were isolated separately on the possibility of their being primary contacts of Covid-19 suspects from Korba. All of them were tested for Covid-19 and the minor was the only one positive. He has been admitted to AIIMS-Raipur. However, Korba collector Kiran Kaushal said that the identified 17 people of Korba, those who had returned from Nizamuddin’s Tablighi Jamaat are still in quarantine centre and their Covid-19 sample test report is awaited. Talking to TOI, Korba SP Abhishek Meena said, “It is yet to be confirmed if these 30 people came in contact with Korba residents, who have returned from Tablighi Jammat in Delhi. The teenager hails from Kamptee police station area near Nagpur and as he is in quarantine for Covid-19 treatment, the police investigation has to follow medical norms of distancing. Hence, we are yet to ascertain his family background and other information." The 16-year old is the second corona case from Korba, the SP said, adding that this group had not attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizumuddin between march 12 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/markaaz-member-from-nagpur-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh/articleshow/74990511.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus latest updates: CRPF DG, senior officers under home quarantine||NEW DELHI: As per data released by the Union health ministry on Sunday morning, India reported 3,374 cases of Covid-19 with 77 deaths. The ministry reported two new fatalities -one each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on Sunday. Meanwhile, the United States of America with over three lakh patients now has the highest number of cases in the world and Italy had the highest number of deaths with over 13,000 fatalities. Here are the top development from India and the world: CRPF DG, senior officers tested for COVID-19With the Chief Medical Officer of the Central Reserve Police Forces (CRPF) testing positive for coronavirus, DG CRPF AP Maheshwari, who came into indirect contact with him through an official, has given his sample for COVID-19 testing. While 20 senior officers of the security force have been placed under home quarantine. Apart from the DG, several senior CRPF officials have also given their samples for testing, sources in CRPF said. Almost 20 CRPF officers are under home quarantine since the last couple of days as a precautionary measure. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageHighest number of Covid-19 deaths in India from MaharashtraMaharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 24, followed by Gujarat (10) and Telangana (7). Number of fatalities from other states are: Madhya Pradesh (6); Delhi (6); Punjab (5); Karnataka (4); West Bengal (3) Tamil Nadu (3); Jammu and Kashmir (2); Uttar Pradesh (2); Kerala (2); Andhra Pradesh(1); Bihar (1); Himachal Pradesh (1). Highest number of positive cases in India from MaharashtraThe highest number of confirmed cases was reported from Maharashtra at 490, followed by Tamil Nadu at 485 and Delhi 445. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 3,030, as many as 266 people were cured of the disease and one had migrated. Tally of positive cases from other states as per health ministry data are: Kerala (306); Telangana (269); Uttar Pradesh (227); Rajasthan (200); Andhra Pradesh (161); Karnataka (144); Gujarat (105); Madhya Pradesh (104); Jammu and Kashmir (92); West Bengal (69); Punjab (57); Haryana (49); Bihar (30); Assam (24); Uttarakhand (22); Odisha (20); Chandigarh (18); Ladakh (14); Andaman and Nicobar Islands (10); Chhattisgarh (9); Goa (7); Himachal Pradesh (6); Puducherry (5); Jharkhand (2); Manipur (2); Mizoram (1) and Arunachal Pradesh (1). PM Modi tweets #9pm9minutePM Modi has reminded people to light up lamps on Sunday night to show the country's collective resolve to fight coronavirus. "#9pm9minute", the prime minister tweeted to remind people of the exercise. Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. India's cash transfer scheme inspires other countriesOn Friday Canada’s PM Justin Trudeau announced he would pay $2,000 every month for four months to those who have lost their incomes. Earlier US president Donald Trump had announced a similar support program for those hit hardest by the Covid-19 crisis. These initiatives seem to have been inspired by Indian use of cash transfer schemes to benefit people during Covid-19 crisis. On March 26, the Modi government had announced a set of cash transfer and related benefits that would use the JAM (JanDhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) backbone to move over Rs 30,000 crore into woman JanDhan account holders and over Rs 5,000 crore into linked LPG connections. Over 1K TJ members account for 30% of all India casesUnion health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal has said that around 30% of all Covid-19 cases in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation that was held last month in the Nizamuddin markaz. As many as 1,023 Covid-19 positive cases found in 17 states have been traced to the Jamaat event which now accounts for 30% of all cases in India. DRDO develops portable decontamination chamberThe DRDO on Saturday said it has developed a portable full-body decontamination chamber or personnel sanitization enclosure (PSE), which can be used in hospitals, office buildings and other critical installations. On entering the chamber, electrically-operated pumps create a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride which is calibrated for an operation of 25 seconds. With 700-litre tank capacity, the PSE can be used by 650 people until the refill is required. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWORLDTrump, Modi to ensure supply of medical goods; discuss yogaUS President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic discussion on Saturday. As per White House readout of the conversation, both leaders have agreed to ensure smooth functioning of the global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical goods to fight the coronavirus pandemic and discussed the significance of Yoga and Ayurveda for the physical and mental well-being of people during the major global health crisis. 'Toughest' weeks ahead: Donald TrumpPresident Donald Trump warned Saturday that the country could be headed into its "toughest" weeks yet as the coronavirus death toll mounts. "There will be a lot of death, unfortunately," Trump said in a somber start to his daily briefing on the pandemic. Spain overtakes Italy to become worst-affected country in EuropeThe overall number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Spain has increased to 126,168, overtaking Italy's tally of 124,632, making it the worst-affected European nation in terms of infections. The tally placed Spain first in Europe and second only to the US worldwide in terms of confirmed cases. The US was currently the highest with a total of 312,076 cases, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at the Washington-based Johns Hopkins University. The CSSE update showed that Italy had the highest number of deaths in the world at 15,362, followed by Spain in the second place with 11,947 fatalities. Pakistan cases may top 50,000 by April endThe number of coronavirus cases in Pakistan might be over 50,000 by the end of April — 2,392 critical patients needing intensive care, 7,024 serious patients and 41,482 others who would have mild symptoms and just require isolation at their homes, the Supreme Court was informed. In a report submitted to the apex court on Saturday, the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination (NHSRC), however, explained that these figures were mere projections based on assumptions made from trends of the outbreak in other countries. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-latest-updates-indias-cash-transfer-scheme-inspires-other-countries/articleshow/74990175.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Grid can survive blackout glitches, says Transco CMD||HYDERABAD: Telangana Transco and Genco chairman and managing director (CMD) D Prabhakar Rao has dismissed rumours that the power grid will collapse due to sudden dip in demand at 9pm on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called upon citizens to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus. While the power demand in the state is recorded between 9,000 MW and 10,000 MW, the lighting load is less than 10% of the total power demand. All the consumers have been requested to utilise supply for all purposes i.e. refrigerators, grinders and air-conditioners. "To overcome this variation of demand and ensuring smooth and safe operation of the grid, a special monitoring cell has been set up at the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) at headquarters in the city," Prabhakar Rao said. The SLDC would continuously monitor the load generation patterns and would take corrective actions in co-ordination with Southern Regional Load Dispatch Centre (SRLDC). All EHV substations and 33/11 KV sub-stations would be manned by the engineers concerned in their respective areas. All field engineers would scrupulously implement the instructions issued from TS SLDC. All the electricity engineers and staff have been asked to put all out efforts in overcoming this situation of instant switching-off the lighting load and instant switching-on the same within a brief lapse of time, he said Earlier, during solar eclipse, heavy rains and earth hour, there was sudden dip in the power demand, but nothing happened to the grid, he said. "If required, we will switch on Kaleshwaram pump houses or reverse pumping of Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar project. We have the latest technology such as isolated system," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-grid-can-survive-blackout-glitches-says-transco-cmd/articleshow/74990543.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 14 new Covid-19 cases, count rises to 122; 11 deaths so far in state||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s Covid-19 positive cases count reached to 122 on Sunday morning with addition of 14 new cases in past 12 hours. Ahmedabad reported eight of the cases – all suspected to have direct or indirect connection with the Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi, said state health department officials. Gujarat also recorded one more death, taking the total death count to 11. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the 61-year-old woman, who succumbed to the Covid-19 infection at Mission Hospital in Surat, had earlier come to the same hospital on March 28. “The doctors had recommended her immediate hospitalization. However, she refused. She was brought back on April 4 in critical condition where chances of her survival were slim,” she said. “We urge all to pay heed to the medical advice – come forward if you have any symptoms associated with Covid-19 coupled with domestic or international travel history or contact with any known Covid-19 positive person. It would not only save you but the community at large,” added Ravi. Out of 14 new cases, 8 are recorded from Ahmedabad, followed by two each from Surat and Bhavnagar and one each from Vadodara and Chhota Udepur. The tribal district in eastern belt of Gujarat has recorded the first case, said health department officials. Ravi said that all eight cases from Ahmedabad are directly or indirectly associated with the Markaz at Nizamuddin, Delhi. “Active contact tracing and identification of all the persons who have returned from Markaz is being done in Gujarat in association with state police. We have appealed to the community to provide all details for quicker identification and treatment of possible Covid-19 cases,” she said. The health department officials said that out of eight, five persons have travel history to Delhi. Ahmedabad is already declared a national hotspot for the Covid-19 cases. With the new cases, now the district-wise Covid-19 positive cases count includes 53 in Ahmedabad, 15 in Surat, 13 in Gandhinagar, 11 in Bhavnagar, 10 each in Vadodara and Rajkot, 3 in Porbandar, 2 in Gir Somnath, one each in Kutch, Mehsana, Panchmahal, Patan and Chhota Udepur. Likewise, Ahmedabad so far has recorded 5 deaths, followed by two each in Surat and Bhavnagar and one each in Vadodara and Panchmahal. In the past two days, the state has ramped up the testing for Covid-19 – compared to 1,944 tests as on Friday morning, by Sunday morning Gujarat had tested 2,354 – adding 410 in a matter of 48 hours. Majority of the testing is conducted in urban centres such as Ahmedabad and Surat. Ravi said that out of total positive cases, the exercise is on to identify the source and also tracking all the persons who have come in contact with them. “Nine cases are such where the direct link is not established. However, they are the cases from the areas with higher concentration of Covid-19 cases,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-tally-jumps-to-122/articleshow/74990561.cms||Parth Shastri
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Make health fundamental right: Online plea||LUCKNOW: As more Covid-19 cases are being reported from across the country, two residents of the city have started online petitions to press the government to increase allocations for healthcare facilities. While one of the petitions demands that healthcare should be made a fundamental right, the other urges the government to increase health expenditure and make safety gears available to doctors at the earliest. Manoj Pandey, a law professor and president of Lucknow University Affiliated Colleges Teachers’ Association (LUACTA), has started a petition to appeal to the government that ‘Right to health’ should be incorporated as a fundamental right in the Constitution of India. Started on March 18, the petition is getting more signatures daily. “Keeping the coronavirus pandemic in view, if right to health is made a fundamental right, there will be sufficient health services and momentarily checks will also be done. Currently, India stands at 112th position in terms of health services. We have a right to stay healthy,” said Pandey. Neha Kumar, a city-based activist, has also started an online petition demanding safety gears for doctors and medical staff in adequate quantity. “Doctors and medical staff across the country are fighting battle against Covid-19 pandemic. They are more susceptible to risk of catching infection. If they don’t get adequate protective gear to stay safe, how they will save people?” she asked. “Our expenditure on healthcare is one of the lowest in the world. If coronavirus does not wake up our lawmakers and they don’t revamp our healthcare infrastructure, we might lose many of our healthcare professionals. Therefore, we urge lawmakers to focus on health and well-being of our doctors and nurses,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-health-fundamental-right-online-plea/articleshow/74990607.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Imphal||Manipur CM urges people to switch off lights at 9pm, as advised by PM Modi||IMPHAL: Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Sunday urged people to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9 pm and illuminate home and surroundings with candles and lamps, as advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Taking to Twitter, the CM also emphasised the importance of social distancing, amid the spurt in Covid-19 cases across the country. "To defeat the darkness of despair & light our lives with hope, let's switch off all lights for 9 mins at 9 pm tonight & illuminate our surroundings with Candles, Diyas, Torch or Flashlights. Let's maintain social distancing & do it carefully as advised by PM @narendramodi ji, he tweeted. Meanwhile, a senior official here said that the third consignment of medical essentials - required in the state's effort to combat Covid-19 - has reached Imphal. The chief minister had on Saturday stated that the consignment comprises personal protective equipment, sanitisers and gloves, among other things. "IL-76 aircraft has just landed at the Bir Tikendrajit International Airport, Imphal with 14 tonnes of medical supplies, PPE, masks, sanitizer, hand gloves, Sodium Hypochlorite etc. Thanks to the #IndianAirforce, he had tweeted. Manipur has reported two Covid-19 cases so far. The first patient is a woman with travel history to the UK, while the second man, who contracted the disease, had attended a congregation at Delh's Nizamuddin. Family members of both the patients have tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/manipur-cm-urges-people-to-switch-off-lights-at-9pm-as-advised-by-pm-modi/articleshow/74990603.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU doubles its Covid-19 test capacity||LUCKNOW: King George's Medical University (KGMU) doubled its capacity for Covid-19 confirmatory tests from Saturday and decided to start rapid antibody test on suspected cases approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently. “KGMU’s microbiology department had two machines that could conduct 180 confirmatory tests in 24 hours. Now, as we have received two more units—one each from National Health Mission programme and ICMR-—we would start conducting 360 tests daily,” said KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt. “To ensure smooth functioning of the lab we have also doubled the staff strength,” he added. Bhatt further said that “in the rapid antibody test a sample is divided into three parts and tested one after another to minimise the error percentage.” He added that “KGMU currently has reagents to test only 1,500 samples. However more kits would arrive in 24 hours.” Rapid antibody or strip test is done to check presence of antibodies of coronavirus in the blood sample of a person. With the help of the strip test it can be assessed whether a person is infected or not. After this test, the patient's swab samples can be sent to lab for confirmatory test if there is a requirement for it. The strip test can be done quickly and help in identifying suspected cases easily, Bhatt added. A team of 15, including doctors, research scholars and lab assistants of the microbiology department of the medical university, has been working round the clock from February when the Covid-19 cases started surfacing in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-doubles-its-covid-19-test-capacity/articleshow/74990643.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Provide fodder to all Chandigarh gaushalas: Manoj Parida to civic body||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has come to the rescue of city-based gaushalas. The gaushalas, which were finding it difficult to procure fodder for the cattle, UT adviser Manoj Parida has now ordered the municipal corporation to provide fodder to all gaushalas, including private and government, during the lockdown period. When contacted, UT adviser Manoj Parida said they were aware of the problems faced by NGOs running gaushalas in the city. The MC officials have been asked to provide help to these gaushalas. Recently, the TOI had highlighted the problem faced by gaushalas in the city. Earlier, various gaushala managements had claimed that the price of fodder had also increased during the lockdown period. Moreover, due to coronavirus fear, donations have also dipped, which is essential to run gaushalas in the city as the Chandigarh municipal corporation do not provide financial aid to purchase fodder. Vinod, vice-president of Gauri Shankar Sewa Dal, who runs Sector 45-based gaushala, which houses around 1,000 cows and bulls, said they received a call from the MC official concerned for fodder. "We are hopeful that the UT administration and the municipal corporation will provide timely help to us," he added. Sumit Sharma, chairman of Gauri Shankar Sewa Dal, said they need around 350-kg fodder daily, which cost them over Rs 50,000. "Suppliers are not coming to Chandigarh to supply fodder to gaushalas. Our NGOs are making arrangement to purchase fodder from Punjab," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/provide-fodder-to-all-chandigarh-gaushalas-manoj-parida-to-civic-body/articleshow/74990654.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 5, 2020||Hubballi||Psychiatrists offer free services to help people beat isolation blues in Karnataka||HUBBALLI: With Covid-19 casting a shadow over the state, several psychiatrists are voluntarily coming forward to help people deal with issue like stress, boredom, depression, anxiety and even obsessive compulsive disorders. They are joining hands with the 104 helpline to counsel anyone in need of help. “Each psychiatrist will be available as per scheduled slots. So far, 50 to 60 doctors have signed up for the sessions and more are likely to join,” said Dr Sunil Patil, honorary secretary of Indian Psychiatric Society Karnataka Chapter. Experts say Covid-19 is not the only concern. They warn that if not kept in check, mental illnesses could reach alarming levels during the lockdown period. “The lockdown is triggering anxiety; while some people are worried about job security, others are concerned about markets,” Dr Patil added. Dr Mahesh Desai, director Dharwad Institute of Mental Health And Neurosciences, said counselling was very important. “People are really worried and some of them are experiencing depression and sleep disorder,” he said. Parents, particularly women, manage chores, office work and children. The kids, meanwhile, are bored. All these lead to anxiety and stress, he said. Recently, a man from Sindhanur, covered in a blanket, consulted me. He was extremely anxious about the possibility of contracting the virus. I explained to him how the disease spreads,” said Dr Alok Kulkarni, a private practitioner from Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/psychiatrists-offer-free-services-to-help-people-beat-isolation-blues-in-karnataka/articleshow/74990622.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Horses left to fend for themselves on Maidan find help after MP’s call||KOLKATA: Reports of 115 joyride and carriage horses starving at Maidan after the lockdown and a call for help from BJP MP and animal activist Maneka Gandhi have led to the arrangement of fodder for the animals for the time being. The horses were left to graze and fend for themselves on the Maidan by their owners who claimed they had no other option as all earnings had ceased since the Sunday when "janta curfew" had been declared. "Our earnings have totally stopped and we are finding it difficult to feed our family. A few like us are still feeding the horses at least once every day. However, many set the animals free on the Maidan, hoping that they will somehow survive the lockdown. The owners themselves have gone back to their villages," said Md Feroz, who owns four carriages. With practically no food and water, the horses had been running loose on the city streets for the last few days with many of them starving and getting dehydrated. Photographs of such starving horses on social media alerted Gandhi, who then called state officials as well as members of People For Animals (PFA) on Thursday, urging them to do something. Around the same time, local councillor Sushmita Bhattacharya, too, was alerted about the horses' plight. "The horses were trying to nibble on biscuits and rice served to street dogs by my party workers. The starving horses had strayed on to Park Street and Kyd Street in search of food," said Bhattacharya. "Once the councillor extended her support, we raised funds and purchased 30 bags of wheat bran from Kidderpore. The retailer charged a premium claiming supply was low. The fodder was for two days. Help is coming in from various quarters and people are volunteering to feed the animals. We will deliver the next lot of feed on Sunday," said PFA committee member Tushar Roy. Ajay Daga, another PFA member, said more donation and voluntary service would be required to ensure that the horses remained fed throughout the lockdown. "We have a shelter called Ashari where 350 dogs and 100 cows are fed. We also feed 300 stray dogs. We do not have the resources to continue with this programme on horses unless others step forward."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/horses-left-to-fend-for-themselves-on-maidan-find-help-after-mps-call/articleshow/74990757.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 5, 2020||Business||GST officers process 10,077 new registrations, 7,876 refund applications in 10 days of lockdown||NEW DELHI: GST Network on Sunday said tax officers have processed over 10,000 new registrations and about 8,000 refund applications in the first 10 days of lockdown till April 3, working through Virtual Private Network (VPN). In a statement, the Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) said it has enabled tax officers of different states and union territories (UTs) to access their office during the lockdown period, and is providing secured access to the office network on request. Till March 31, 2020, GSTN had enabled 1,748 tax officers from 18 states/UTs to access office through VPN, a secure way to access office network. This is in addition to the three hill states which already connect to the GST System using VPN. "A total number of 20,273 registration-related cases were processed during the first 10 days of lockdown, i.e. from March 25 to April 3, 2020. This includes 10,077 cases of new registration, 3,377 cases of core amendment, 3,784 cases of cancellation by application, 1,966 cases of cancellation by suo moto and 1,069 cases of revocation," GSTN said. "Similarly, 7,876 cases of refund were also processed during the period," it added. The government announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown, beginning March 25, to contain the spread of coronavirus. Apart from 1.23 crore taxpayers, GSTN provides technology services to 29 states/UTs for implementation of GST. For these states and UTs, GSTN provides back-office applications like processing of registration application, processing of refund applications, audit, assessment, appeal, among others, for all their tax officers, which is different from the front-end interface used by the taxpayer -- GST portal. Soon after the lockdown was announced, GSTN offered secured access to all these states to enable their officers to work remotely. "VPN is helping officers to avoid the backlog which could have happened if the cases were not processed during the lockdown. With the provision of auto-approval of applications, if not processed by the tax officer in a time-bound manner, the officers want them to do it manually to avoid any future complication," GSTN said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-officers-process-10077-new-registrations-7876-refund-applications-in-10-days-of-lockdown/articleshow/74990776.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Restrictions in Kashmir Valley tightened||SRINAGAR: Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus were tightened on Sunday– a day after 14 cases – the highest increase in a single day- were detected in the valley, the officials said. Security forces sealed off the main roads in the valley and erected barriers at several places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown, the officials said. The markets across the Valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, they added. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants have been shut down more than a week before the nationwide lock down announced by the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the Union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The administration said essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsRestrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after a 67-year-old woman from Khanyar area of the city, who had returned on 16 March from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The officials said authorities have started an aggressive contact tracing campaign across the union territory to contain the spread of the infection. Nearly 2000 contacts of positive cases have been identified, they said, adding no known contact would be left untraced. A total of 17 new cases of Covid-19 positive were detected in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday which included three from Jammu region. With the spike, the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has gone up to 92. Two patients have died, while three others have recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-restrictions-in-kashmir-valley-tightened/articleshow/74990814.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||PM Modi's appeal on lighting lamps is BJP's hidden agenda: HD Kumaraswamy||BENGALURU: Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy alleged on Sunday Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal for lighting lamps in the context of the fight against the coronavirus was a "hidden agenda" of the BJP and challenged him to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation for his call. Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candle light vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader tweeted. It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self aggrandisement and it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity. May sense prevail upon the PM, Kumaraswamy said. The government, he alleged, is yet to provide personal protective equipment (PPEs) for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the Prime Minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population, the son of former Prime Minister and JDS supremo H D Deve Gowda claimed. The Prime Minister on Friday urged people to switch off lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pms-appeal-on-lighting-lamps-is-bjps-hidden-agenda-h-d-kumaraswamy/articleshow/74990948.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra jump to 661; 26 new patients||MUMBAI: As many as 26 new coronavirus patients were reported from Maharashtra on Sunday, taking the total such cases in the state to 661, a health official said. Out of the 26 cases, 17 were reported from Pune, four from its neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township, three from Ahmednagar and two from Aurangabad, he said. Asked about any new cases from Mumbai, the official said, The figures are being verified, hence Mumbai figures will be released later." So far, 32 people in the state have died of coronavirus while 52 people have been discharged after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-jump-to-661-26-new-patients/articleshow/74990931.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||PM s appeal on lighting lamps is BJP's hidden agenda : HD Kumaraswamy||BENGALURU: Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy alleged on Sunday that, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal for lighting lamps in the context of the fight against the coronavirus was a "hidden agenda" of the BJP and challenged him to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation for his call. Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candle light vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date and time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader tweeted. It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self aggrandisement and it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity. May sense prevail upon the PM, Kumaraswamy said. The government, he alleged, is yet to provide personal protective equipment (PPEs) for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat Covid-19 menace, the Prime Minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population, the son of former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda claimed. The Prime Minister on Friday urged people to switch off lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-s-appeal-on-lighting-lamps-is-bjp-s-hidden-agenda-hd-kumaraswamy/articleshow/74991007.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||China rights lawyer released after five years in jail||BEIJING: A leading Chinese human rights lawyer has been released from prison after almost five years behind bars, his wife said Sunday. Wang Quanzhang, 44, was first detained in 2015 in a sweeping crackdown on more than 200 lawyers and government critics in China as President Xi Jinping tightened his grip on power. But Wang has yet to return home to his family in the Chinese capital and was instead escorted Sunday to a property he owns in eastern Shandong province for 14 days in quarantine as a precaution against the coronavirus, according to wife Li Wenzu. Li told AFP from Beijing, where she lives with the couple's young son, that she feared Wang would be placed under house arrest despite his release from prison, and would be subject to surveillance. "I think (authorities) have been lying to us step by step," Li said. "They used the pretext of the epidemic as an excuse to quarantine him for 14 days when he should have been able to return to his home in Beijing according to the relevant legal guidelines." Calls to the prison went unanswered Sunday and Shandong's justice department did not respond to enquiries from AFP. Wang's initial detention in 2015 came as part of the so-called "709" crackdown, nicknamed as such because it began on July 9 that year. But it was not until January 2019 that he was sentenced to four-and-a-half years in prison for "subverting state power" in a closed-door trial. A prominent lawyer who has defended political activists and victims of land seizures, Wang was held incommunicado prior to the trial. "I am really worried they plan on putting him under long-term house arrest and will prevent us from being reunited as a family," said Li, who has tirelessly campaigned for her husband's release. Police had forcibly evicted tenants from Wang's property in the city of Jinan to make way for his return to Shandong, his wife added. Li said she believed his stay there was not out of choice. "His speech is being restricted. He phoned me yesterday saying he would go to Jinan," she said. "Is this what a rational person would do after being separated from their wife and child for almost five years?" Li's first trip to see her husband since his detention in 2015 came in June last year when she was granted a prison visit after repeated denials, she said. "My husband's health has deteriorated during the long incarceration, he has lost so much weight," Li told AFP at the time. Beijing has stepped up its crackdown on civil society since Xi took power in 2012, tightening restrictions on freedom of speech and detaining hundreds of activists and lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-rights-lawyer-released-after-five-years-in-jail/articleshow/74991057.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Snack firm owner dies in Singapore; return worry for kin||KOLKATA: Mahesh Agarwal, the owner of Haldiram Bhujiyawala (Pratik Food Products), died in Singapore on Friday, a little past midnight (as per IST). He was suffering from critical liver ailment and was undergoing treatment at a hospital there for three months. Agarwal was to turn 57 on Saturday. Given the current circumstances, the distraught family had to agree to the cremation of the body there on Friday itself, following rules of that country, that do not follow the Hindu cremation system. Agarwal's bereaved wife Meena and daughter Avni, who had been with him through this time, are desperate to return home but are finding it impossible to do so in the current situation. The mother and daughter duo has tried to reach out to the embassy by filling out a form online that all Indians stuck in Singapore are doing. The country is supposed to go in for a lockdown from Tuesday and as per the news that Meena and Avni have been able to gather, Indians have been told that a flight would be organised to bring them back to Delhi in the wee hours of Wednesday, for which there is a scramble. "We couldn't save father but the business back in Kolkata has suddenly been left orphaned and we have to go back to save it..." said Avni from Singapore. Agarwal has a son and three daughters. Eldest son Pratik is in Kolkata, elder daughter Anchal is a scientist and works with Sandisk in San Francisco, while younger daughter Antara is studying maths and computer science at Durham University. Agarwal had a critical liver ailment and was flown in to Singapore in January where the family was assured of a transplant. The surgery was successful but he had developed an infection after he was shifted from the ICU to high dependency unit. "The infection generated from candida auris, according to the papers we have received from the hospital," Avni said. The family was told that since Agarwal died of an infection, no risk could be taken about his last rites; the body would be sealed in a plastic bag along with the tracheostomy tubes that he was carrying and put inside an electric incinerator. "We had to agree...it was so heart breaking to see him go that way... but we were helpless," Avni added. The ashes have been stored separately and the family will be allowed to take the urn at the time of leaving the country. "We hear that no flights/trains are operating till April 15. How to reach Kolkata ...we are writing to all our relatives to connect with ministers, bureaucrats both at the Centre and in the state," Avni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/snack-firm-owner-dies-in-singapore-return-worry-for-kin/articleshow/74991042.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah neighbourhood turns into battleground after PPE-clad authorities try to bury a body||HOWRAH: The area around the AJC Bose Botanic Garden in Shibpur, Howrah and Andul Road turned into a battleground late on Friday evening after locals clashed with the police and Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel over the burial of a Covid-19 suspect. Locals, including Calcutta high court lawyer Smarajit Roychowdhury, alleged police highhandedness but Jodi Thomas, DC (Central), Howrah Police, said that people were only chased away as they were violating the lockdown and preventing public servants from performing their duties. “It was around 11pm when people saw a vehicle stop outside the burial ground on Andul Road. From their homes and terraces, locals saw a body in a body bag being dragged by some people in Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) into the graveyard. They came out of their houses in panic and wanted to know details. Even I spoke to the local OC but a large contingent of policemen and RAF personnel arrived and resorted to a lathi-charge against the locals. People certainly have a right to know if the body of a Covid-19 victim is buried so close to their homes,” Roychowdhury said. Howrah neighbourhood turns into battleground after PPE-clad authorities try to bury a body. #CautionYesPanicNo… https://t.co/mFMiCXCPgy— TOI Kolkata (@TOIKolkata) 1586069845000Thomas, however, maintained that he had checked the death certificate of the deceased and it mentioned cardiac arrest as the cause of death. However, all precautions were taken during the final rites, he said. Sources revealed that the 66-year-old man returned from Haj on March 13 with his wife and three others. Since Wednesday, he developed fever and respiratory distress and was referred to the Satyabala ID Hospital by Howrah District Hospital. The man died at the isolation ward of the hospital early on Friday. Though his samples have been sent for tests, the report is awaited, a source said. Howrah CMOH Nisith Baran Mondal, however, refused to comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-neighbourhood-turns-into-battleground-after-ppe-clad-authorities-try-to-bury-body-in-bodybag/articleshow/74991100.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Poetry soothes nerves in times of social distancing||Kolkata: Last Sunday, actor Rudranil Ghosh wrote a poignant poem on how the fate of a widow about to be sent to an old-age home changed once the lockdown was announced. He named it ‘Coronar Ma’ and posted a video of his recitation. A week later, this video has already been shared 26,313 times. That easily overtook the 7,461 views of BBC Radio’s YouTube recording of Irish priest Brother Richard Hendrick viral poem ‘Lockdown’ that was shared on March 21.  Welcome to the times of poetry-reading during lockdown. From kids to veterans, reading of all kinds of verse on social media is giving a breathing space, providing a chance to escape the claustrophobic times of global uncertainty and distress. “Poetry is giving some relief. It’s healing. When I see such response, I feel I’ve been able to discharge my responsibility as an artiste,” the actor said. A screen grab of the Facebook post of Rudranil Ghosh reading 'Coronar Maa' According to Joie Bose, founder of Poetry Paradigm, the organization had started the process of encouraging people to post their videos since March. “We kickstarted it with Ruskin Bond reading for us. Poetry-reading gives you solace and when you are making videos of yourself reading to connect with people, it breaks the sense of loneliness that lockdown brings. Hence, at Poetry Paradigm, we have encouraged people to post their videos on our page. We kickstarted it with Ruskin Bond reading for us. We have got more than 159 videos. To encourage people further, we are collaborating with Oxford Bookstore. Nine-year-old Devansh and Tiana will also be with me,” Bose said. Joie Bose, the founder of Poetry Paradigm, says this reading breaks the sense of loneliness that lockdown brings On his Facebook page, poet Prabal Kumar Basu has uploaded excerpts from his poetry-reading session and included those verses that are relevant now. “Poetry always strengthens one's inner soul. When people are in isolation and not able to see or meet their dear ones, they find respite in poetry or music. A poet reading his own poems carries an added advantage. People find their strength which heals the agony and stress during times of lockdown. That’s how a poet contributes to society,“ Basu said. On his Facebook page, poet Prabal Kumar Basu has uploaded excerpts from his poetry-reading session  While amateurs are engaging in random readings, those like actor-director Aparna Sen have a purpose. In her first video, Sen said: “This morning, I thought I would read a poem borrowing a page from my friend Shabana Azmi’s book. I could read a Bengali poem or an English poem. Or I could read a translation of a Bengali poem because there are many poets in Bengal who deserve to be known all over the world.” So, one after the other, she recited Jibanananda Das’ ‘Loghu muhuurto’ and its English translation by her father Chidananda Dasgupta, along with the English translation of Das’ ‘Banalata Sen’, ‘In the likeness of the Sun’, ‘The Cat’ and ‘The Snake’. On other days, she read the originals and her own English translations of Shakti Chattopadhyay’s ‘Shey bawro shukher shomoy noy, shey bawro anonder shomoy noy’ and Joy Goswami’s ‘Greehobodhur Diary’. She also read out William Blake’s ‘The Lamb’ and ‘The Tyger’.  For director Ranjan Ghosh, this format is interesting since the poems reach those who do not speak Bangla. “Besides, her recitation is very modern and contemporary, and is capable of making the poems resonate within us. That is the hallmark of good recitation,” he said. Inspired by these sessions, Ghosh himself did a maiden poetry-reading session on Saturday evening. “I chose William Wordworth’s ‘I wondered lonely as a Cloud' and Tagore’s 'Praan'. The emotions these poems convey seemed very relevant in today's context,” he said.  A screen grab of the video that has Sujoy Prasad Chatterjee's reading of Purnendu Patri's tribute to Ustad Bade Ghulam AliOn Thursday, which also happened to be the 118th birth anniversary of Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, interdisciplinary artiste Sujoy Prasad Chatterjee read out a poem dedicated to the legend by Purnendu Patri. “Inspired by Kumar Mukherjee, a torchbearer of the Kasur Patiala Gharana, I thought of a humble tribute to this icon. Apart from others, this video was also shared by famous radio artiste Srabanti Mazumdar. She also narrated her own association with the legend,” Chatterjee said. This recitation was for a video shot by Arka Goswami and had rare black-and-white photos. In the audioscape, one can hear strains of the thumri ‘Ab toh jaane nahin doongi’ that’s punctuated by Chatterjee reciting ‘Fuler gondhe photaar jonne/Naarir sporsho pabaar jonne/Ghumer moddhe kandte kandte/Aamra jedin jubok holaam/Baaire tokhon bokkhe brikkhe, jole sthole ontoreekkhe/Aamader shei kanna niye gaan gaaiche Bade Golam…’ A screenshot of Ruskin Bond's video for Poetry Paradigm But what will happen to this habit of reading poetry online once the quarantine period is over? Will poets and readers still have the time to go back to verse online? Or will the fast pace of life bring this exercise to a screeching halt? Ghosh wants to be optimistic. “The lockdown period has forced us to introspect and connect us with some habits that we had forgotten to indulge in. Despite all the gloom, that is a positive effect of this quarantine. I am hoping that this habit stays on,” said the actor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poetry-soothes-nerves-in-times-of-social-distancing/articleshow/74990936.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: For seniors, angels walked in where government failed to tread||PANAJI: Had they waited for the government to come to their rescue, the disabled, and the elderly living alone would have long perished during the lockdown weeks. Following the government’s diktat to stay at home, the aged tell TOI they survived the rough lockdown only thanks to the generosity of their neighbours and friends who helped replenish their stocks of basic essentials. No help was forthcoming from government representatives who otherwise frequent their homes before elections. Julia, 75, who lives alone with her disabled daughter on the outskirts of Margao, is furious. She panicked after the lockdown was announced and called the MLA from the neighbouring constituency who is known to her on March 26. She is yet to hear from him. Elderly slam politicians over poor supply of groceriesI was so frightened that’s why I called him. ‘Poita, Poita’, is all he told me. My councillor must have died. He hasn’t even provided me with garbage bins,” she says with frustration. Her disabled daughter, who relies heavily on her medication, has been without it since March 28 and Julia neither uses a mobile phone nor the internet. “I’m afraid to leave the house. The pharmacy keeps promising me they will send me medicines but I’m still waiting,” Julia says, adding that her neighbours and friends have been helping her with some groceries. “Only God has helped me through my Hindu neighbour and friends,” she says. “The councilor should have called for courtesy’s sake or come to see how we are surviving or atleast send someone to inquire,” says Julia, who is surviving on the little money she has left. When she went to the bank on March 16, the government had not deposited the Rs 2,000 under the DSS scheme, which she depends on. After her bitter experience, she has decided she will stay away from voting in the next election. “I used to pay Rs 200 for a rickshaw to take my daughter to the polling station to vote for every election without fail. I’m not going to go anymore. They come to us when they’re in need but when we’re in need they don’t care,” she says. Person with disabilities Vishant Nagvekar living in the state capital says he received groceries at his doorstep only after he made a hue and cry about it on social media. He was forced to do this after he couldn’t get through any of the helplines announced by the government and Panaji corporation. “During elections, the government representatives know all the houses of the disabled, and provide water, wheelchairs and transport to the polling station, but during this crisis, they have failed. The officers are all the same, so why can’t they directly reach out to those in need?” he asks. Instead of centralised helpline numbers, the government should have published local contact numbers like that of the booth-level officer who arranges everything during the elections. Similar provisions could have been made, he says. For an 85-year-old doctor living alone in Chorao, it was again his friends who are helping him through this rough patch. “My friends have been very helpful, otherwise it would have been impossible to survive,” he said. The government should have given people prior notice of the lockdown and made better arrangements, he says. “The government went about it in a scatterbrained manner. They didn’t make any arrangements. While we have been struggling for groceries here, my relatives in Panaji and Taleigao are perfectly all right. Their government representatives have looked after them, but ours have not looked after us,” he says. In another instance, a Caranzalem resident had a tough time standing in three hour long queues procuring groceries for his 92-year-old mother, who lives alone with her caretaker in Panaji. His request for a travel pass, specifically for the distance from his place in Caranzalem to Panaji was rejected by the government. “I didn’t ask for the pass to fool around. I mentioned that my mother is dependent on me for her supplies but they rejected it after three days,” he told TOI. “The government hasn’t factored in the problems of the elderly living on their own. I need a pass to be able to rush to her if there’s an emergency. Do they expect me to go online and register for a two-hour-pass at the time of an emergency? The twohour window is not even enough to buy groceries from our neighbourhood supermarket,” he says , adding that the announcement put out by the government sounds like the 92 year old has to apply for the pass herself. This system is a great injustice to those who cannot apply for it online, he says. The government should have been proactive rather than reactive, he says, adding that they were busy focussing on the zilla panchayat elections when they should have been channelising their energies on how this public health crisis would pan out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-for-seniors-angels-walked-in-where-government-failed-to-tread/articleshow/74991066.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown heroes: She fought corona with faith & resolve||CHANDIGARH: Having volunteered for self-quarantine, little did Tammana Jain, a student who returned from UK know that she would test Covid-19 positive. She recovered from the disease in a fortnight. She attributes the speedy recovery to will power, positive thinking, meditation and a fighting spirit. Tammana, who was admitted in Bhagat Phool Singh, PGIMS, Khanpur Kalan Sonipat, also contributed Rs one lakh towards the CM’s Corona relief fund. The 23-year-old student of Masters in Applied Mathematics in the University of Cambridge, UK reached home on March 18 and quarantined herself. “Initially, I had cough. Without taking any chances, I approached BPS PGIMS and was admitted there. The next day, I tested positive. Certainly, I was sad and disappointed but I was confident of coming out it,” said Tamanna. While her family members were anxious, they maintained a positive outlook through meditation and the guidance of their spiritual guru, she said, adding that her determination helped her to defeat the disease. “I was determined to recover and in the very next test I was tested negative. Two more tests were also negative and I was discharged,” she said. Tamanna expressed gratitude towards the consultant physician and those who supported and encouraged her in the isolation ward. Speaking to TOI over phone, Tamanna and her brother Nitin said their friends and neighbours supported them through the ordeal. “Since our family was quarantined, neighbours were a great help to us. Unlike others in quarantine who are looked upon as untouchable, we had all the support of people in the neighbourhood,” said Nitin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-heroes-she-fought-corona-with-faith-resolve/articleshow/74990996.cms||Manvir Saini
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diarrhoea was giveaway sign for alert team||AHMEDABAD: This 54-year-old Covid-19 patient was perfectly normal, except that he had a recent history of foreign travel. He had no co-morbid conditions, did not sneeze, complain of a throat irritation or pain, or have dry cough or fever. He also did not have shortness of breath or respiratory distress. But he complained of severe diarrhoea. An alert urban health centre (UHC) team had promptly sent him to SVP Hospital at Ellisbridge for a Covid-19 test on March 31, where this man tested positive . "He is stable now," said a senior medical officer in the know of the case. The patient stayed in Crystal Apartments near Shahpur Rangeela Chowky which has been cluster-quarantined by the AMC on Friday. The medical officer recalls the patient's travel history - he travelled with his family to Lahore, Indonesia, Singapore, Mumbai and then returned to Ahmedabad on March 21. Since the lockdown, the civic body medical team had been paying visits to the family. "There were no signs of seasonal flu or the usual symptoms back then. But then on March 29, the man's son complained that his father had severe diarrhoea which showed no signs of abating. The team was concerned, as the man lived in a very dense locality ," said the medical officer. The civic body medical team saw the patient was taking the appropriate medicines for diarrhoea, but called up SVP Hospital for a Covid-19 test, as the patient had a foreign travel history and other members of his family were attending to him. The patient was taken to the hospital where he tested positive. A senior municipal official told TOI that a detailed documentation of all these detections of Covid-19 cases was important to map symptoms, as the virus gets endemic in future. The data will provide important learning for health practitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diarrhoea-was-giveaway-sign-for-alert-team/articleshow/74991225.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Business||Covid-19: IRDAI gives 30 more days to pay life insurance premium||BENGALURU: IRDAI has given 30 extra days for life insurance policy holders to pay their premium - if it was due in March and April 2020. On March 23, IRDAI had already given a 30-day grace period for policyholders whose premiums falls due in March. Now with this notice, the grace period extends to 60 days for those who had been liable to pay in March. In another far-fetching move, where holders of ULIPs would be worried about the value of their funds given the "Black Swan moment," tanking Indian stock markets, the regulator has now given relief. ULIP poliyholders, whose policies come to maturity in March, April or May, will now have the option to postpone closure/maturity of the policy for upto 5 years. "See, the markets have been performing badly. So its possible the net asset value (NAV) of the ULIP might have gone down considerably. And policyholders might be getting a raw deal - if their policies are maturing in this time period and they are given a lump sum settlement now. So IRDAI, to protect policyholders, has given them the option to keep their money with the insurer if they so choose to - till they feel it will be advantageous for them to withdraw the fund amount," said an IRDAI official. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIRDAI said “Where unit linked policies mature and fund value is to be paid in lumpsum, life insurers may offer settlement options in accordance with Regulation 25 of IRDA (Linked Insurance Products) Regulations, 2013. This one-time option is regardless of whether such option exists or not in the specific product." The regulator has also instructed life insurers to explain clearly to policyholders - what happens if they withdraw immediately or withdraw later. "Life insurers have to explain clearly the possible downside risk of continued fluctuation of fund value based on daily NAV and clear consent has to be obtained from the policyholder. This is allowed for unit linked policies maturing up to 31st May 2020,” said the regulator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-irdai-gives-30-more-days-to-pay-life-insurance-premium/articleshow/74991211.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||Roz khao ande: High-protein diet won’t pinch pockets as supply cools prices||KOLKATA: The price of the highprotein diet that doctors recommend to help you fight against the novel coronavirus is finally stabilising in Kolkata. The cost of eggs has reduced, chicken price has stopped fluctuating wildly, the price of mutton has come down from this Holi’s Rs 700-plus stratospheric levels and the movement of fish-laden trucks has resumed from Andhra Pradesh, giving the non-vegetarian many more options to stock up on some much-needed protein. Chicken and egg prices had first crashed because of baseless rumours that their consumption was linked to the spread of nCoV; the prices then spiked sharply as supply fell to near-zero. Mutton prices breached the Rs-700 mark — around Holi — as its demand soared (as people went off poultry). And, of late, fish prices have soared because of lack of supply from Andhra Pradesh, one of the biggest suppliers to fish-loving Bengal. All this led to a disruption in the supply-chain dynamics over the past few weeks. But, with the Bengal government taking the lead to talk to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha officials to regularise truck movement, supplies have resumed. Nearly 90% of the eggs that Bengal consumes come from Andhra and Telangana and egg lovers have been the first to benefit; its price has plunged to between Rs 3.80 and Rs 5.50 apiece in different markets. Traders look at recovering lossesEgg price can stabilize at Rs 4 each if supplies remain regular,” a trader said. “Also, the fact that roll counters have downed shutters means supply has outstripped demand,” he added. The price of a kilogram of dressed chicken, too, has stabilized around the Rs 170-Rs 200 mark. It had swung wildly from Rs 120 a kg because of the chicken-nCoV rumours to Rs 250 a kg. West Bengal Poultry Federation general secretary Madan Mohan Maity hoped people would continue to buy chicken to preempt fluctuation in demand. “There was a major disruption in poultry economics that affected small and unorganized players. We hope to recover some of our losses,” he said. Mutton prices have followed that of chicken to stabilize at Rs 630-Rs 660 a kg. “The supply of goat and sheep from Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh has improved. This has led to cooling of mutton prices in Kolkata,” said Moinuddin Haji of Kidderpore Meat. The price of several varieties of fish, too, has dipped by Rs 50 a kg as trucks with stock from Andhra Pradesh have started arriving in the city. “Prices can dip further if supply remains steady,” said Howrah Fish Vendors’ Association general secretary Syed Anwar Maqsood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/roz-khao-ande-high-protein-diet-wont-pinch-pockets-as-supply-cools-prices/articleshow/74991286.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Supply-chain cut leaves retailers short on masks||AHMEDABAD: At a time when the state government has advised people to wear masks as a precautionary measure to prevent spread of Covid-19, several retailers across Ahmedabad have fallen short of masks be it surgical masks or N95 masks. While some are not getting enough supply of masks, some are exhausting stocks soon after they're replenished. "We are completely out of stock for masks at this point. We don't have either N95 masks or even the disposable masks. The stocks will only be replenished on Monday or Tuesday. The supply is a concern because of delay at distributor and transporter's level due to which stocks are not reaching us," said Manish Patel, owner of a medical store in Prahladnagar area of the city. Yet another retailer also raised similar issues. "Due to the lockdown, transport vehicle movement is significantly less and as a result, we are not getting enough supply of masks. We are short on stock for two days," said the manager of a chain retail store in Vejalpur. While most stores are out of stock for masks, those who have stock have that of disposable 3-ply masks. "Only disposable masks are available at our store. So far, there has been no major bottleneck in the supply chain. The stock of N95 masks is tough to source and is sold off immediately," said the owner of a chemist store in Navrangpura. Despite shortage at retailer level, the Federation of Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists' Association (FGSCDA) said that the association is actively monitoring the shipping of masks and hand sanitisers to ensure there is no short-supply at retailer-end. Interestingly, there is no short-supply of masks when it comes to production; however, logistics issues are causing delays in shipment till the retailers. "Some 20,000 N95 masks in addition to 1.5 lakh 3-ply masks are being manufactured at our unit on a daily basis. There is absolutely no shortage of the product. However, logistics is the main problem. While there are delays at transporter level due to manpower shortage for supply within the state, supply outside the state is even big a concern due to the lockdown," Ashish Kotadiya, technical head and partner of a mask manufacturing unit in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-supply-chain-cut-leaves-retailers-short-on-masks/articleshow/74991338.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 5, 2020||India||Have restricted my movement to break COVID-19 chain: CRPF DG after doc tests positive||NEW DELHI: Director General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) A P Maheshwari said on Sunday that he has gone into quarantine as part of his responsibility to break the coronavirus transmission chain after a doctor of his force tested positive for COVID-19. Maheshwari (59), the chief of the country's largest paramilitary force with a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, his predecessor and senior security advisor in the Union Home Ministry K Vijay Kumar (67), and about two dozen officials in this chain have gone into self-quarantine after the doctor was found infected on April 2. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageBoth Maheshwari and Kumar has last week travelled to Chhattisgarh on a special BSF aircraft to review anti-Naxal operations in the state. "As a precautionary measure I have completely restricted my movement being part of my responsibility to break the chain, and working from home, till a clarity on health check up of officials concerned emerges," the CRPF chief said on personal Twitter account on Sunday. Greetings🙏As a precautionary measure I have completely restricted my movement being part of my responsibility to br… https://t.co/ZtfAFmUj0O— Anand Prakash Maheshwari (@DrAPMaheshwari) 1586048585000Maheshwari, a 1984-batch IPS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, had a contact with an officer who was in touch with the doctor found COVID-19 positive, now isolated at the the AIIMS in Haryana's Jhajjar. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsKumar, a 1975-batch IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, headed CRPF between October, 2010 to September, 2012. He has also served as the advisor to the governor of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "A CRPF officer had tested positive for COVID-19. All personnel in contact with the officer have been quarantined. The DG (Maheshwari) had an indirect contact with the officer and according to protocol, he is observing quarantine," CRPF spokesperson DIG Moses Dhinakaran had said on Saturday. Except the chief medical officer of the CRPF who tested positive and undergoing treatment, DIG Dhinakaran had said, none in the chain ahead have shown any positive sign so far. "However, the DG, as a precautionary measure, has advised all concerned to restrict their movements and strictly work from home to break the chain, if any." "The DG has also set an example by following the same protocols," he said on Sunday. The CRPF has directed its units across the country to help the distressed and needy amid the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown and has launched a helpline through its Kashmir-based platform 'Madadgaar' to aid those affected by the virus and related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-restricted-my-movement-to-break-covid-19-chain-crpf-dg-after-doc-tests-positive/articleshow/74991348.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Lucknow||Follow PM’s call, show solidarity: UP BJP chief||LUCKNOW: UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh has directed BJP workers to convince people in their respective localities to follow PM Narendra Modi’s call for turning off lights of their homes in the evening on Sunday. Singh told TOI that he has already told ministers, MPs and MLAs and paty functionaries to follow PM’s appeal. He said the nation is united in the fight against coronavirus. “We all should ensure that PM’s campaign is a big hit,” he said adding that though the lockdown is causing some hardships, it has successfully restricted the spread of the disease to certain pockets. Besides, the relief measures initiated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath have provided the much-needed succour to the poor, he added. “The CM has asked each party worker to provide meals to at least 10 persons every day. The party workers have also been directed to provide masks to the people and donate at least Rs 100 each to the PM’s and the CM’s relief funds,” Singh added. The BJP leader said that BJP workers are playing a key role in providing meals to the poor, but only after seeking due permission from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/follow-pms-call-show-solidarity-up-bjp-chief/articleshow/74991369.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra police calls for additional manpower to enforce lockdown||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Police personnel on deputation in the CID and ACB have now been called for regular duties as the state police force is facing shortage of manpower in its efforts to strictly enforce the lockdown. Maharashtra director general of police Subodh Jaiswal issued an order recently, directing the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Protection of Civil Rights (PCR) cell, considered as non- regular units, to release the personnel on deputation there. These personnel have been asked to report to their respective police units immediately. Personnel of these special units are appointed on deputation from the state police force. "Additional manpower is required to maintain law and order in the state and to enforce the lockdown amid the increasing coronavirus cases," a police official said. In its order, the DGP office said the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, hence preventive measures are needed to be taken immediately. "The current staff available with commissioners of police and superintendents of police is falling short and hence all non-executive staff and officials should be released as per the need," the order said. There are nearly 2.20 lakh personnel on Maharashtra Police rolls, including the 10 per cent staff serving in the CID, ACB and PCR. After the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus, the entire police staff was deployed for its enforcement. Units of the Homeguard were also roped in for field duties to share the burden at various places. However, there is still shortage of security personnel for bandobast duties as the existing police force is stretched to its limits, the official said. Deployment of additional force could be an indication that the 21-day lockdown period may get extended, if not in the entire state but in specific areas that would require more security measures, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-police-calls-for-additional-manpower-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74991388.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra police calls for additional manpower to enforce lockdown||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Police personnel on deputation in the CID and ACB have now been called for regular duties as the state police force is facing shortage of manpower in its efforts to strictly enforce the lockdown. Maharashtra director general of police Subodh Jaiswal issued an order recently, directing the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Protection of Civil Rights (PCR) cell, considered as non- regular units, to release the personnel on deputation there. These personnel have been asked to report to their respective police units immediately. Personnel of these special units are appointed on deputation from the state police force. "Additional manpower is required to maintain law and order in the state and to enforce the lockdown amid the increasing coronavirus cases," a police official said. In its order, the DGP office said the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, hence preventive measures are needed to be taken immediately. "The current staff available with commissioners of police and superintendents of police is falling short and hence all non-executive staff and officials should be released as per the need," the order said. There are nearly 2.20 lakh personnel on Maharashtra Police rolls, including the 10 per cent staff serving in the CID, ACB and PCR. After the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus, the entire police staff was deployed for its enforcement. Units of the Homeguard were also roped in for field duties to share the burden at various places. However, there is still shortage of security personnel for bandobast duties as the existing police force is stretched to its limits, the official said. Deployment of additional force could be an indication that the 21-day lockdown period may get extended, if not in the entire state but in specific areas that would require more security measures, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-police-calls-for-additional-manpower-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74992073.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra police calls for additional manpower to enforce lockdown||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Police personnel on deputation in the CID and ACB have now been called for regular duties as the state police force is facing shortage of manpower in its efforts to strictly enforce the lockdown. Maharashtra director general of police Subodh Jaiswal issued an order recently, directing the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Protection of Civil Rights (PCR) cell, considered as non- regular units, to release the personnel on deputation there. These personnel have been asked to report to their respective police units immediately. Personnel of these special units are appointed on deputation from the state police force. "Additional manpower is required to maintain law and order in the state and to enforce the lockdown amid the increasing coronavirus cases," a police official said. In its order, the DGP office said the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, hence preventive measures are needed to be taken immediately. "The current staff available with commissioners of police and superintendents of police is falling short and hence all non-executive staff and officials should be released as per the need," the order said. There are nearly 2.20 lakh personnel on Maharashtra Police rolls, including the 10 per cent staff serving in the CID, ACB and PCR. After the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus, the entire police staff was deployed for its enforcement. Units of the Homeguard were also roped in for field duties to share the burden at various places. However, there is still shortage of security personnel for bandobast duties as the existing police force is stretched to its limits, the official said. Deployment of additional force could be an indication that the 21-day lockdown period may get extended, if not in the entire state but in specific areas that would require more security measures, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maharashtra-police-calls-for-additional-manpower-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74992074.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra police calls for additional manpower to enforce lockdown||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Police personnel on deputation in the CID and ACB have now been called for regular duties as the state police force is facing shortage of manpower in its efforts to strictly enforce the lockdown. Maharashtra director general of police Subodh Jaiswal issued an order recently, directing the Crime Investigation Department (CID), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Protection of Civil Rights (PCR) cell, considered as non- regular units, to release the personnel on deputation there. These personnel have been asked to report to their respective police units immediately. Personnel of these special units are appointed on deputation from the state police force. "Additional manpower is required to maintain law and order in the state and to enforce the lockdown amid the increasing coronavirus cases," a police official said. In its order, the DGP office said the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, hence preventive measures are needed to be taken immediately. "The current staff available with commissioners of police and superintendents of police is falling short and hence all non-executive staff and officials should be released as per the need," the order said. There are nearly 2.20 lakh personnel on Maharashtra Police rolls, including the 10 per cent staff serving in the CID, ACB and PCR. After the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of coronavirus, the entire police staff was deployed for its enforcement. Units of the Homeguard were also roped in for field duties to share the burden at various places. However, there is still shortage of security personnel for bandobast duties as the existing police force is stretched to its limits, the official said. Deployment of additional force could be an indication that the 21-day lockdown period may get extended, if not in the entire state but in specific areas that would require more security measures, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maharashtra-police-calls-for-additional-manpower-to-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/74992075.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown violation in Kerala: Jogging lands 41 in police station||KOCHI: Police on Saturday morning arrested 41 walkers and joggers, including two women, who went out for their work out to Panampilly Nagar walkway, disobeying specific instructions not to venture out. Ernakulam South police said that warning them and sending them home had become a daily routine for the police every morning and evening, ever since the lockdown was declared. "We have been going to the walkway every morning to warn them not to go for jogging as it is not allowed. However, even if they go back when police approach them, they used to come back. So, we decided to register cases and take action," said a police officer. A police team led by assistant commissioner T R Rajesh and South SHO K G Aneesh were ready with enough force and vehicle to transport the offenders on Saturday morning as per the directive of deputy commissioner (law and order) G Poonguzhali. Senior officers said that the police had conducted a thorough checking of the area using drones before taking action. "In the footage, we could see many coming out for morning walk, violating social distancing. It is prohibited to go out before 7am even for purchasing goods. After 7am you can be out only if you have a sufficient reason, not for taking a morning walk. We have been spreading this message through the media, social media and even through public announcements. If the residents are not paying heed to these messages then we have no option but take penal action against them," said a senior officer. Police said that their operation was brief and was done with the intention of sending a message. "We only stayed there for less than half hour - from 6:30am to 7am. If we had continued the operation till 8, I am sure that many more would have been caught. We urge residents to consider this as a warning and to not violate lockdown in the coming days," said a senior officer. City police sources meanwhile said that similar surveillance is going on at other parts of the city, including West Kochi and central Ernakulam. "Strong surveillance is going on and if we find similar instances happening in other parts of the city, same action would be taken there as well," said an officer. Local ward councillor K X Francis said that the local residents too welcomed the police action. "Most of the persons who go there for morning walk are well educated and they themselves have accepted the mistake. Police had even made announcement through megaphone the other day to not venture out for morning walk. Hopefully, the mistake won't be repeated," said Francis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-violation-jogging-lands-41-in-police-station/articleshow/74991424.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Business||IMF likely to delay release of third tranche of $6 billion loan to Pakistan due to Covid-19 pandemic: Report||ISLAMABAD: The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is likely to delay the release of its third tranche of the total $6 billion extended fund facility (EFF) to cash-strapped Pakistan in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic, according to a media report on Sunday. Pakistan in December last had received the second tranche amounting $454 million. The delay of the release of the third trance, amounting $450 million, will be likely due to the surfacing of new realities on the macroeconomic front following the coronavirus pandemic, The News International reported. "Under the existing arrangement of $6 billion extended fund facility (EEF), the approval of third tranche might be delayed for some time because all macroeconomic targets have shaken, arising out requirement to re-adjust macroeconomic targets," it noted. The IMF in July last year had approved the $6 billion loan over a period of three years for Pakistan. It was aimed at returning sustainable growth to the country's fragile economy and improve the standards of living. Pakistan's finance ministry had approached the IMF in August 2018 for a bailout package when the Imran Khan government took over. Quoting sources, the report said, there are two possibilities under consideration. One was to complete the second review after the next budget for 2020-21 and second was to club second and third reviews of the EFF for providing third and fourth tranches together probably in July 2020. The next IMF review meeting is expected by late April or early May 2020. However, the report said the IMF has agreed to consider Pakistan's separate request of providing $1.4 billion under the rapid finance instrument (RFI) for combating the coronavirus outbreak. At the same time, it noted that when IMF's resident chief in Pakistan, Teresa Daban Sanchez was contacted for inquiring about the approval of $1.4 billion under RFI, she replied, "It is not yet announced by the IMF's board of directors, hopefully, it will be done by mid-April." Pakistan has reported over 2,880 cases of coronavirus and 45 deaths due to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/imf-likely-to-delay-release-of-third-tranche-of-6-billion-loan-to-pakistan-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-report/articleshow/74991392.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal women cops show mettle in Covid combat||BHOPAL: A force of around 400 women cops are working shoulder to shoulder with their male colleagues to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown across the state capital and around 180 of them are deployed on field duty. While the senior women cops are busy working 12-16 hours on a regular basis to maintain law and order, the lower-ranked personnel are working for 8-12 hours on the field. TOI spoke to a few women cops and took details of the challenges faced by them. CSP (Kotwali) Bittu Sharma is posted in one of the most sensitive areas of the city. She told TOI that her working hours are not fixed. She leaves for work around 7.30am and does not even go home to take lunch. She returns home only after midnight after briefing the night duty staff at police stations in her division. Sharma said that seven Tablighi Jamaatis, including two foreign foreigners were found in her jurisdiction area and she has to keep a check on their health situation every minute. She also has to arrange for their medical screening and take them to the quarantine centre. Expectedly, she is exposed to many risks throughout the day. She said that she keeps a spare uniform in her vehicle and changes it at her office if the need arises. Speaking on the precautions being taken by her at home, she said that she goes home just for 4-5 hours to sleep. She added that she takes entry from the backside of the house and goes straight to the basement where she takes a bath and washes her uniform. She makes it a point to enter the house after proper sanitisation. Speaking on the challenges faced while enforcing the lockdown in Old City areas, Sharma said that people there are accustomed to stay outside their homes late till night. Although the situation is by and large under control, she spotted two youths loitering the streets and smoking cigarettes while she was night patrolling in the wee hours of Saturday. SI Akanksha Sharma, posted in the crime branch said, "I am deployed on duty to monitor checkposts in the city outskirts. I join duty around 10am and patrol in the checkposts to keep an eye on people coming from outside Bhopal. We have to send these people to quarantine centres and most of the time they create ruckus. I reach home around 10.30pm but have to remain active on the wireless." Woman constable Puja Malviya, who is posted at Govindpura police station said, "I was on Urja desk duty earlier. Since the lockdown, I have been deployed on field duty. I leave home around 10am and return around 9pm. The whole day I'm extremely busy at the checkpoints and patrol the areas." Speaking on the growing challenges, Malviya said, "Although my colleagues are very supportive, but we have to constantly make announcements and ask people to remain at their homes and not venture out without any valid reasons.." Inspector Renu Murab, who is posted at AJK police station said, "I visit various areas and distribute food packets, masks and sanitisers to the needy. Recently, we found that many migrant labourers, who are mostly daily-wagers, were finding it hard to use the public toilets as they have no money to pay for using them. It was creating a sanitation problem. I brought the issue to the knowledge of SP Sai Krishna S Thota and he resolved it .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-women-cops-show-mettle-in-covid-combat/articleshow/74991435.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Man suspected to have contracted coronavirus attempts suicide at Delhi hospital||NEW DELHI: A man suspected to have contracted the coronavirus infection allegedly attempted to commit suicide by jumping from the third floor of a hospital in central Delhi, police said on Sunday. The 37-year-old man was admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on March 31, they said. Around 11.30pm on Saturday, he jumped from the third floor of the hospital. He first hit a tin roof before hitting the ground, fracturing his leg, police said. According to doctors, his condition is stable and the result for his coronavirus test is still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-suspected-to-have-contracted-coronavirus-attempts-suicide-at-delhi-hospital/articleshow/74991447.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Cases plunge significantly in rural areas||PUNE: The rural police have recorded a significant drop in crimes, particularly in terms of property and body offences between March 15 and April 4, but the number of cases pertaining to violation of the lockdown order has increased drastically. On an average, 15 cases of house break-ins and robberies, and 10 instances of body offences were usually registered in different police stations across the district everyday, an officer said. "We register around three body offences and four related to robbery or house break-ins, daily. Due to the lockdown, maximum people are at their homes so the cases have reduced," Pune rural superintendent of police Sandeep Patil said. "Since there has been a significant drop in crimes, we can afford to rope in adequate personnel for patrolling in the district round the clock," said a senior officer from the local crime branch. The Pune rural police registered 532 cases of violation of the lockdown order across the district in the last fortnight. The maximum cases were reported in Baramati town followed by Lonikand and Wagholi, a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-plunge-significantly-in-rural-areas/articleshow/74991485.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 5, 2020||India||About 40,000 Indian seafarers stranded across globe on account of lockdown: Maritime bodies||NEW DELHI: About 40,000 crew and seafarers stranded on cargo and cruise vessels across the globe are awaiting return to Indian shores, with the government assuring to extend help once the nationwide lockdown on account of coronavrius outbreak is lifted, maritime bodies have said. There are about 15,000 seafarers onboard about 500 cargo vessels across the globe, and another 25,000 on cruise ships. Maritime bodies like NUSI, MUI and MASSA told PTI they have raised the issue with the Shipping Ministry, which has assured to extend all possible help for return of these seafarers after the lockdown is lifted. "It is estimated that around 40,000 Indian seafarers are stranded on cargo and cruise vessels across the globe and are waiting to come back home since their job contracts have expired," said Capt Shiv Halbe, CEO of Maritime Association of Shipowners, Shipmanagers and Agents (MASSA). He said the issue was raised before Shipping Minister Mansukh Lal Manadaviya, who assured their safe passage back home once the lockdown is lifted. "However, the minister said that the seafarers will need to be tested and then quarantined or isolated," he added. The maritime bodies and other stakeholders from port sector held a meeting with Mandaviya, through video conferencing, to discuss the plight of Indian seafarers, who are outside India currently, and various issues faced by the Indian maritime industry due to COVID-19 pandemic. Halbe called the meeting "extremely fruitful" and said he expects the government to take steps after the lockdown is over. Maritime Union of India (MUI) General Secretary Amar Singh Thakur said, "The minister agreed that there is a need to treat seafarers as 'essential workers' and to provide smooth relief facilities in ports. Their welfare should be looked after whilst they are onboard and in transit." National Union of Seafarers of India (NUSI) General Secretary Abdulgani Serang said, "I assured the minister that NUSI will certainly do the needful to financially support Indian seafarers in the current scenario when Indian economy is passing through a rough phase due to pandemic across the globe." He said NUSI has earmarked a corpus of Rs 10 crore to support retired Indian seafarers, disabled seafarers, widows of seafarers and jobless seafarers who have been out of job for the past nine months. "This novel move is aimed at alleviating their economic hardships in the current pandemic scenario," he added. Mandaviya on Friday had exhorted port officials and other stakeholders to convert the present crisis into an opportunity by ensuring smooth cargo operations so that supplies are not hit during the lockdown. The representatives from ports sector had raised concerns on high port operation cost, port congestion, shortage of labourers, movement of workers and truck drivers, among others, due to the lockdown. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Mormugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V.O. Chidambaranar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/about-40000-indian-seafarers-stranded-across-globe-on-account-of-lockdown-maritime-bodies/articleshow/74991443.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||DRDO creates personnel sanitization enclosure||PUNE: The Vehicle Research Development Establishment (VRDE) laboratory at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has designed and developed a full-body disinfection chamber called Personnel Sanitization Enclosure (PSE) "The walk-through enclosure is designed for personnel decontamination, one person at a time. This is a portable system equipped with sanitizer and soap dispenser. The decontamination is started using a foot pedal at the entry. On entering the chamber, an electric pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride. The mist spray is calibrated for operation of 25 seconds and stops automatically indicating completion of operation. As per procedure, personnel undergoing disinfection will need to keep their eyes closed while inside the chamber," said the DRDO authorities. The system consists of roof-mounted and bottom tanks with a total 700 litres capacity. Approximately, 650 personnel can pass through the chamber for disinfection until the next refill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drdo-creates-personnel-sanitization-enclosure/articleshow/74991543.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 5, 2020||India||Omar Abdullah showers praise on Uddhav Thackeray||SRINAGAR: Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah on Sunday showered praise on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, apparently for the way the latter is handling the COVID-19 situation in his state. "UddhavThackeray has been a revelation," Omar tweeted. #UddhavThackeray has been a revelation.— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1586066511000The Maharashtra chief minister, the first Thackeray to rule the state, has been lauded on various social media platforms for the way he is handling the COVID-19 situation despite the state having high number of positive cases. Maharashtra has recorded 32 coronavirus deaths so far and 661 cases of the virus. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/omar-abdullah-showers-praise-on-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/74991652.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI gets 450 PPE kits from legal fraternity||CHANDIGARH: A group of city advocates, retired and sitting judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court and Supreme Court, along with a businessman, on Saturday handed over 450 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to PGI director after collecting Rs 15 lakh. The PPE kits could be reused after proper sanitisation. The administration has already placed order of 20,000 PPE kits. PPE kits include full body cover suit with helmets, gloves and face shields and N95 masks -a device that covers the nose and mouth. Recently, PGI Nurses' Welfare Association had sent a letter to the director demanding "proper supply of N-95 masks, PPE kits and sanitisers. An advocate said the high-quality suits would be of great use and enhance the confidence of doctors fighting Covid-19. He also shared that around 15 persons pooled in and collected Rs 15 lakh. He said direct contact was established with a vendor so that the kits could be delivered as soon as possible. Healthcare workers in the city are also in dire need of N-95 masks, gloves, face sheets and sanitisers. PGI professor Dr Arun Bansal said, "The legal fraternity has rescued the medical staff and doctors as we were facing an acute shortage of PPE kits, which are required for the safety of our team while handling patients." He said donations of PPE kits are the need of hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-gets-450-ppe-kits-from-legal-fraternity/articleshow/74991686.cms||Neha Sharma
April 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Special economic zones join Covid-19 fight, produce masks and PPE||HYDERABAD: Brandix India at Atchutapuram special economic zone (SEZ) in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh has joined the fight against Covid-19. Around 2.4 crore surgical masks and three core surgical gowns will be made at the facility. Similarly, three crore three-layer non-woven surgical masks will be made at Shinetech Apparel at VSEZ Duvvada to meet the demands of AP government. Despite lockdown, Visakhapatnam SEZ has ensured 370 units were operational in AP and Telangana, and all essential industries (Pharma) and IT units were kept functional with minimal staff. VSEZ, which has jurisdiction over AP and Telangana, has achieved exports to the tune of 96,886 crore in the 2019-20 fiscal, while it was 72,963 crore last year. VSEZ development commissioner A Rama Mohan Reddy said that SEZ units, especially IT/IT enabled services, and pharma, helped achieve the milestone. VSEZ with 489 operational units, spread over 58 SEZs in three states, has achieved 32.79% growth in exports compared to last year. It was also highest among the seven zones of the country, despite global economic recession. "During the 2019-20 fiscal, 3.79 lakhs jobs were geneated compared to 3.39 lakh in the 2018-19 fiscal, which was also a growth of nearly 12 %. Despite all odds, during the last fiscal year, we had issued approvals to 95 new units with an investment of 8,631 crore and estimated export potential to the tune of 59,111 cr and projected employment generation of 69,077 jobs , in the next five years," he added. During the ongoing lockdown period, 46 pharma units, two food-based units (coffee) and 322 IT/ITeS units are operational on minimum personnel basis in shifts and work from home for IT units. "Though coronavirus will have an impact on production sector exports, it will have little impact on the services sector," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-economic-zones-join-covid-19-fight-produce-masks-and-ppe/articleshow/74991805.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Special economic zones join Covid-19 fight, produce masks and PPE||HYDERABAD: Brandix India at Atchutapuram special economic zone (SEZ) in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh has joined the fight against Covid-19. Around 2.4 crore surgical masks and three core surgical gowns will be made at the facility. Similarly, three crore three-layer non-woven surgical masks will be made at Shinetech Apparel at VSEZ Duvvada to meet the demands of AP government. Despite lockdown, Visakhapatnam SEZ has ensured 370 units were operational in AP and Telangana, and all essential industries (Pharma) and IT units were kept functional with minimal staff. VSEZ, which has jurisdiction over AP and Telangana, has achieved exports to the tune of 96,886 crore in the 2019-20 fiscal, while it was 72,963 crore last year. VSEZ development commissioner A Rama Mohan Reddy said that SEZ units, especially IT/IT enabled services, and pharma, helped achieve the milestone. VSEZ with 489 operational units, spread over 58 SEZs in three states, has achieved 32.79% growth in exports compared to last year. It was also highest among the seven zones of the country, despite global economic recession. "During the 2019-20 fiscal, 3.79 lakhs jobs were geneated compared to 3.39 lakh in the 2018-19 fiscal, which was also a growth of nearly 12 %. Despite all odds, during the last fiscal year, we had issued approvals to 95 new units with an investment of 8,631 crore and estimated export potential to the tune of 59,111 cr and projected employment generation of 69,077 jobs , in the next five years," he added. During the ongoing lockdown period, 46 pharma units, two food-based units (coffee) and 322 IT/ITeS units are operational on minimum personnel basis in shifts and work from home for IT units. "Though coronavirus will have an impact on production sector exports, it will have little impact on the services sector," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-economic-zones-join-covid-19-fight-produce-masks-and-ppe/articleshow/74991714.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 5, 2020||Business||Indian macroeconomic situation bleak, set to worsen if lockdowns continue: Jean Dreze||NEW DELHI: The Indian macroeconomic situation is bleak and all set to get worse if local or national lockdowns continue for some more time, renowned economist Jean Dreze said on Sunday. Dreze further said that due to the country-wide lockdown, social unrest in many parts of India has already started. The country is under a 21-day lockdown as part of larger efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections. "The situation is bleak and all set to get worse, if local or national lockdowns of varying intensity continue for some time, as is likely to happen. "Even otherwise, the world-wide recession is likely to have adverse affects on the Indian economy," the Belgian-born Indian economist told PTI in an interview. Talking about the impact of the coronavirus outbreak on the Indian economy and job creation, Dreze noted that some sectors are badly affected, but segments like medical care may even grow during the crisis. "Most sectors would be unable to thrive if others are not in good shape. "... It's like, if a bicycle has a puncture, you cannot expect it to move forward on one wheel. In short, if the crisis lasts, it will spread to most parts of the economy, including the banking system," he emphasised. Observing that as soon as the lockdown is relaxed, migrant workers who are marooned in different parts will try to return home, Dreze pointed out that they will probably hesitate to migrate again for a while. "But there is hardly any work for them at home, except for some farming if they have land," he said, adding that because of reduced migration, sectors that rely heavily on migrant labour may face a shortage of manpower. Pointing out that already there are reports of shortage of labour for wheat harvest in parts of north India, Dreze said, "This is the paradox of this situation, that shortages and surpluses may coexist, because the circulation channels have been severely disrupted." Asked whether it is the right time to go for Universal Basic Income (UBI), he said this is not the time to reinvent the wheel. "That is why it is best to build on existing schemes for now, including the public distribution system and social security pensions. "... In other contexts, UBI may be feasible and appropriate, but in India today, it is a distraction," Dreze, a former member of the previous UPA government's National Advisory Council argued. Several international credit rating agencies have cut growth estimates for India in recent days on concerns about the fallout of the Covid-19 outbreak. According to Fitch Ratings, India may post in 2020-21 a GDP growth of 2 per cent, the slowest since the economy was liberalised 30 years back. Asian Development Bank (ADB) sees India's economic growth slipping to 4 per cent in the current fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021), while S&P Global Ratings last week further slashed GDP growth forecast for the country to 3.5 per cent from the previous downgrade of 5.2 per cent. Moody's Investors Service has also slashed its estimate of India's GDP growth during 2020 calendar year to 2.5 per cent, from an earlier estimate of 5.3 per cent, saying the coronavirus pandemic will cause unprecedented shock to the global economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-macroeconomic-situation-bleak-set-to-worsen-if-lockdowns-continue-jean-dreze/articleshow/74991775.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Guwahati||Himanta Biswa Sarma appeals to Jamaat attendees to come forward||GUWAHATI: Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday warned the delegates from the state, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, to disclose their identities and come forward voluntarily for quarantine and undergo Covid-19 tests as cases linked to the Nizamuddin gathering continued to spike across the state and country. Besides, with passing of days, it has come to light that many more people had attended the meet than initially thought. The first alert had said 299 people had gathered at the meet. The latest numbers suggest that up to 2,000 people had attended the meet. "The Nizamuddin-sourced cases now seem to have spread across the state. First in Barak Valley (southern Assam), then South Salmara (western border) and today (Saturday) in North Lakhimpur (easternmost Assam on north bank of Brahmaputra). The list of those who attended the event is getting longer every day. They are not cooperating with us and so, for one last time, I request all those delegates to Tablighi Jamaat to declare their names or else the health department will have to give the responsibility to Assam Police to locate them," Sarma said. Sarma said so far 812 samples of delegates from Tablighi Jamaat have been collected, of which 24 samples have tested positive. "Samples from 636 other delegates have tested negative but we are quarantining them and their samples will be tested again after 14 days. We are awaiting for results of 152 samples," he said. Of the 25 Covid-19-positive cases so far in the state, 24 of them have links with Nizamuddin - four each from Morigaon and Nalbari, nine from Golaghat district, three from Goalpara district one each from North Lahimpur, South Salmara, Hailakandi and Kamrup districts. What worries the health department more is the second layer of transmission by the infected persons who have come from Nizamuddin. "For one infected person in Guwahati, we have identified 111 people coming in contact with him. Imagine the contacts the 512 delegates from Tablighi Jamaat might have made," Sarma said. In the other northeastern states too, Tablighi Jamaat attendees have tested positive - one in Arunachal Pradesh and another in Manipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/himanta-biswa-sarma-appeals-to-jamaat-attendees-to-come-forward/articleshow/74991779.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||'Assalaam Alaikum!' This is Karachi's control welcoming Air India.. We're proud of you'||NEW DELHI: Air India recently found a rather unexpected praise from an Air Traffic Controller (ATC) of Pakistan. Air India was operating special flights from India to Frankfurt with relief materials and evacuated European nationals, who were stranded in India as coronavirus swept across continents, perishing millions and crippling the system of passenger planes crisscrossing the world. "It was a very proud moment for me as well as the entire Air India crew when we heard Pakistan ATC praising our special flight operations to Europe," one of the senior captains of the special flights told exclusively to ANI. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage"As we entered in Pakistan's Flight Information Region (FIR), the Pakistan Air Traffic Controller (ATC) greeted us 'Assalaam Alaikum!' This is Karachi's control welcoming Air India for relief flights to Frankfurt," the senior captain quoted the Pakistan ATC as saying. "Confirm are you operating relief flights for Frankfurt," the Pak ATC further said. "AFFIRM," said the Air India captain in Pakistan's airspace. "You are cleared direct to exit point Kebud request estimate crossing Kebud (Exit)," came a response from the ATC. Air India captain replied, saying "Cleared direct Kebud, Thank you." After this, the Pakistan ATC showered praise on Air India. "We are proud of you that in a pandemic situation you are operating flights, Good Luck!" "Thank you so much," responded the captain of India's national carrier. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsFurthermore, when the AI captain, who commanded the special flights, asked the Pakistan ATC that he is not getting the next radar for the Iran airspace, Pakistan conveyed the Indian jet's position to the Tehran airspace and provided details of the two AI special flights. Many crew members of AI's Boeing-777 and Boeing 787 were deployed for the special evacuation flights for European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai and Delhi. Before taking off from Mumbai airport, the ATC there, besides giving permission praised the national carrier's efforts amidst the crisis, saying "we are proud of you". The Captain also replied back stating that they were also proud of working with the ATC and all other services as a sign of mutual respect. After Pakistan airspace, the special AI flight entered Iran. As the captain told ANI, it had never happened before in his entire pilot career that the Middle East country had given a direct route of over 1000 miles. "First time in my entire career as a pilot, Iran gave a direct routing for about 1000 miles a privilege guess enjoyed as special flights, in all especially in the recent tense situation in the Iranian airspace," he said. Iran has rarely given a direct route to any of airlines because the direct route of Iran airspace is strictly kept reserve for their defence purposes only. Before leaving Iran airspace, the ATC there also wished us 'all the best'," the AI captain told to ANI. After Iran, the AI special flights entered into the Turkey airspace and then Germany's. "All ATCs from Bombay to Frankfurt welcomed the special flights of Air India and wished us very proudly," the Captain said. The two special Air India flights flew out stranded European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai. All crew members including the pilots wore the mandatory COVID-19 coveralls for over 20 hours at a stretch (to/from and ground time at Frankfurt). They will now remain in self-quarantine for 14 days. To prevent of the spread of COVID-19 virus, India has announced a 21-days lockdown with no passenger air and rail traffic, leaving many of foreign nationals stranded in several parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assalaam-alaikum-this-is-karachis-control-welcoming-air-india-were-proud-of-you/articleshow/74991739.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||8 from Andhra Pradesh test positive in Maharashtra||Eight of 12 travellers from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, who had arrived at Nilanga in Latur district from Haryana on April 2, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Latur district collector G Shreekanth said the group was travelling from Ferozepur in Haryana in two vehicles on rent to Nilanga via Mathura and Dhule. "They were issued emergency pass by the revenue department of Haryana, with help of which they crossed the borders." Shreekanth said the group had been to Delhi before going to Haryana, but it is yet to be ascertained whether they attended the Tablighi event or came into contact with those who had attended. The group members, however, said they did not attend the Tablighi Jamaat event. With the latest cases, the count of current Covid-19 patients in Marathwada has reached 13. The group claimed that they were going back home from Ferozepur in Haryana, but the driver of their vehicle dropped them midway and disappeared, following which they chose to stay at a religious place in Nilanga taluka. On learning of the group's travel history, the Latur administration moved them to the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Science Institute (VDGMSI). Although they did not have symptoms, their throat swabs were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Girish Thakur, dean of VDGMSI, told TOI that those who tested positive have been admitted to the medical college and are being treated according to government protocol. "So far, we have tested 95 people for Covid-19 (in Latur). This is the first batch of positive patients. Currently, they are in an isolation ward and their condition is stable," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-from-andhra-pradesh-test-positive-in-maharashtra/articleshow/74991810.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 5, 2020||India||PM Modi tweets #9pm9minute to remind people to light up diyas tonight||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reminded people to light up lamps on Sunday night to show the country's collective resolve to fight coronavirus. "#9pm9minute", the prime minister tweeted to remind people of the exercise. #9pm9minute— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1586063514000Modi had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-tweets-9pm9minute-to-remind-people-to-light-up-diyas-on-tonight/articleshow/74990400.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Guwahati||Tezpur varsity develops face shields||GUWAHATI: Tezpur University (TU) has started developing face shields that can be used by medical staff as personal protective equipment while attending to Covid-19 patients. The first batch of these face shields has already been dispatched to Tezpur Medical College, Gauhati Medical College and Dr B Borooah Cancer Institute. The face shields are being jointly developed at TU's Embedded Systems and Robotics Lab and Applied Photonics and Nanophotonics Lab, which are funded by the department of science and technology, department of biotechnology and eYantra Project (IIT-Bombay), and Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi. Faculty members involved in the project are associate professor at the electronics and communication engineering department Dr Nayan M Kakoty, assistant professor Dr Durlav Sonowal, assistant professor of computer science and engineering Dr Rosy Sarmah and physics professor Pabitra Nath. The molecular biology and biotechnology department of TU is making sanitisers to disinfect the face shields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/tezpur-varsity-develops-face-shields/articleshow/74991831.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||225 Wakad residents use pilot mobile ATM van service||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Altogether 225 people took advantage of the pilot mobile ATM van service started by the Pimpri Chinchwad Co-Op Housing Societies Federation for residents in Wakad on Saturday. The service would enable doorstep withdrawal of cash without visiting banks or ATMs during lockdown. KC Garg, the federation secretary, said, "People from around 10 housing societies availed the services of the pilot project in Wakad from 10.30am to 7pm." The pilot service would run on Sunday and Monday from 10.30am to 5pm in other parts of Wakad. "We had decided that credit/ debit cards of all banks will be accepted at the mobile ATM van and the maximum withdrawal will be Rs5,000," Garg said. In reality many people withdrew money from multiple bank accounts as there was no restriction on the number of cards that can be used. As a result, the van had to be refilled with cash. But now we plan to allow one person to use only one card to withdraw cash," Garg added. He added that housing societies in Punawale, Rahatni, Tathawade and other areas, too, have demanded that this pilot mobile ATM van be deployed in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/225-wakad-residents-use-pilot-mobile-atm-van-service/articleshow/74991838.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 5, 2020||Guwahati||Citizens' post-shutdown mantra: Stay disciplined||GUWAHATI: The ongoing lockdown period is a great lesson on cleanliness, appropriate social norms and self-isolation, a section of citizens has said. With more than half of the lockdown period behind us, a number of citizens said they felt this period will have a lasting impact on the way people look at life and that many will move towards healthier habits once things are back to normal. "Science says it takes 21 days to grow any habit. So, the lockdown can make us better human beings with better social behaviour. The lockdown taught us to be patient, people stood in queues outside shops, ATMs, people were not allowed to roam around unnecessarily. I would be happy to see these changes in people even after life returns to normal," said Preeti Das, a Gauhati high court advocate. Coronavirus has taught people the necessity of maintaining physical distance, said Suman Tembe, a young employee of Guwahati. "Unnecessary physical contacts such as instant hugs among friends, sharing each other's clothes as a sign of friendship would be a thing of the past. Etiquettes are no longer a choice, it's the need. The lockdown will change the way we look at friendship," she said. For actor-turned-politician Bobbeeta Sharma, cleanliness norms such as washing of hands, regular cleaning of houses, office premises, etc, should now become permanent habits once the lockdown is over. "Habits such as washing hands, cleaning lifts, touch pads of ATMs were not taken so seriously. But now it has become mandatory health rules. This must continue even after the virus scare is over. We were taught by elders that we should not touch our faces with the hands, since they come in contact with hundreds of other things. These are rules we must continue to follow carefully," she said, adding that the city should be cleaned up from time to time. For Lokesh Mathur, a public relations professional, the best thing the virus taught us was to maintain a healthy social distance. "I have often picked up fights with people for entering the ATM while I am inside for transaction, when it is clearly written that one person should enter at a time. I hope this period will teach people to be patient and learn to wait for their turn," he said. Prastuti Parashar, another Assamese film actor said, the fear psychosis that was prevailing among people due to the virus outbreak would make people follow social norms in the days to come. "Queuing in front of shops, being organised in public events, maintaining physical distance in public spaces are lessons that need to be learnt from this period," she said. Atul Borgohain, Professor of Assam Agricultural University, Khanapara and an environmentalist said there should be a lockdown in the entire world every year to rejuvenate the ecosystem. "The environment has immensely benefitted from the lockdown. Wild animals are showing up without fear, the air is clean, noise pollution is low. I would say, to slow down the process of global warming; all governments across the world should announce a 10-day lockdown every year." Ninety cities of India have recorded a dip in air pollution over the past 11 days. Naushad Hussain, an adventure sports professional and a tour guide from Guwahati, said, "We are all going through a bad time, but there are lots of things we hope to learn from the lockdown such as recycle, reuse and sustainability. I would back more lockdowns in future as a disaster and disease response plan."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/citizens-post-shutdown-mantra-stay-disciplined/articleshow/74991880.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Cleaning waste from 100 houses every day||PUNE: Madina Shaikh (64) wakes up every day at 4am in her tiny home in Patil estate slums. After morning ablution in the community washroom, she has a breakfast of tea and biscuits and starts her walk towards Shimla office bus stop. After a wait for about an hour or so, she boards the bus to Aundh gaon. She dons her mask, gloves and the fluorescent blue and green jacket, and is off to work in 100-odd houses. Like Shaikh, over 3,500 workers of the solid waste collection and handling (SWaCH) collective are working every day with diligence, so that people do not have to worry about disposal of household waste during the lockdown period. Infrequent bus service is a problem for her but she doesn't mind the wait for its all in a day's job for her. "We wait for an hour or so to and fro at the bus stop. But we get a seat in the bus and the weather in the morning is also quite nice. I collect the waste from 100 houses every day. Two collection vans come at 11am, instead of the earlier 2pm. Once it is done, I again take a bus and return home," said Shaikh. A senior citizen, Shaikh is particular about her health and hygiene. Her husband suffered an accident while working as a 'hamal' (porter) and cannot walk properly. Her younger son stays with her along with his wife and two school-going children. "My son is at home due to the lockdown. I am the only earning member in my family now. Hence, I make sure that I wash myself and my clothes, gloves and mask the moment I return home. We work with all kinds of waste. I know it is risky, but that is my job. I have to do it to keepmy hearth burning," said Shaikh. However, with societies maintaining social distancing, she is happy that she doesn't have to wait for anyone to open the door. "We don't have to ring the bell nowadays. The residents are supposed to keep both the wet and dry waste outside their home. We just shout 'kachra' (waste) and leave if people do not open the door. So, our work is completed early these days. We carry our water bottles but do not eat anything as our hands are dirty. I eat once I return home around 2pm," said Shaikh. She says her income has dwindled and it is tough for her to support a family of six. Has anyone ever thanked her for her work? "Why should anybody be grateful for the work we do? We don't talk to them, neither do they talk to us. We complete our work and then return home," said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cleaning-waste-from-100-houses-every-day/articleshow/74991890.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 5, 2020||Guwahati||Assam helpline calls see 250% spike since lockdown||GUWAHATI: Assam's Sarathi 104 helpline number has not stopped ringing ever since the state government imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The helpline recorded an unprecedented 250% rise in phone calls with most people enquiring about precautions against the pandemic. "Post the lockdown announced by the government of Assam on March 22, our team has collectively reached out to 16,362 quarantined people across the state through outbound calls and additionally attended over 80,856 incoming calls till April 3. Over 80% of these calls have been related to seeking guidance and advice on Covid," a spokesperson of Piramal Swasthya - an organisation which supports Assam government's Sarathi 104 helpline - said. She added, "The beneficiaries are also reaching out to report symptoms and seek advice to tackle the infection. Most importantly, this helpline number is also being used to report cases of people who are violating quarantine rules." State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had recently asked residents of Assam to report about any individual with a travel history to coronavirus-infected states or countries by calling 104. The information that the helpline receives is shared on a real-time basis with the government so that these persons can be traced at the earliest. Applauding the efforts by the team, the minister tweeted, "Sarathi 104 our helpline number, having an intake capacity of 6000 calls per day has crossed all barriers and has attended to more than 9000 calls upto 10 pm on Thursday and still ticking. My gratitude to all the dedicated staff of 104." In order to deal with the increased number of calls, the frontline staff team has been significantly expanded. Paramedics, counsellors and doctors, are relentlessly attending to calls related to health advice, counselling, information sharing and reporting of Covid-19 cases, the spokesperson said. She added, "On an average, the team has been attending to around 8,000 calls in a day post the outbreak and lockdown. This number keeps increasing everyday." Paresh Parasnis, CEO of Piramal Foundation, said, "In Assam, we have been able to provide information as per the guidelines of WHO and ministry of health and family welfare to 1,35,727 beneficiaries in March. This initiative has helped allay fears caused by the outbreak of coronavirus." The helpline has also made outbound calls to hundreds of people who have recently travelled outside Assam to counsel them and provide them with medical advice. Doctors from a telemedicine centre are also making video calls to these individuals to keep a check on their health. The helpline of the state government was set up in partnership with Piramal Swasthya and National Health Mission in 2010 to provide affordable and accessible healthcare to the vulnerable sections of the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-helpline-calls-see-250-spike-since-lockdown/articleshow/74991909.cms||Kangkan Kalita
April 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Mercury hits 39.1°C, brace for hotter days||Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CPUNE: The weather has changed again to usher in warmer temperatures after showers last week took everyone by surprise. On Saturday, Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan recorded the highest temperatures this summer. Mercury in these locations was just a degree less than 40°C. Shivajinagar recorded a hot day temperature of 39.1°C, while Lohegaon was a tad lower at 38.8°C on Saturday. Pashan was the hottest in Pune city at 39.2°C. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI that this time, high temperatures had been recorded a little late in summer. "During the earlier years, high temperatures of 39-40°C would be seen around March-end. But this summer, such warm temperatures are being experienced in early April," he said. It was because of the western disturbances still influencing the weather over north India. Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CKashyapi said, "Consecutive western disturbances have been causing precipitation and snow over western Himalayan region. Thus, the northerly wind originating from north India has been reaching parts of Maharashtra. This is one reason why Pune's night temperature remained around 20°C or below on several days recently." "Hot southerly winds from the south have also been influencing Maharashtra. Since the regions of origin of these winds are quite warm, their flow into Maharashtra is thus causing temperatures in the state to rise. Mercury in Pune could touch 40 degrees Celsius in the next few days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-mercury-hits-39-1c-brace-for-hotter-days/articleshow/74991967.cms||Neha Madaan
April 5, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Mercury hits 39.1°C, brace for hotter days||Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CPUNE: The weather has changed again to usher in warmer temperatures after showers last week took everyone by surprise. On Saturday, Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan recorded the highest temperatures this summer. Mercury in these locations was just a degree less than 40°C. Shivajinagar recorded a hot day temperature of 39.1°C, while Lohegaon was a tad lower at 38.8°C on Saturday. Pashan was the hottest in Pune city at 39.2°C. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI that this time, high temperatures had been recorded a little late in summer. "During the earlier years, high temperatures of 39-40°C would be seen around March-end. But this summer, such warm temperatures are being experienced in early April," he said. It was because of the western disturbances still influencing the weather over north India. Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CKashyapi said, "Consecutive western disturbances have been causing precipitation and snow over western Himalayan region. Thus, the northerly wind originating from north India has been reaching parts of Maharashtra. This is one reason why Pune's night temperature remained around 20°C or below on several days recently." "Hot southerly winds from the south have also been influencing Maharashtra. Since the regions of origin of these winds are quite warm, their flow into Maharashtra is thus causing temperatures in the state to rise. Mercury in Pune could touch 40 degrees Celsius in the next few days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maharashtra-mercury-hits-39-1c-brace-for-hotter-days/articleshow/74991970.cms||Neha Madaan
April 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Mercury hits 39.1°C, brace for hotter days||Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CPUNE: The weather has changed again to usher in warmer temperatures after showers last week took everyone by surprise. On Saturday, Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan recorded the highest temperatures this summer. Mercury in these locations was just a degree less than 40°C. Shivajinagar recorded a hot day temperature of 39.1°C, while Lohegaon was a tad lower at 38.8°C on Saturday. Pashan was the hottest in Pune city at 39.2°C. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI that this time, high temperatures had been recorded a little late in summer. "During the earlier years, high temperatures of 39-40°C would be seen around March-end. But this summer, such warm temperatures are being experienced in early April," he said. It was because of the western disturbances still influencing the weather over north India. Mercury climbs up to 39.1°CKashyapi said, "Consecutive western disturbances have been causing precipitation and snow over western Himalayan region. Thus, the northerly wind originating from north India has been reaching parts of Maharashtra. This is one reason why Pune's night temperature remained around 20°C or below on several days recently." "Hot southerly winds from the south have also been influencing Maharashtra. Since the regions of origin of these winds are quite warm, their flow into Maharashtra is thus causing temperatures in the state to rise. Mercury in Pune could touch 40 degrees Celsius in the next few days," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-mercury-hits-39-1c-brace-for-hotter-days/articleshow/74991911.cms||Neha Madaan
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Holy Week begins but services put on hold in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Federation of Telugu Churches (FTC) said churches would continue to put all the worship services, prayer meetings and other religious gatherings on hold. While the Holy Week for Christians begins with Palm Sunday, churches are planning to have virtual mass and prayers through YouTube and broadcast. FTC said they would adhere to this till restrictions on public gathering are lifted. Its executive director Anthoniraj Thumma said church-related societies were not only involved in awareness campaigns on Covid-19 but also rendering relief work to the marginalised sections. "The Christian Coalition for Health (CCH) is willing to place at the disposal of the government about 1,000 hospitals with over 60,000 beds for Covid-19 patients," he said. In Telangana, apart from providing health services, CCH hospital managements have offered facilities to the government for quarantine purposes. "Our local churches, schools, hostels, hospitals and social service societies are supporting the district administrations," said Thumma. He said some of the churches were providing cooked food, dry ration, face masks and sanitary items to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/holy-week-begins-but-services-put-on-hold-in-telangana/articleshow/74991921.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 5, 2020||Imphal||Manipur asks civil bodies to join fight||IMPHAL: The Manipur government has invited civil society organizations and NGOs to join the fight against Covid-19 in the state. A statement issued by the state home department said that the pandemic has brought tremendous hardship to the state and country. "Therefore, it has been decided to seek the details of such organisations that have the capacity and are willing to assist the government in its fight to control the spread of Covid-19 and also in mitigating some of the hardships of the people," the statement added. Asking all interested civil bodies and NGOs to send their details to shomenmanipur@gmail.com, the statement said that deputy secretary (home) Th Chanranjit Singh has been appointed as the nodal officer to receive the information and to coordinate with the respective deputy commissioners. On the other hand, the North Eastern Council has released Rs 3 crore to the state government to fight the Covid-19 crisis. So far, two cases of Covid-19 have been reported from Manipur and the patients are undergoing treatment at the isolation wards of JNIMS and RIMS hospitals in Imphal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/manipur-asks-civil-bodies-to-join-fight/articleshow/74991975.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Guwahati||Assam cops break barricades put up by Darrang villagers||GUWAHATI: Assam Police on Saturday destroyed barricades that had been put by people in many villages in Darrang district to keep out people from the minority community who have returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event. The state has witnessed a sudden rise in the number of cases after many from Assam went to Delhi to take part in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz last month. After reports of these people suffering from Covid-19 started doing the rounds, many Assam villages restricted entry of outsiders in fear of getting affected by the disease. Talking to TOI, officer-in-charge of Dalgaon Police Station in Darrang district, Dilip Milli, said, "Today, we destroyed bamboo barricades put by villagers in Number 1 Sialmari, Number 2 Sialmari and Chakora Gaon. The villagers had put up the barricades to restrict people from the minority community, especially those who went to attend the congregation." All the three villages have a mixed population in terms of religious constitution. A total of 16 people under the Dalgaon Police Station had attended the event. Milli said that all these 16 people have been found negative after testing. "We have destroyed the barricades since it created massive problems when it came to sending medical teams and movement of ambulances. This is an emergency situation after all. After telling the people that everyone who went to the religious congregation have tested negative, they have said they would not put up any fresh barricade," Milli added. Since the declaration of lockdown, many villages in Assam had put up bamboo barricades to keep out 'outsiders'. In one such village, a youth was seen taking a selfie with a banner put up on a bamboo barricade that read: "Musalman not allowed". However the youth who posted the photo on social media later apologised for the act in a video. Milli also said that if people put up barricades at the entry of the villages, it also creates a law and order problem. "In many villages, petty crimes are still going on. People sometimes defy social distancing protocols out of boredom and start playing lottery. So, it was necessary to bring down the barricades for surveillance purpose as well," he said. Assam Police on Saturday also destroyed barricades that blocked the connecting road between Darrang district and the Bodoland Territorial Region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-cops-break-barricades-put-up-by-darrang-villagers/articleshow/74991982.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Customer connect: Star hotels begin delivery of food and medicines in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With occupancy rates low due to the nationwide lockdown, many star hotels in the city are finding different ways to stay connected with their consumers. Some of them have even started free home delivery of food - in most cases, within a radius of five kilometres. On the menu are a host of dishes; right from the popular biryani to murgh makhni and desserts. There's also the favourite Chinese fare that many star hotels are sending out, every day. And to maintain hygiene standards, hotels are incorporating safe delivery practices such as drop and leave, contact-less payments and safe packaging. Some hotels like The Park are not only delivering food but also medicines among other essential commodities to senior citizens. "We have regular guests who are missing our food. So, we decided to deliver food at home. We engaged our team and came up with an attractive menu to cater to the needs of our customers," said Anirban Simlai, general manager of The Park Hotel, Somajiguda. Other hotels that have started similar services are Park Hyatt and Taj Krishna. "We are delivering to places within a radius of five kilometres. We deliver the food within an hour of placing the order," said an executive of Taj Krishna. In tune with the lockdown restrictions, all the deliveries are done between 11 am and 6.30 pm. Many hotels have tied up with food delivery apps. "Apart from food delivery, there are some hotels that are also feeding the poor by either distributing cooked food or delivering raw material. Since hotels are virtually not making any revenue, all such activities are being taken up at an individual level based on the availability of staff and resources," said Ashok Hemrajani, president, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana State.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/customer-connect-star-hotels-begin-delivery-of-food-and-medicines/articleshow/74992024.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Farmers not keen on doorstep plan, want services in mandis||BATHINDA: Farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) have termed the proposal of doorstep procurement of wheat as not practically feasible. They claim that cleaning, weighing and loading of grains not feasible in such a system, as it is not possible to take cleaning machines and weighing bridges to the fields or homes of farmers. The farmers fear that procurement season would linger on for much longer, leaving very little time for sowing of cotton crop in the cotton belt. The farmers and the arhtiyas instead pitched for procurement in mandis with full caution and added the government could increase temporary mandis and spaces available with rice mills. However, they disagreed with each other on how the farmers could be paid. The arhtiyas want that the farmers be paid through them, but farmers prefer a system in which the payment is made directly into their accounts. The farmers have urged the state government to put in place everything needed for procurement, including bags, ensuring return of all combine harvesters that have gone to other states and reaching of labourers for harvesting. With public financial management system (PFMS) - which was to be started from this rabi crop harvesting season - would be put on hold and the role of arhtiyas in procurement is expected to remain as in the past. Wheat has been sown in 35 lakh hectares in Punjab and nearly 180 lakh tonne is expected to be produced in the state. The state government has announced to start the harvesting and procurement from April 15. "The government needs to educate people, including farmers and labourers, about ways to avoid the spread of the coronavirus," said BKU Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh. Federation of arhtiya association Punjab president Vijay Kalra said, "We have met food supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and insisted on mandis. We suggested they could add some temporary mandis apart from 158 mandis and 1,832 procurement centres in villages. No farmers should be made to travel for more than two kilometres to sell the crop."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-farmers-not-keen-on-doorstep-plan-want-services-in-mandis/articleshow/74992035.cms||Neel Kamal
April 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Smuggling of fake currency notes continues despite countrywide lockdown||KOLKATA: Troops of the South Bengal Frontier of the Border Security Force (BSF) seized fake Indian currency notes (FICN) of face value worth Rs 4 lakh in two incidents in the Malda district of West Bengal on Saturday. A FICN smuggler was also apprehended and handed over to the police along with the seized currency notes. In the first incident, BSF troops of the 24Bn posted at the Gopalnagar BOP received information about Md Tashlim Sk (45), a villager from the Kaliachak area who used to cross the International Border Fence to tend to his land. The BSF personnel kept watch on him and at around 12.10pm, he was spotted moving in a suspicious manner towards a point on the zero-line. He apparently picked up a packet from there before being nabbed by the BSF. On being searched, FICN of face value Rs 200,000 were found hidden in his clothing. "He has been handed over to the Gopalganj police station with the FICN. Earlier in the day, another seizure was made by troops posted at the Sukhdevpur BOP. Acting on a tip-off the BSF personnel searched the area around the border fence and recovered a packet containing FICN of face value Rs 200,000. This was handed over to the Baishnabnagar police station," a senior BSF official said. In 2020, the BSF's South Bengal Frontier seized FICN of face value Rs 20,63,000, the official confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-smuggling-of-fake-currency-notes-continues-despite-countrywide-lockdown/articleshow/74992064.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 5, 2020||Kohima||Nagaland receives Rs 20.50 crore as state disaster response fund, allots 25 pc for Covid-19 fight||KOHIMA: Nagaland has received from the Centre its first instalment of Rs 20.50 crore under the State Disaster Response and Mitigation Fund (SDRMF) for the year 2020-21, a senior official here said. Talking to reporters, Johnny Raungmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority (NSDMA), said the state government would use 25 per cent of the total amount received from the Centre to bolster its efforts to fight the Covid-19 crisis. The disaster management authority in all 11 districts of Nagaland has been sanctioned Rs 5 lakh each for extending relief and support to the daily-wage earners and the poor at the state's quarantine centres, amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown, he said on Friday. This would be in addition to Rs 31 lakh it had earlier approved for the districts, he said The NSDMA had also dispatched 35,000 quintal of rice amounting to Rs 4.94 crore for the unorganised sector workers. The health department had been allotted Rs 28 lakh for purchase of medical equipment, Raungmei said, adding that state executive committee - headed by the chief secretary - might sanction more funds, if and when required. "We are hoping for the best, but also preparing for the worst in this fight against Covid-19," Raungmei said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kohima/nagaland-receives-rs-20-50-crore-as-state-disaster-response-fund-allots-25-pc-for-covid-19-fight/articleshow/74992089.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Shillong||Nagaland receives Rs 20.50 crore as state disaster response fund, allots 25 pc for Covid-19 fight||KOHIMA: Nagaland has received from the Centre its first instalment of Rs 20.50 crore under the State Disaster Response and Mitigation Fund (SDRMF) for the year 2020-21, a senior official here said. Talking to reporters, Johnny Raungmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority (NSDMA), said the state government would use 25 per cent of the total amount received from the Centre to bolster its efforts to fight the Covid-19 crisis. The disaster management authority in all 11 districts of Nagaland has been sanctioned Rs 5 lakh each for extending relief and support to the daily-wage earners and the poor at the state's quarantine centres, amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown, he said on Friday. This would be in addition to Rs 31 lakh it had earlier approved for the districts, he said The NSDMA had also dispatched 35,000 quintal of rice amounting to Rs 4.94 crore for the unorganised sector workers. The health department had been allotted Rs 28 lakh for purchase of medical equipment, Raungmei said, adding that state executive committee - headed by the chief secretary - might sanction more funds, if and when required. "We are hoping for the best, but also preparing for the worst in this fight against Covid-19," Raungmei said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shillong/nagaland-receives-rs-20-50-crore-as-state-disaster-response-fund-allots-25-pc-for-covid-19-fight/articleshow/74992090.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||S African Muslim cleric dies of coronavirus after attending Nizamuddin congregation||JOHANNESBURG: An 80-year-old South African Muslim cleric, who recently returned from India after attending the Nizamuddin congregation, has died after contracting the novel coronavirus, according to his family members. Moulana Yusuf Tootla attended the March 1-15 Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the Nizmuddin area, that has emerged as the epicentre for the spread of the coronavirus in different parts of India and abroad after thousands of people took part in it. Tootla, who died on Tuesday, was buried after his body was collected in a bag by the Islamic Burial Council (IBC). The Nizamuddin area is famed for the shrine of the 14h century Sufi mystic Khwaja Nizamuddin Auliya. Indian authorities have launched a nationwide search for participants of the huge religious gathering amid fears that thousands present there could have carried the infection to the length and breadth of the country. Various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan come for Tabligh activities in Delhi. Tootla's daughter Saeeda, while speaking to South Africa's online publication News24, said that the cleric began showing flu-like symptoms on his return from India. "Since he travelled and showed symptoms, as a precaution we took him to Lancet for testing. The results were confirmed by the lab. "He had fully recovered at home by this past weekend. On Monday evening, he felt a bit distressed… He then peacefully returned to his maker," Saeeda, who is in self-isolation, said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsTootla was reportedly advised not to travel to India for the gathering, but he was adamant to go. He had participated in scores of similar gatherings across the globe, according to fellow clerics, but none of whom could confirm if other South Africans had also attended. Tootla's extended family is in self-isolation for 14 days, although none of them have tested positive for the virus. IBC chairperson Salim Kazi said small adjustments were made for Muslim burials to ensure compliance with the government guidelines during the 21-day nationwide lockdown which is now in its 8th day. The guidelines restrict the number of people who can attend a funeral, so hundreds of people who had known the Islamic leader had to be advised to offer prayers for him in their homes. Goolam Dhoodat of the KwaDukuza Muslim Burial Service helped to coordinate the cleric's funeral arrangements, the News24 report said. He said the body was transported to Durban, where a dedicated nurse supervised the general procedures. According to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Centre, South Africa has 1,585 Covid-19 cases and nine people have died of the disease in the country. Meanwhile, majority of the people who tested positive for the disease in New Delhi are those who took part in the religious congregation. According to Delhi's Health Department, 301 patients out of the 445 cases in the state are those participated in the Tablighi Jamaat. Chief minister Kejriwal said that the number of cases could spike as all 2,300 people evacuated from the Tablighi's 'markaz' were being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/s-african-muslim-cleric-dies-of-coronavirus-after-attending-nizamuddin-congregation/articleshow/74992076.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Harvesting from April 14 in Haryana, farmers to delay wheat reaping||AMBALA: The farmers are waiting for clear directions from the government on wheat harvesting and managing once it is harvested. They are planning to delay the process, as the workers who operate agriculture machinery are also not available due to coronavirus threat. The government, meanwhile, has allowed the shops that sell agriculture machinery and spare parts (including its supply chain) to open, indicating that harvesting will go ahead as usual. A progressive farmer, Sukhminder of Saphera village in Ambala district, who runs a custom hiring centre (CHC), said, "At this moment, the workers who operate the harvesting machines are not ready to come for work, as they fear coronavirus. Their family members are also not allowing them to go for work." Sukhminder said, "The wheat is almost ready and the government should give clear directions about wheat harvesting and about how to manage the same. At present, there is no clarity among the farmers, about how to manage the wheat as space for keeping it safe is an issue. We fear if the weather becomes bad in the coming days, it will be big trouble for the farmers. As of now, we are planning to delay the harvesting due to the Covid-19 outbreak and due to space constraints for storing wheat. If we start harvesting, managing the crop is an issue and the labourers required for loading and unloading are not available. We also need labour at the grain market."According to Girish Nagpal, deputy director agriculture (DDA), Ambala, the government is allowing operators of agriculture machinery to move about. "On Saturday, a combine was spotted moving from Bhadson, Sangrur, towards Naraingarh, Ambala and the operator said he had not been stopped anywhere by the police, either in Punjab or Haryana, and he carried a certificate issued by the authorities for his movement." He said the department is getting ready for the forthcoming season. "On Saturday, our department additional director R S Solanki visited the field with a team to sensitise and spread awareness among the combine harvesters, owners how to operate during the lockdown period. We also had a meeting to review the progress. We are preparing to begin harvesting on April 14, when the lockdown will end," added the DDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/harvesting-from-april-14-in-haryana-farmers-to-delay-wheat-reaping/articleshow/74992141.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 5, 2020||World||Ecuador Vice President apologizes after virus corpses left on streets||QUITO: Ecuador's Vice President Otto Sonnenholzner has apologized after scores of bodies were left on the streets of Guayaquil as the coronavirus ravages the horror-struck port city. Residents had published videos on social media showing abandoned bodies in the streets in the Latin American city worst hit by the pandemic. Authorities collected at least 150 corpses from streets and homes earlier this week, but did not confirm how many of the dead were victims of the outbreak. "We have seen images that should never have happened and as your public servant, I apologize," said Sonnenholzer, who is heading the country's virus response, in a statement broadcast by local media on Saturday. Ecuador had recorded nearly 3,500 confirmed Covid-19 cases as of Sunday, including 172 deaths. The government has imposed a state of emergency and introduced a nightly curfew in an effort to contain the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/ecuador-vice-president-apologizes-after-virus-corpses-left-on-streets/articleshow/74992101.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Customs sleuths on alert to prevent import of fake medicines||HYDERABAD: To make sure that organised crime networks don't supply fake medicines and other equipment for Covid-19 treatment, sleuths from the Customs department are keeping a close watch on the imports of medicines, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and related items. Customs officials, also want to keep the supply chain intact during the lockdown, therefore they are clearing all cargo - both essential and non essential items - on a priority basis at the Inland Container Depots in Sanathnagar and Air Cargo Terminal in Shamshabad. Recently, M Ajit Kumar, chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), had written to the staff asking them to ensure 24x7 customs clearance for smooth supply of essential goods and services. “While making every possible effort to facilitate legitimate trade, frontline officers need to be vigilant to thwart potential vulnerabilities in international supply chain including counterfeit medicines, Personal Protection Equipment and related items. As stated by WCO (World Customs Organisation), criminal organisations have turned this global pandemic into an opportunity to carry out their fraudulent activities,” he stated. “In the wake of Covid-19, there is going to be import of medicines, test kits, ventilators, masks and PPEs in the future. Our job is to ensure no counterfeits or spurious items enter the country,” said a Customs official. Due to the lockdown, cargo transportation work at Air Cargo Terminal and Inland Container Depot (ICD) had almost came to a naught. However, under the supervision of Mallika Arya, chief commissioner of GST& Customs Hyderabad Zone, officials started coordinating with the Telangana police and movement of cargo started from ICD and Air Cargo. Among the most relevant items that landed at ICD are 120 units of ventilators from USA. Apart from ventilators, items like, iron scrap, waste paper, transformers lamination, amorphous ribbon, soda ash, organic chemicals and electronic equipment, mostly from China, also arrived at Air Cargo and ICD. However, Covid-19 has made an impact on the revenue of Hyderabad Customs. In 2018-19 financial year, from Basic Customs Duty (BCD) and Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST), Rs 1482 crore and Rs 3082 crore revenue was generated in Hyderabad GST & Customs Zone. Though the target was Rs 5000 crore for the financial year 2019-20, Customs and GST departments were able to collect only Rs 1258 crore CBD and Rs 2869 crore IGST. ”The main difference was in the month of March. In March 2019, Rs 223 crore CBD and Rs 1772 core IGST was collected and in March 2020 Rs 49 CBD and Rs 150 crore IGST was collected,” said a source from the Customs department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/customs-sleuths-on-alert-to-prevent-import-of-counterfeit-medicines/articleshow/74992185.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 5, 2020||World||US to airlift 22,000 Americans stranded overseas; many in India||WASHINGTON: The US is working “aggressively” to airlift around 22,000 Americans stranded overseas, many of them in India, due to the coronavirus pandemic, a senior official has said. The US has so far repatriated around 37,000 Americans stranded overseas due to the pandemic and is planning to bring another 22,000 of its citizens, many of whom are in South Asia, especially India, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Ian Brownlee told reporters during a conference call on Friday. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage"We have repatriated roughly 37,000 US citizens from over 60 countries on more than 400 flights. It includes over 20,000 Americans repatriated in the past week alone," Brownlee said. He said the US State Department has approximately 70 flights scheduled in the coming days which should bring back several thousand more US citizens. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"South Asia now has the most US citizens wishing to return. So far the US has brought home almost 1,000 Americans from South Asia and are working aggressively to assist thousands more who have expressed an interest in returning," Brownlee said. "The total number we're looking at overseas at this point is about 22,000. The greatest number of those – certainly the plurality of those – are in South and Central Asia, many of them in India,” he added. Brownlee urged Americans to return to their home country as soon as possible. "For the US citizens contemplating whether or not to come home, the time to act is now. Flights will not continue indefinitely, but we want to do all we can to assist you while we are still able to do so,” he said. More than 60,000 people have died from coronavirus since it was first detected late last year in China. With more than three lakh confirmed cases of coronavirus infection and over 8,000 fatalities, the US has emerged as the global epicentre of the deadly coronavirus disease to which there has been no cure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-to-airlift-22000-americans-stranded-overseas-many-in-india/articleshow/74992196.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP board helpline flooded with queries||BHOPAL: As board exams for the students of MP board have been postponed by the school education department in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the board helpline is buzzing with calls from students of Classes 10 and 12 asking the counsellors when the exams will be held and when the results would come out. “Students are worried that if they don't keep inquiring they might miss out on important information like declaration of timetable for the exams that had been postponed after March 20. Most of the calls are mostly regarding the new exam dates as well as the declaration of results,” said Hemant Sharma, director of Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE). He added that there were many rumours circulating online which are creating confusion among the students. One such message that was doing rounds on messaging apps was that even students of board exams will be given general promotion, leading to several students wanting to clarify if this was true. “It is a good thing that students have the presence of mind to call up the helpline to confirm if such rumours are true. We are also getting calls from students of junior classes regarding general promotion and the no-detention policy,” Sharma added. The helpline functions all year round and counsellors take calls in three shifts. From January 1 to April 3, the helpline has received around 38,000 from students of different districts. Sharma said, “We receive calls from remote villages where students don’t really have access to information. The nature of the calls depends upon the time. In the months of January and February we get calls regarding preparation of exams, clearing doubts of difficult subjects and time management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-board-helpline-flooded-with-queries/articleshow/74992244.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 5, 2020||Indore||MP board helpline flooded with queries||BHOPAL: As board exams for the students of MP board have been postponed by the school education department in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the board helpline is buzzing with calls from students of Classes 10 and 12 asking the counsellors when the exams will be held and when the results would come out. “Students are worried that if they don't keep inquiring they might miss out on important information like declaration of timetable for the exams that had been postponed after March 20. Most of the calls are mostly regarding the new exam dates as well as the declaration of results,” said Hemant Sharma, director of Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE). He added that there were many rumours circulating online which are creating confusion among the students. One such message that was doing rounds on messaging apps was that even students of board exams will be given general promotion, leading to several students wanting to clarify if this was true. “It is a good thing that students have the presence of mind to call up the helpline to confirm if such rumours are true. We are also getting calls from students of junior classes regarding general promotion and the no-detention policy,” Sharma added. The helpline functions all year round and counsellors take calls in three shifts. From January 1 to April 3, the helpline has received around 38,000 from students of different districts. Sharma said, “We receive calls from remote villages where students don’t really have access to information. The nature of the calls depends upon the time. In the months of January and February we get calls regarding preparation of exams, clearing doubts of difficult subjects and time management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mp-board-helpline-flooded-with-queries/articleshow/74992564.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||From just 1, Bhopal has 10 containment areas in a fortnight||BHOPAL: Bhopal had 'contained' the spread of Coronavirus appreciably well till there was a spurt in the tally of patients from meagre four to 15 in just a couple of days, mainly due to detection of infection among "jamaatis", who came to Bhopal from Delhi. As the one km radius area from the 'epicenter' (the place where an infected patient lives) is isolated and declared a 'containment area', the city which had just two containment areas in March now has seven. Both, the Raj Bhavan and CM House also fall in the containment area. Apart from Professors' Colony, which was declared the first containment area in the city on March 22 afer a girl who traveled from UK was detected Covid positive, Durga Nagar, Semra, Shyamla Hills, areas of Aishbagh and Jehangirabad, area around New Market, areas of Shivaji Nagar and Char Imli, Indira Colony and Trilanga are the six containment areas. In these areas, people from outside are also not being allowed in. If one has to go out of the "barricaded" area or has to go into the area, permission of rapid action force headed by SDM is required, but police has been more or less "liberal" in allowing people to go out to get essentials. A person living just a stone's throw distance from the family in which two infected persons were found in Professors' Colony said, "Though the administration claims to provide all essential items to people living in the containment area but ever since our colony was declared a containment area, milk supply was discontinued. Both the milk booths in the colony are closed because police do not allow trucks carrying milk packets to come into the restricted area. But cops don't mind 300 to 400 people going out to purchase milk." Residents in other containment areas, however, said that milk booths in their area are open and vegetable vendors are also allowed. "We are allowing the trucks carrying milk into the restricted area. The municipal corporation trucks selling vegetables is also being allowed. We don't stop the newspaper hawkers also. Our only request is to people, not to step out of their houses", said TI, Shyamla Hills police station, BPS Bais. Since Professors' Colony also falls under the jurisdiction of Shyamla Hills police station, when Bais was told that residents of Professors' Colony were not getting milk because police are not allowing milk-carrying trucks into the colony, he said "The milk booth owner himself must not be opening his outlet." As the infection spreads to new areas, administration and police have tweaked the mode of barricading too. For example, they have stopped entry and exit at Fortune Pride on the two gates of the society rather than barricading roads and areas in the vicinity of the colony. "There are over 60 duplexes in the colony and two gates. The colony is located in a remote corner. So, we only stopped entry and exit into the colony at the gates rather than barricading areas outside,"said TI, Shahpura police station, Chandrabhan Patel. Similarly, police have barricaded only the mosque from both sides in Aishbagh from where four jamaatis with Coronavirus infection were found. T T Nagar police, however, has barricaded roads from both sides leading to New Market after detection of a policeman with Covid-19, who lives in the police colony behind the T T Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/from-just-1-bhopal-has-10-containment-areas-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/74992254.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 5, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha government launches online quiz to keep people engaged amid lockdown||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha transport department on Saturday introduced an online quiz competition on road safety in an effort to keep people engaged during the ongoing nationwide lockdown and the state-imposed total shutdown in three cities. The initiative by the State Transport Authority (STA) will continue till the end of the 21-day lockdown and 48-hour shutdown in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak. The names of five winners will be announced every day and they will get Rs 1,000 each, Transport Commissioner Sanjeev Panda said. "As most of the citizens remain indoors, we are introducing few activities relating to road safety to have a meaningful and enriching experience," Panda said, adding, participants can also get latest updates regarding motor vehicle rules.  He hoped that with enhanced knowledge, citizens will be more responsible on the road and help the society in improving traffic culture. The quiz will feature 20 questions. The state government has imposed a total shutdown, akin to curfew, in the three cities for 48 hours from 8 pm on Friday during which all essential supplies have been suspended. Only a handful of medicine stores are open with special permission. Elsewhere in the state, the ongoing lockdown remained in force and essential supplies were available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/odisha-govt-launches-online-quiz-to-keep-people-engaged-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74992290.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government launches online quiz to keep people engaged amid lockdown||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha transport department on Saturday introduced an online quiz competition on road safety in an effort to keep people engaged during the ongoing nationwide lockdown and the state-imposed total shutdown in three cities. The initiative by the State Transport Authority (STA) will continue till the end of the 21-day lockdown and 48-hour shutdown in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak. The names of five winners will be announced every day and they will get Rs 1,000 each, Transport Commissioner Sanjeev Panda said. "As most of the citizens remain indoors, we are introducing few activities relating to road safety to have a meaningful and enriching experience," Panda said, adding, participants can also get latest updates regarding motor vehicle rules.  He hoped that with enhanced knowledge, citizens will be more responsible on the road and help the society in improving traffic culture. The quiz will feature 20 questions. The state government has imposed a total shutdown, akin to curfew, in the three cities for 48 hours from 8 pm on Friday during which all essential supplies have been suspended. Only a handful of medicine stores are open with special permission. Elsewhere in the state, the ongoing lockdown remained in force and essential supplies were available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-govt-launches-online-quiz-to-keep-people-engaged-amid-lockdown/articleshow/74992272.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Police take the onus of ensuring the safety of those vulnerable during lockdown||If you're pregnant, old or suffering from a predisposed medical issue and are worried that you might not reach the hospital on time in case of an emergency during this lockdown, you no longer need to worry. When Marredpally police station received a distress call through dial 100 from a woman residing at street number five, West Marredpally, in labour, a Patrol car immediately rushed to her help.When the 108 staff could not respond in time, the police rushed her to the hospital themselves, where she was blessed with a baby boy. Both the mother and child are healthy. Commissioner Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad, has appreciated the police constable P Mohan Rao for his excellent work during emergency. The constable also received a cash award of Rs 5000/- along with a memento. The constable also appealed to the public, “The country is on a lockdown due to novel coronavirus and we are fighting on the roads for your safety. Please stay at home and keep yourselves safe to support us in this fight.” After this incident, the Cyberabad Police too has stepped up and taken up the initiative to launch the COVID-19 Control support for pregnant ladies, senior citizens and anyone requiring a medical emergencies. Their contacts are 9490617440/ 9490617431, covidcontrol@gmail.com. #lockdown In emergency Free Ambulance Service for Pregnant Ladies, medical emergency and Senior Citizens… https://t.co/ePtv8eeA7y— Cyberabad Police (@cyberabadpolice) 1586061089000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-police-take-the-onus-of-ensuring-the-safety-of-those-vulnerable-during-lockdown/articleshow/74992303.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha begins 'hunt' for Tablighi Jamaat returnees||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Saturday launched a massive operation to track down those who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz a day after three Tablighi Jamaat returnees tested positive for novel coronavirus in the state. The three - from Cuttack, Puri and Jajpur - were among the 28 returnees who were tested. The remaining 25 people tested negative for Covid-19. The man from Pipili area of Puri district works as a postman in BJB Nagar area of Bhubaneswar. He has delivered many letters/parcels in past some days. The samples of 70 others, including family members and close contacts of the 28 Jamaat returnees, have been sent for test. The results are awaited. The government is also looking for more people the 28 returnees may have come in contact with. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik made a public appeal to those who returned from Nizamuddin to come forward and get themselves tested. "I request all who attended the Nizamuddin meet to call up the helpline number 104 and obey the doctor's advice. Come for test within 24 hours. If you delay, this may cause problem for you and your families," Naveen said in a pre-recorded statement. "I request the mothers to cooperate for the welfare of your family and children. My government and I stand firmly behind you," the chief minister added. The government has also roped in minority community leaders to appeal to members of their fraternity to report anyone who travelled to the Jamaat event. This comes in the wake of Odisha witnessing the single biggest jump in Covid-19 cases with 15 positive results on Friday, taking the total number of infected to 20. Out of them, two have been discharged. The state government has asked the health, civil and police administrations to work in a focused way to identify the returnees and convince them to go for medical assistance. Government teams moved from door-to-door in several localities to track possible Nizamuddin returnees. The government has also expanded the areas under complete shutdown to several parts of Jajpur district as well as Danagohir village in Pipli block of Puri district in view of Covid-19 cases reported from those places. In Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Bhadrak, the shutdown started on Friday evening while in the rest of the areas, it commenced from Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/odisha-begins-hunt-for-tablighi-jamaat-returnees/articleshow/74992338.cms||Ashok Pradhan
April 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha begins 'hunt' for Tablighi Jamaat returnees||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Saturday launched a massive operation to track down those who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz a day after three Tablighi Jamaat returnees tested positive for novel coronavirus in the state. The three - from Cuttack, Puri and Jajpur - were among the 28 returnees who were tested. The remaining 25 people tested negative for Covid-19. The man from Pipili area of Puri district works as a postman in BJB Nagar area of Bhubaneswar. He has delivered many letters/parcels in past some days. The samples of 70 others, including family members and close contacts of the 28 Jamaat returnees, have been sent for test. The results are awaited. The government is also looking for more people the 28 returnees may have come in contact with. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik made a public appeal to those who returned from Nizamuddin to come forward and get themselves tested. "I request all who attended the Nizamuddin meet to call up the helpline number 104 and obey the doctor's advice. Come for test within 24 hours. If you delay, this may cause problem for you and your families," Naveen said in a pre-recorded statement. "I request the mothers to cooperate for the welfare of your family and children. My government and I stand firmly behind you," the chief minister added. The government has also roped in minority community leaders to appeal to members of their fraternity to report anyone who travelled to the Jamaat event. This comes in the wake of Odisha witnessing the single biggest jump in Covid-19 cases with 15 positive results on Friday, taking the total number of infected to 20. Out of them, two have been discharged. The state government has asked the health, civil and police administrations to work in a focused way to identify the returnees and convince them to go for medical assistance. Government teams moved from door-to-door in several localities to track possible Nizamuddin returnees. The government has also expanded the areas under complete shutdown to several parts of Jajpur district as well as Danagohir village in Pipli block of Puri district in view of Covid-19 cases reported from those places. In Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Bhadrak, the shutdown started on Friday evening while in the rest of the areas, it commenced from Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-begins-hunt-for-tablighi-jamaat-returnees/articleshow/74992309.cms||Ashok Pradhan
April 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: 170 rule-breakers held, sent to quarantine home||BHUBANESWAR/CUTTACK: The commissonerate police on Saturday picked up around 170 people here for coming out on the streets in defiance of the government’s 48-hour ‘total shutdown’ in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak from 8 pm on Friday. The people who were picked up by the cops were taken to a quarantine centre in a hostel in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). At the time of filing this report, police had allowed 130 violators to leave on personal recognition (PR) bond, while the rest were still in the quarantine facility. In Cuttack, three persons were arrested and released on PR bond while, in Bhadrak, 10 violators were detained in a government-run quarantine home. Twin cities police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi said people mostly stayed indoors and no shops or facilities other than designated ones were opened. “We deployed our personnel in many places. The people who came out were picked up and taken to the quarantine facility. Many of them were later released on bail. The shutdown has been successful overall. In Cuttack, too, people stayed indoors,” he said. Cuttack detected its first coronavirus positive patient on Friday, prompting the government to include the city on its shutdown list. Cuttack DCP Akhileshvar Singh said residents had fully respected the shutdown and stayed indoors. “Except the three who were arrested and released on PR bond, people largely cooperated with us to make the shutdown successful,” he said. Around 100 police personnel including the DCP himself visited Buxibazar, Sutahat, Odia Bazar and Patapole areas of Cuttack while Bhubaneswar DCP Anup Sahu and traffic DCP Sagarika Nath visited the restricted area of Bomikhal to ensure that no unauthorized person was loitering on the road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-170-rule-breakers-held-sent-to-quarantine-home/articleshow/74992384.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
April 5, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: 170 rule-breakers held, sent to quarantine home||BHUBANESWAR/CUTTACK: The commissonerate police on Saturday picked up around 170 people here for coming out on the streets in defiance of the government’s 48-hour ‘total shutdown’ in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak from 8 pm on Friday. The people who were picked up by the cops were taken to a quarantine centre in a hostel in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT). At the time of filing this report, police had allowed 130 violators to leave on personal recognition (PR) bond, while the rest were still in the quarantine facility. In Cuttack, three persons were arrested and released on PR bond while, in Bhadrak, 10 violators were detained in a government-run quarantine home. Twin cities police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi said people mostly stayed indoors and no shops or facilities other than designated ones were opened. “We deployed our personnel in many places. The people who came out were picked up and taken to the quarantine facility. Many of them were later released on bail. The shutdown has been successful overall. In Cuttack, too, people stayed indoors,” he said. Cuttack detected its first coronavirus positive patient on Friday, prompting the government to include the city on its shutdown list. Cuttack DCP Akhileshvar Singh said residents had fully respected the shutdown and stayed indoors. “Except the three who were arrested and released on PR bond, people largely cooperated with us to make the shutdown successful,” he said. Around 100 police personnel including the DCP himself visited Buxibazar, Sutahat, Odia Bazar and Patapole areas of Cuttack while Bhubaneswar DCP Anup Sahu and traffic DCP Sagarika Nath visited the restricted area of Bomikhal to ensure that no unauthorized person was loitering on the road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/odisha-170-rule-breakers-held-sent-to-quarantine-home/articleshow/74992386.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Cardinal Alencherry offers support to PM Narendra Modi in fight against Covid-19||KOCHI: Global head of the Syro Malabar Catholic Church, Cardinal George Alencherry, has come out with a short video message appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the support and encouragement given to doctors, nurses and health workers involved in fight against Covid-19. The statement was made in a video message released by the Cardinal’s office offering support to the government machinery in their efforts in fighting Covid-19.   "It is possible that during this time, divisive forces in the name of politics, religion or racial differences may try to defeat our common purposes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very particular, in this season, to maintain the integrity and unity of our country. We are very happy about it. May god bless our country and may he give consolation and peace to the affected people. Jai Bharat,” said Cardinal Alencherry. “With the people of India and the Churches in our country, I am very happy to give full support to all the measures adopted by the central and state governments, to counter the Covid-19 virus and the pandemic created by it,” the Cardinal said. The video message was released on social media by BJP Ernakulam unit. “The government and the Prime Minister Narendra Modi are giving all the encouragement to the doctors, nurses and health workers for their effective functioning during this season,” the cardinal can be heard in the video. Syro Malabar Church said that the video message was to reaffirm the Cardinal’s support to the government in their fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-19-cardinal-alencherry-offers-support-to-pm-modi-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/74992408.cms||Disney Tom
April 5, 2020||Mangaluru||'Rome of the East' shifts to virtual mode during Holy Week||MANGALURU: This Rome of The East as Namma Kudla is popularly referred to will be ‘virtually connected' to the Lord this entire Holy Week. Making a start in this regard was Most Rev Peter Paul Saldanha, Bishop of Mangalore Diocese who delivered the Eucharist of Palm Sunday from Rosario Cathedral, his temporary base, a place from where he will operate till the mass on Easter Sunday that will be held at the chapel in Bishop’s House. Fr Vijay Victor Lobo, public relations officer of the diocese told TOI that the parish priest and his assistant were on hand to assist the Bishop as he addressed the laity in a live telecast of the Palm Sunday mass through Divine TV and other web portals and live streamed using social media. This will also be the case on other important occasions during the Holy Week including Maundy Thursday, Easter Vigil and Easter Sunday, Fr Lobo explained If Palm Sunday commemorates Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, Maundy Thursday is the Thursday before Easter which commemorates the washing of the feet and Last Supper of Jesus with the Apostles. Easter Vigil is a liturgy held in Christian churches as first official celebration of the Resurrection of Jesus. Easter is a festival and holiday commemorating the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, Fr Lobo said, explaining significance of the Week. Given the nationwide lock down owing to Covid pandemic, commandment of washing the feet of the Apostles, a tradition that the Bishop conducts will not be held this year, Fr Lobo said. The Christians will observe the Way of the Cross in their homes on Good Friday with the Bishop leading the same from the Cathedral at 11am. The Bishop in a ceremony later that evening will conduct the Good Friday liturgy, also from the Cathedral, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rome-of-the-east-shifts-to-virtual-mode-during-holy-week/articleshow/74992569.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 5, 2020||Shimla||10am to 12 noon: Himachal Pradesh's home school||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh has launched a plan to turn every home into school for two hours daily to ensure students of government schools do not lag in their studies during the lockdown.  The programme, "Samay 10 se 12 wala, Har Ghar Bane Pathshala" (Every home will turn into school time between 10 am and 12 o'clock) will ensure that digital content of study material would be provided to all the students by their teachers daily to keep them engaged between 10 am and 12 noon.  The scheme will benefit around 9 lakh students in almost 18,000 schools across the state. At present, all the schools across the state are closed due to lockdown in wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country.  The state education department has prepared a study plan with the help of Pratham and already material for pre-primary classes has been dispatched.  The material includes videos and exercises to keep all the students engaged in their homes. The department also aims to create digital content - informative videos on innovative teaching methodologies - for teachers to help them continue learning and develop their professional skills during this period. ‘ Will help maintain continuity of learning’Commenting on the plan, Himachal’s education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “For two hours, parents will play the role of teachers as it will be their responsibility to get class work and homework done by their wards as we will be sending study material on their WhatsApp numbers.” The scheme will help maintain continuity of learning process for students, he added.After students get learning material, they will actually learn with the help of videos and exercises, he said and added that students can clear their doubts from their teachers on WhatsApp groups. “Basic objective of this programme is to ensure that learning ability of students is maintained during the lockdown period by keeping them engaged in studies for two hours daily,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/10am-to-12-noon-himachal-pradeshs-home-school/articleshow/74992587.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab faces Rs 5,000 crore revenue loss in April||CHANDIGARH: Punjab would suffer Rs 5,000 crore revenue losses in the month of April because of total curfew imposed in the state to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Finance minister Manpreet Badal told the council of ministers on Saturday during a meeting that the state's revenue loss was expected to go up in absence of revenue from Goods and Service Tax (GST) and petroleum taxes. The Punjab government collects around Rs 3,250 crore per month from tax revenue and Rs 306 crore per month from non-tax revenue. Since the movement of almost all vehicles, except emergency vehicles, has come to a halt, the state government will lose revenue on account of collection of value added tax (VAT) from diesel and petrol. Similarly, the state government is losing excise duty because of closure of liquor vends. The finance minister had earlier this week said that the state government was suffering loss of Rs 1,700 crore per day in gross state domestic product (GSDP). The state government, however, managed to pay March salary to its 3.50 lakh employees and pensions to 2.50 lakh pensioners on time. by all government departments so that urgent expenses can be met to deal with current crisis. The chief minister asked all government departments to submit detailed proposals by April 8 about expenditure cuts. "We have to save people, that should be our priority," said Amarinder and added that resources have to be made available for health, police and other concerned departments directly involved in the battle, which threatens to be a long one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-faces-rs-5000-crore-revenue-loss-in-april/articleshow/74992604.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru; Karnataka's total at 146||BENGALURU: A day after Karnataka witnessed its highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases, two more positive cases were reported on Sunday morning. The total number of cases in the state now stands at 146. The latest positive cases are of a couple from Madiwala in Bengaluru- the husband (68) and wife (62) had both travelled to Dubai and returned on March 22. They were on quarantine at Akash institute in Devanahalli and had not shown any symptoms till date. The state, till date, has reported four coronavirus-related deaths and 11 patients have recovered and been discharged so far. 198 samples of attendees of the Tabhighi Jamaat event from Bengaluru have meanwhile tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bengaluru-karnatakas-total-at-146/articleshow/74992611.cms||Swathy R Iyer
April 5, 2020||Dehradun||Two women killed in first forest fire in Uttarakhand this year||DEHRADUN: In this year’s first forest fire in Uttarakhand, two women were killed after getting trapped in a forest fire in Bageshwar district of Kumaon on Saturday evening. The incident occurred at Kapkot block of Bageshwar forest division when both the victims, along with four other women of the village had gone to collect fodder in the jungle. The women, identified as Ganga Devi and Indira Devi, both in the age group of 35 to 40 years, were residents of Chechai village in the area. The body of one woman was found late Saturday evening while the burnt carcass of another could be retrieved on Sunday around 6.30am. "Villagers told us that the women were trapped in a very difficult terrain and therefore couldn’t get any space to come out of the fires," said Mayank Jha, DFO, Bageshwar. Forest officials added that owing to sufficient moisture and rains, it is not possible that the fire was natural and instead, seems ‘man-made’. “When rains are still going on, it is impossible to have fires in the forest naturally. We are going to register FIRs against unknown people and ensure proper investigation brings the guilty to book. Any kind of negligence by villagers will not be tolerated at any cost," said BK Gangtey, state nodal officer (forest fires), Uttarakhand forest department. Forest teams have meanwhile sealed the area and investigations are ongoing. Uttarakhand recorded 2,158 forest fire incidences in 2019 and lost 2,981 hectares forest cover to the wild fires along with half a dozen instances of burn injuries being recorded.No human casualties were recorded in last year's fires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-women-killed-in-first-forest-fire-in-uttarakhand-this-year/articleshow/74992625.cms||Shivani Azad
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Police denies permission to get pet food: Cat owner moves kerala HC||KOCHI: Owner of a cat has approached the Kerala high court questioning police's denial of permission to go out and buy cat food. The petition filed by N Prakash of Maradu said police denied permission when an affidavit was fled through the e-pass system recently introduced by Kerala Police to manage issuing of affidavits and passes required for venturing out during Covid-19 lockdown. It is unclear whether the high court will treat the petition as urgent as it is presently only considering matters requiring urgent attention through videoconferencing. A division bench comprising justices AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and Shaji P Chaly is considering urgent cases on non-criminal matters through videoconferencing. The bench had recently imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on a person who sought online delivery of liquor. In his plea, the cat owner said the cat food named Meo-Persian is available at a pet hospital at Kadavanthra, which is around 7 kilometres from the petitioner's residence. As he is a vegetarian, non-vegetarian food is not cooked at his house, the petition said. He used to buy cat food from a nearby pet hospital but is is not open due to the lockdown, it is alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-denies-permission-to-get-pet-food-cat-owner-moves-kerala-hc/articleshow/74992674.cms||Mahir Haneef
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Tablighi contact-tracing race gains pace||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC) has traced 123 contacts of five city residents who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi and quarantined them at their homes for 14 days. “Out of these 123 contacts, 57 are from different areas in Mauli Jagran, 41 from Manimajra, 19 from Bapu Dham and one from Daria. As many as 111 contacts were found as soon as the five returned from Delhi after attending the congregation. Twelve more were traced on Friday,” said a senior official of the MC. The contacts include family members, relatives and friends. Authorities are still on the job to find out whether there are more contacts. More than 1,400 people have been home quarantined in different parts of the city, according to record. Many are those who had returned to the city from abroad. The UT administration had recently asked the cellular company operators to keep an eye on these people by monitoring their locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tablighi-contact-tracing-race-gains-pace/articleshow/74992678.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Thefts, snatchings not yet locked out||CHANDIGARH: Thieves are having a free run during the lockdown, lifting vehicles and snatching chains and phones in the last 13 days. Although the number of registration of FIRs has decreased, five two-wheelers were stolen, two snatchings occurred and four thefts reported during this period. Out of the five auto thefts, three vehicles were stolen from Manimajra and both the snatchings were from the same area. On April 2, auto lifters stole two Honda Activa scooters from NAC Manimajra. A miscreant riding a scooter had snatched a gold chain from a woman in Manimajra. Rajan Khanna, a wholesale milk supplier, reported to the police that when he was selling milk at the Sector 40 market, two miscreants stole his bag containing Rs 40,000 on April 1. Both the suspects were caught on CCTV camera. Sector 39 police had registered a case but no arrest has been made so far. Police data pointed out that 32 FIRs were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Apart from auto thefts, police have registered five cases of people trying to smuggle liquor bottles into the city in the 13 days. They have also registered murder, robbery, assault on police officials, cheating and brawl cases during the lockdown. Police have arrested five people under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC from March 23 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-thefts-snatchings-not-yet-locked-out/articleshow/74992723.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Four Ropar villages, which hosted missionaries, sealed||ROPAR: The Ropar district administration has sealed four villages where Christian missionaries had organised medical camps, said an official on Saturday. Besides, the administration has also collected 16 samples in Chatamali village of the district where the husband of a Sarpanch had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The official said that 24 foreign nationals from various countries, including Canada, the USA, Australia and Switzerland, had held medical camps in these villages and then moved to other Chatamali sits at the border of Mohali and Ropar districts and has around 150 households with a population of over 2,000. Health teams have home-quarantined the villagers, especially close associates of the patient. The other sealed villages in the district are Lakhmipur, Thauna and Manak Majra. It is learnt that the 55-year-old patient is a former Sarpanch, while his wife is the sitting of the village and neither had any history of travelling abroad. The patient is suspected to have contracted infection from the foreign nationals, who managed to hold a health camp on March 13 in his village. The camp was organised by the Christian Missionary Foundation. Ropar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said the residents of other three villagers were being monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-ropar-villages-which-hosted-missionaries-sealed/articleshow/74992788.cms||Bharat Khanna
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Modi speaks to former presidents, PMs, Sonia & other leaders||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to several leaders, including his predecessor Manmohan Singh, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and former president Pranab Mukherjee, on the situation arising out of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Sources said Modi also called up various leaders, including Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, DMK's M K Stalin and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageModi spoke to former president Pratibha Patil and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda to discuss issues related to the deadly COVID-19 (coronavirus disease). The prime minister will also interact with floor leaders of various political parties via video conference on Wednesday. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-modi-speaks-to-former-presidents-pms-sonia-other-leaders/articleshow/74992957.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Comedians take the digital route||Comedians take the digital route to tickle your funny bones. Bengaluru-based That Comedy Club is now going digital producing a stand-up comedy lineup on Instagram at 10 pm every night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/comedians-take-the-digital-route/articleshow/74992992.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Bhopal. * Nine people test positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal on Sunday. This include six jamaatis and deputy director of health department and two other senior officers. * After a wholesale vegetable trader tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, all vegetable traders close shops. Vegetable Mandis, haats closed. Residents face shortage of vegetables. * Three more areas in Bhopal - Shivaji Nagar, Char Imli, Bagh Umra Dullah declared new containment areas. No public, vehicles movement allowed in these areas. * Grocery stores running out of stocks due to wholesale grocers strike since Saturday. * MP Covid-19 cases up 191. Indore tops with 128, Bhopal 25 and Morena 12 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/coronavirus-in-bhopal-latest-news-live-updates-on-bhopal-corona-cases-deaths-05-april-2020/articleshow/74992914.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ludhiana||PSPCL braces for switch off today||PATIALA: To ensure reliable and secure grid operations during the lighting load switch off on April 5, following a call given by Prime Minister Narender Modi, Power System Operation Corporation Limited (PSOCL) has issued an advisory for reliable and secure system operation. In line with the national plan chalked out by PSOCL, even Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has taken steps to ensure that there is no power failure in the state. PSOCL is expecting that during switch off, the power load across the nation will fall by 12,879 MW. To handle the reduction in power demand that will occur in two to four minutes and recover after nine minutes, it has decided to reduce generation at thermal Inter State Generating Stations (ISGS) to a near technical minimum level of 60% by 20:55 and simultaneously increase the hydro generation to maintain the load generation balance. On April 5 evening, during the peak hours from 6.10pm to 8pm, the hydro generation will be reduced and conserved for providing flexibility during the switch off. During this time, thermal and gas generation shall be scheduled in a manner so as to manage the peak demand, says PSOCL. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director Baldev Singh Sran said the state power corporation has requested all domestic consumers to switch off only residential lights and keep other domestic gadgets on so that the load-demand balance at the grid can be maintained. At present, only hydel plants are running in Punjab and their response is much faster than of thermals power plants. Sran said PSPCL has sufficient sources to handle the dip and regain of demand through Ranjit Sagar Dam and other hydro plants. He added that local bodies have been advised to keep streetlights on so as to avoid any law and order problems. The power generation companies have been advised to keep the hydro units rolling at 0 to 10% of the rating and not disconnect during this period. The gas-powered station will be ramped down to the minimum level. During the actual event when lakhs of household in the country are expected to switch off lights, ramping up of thermal machines will be carried out from 9.05pm while hydro generation shall be ramped from 21.09pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pspcl-braces-for-switch-off-today/articleshow/74993066.cms||Manish Sirhindi
April 5, 2020||Shimla||Coronavirus outbreak: Himachal Pradesh police to act tough against those concealing travel info||SHIMLA: Not disclosing about the history of travelling to Nizamuddin in Delhi or any other part of country to authorities by Sunday 5 pm in Himachal Pradesh would invite registration of cases under the provision of attempt to murder. In case of death due to negligence of concealing information, then trial under murder charges would also be started. Making this clear, DGP S R Mardi on Sunday warned the district chiefs of Tablighi Jamaat in the state that it would also be their responsibility to inform about such persons. Himachal Pradesh at present has six positive cases undergoing treatment in the two medical colleges located at Tanda and Shimla and all of them belong to Tablighi Jamaat. S R Mardi said that people have time to disclose about their travelling to Nizamuddin in Delhi or any other place and country by Sunday 5 pm after which action would be initiated against who would fail to disclose the same. He said that if those returning from Nizamuddin will make the disclosure then they will be immediately quarantined and responsibility to ensure the disclosure would also be on the district chiefs of Tablighi Jamaat. He said that after Sunday 5pm if it is found that travel history was not disclosed that resulted into spread of Corona virus in community then action against such persons will not only be initiated under the provisions of IPC and Disaster Management Act, 2005 but charges of attempt to murder would also slapped against them. “If someone dies due to negligence and deliberate hiding of information then murder case trial under section 302 of IPC will be started against such persons, this is my ultimate warning as case would also be filed against district chiefs of Tablighi Jamaat as it would be their responsibility to inform about such persons,” he added. He said that so far 277 members of Tablighi Jamaat have been identified and quarantined in the state including 76 in Baddi area of Nalagarh sub division of Solan district, 21 in Chamba district, 40 in Kangra district, 20 in Mandi district, 23 in Shimla, 58 in Sirmaur and 39 in Una district. He said that 17 FIRs against 85 persons belonging to Tablighi Jamaat has been registered in the state including two FIRs against 45 persons in Baddi, two FIRs against five persons in Bilaspur, one FIR against one person in Kangra district, four FIRs against seven persons in Mandi district, one FIR against 11 persons in Shimla district, two FIRs against two persons in Sirmaur district and five FIRs against 14 persons in Una district. In the state so far 11 members of Tablighi Jamaat have been arrested from Shimla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/coronavirus-outbreak-himachal-pradesh-police-to-act-tough-against-those-concealing-travel-info/articleshow/74993046.cms||Anand Bodh
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Muslim IAS, IPS officers urge community to cooperate with health workers||MUMBAI: As many as 80 Muslim IAS, IFS, IPS and officers of allied services, many retired but mostly serving, have appealed to the Muslim community to “act responsibly and stand out as examples for fellow citizens in the fight against Coronavirus.” In this hour of crisis, the officers said, Muslim community should come forward and strengthen the hands of the government and follow the directions of the ministry of the health and WHO to fight the coronavirus. Initiated by senior IPS officers Asif Jalal (Himachal Pradesh cadre), Najmul Hoda (Tamil Nadu cadre) and Mohammad Shayin, IAS (Haryana cadre), and endorsed by 77 other officers of the elite civil services, the open appeal is significant in the backdrop of events in Indore and elsewhere when members of the community pelted stones at health workers and clashed with police personnel. Referring to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March, the officers said they were compelled to appeal to Indian Muslims that “they should not offer anybody an opportunity to accuse them for the spread of the epidemic in India.” Noor Rahman Sheikh, IFS, consul General of India in Jeddah, Noorul Hasan, IPS (Maharashtra cadre) are among those who have appealed to the community. “Today on April 4, 2020, a national daily reported that 25 per cent of the positive cases of novel coronavirus reported in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi in March,” they said. Invoking Islamic scriptures, they said: “Suicide and courting danger and disease by one’s rash and negligent act is haram or forbidden. The virus does not remain confined to the body of the person who invited it to himself through his foolish act. It travels rapidly in the family and society, and brings indiscriminate deaths to innocents.” They added that the Prophet directed his followers to take steps to prevent the spread of epidemic and to protect oneself. Urging Muslims to follow the public health guidelines, they said that social distancing should be maintained and congregational prayer should be avoided. “Muslims can pray collectively at the mosques after the pandemic dies out and the normal life is restored. Temporarily avoiding going to the mosque to prevent spread of the disease does not mean one has deserted the mosques permanently, as many believe. One can pray at home observing social distancing. Our responsible behaviour would help save the individual, his family and the country at large,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-muslim-ias-ips-officer-urge-community-members-to-cooperate-with-health-workers/articleshow/74993134.cms||Mohammed Wajihudin
April 5, 2020||India||Decision on reopening schools, colleges on April 14: HRD minister||NEW DELHI: The educational institutions will be re-opened only after a review of coronavirus situation in the country when the lockdown period ends on April 14, Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said on Sunday. "Safety of students, teachers is of utmost importance to the government," Pokhriyal added. The minister said that the government is prepared to ensure that there is no academic loss to students if schools, colleges remain shut beyond April 14. He added, "We have a plan ready for conducting pending exams and evaluation once the lockdown is lifted." The 21-day lockdown in the country ends on April 14. There have been indications from the government that the lockdown may not be extended. However, classes in schools and colleges were already suspended before the lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/decision-on-reopening-schools-colleges-on-april-14-hrd-minister/articleshow/74993121.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Business||In talks with 3 medical device companies to manufacture ventilators: MG Motor India||NEW DELHI: MG Motor India is in talks with three medical device makers, including GE, to produce ventilators at its Halol facility to help meet demand during the coronavirus pandemic, according to a top company official. The company, which has also launched a hunt for a low-cost ventilator design through a challenge, is also developing its own ventilator and hopes to be ready with a prototype within a week as part of its three-pronged approach to get into ventilator manufacturing considering the shortage during this health crisis. "We are talking to medical equipment companies like GE and some other companies, which already have established and approved designs. If they can tell us, then we can start manufacturing based on their design in our plant," MG Motor India President and Managing Director Rajeev Chaba told PTI. He further said all three companies have responded positively and that can be the fastest solution if there is a design approved by the medical body already and everything is in place. Besides, he said, "In the last 10 days, our engineering team is busy making a prototype. I'm happy to say that we have already made the drawings and everything. We have talked to the medical experts, our prototype should be ready in the next one week. If that prototype is approved, then our own designed ventilator can be manufactured by MG in India." However, this approach will take some more time as it needs regulatory approvals, he added. The company has also announced a Rs 10 lakh grant through its "challenge to youngsters and young engineers that if they want to make a low-cost design, we are going to help them", Chaba said. On the manufacturing of ventilators, he said MG Motor India will create infrastructure at its Halol facility and would even carve out a separate unit if need be. "If the car demand is not too much in future then my existing manpower can work on this project. We may have to have some new capex for this kind of a thing, although I don't know exactly how does that look like. But then we will look at putting the right capex into this project to make the ventilators," he said. On the other hand, Chaba said if the demand for the company's vehicles continues and have waiting period as it is now and "if our people get busy making the cars, I feel we would carve out a separate unit for ventilators." "If we have to recruit more people, we will do it to have more people into this project because this virus is not going to go away in the next three years or so," he said, stressing that even if vaccines are developed for the coronavirus it is going to take long to make them available at a mass scale. He further said in India at the moment there is a huge gap between demand and supply for ventilators. "We don't want to make this as a profit making venture. If we can keep it low cost and operate at breakeven and supply to the community, to the government, it will be a great service," Chaba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-talks-with-3-medical-device-cos-to-manufacture-ventilators-mg-motor-india/articleshow/74993138.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Centre must consider number of Covid-19 cases to allocate funds to states: Ahmed Patel||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Sunday urged home minister Amit Shah to allocate funds to states from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) in proportion to the number of coronavirus cases they have reported. Patel pointed out that some Union Territories and states like Delhi, Kerala and Punjab have a large number of Covid-19 cases but "they have received very little funds". "I request the home minister Amit Shah to include Covid-19 as a criterion apart from the Finance Commission criteria for disbursement to states," he said on Twitter. "Central Government must consider number of Covid-19 cases and hotspots to decide allocation of State Disaster Risk Management Fund to states," he added. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Union home minister on Friday approved release of Rs 11,092 crore to all states under the SDRMF for setting up quarantine facilities and arranging other facilities for checking the spread of coronavirus. The number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 3,374 on Sunday while the death toll rose to 77, according to Union Health Ministry data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-must-consider-number-of-covid-19-cases-to-allocate-funds-to-states-ahmed-patel/articleshow/74993264.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Immigration at Delhi's IGI Airport intercepts 8 Tablighi Jammat members from Malaysia||NEW DELHI: Immigration wing at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Sunday intercepted eight members of the Tablighi Jamaat from Malayasia as they tried to board Malindo Air relief flight bound for their country.  Sources in the immigration department told ANI that the eight members will be handed over to the police.  The immigration department has a list of Jamaat members who attended the religious gathering in Delhi and based on this list the eight members trying to return back to their country were intercepted.  Immediately after completion of formalities, the eight Malaysians were handed over to the aviation security (CISF) personnel at the airport and further process is underway for them to be handed over to the Delhi Police.  As per the rule established by the Centre, all the persons who were intercepted will have to stay in quarantine in India.  The Tablighi Jamaat event held in March in the Markaz building, Nizamuddin area of Delhi has emerged as a hotspot for Covid-19 after several positive cases from across India were linked to the gathering including deaths in Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Telangana.  Many foreign nationals who attended the religious gathering, among other Indians, have tested positive for Covid-19 and nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined across the country so far, a home ministry official said on Saturday.  The Centre and state governments have been tracking and checking all those who attended the event in a bid to stop the spread of the disease and to provide treatment to those who are infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/immigration-at-delhis-igi-airport-intercepts-8-tablighi-jammat-members-from-malaysia/articleshow/74993394.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur youth dies of Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia||KANNUR: A 28-year-old newly-wed from Panoor in Kannur died of Covid-19 in the early hours of Saturday in Saudi Arabia. According to his family and relatives, the man, identified as P K Shebnaz, son of Mammu and Fousiya, residents of Meethale Pookkom in Panoor municipality, had been undergoing treatment at Saudi German Hospital Madinah for the past one week and died around 11.30pm local time on the night of April 3 (around 2am IST on Saturday). A couple of days ago his friends confirmed that he had tested positive but they never thought he was in a critical condition, said Nizar K, who is close to the family and a member of Panoor municipality. Shebnaz was working with the KFC fast food restaurant chain in Madinah. However, the Saudi officials have not yet officially confirmed that he died of Covid-19, said Nizar. Shebnaz's father Mammu said his son got married on January 5 this year, and had gone back after marriage on the night of March 2. Last week he was admitted in the hospital following fever. He was not having any other health problem earlier, said the father. Since the body could not be brought here, the family has sent the consent for funeral there, said the family. Meanwhile, the health condition of two Malayalis from Kasaragod, who have been admitted to the same hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, is improving, said hospital sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-youth-dies-of-covid-19-in-saudi-arabia/articleshow/74993455.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: More financial powers to secretaries, department heads||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In view of the ongoing crisis related to Covid-19 outbreak, the government has decided to give more financial powers to district collectors and secretaries of departments, thereby reducing the delay in procurement of essential items. All the secretaries of departments have been given the powers to spend up to Rs 10 crore for procuring any essential item that has been decided in the crisis management group meeting or chief minister’s review meeting to fight Covid-19. The secretaries have been given the powers for procurement without further circulating the papers on the basis of stores purchase rules as per the laid down procedure. Similarly, all the district collectors, department heads and managing directors of PSUs have been given the powers to procure any such essentials spending a maximum of Rs 5 crore at a time. While doing so, the secretaries and district collectors have been asked to certify that the rates accepted for procurement are fair and reasonable up on a practicable market enquiry. For procurement above Rs 10 crore and up to Rs 100 crore, of a critical item that was certified by a secretary or head of the departmentconcerned, a committeeconsisting of the concerned secretary, finance secretary and secretary of disaster management department has to give clearance while any procurement that will run beyond Rs 100 crore, will have to be cleared by a committee headed by the chief secretary, secretary of the concerned department, finance secretary and the secretary of disaster management department. Under usual circumstances, the financial powers are much lower to the tune of up to Rs 5 lakh for the department heads and up to Rs 20 lakh for the secretaries of departments.  Larger funds allocated under annual plan arespentby the departments after constituting working groups and special working groups and placing the projects and procurements before them to get the funds sanctioned.  Those projects below Rs 10 crore are forwarded to a working group that is chaired by the secretary of the concerned department, and the projects that have a budget of more than Rs 10 crore are to be scrutinized by a special working group chaired by the finance secretary that also includes the secretary of the administrative department. The constitution and meeting of the working groups and special working groups itself is a timeconsuming process, in effect cutting short the implementation time for each of the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-more-financial-powers-to-secretaries-department-heads/articleshow/74993608.cms||KP Saikiran
April 5, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh revokes takeover of private hospital in Covid-19 fight||RAIPUR: Barely nine days after acquiring a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment, Chhattisgarh government on Friday rolled back its decision, citing insufficient infrastructure and medical facilities at Raipur Institute of Medical sciences. The government-run Ambedkar Hospital will be dedicated to the corona fight, instead. RIMS was the only private medical facility acquired by the Chhattisgarh government under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. AIIMS-Raipur and district hospitals are treating coronavirus patients. Now, Ambedkar Hospital will join the group. According to state health officials, post-acquisition inspections showed that the private hospital was short of medical facilities and infrastructure. Upgrading it would entail heavy expenses, and - more importantly - time. Time is crucial in the fight against Covid-19, as the administration cannot divert focus from battling the pandemic. When the government set about upgrading facilities, it realized that the money could be better spent in improving medical care during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/chhattisgarh-revokes-takeover-of-private-hospital-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/74993698.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
April 5, 2020||Kochi||India’s oldest couple to beat Covid-19 are home for Easter||KOTTAYAM: Thomas, 93, and his wife Mariamma, 88, consider themselves particularly blessed that they will be able to celebrate yet another Easter. Till last Friday they weren’t so sure, because the couple was still in the Covid-19 isolation ward of Kottayam Medical College Hospital in Kerala. Thomas and Mariamma are the oldest couple in India to have contracted the virus so far and to have recovered. Discharged on the evening of April 3, after almost a month in hospital fighting for their lives, they look back on what they went through with incredulity and a little bemusement. “The initial days in isolation in the ICU were very tense and everything was strange,” said Thomas. “Whenever I woke up, the unusually cold temperature and unfamiliar people made me think that I had landed in some foreign country.” The couple contracted the disease from their son and his family who had come home from Italy for a vacation on February 29. A few days later they tested positive for Covid-19 and on March 8, so did Thomas and Mariamma. In the ICU, for Mariamma it was the thought of her children and grandchildren which was a concern. “I used to cry at night,” she recalled. The nurses had a tough time consoling her and make her sleep. Soon, however, the couple got adjusted to the critical care unit. The couple had several old-age related health issues which made treating them more difficult. They had diabetes, hypertension and cardiac problems. Once, the health condition of Thomas deteriorated further and he had to be put on ventilator. He also suffered a cardiac arrest during this period. The medical team held meetings every hour to assess their condition but there was one thing that intrigued them. Initially, the couple had been admitted in separate rooms. “We had never stayed separately since our marriage. We slept in the same room and living even a second without seeing each other was unimaginable,” said Thomas. Mariamma, too, was disturbed by this. Sensing that there could be a psychological toll, the doctors soon shifted them to the ICU ward where they both could see each other. Soon after arriving home in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district following their discharge, Thomas told Rijo Moncy, his grandson, that he “wanted to see the news on TV”. “The same night he also made me read out the newspapers and how they had reported his case,” said Rijo. Thomas has no doubt that he and his wife owe their recovery to the doctors and nurses who looked after them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/for-them-life-after-covid-19-begins-with-tapioca-and-fish-curry/articleshow/74993685.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Special protocol in place for handling biomedical waste||KOCHI: With the rest of the country struggling to grapple with the severity of the coronavirus crisis, Kerala has already treated 21,401kg of biomedical waste (BMW) generated from hospitals tending to Covid-19 patients. This was collected from 63 corona care centres across the state. A total of 1,589kg of BMW was collected on Friday alone, which was down from 1,940kg a day earlier. According to the data, 239kg of Covid waste was collected from Thiruvananthapuram district, followed by 210kg from Ernakulam and 174kg from Malappuram on April 3. This was collected and sent to the Image (Indian medical association goes eco-friendly) facility in Palakkad. On Thursday, Pathanamthitta recorded the highest collection, at 315 kg, followed by Malappuram (276kg) and Ernakulam (263 kg). “The waste generated is not proportional to the number of cases,” said Dr Sharafudheen K P, secretary, Image. “It keeps varying according to the medical situation.” Image officials said waste treatment is now based on the new protocol of the central pollution control board (CPCB), which has issued very specific rules for Covid waste treatment. The key changes have been on ensuring separate vehicles to transport the waste from the corona care centres. “Also, there is a specific instruction on the treatment of red waste which is normally autoclaved at hospitals and is recyclable. Now, this is also treated along with yellow waste and incinerated after autoclaving. The red and yellow waste from the hospitals is initially collected in double-layered plastic bags to ensure that it doesn’t leak and then transferred into sealed barrels at the hospital itself,” said Dr Sharafudheen. He said this common treatment of red and yellow waste is confined only to Covid care hospitals. “As such, all BMW is infectious and hence the standards are for its specialized management. But following WHO guidelines, in the wake of the Covid-19, all staff have been trained and have been given personal protection equipment (PPE),” he said. Image introduced the new protocol on March 19. Initially, four vehicles were used. Now BMW is transferred from the corona care hospitals in eight vehicles, which move in three zones. Three vehicles cater to the central zone, while the south and north zones have two each. The vehicles reach the Image facility by 4pm, and within the next hour, the entire waste is treated and incinerated. “Of the total Covid waste generated, almost 75% comprise personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. We take all necessary precaution to ensure that the waste is transported and treated properly,” said Dr Abraham Varghese, state president of Indian Medical Association. Before the latest crisis, hospitals on average generated 50 tonnes of medical waste every day. But since the lockdown, the other medical waste has gone down to 35 tonnes per day. However, IMA authorities say they may not be able to run the unit for long due to lack of funds. An amount of Rs 1.55 crore is due from government hospitals while private hospitals owe Rs 4.37 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-special-protocol-in-place-for-handling-biomedical-waste/articleshow/74993827.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Four Tablighi Jamaat event attendees test positive for coronavirus in Buldhana||NAGPUR: Four persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin in Delhi last month tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday in Maharashtra's Buldhana district, some 350 kilometres from here, Collector Suman Chandra said. At least 9,000 people participated in a congregation at the organisation's Nizamuddin Markaz last month after which many travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works. The event is being seen as one of the main catalysts of the virus spread in several states. Buldhana's COVID-19 count stands at nine, including one who died of the infection, Chandra informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-tablighi-jamaat-event-attendees-test-positive-in-buldhana/articleshow/74993892.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Coronavirus victim's kin claim admission refusal by Kasturba hospital||MUMBAI: Family members of a 71-year-old man from Vakola in Mumbai who died of coronavirus infection on Friday have claimed that civic-run Kasturba Hospital had refused to admit him when they failed to provide his travel history. One of the two sons of the deceased said on Sunday that family members came to know about the exact cause of the death only after local police informed them. "We first admitted my father to a civic-run facility after he complained of uneasiness on March 24. But as his health did not improve, we took him to a private doctor in Vakola," he said. He claimed that the family members approached a civic-run facility in Santacruz (east) last Thursday, but authorities there asked them to rush the man to Kasturba Hospital in south Mumbai. "They provided us an ambulance," he said. He said when they reached Kasturba Hospital, the nodal facility for COVID-19 cases in Mumbai, we were asked to provide travel history of the patient. "When we failed to provide travel history, they refused to admit my father," he claimed. I and my brother rushed my father to KEM Hospital on a two-wheeler on Thursday itself. "My father's treatment started on a bench at KEM Hospital. On one occasion he fell from a stretcher. Next day he was declared dead," he said. He claimed that no one from the hospital informed the family members that the man had died of COVID-19. "We came to know only after local police informed us," he claimed. The man was buried in the early hours of Sunday, he said, adding that they had not received any document stating the exact cause of death. Meanwhile, Shoeb Khatib, trustee of Bada Kabrastan in Marine Lines, said, "We were informed by hospital that he is a COVID-19 patient, hence we allowed his family members to bury him with all precautionary measures". Confirming that the deceased was a COVID-19 patient, a KEM Hospital official said that documents will be provided to his kin. A civic body official said that family members of the deceased have been quarantined and contact tracing is on. Kasturba Hospital officials cannot be contacted. Mumbai alone has reported 406 COVID-19 cases so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-coronavirus-victims-kin-claim-admission-refusal-by-kasturba-hospital/articleshow/74993942.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||29 new COVID-19 cases in Mumbai; Maharashtra tally climbs to 690||MUMBAI: As many as 29 people tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai on Sunday, taking the total number of such cases in Maharashtra 690, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. With this, 406 COVID-19 cases have been reported from Mumbai alone, he said. "Twenty nine new coronavirus cases have been found in Mumbai; the state tally is now 690," Tope said, adding that 56 people have been discharged so far after recovery. Earlier in the day, 26 coronavirus cases were reported from parts of the state, including 17 from Pune, four from its neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township, three from Ahmednagar and two from Aurangabad. Till Saturday, 635 cases and 32 deaths were reported from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/29-new-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-maharashtra-tally-climbs-to-690/articleshow/74993974.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Business||EPFO to accept Aadhaar as birth proof online from subscribers||NEW DELHI: Retirement fund body EPFO will accept online its subscribers' Aadhaar card as valid proof to rectify their date of birth to ensure that the account is KYC compliant, the labour ministry said on Sunday. "In a move to extend the availability and reach of online services in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the EPFO (Employees' Provident Fund Organisation) has issued revised instructions to its field offices to facilitate PF members to rectify their date of birth in EPFO records, thus ensuring that their UAN is KYC compliant," a ministry statement said. According to the statement, the date of birth recorded in Aadhaar will now be accepted as valid proof of date of birth for the purpose of rectification, provided that the difference in the two dates is less than 3 years. The PF subscribers can submit the correction requests online. It said that this will enable the EPFO to validate the birth date of members online with Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) instantaneously, thus authenticating and reducing the processing time of change requests. The EPFO has instructed field offices to expedite disposal of online requests, enabling Provident Fund members in financial distress, to apply online for availing non-refundable advance from their PF accumulations to tide over COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, the EPFO allowed its subscribers to withdraw three months basic pay and dearness allowance as non-refundable advance on the ground of COVID-19 lockdown from March 28, 2020. However, the facility was available to those members whose KYC (Know You Customer ) compliance was complete. Now, this decision would help the members to make their universal account numbers KYC compliant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/epfo-to-accept-aadhaar-as-birth-proof-online-from-subscribers/articleshow/74994001.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 26,000 quarantined after 10 feast attendees contract COVID-19||MORENA: Days after 10 people tested positive for coronavirus after attending a funeral feast organised by a man on his return here in Madhya Pradesh from Dubai, over 26,000 of their contacts and family members have been placed under home quarantine, officials said on Sunday.  The man, who worked as a waiter at a hotel in Dubai, returned to Morena from Dubai on March 17 after getting information about his mother's death, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) R S Bakna said. "He organised a customary feast on March 20 to mark the 13th day of mourning after his mothers death," he said. The man initially hid his travel history, but revealed it after he and his wife tested positive for coronavirus on April 2, Chief Medical and Health Officer R C Bandil said. The couple came to a hospital on March 27 after their condition deteriorated. Since doctors suspected coronavirus, the couple was immediately sent to an isolation ward and their samples were taken which came out positive following which the man revealed his travel history, he said. On April 3, 10 more people who came in contact with the couple tested positive for the deadly viral infection, alarming the district administration. The authorities later came to know that 1,000 to 1,200 people attended the feast organised at the man's residence. "This caused the spread of infection. The administration has sealed the entire ward no.47, where the man resides," Bakna said. According to Bandil, total 27,881 people have been home quarantined in the district so far. "Nearly 26,000 of these people are those who attended the feast, their family members and contacts," he said. As many as 24 people have been admitted to the district hospital after their screening during contact tracing of these patients, he said. People from other areas who attended the feast have also been identified and home quarantined and their health is being monitored by doctors, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-26000-quarantined-after-10-feast-attendees-contract-covid-19/articleshow/74994101.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Masks, screening health status, social distancing: Railways prepares for post-lockdown services||NEW DELHI: From encouraging social-distancing on board to asking passengers to wear face masks and using the Arogya Setu app to check their health status before letting them in, the railways is mulling over several proposals for its post-lockdown operations. While no decision has yet been taken on when the passenger services, which were suspended in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown from March 25, will be resumed, officials said it is likely to be done in a phased manner after a green signal from the government. A decision, officials said, is likely to be taken in the coming week on how to restore services. They said the railways has discussed the option of resuming services only on specific approval of each train from the Railway Board. Suggestions on phase-wise resumption have to be provided by the zone to the board. "These are sensitive times and we are not looking in terms of revenue generation for now. The focus is on passenger safety and to ensure that the disease does not spread. Trains will run in due course, once the government gives us the green signal. However as of now, we have not taken any decision,” said a senior officer. In the zones, officials are also identifying trains and routes which can be resumed with the approval of the board. The focus, say officials, is to see if routes catering to migrant workers can be resumed initially and also those that are not travelling or has halts at COVID-19 hotspots. Officials added that the railways will also have to factor in how the lockdown is eventually opened. If it is selective, then trains will only run in areas where lockdown is lifted, officials said. The Railways is also unlikely to rescind a March 19 order suspending all concessions for passengers except those offered to patients, students and people with disabilities in a hurry, even after the lockdown period to discourage unnecessary travel. The Railways, officials said, are also discussing protocols that need to be followed once services begin to ensure safety of passengers. They are mulling options like thermal screening and other methods to scan passengers boarding trains. "Once the services are resumed, we are thinking of requesting passengers to wear masks as per the health ministry advisory. We are also thinking of using the Arogya app to check the health and wellness of patients and allow only healthy passengers to board trains,” an official said. As part of its preparedness, the Railways has also asked zones to ensure the security of coaches parked in depots. Officials said once the services resume full throttle, they expect overcrowding at stations and measures have to be chalked out on how to deal with them. The focus now for railways, the officials said, is to ensure that the rakes of passenger trains, which were suspended due to the lockdown, had returned to their respective bases, received proper maintenance like charging of batteries, cleaning of bio-toilets, and were ready to return on the tracks once the resumption is announced. Officials also said railway minister Piyush Goyal is keen that the railways concentrate on ensuring that the different zones continue their efforts towards contributing in the larger fight against coronavirus. Railway PSUs have already committed to converting around 5000 coaches as isolation wards initially which are likely to be sent in rural areas that do not have hospitals. The Railways has also offered its hospitals for infected patients and are producing essential medical goods like masks, sanitisers, PPEs. The minister has given instructions that proper planning should be done for cleaning of linens, sanitation and proper disposal of biomedical waste that is expected to be generated at hospitals and isolation coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-mulling-post-lockdown-precautions-for-passengers/articleshow/74993841.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: How to make a mask?||The outbreak of coronavirus across the globe has led to a shortage of face masks and sanitizers. If you are looking for a mask and can't get it in the market, you can always make one at home. Here's a step-by-step guide to make masks at home that are washable as well as reusable. Things to keep in mind: A homemade mask should have multiple layers of fabric that can be machine or hand washed without getting damaged Thicker fabric is better as it can offer greater protection — a heavy cotton T-shirt, for example, can also be cut into a mask You must ensure that the fabric is washed well in boiling water for 5 minutes and dried well, before you make the mask. Adding salt to this water is recommended If you are using a bandanna or handkerchief, fold it over twice or thrice before wearing Just wearing the mask is not important, it is also important how you wear it. Ensure that the masks fits around your mouth and nose and there is no gap between your face and mask. When wearing the mask, the side facing you should show pleats downwards. Never-ever reverse the mask for reuse It is critical to emphasize that aside from wearing masks, maintaining 6-feet social distancing remains important to slowing the spread of the virus. Watch Covid-19: Why wearing a mask is important?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-how-to-make-a-mask/articleshow/74994023.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||Boris Johnson's pregnant fiancee says she is 'on the mend' from coronavirus||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's pregnant fiancee, Carrie Symonds on Sunday revealed that she was bedridden after developing symptoms of coronavirus but is now on the mend and feeling stronger. The 32-year-old conservationist had been self-isolating separately from Johnson with the couple's dog Dilyn. Her social media post on her own symptoms subsiding came as Johnson, 55, continues to self-isolate at Downing Street after testing positive for coronavirus last week. "I've spent the past week in bed with the main symptoms of coronavirus. I haven't needed to be tested and, after seven days of rest, I feel stronger and I'm on the mend," Symonds posted on Twitter. I’ve spent the past week in bed with the main symptoms of Coronavirus. I haven’t needed to be tested and, after sev… https://t.co/tFp9rMETov— Carrie Symonds (@carriesymonds) 1586017004000In an accompanying post, Johnson's partner, who is around six months pregnant and expecting the couple's baby in the coming months, added a link to guidance from the UK's Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists for pregnant women during the pandemic. "Being pregnant with Covid-19 is obviously worrying. To other pregnant women, please do read and follow the most up to date guidance which I found to be very reassuring," she said. In an earlier post on Instagram, Symonds - believed to be at her flat in Camberwell, south London - is seen lying in bed with Dilyn with the caption: "Self-isolating isn't so bad with this one." The couple had announced their engagement in February after Johnson and his Indian-origin ex-wife Marina Wheeler's divorce settlement was finalised. Symonds, who works for an ocean conservation charity, met Johnson during her time as the communications chief for the Conservative party. She moved into Downing Street in July last year after Johnson won the Tory party leadership contest and went on to take charge as Prime Minister. On Friday, Johnson posted a video message online, saying he will continue his quarantine as he is still suffering from a temperature, one of the symptoms of Covid-19. He said: "Although I'm feeling better and I've done my seven days of isolation, alas I still have one of the symptoms, a minor symptom. "I still have a temperature and so, in accordance with government advice, I must continue my self-isolation until that symptom itself goes". The prime minister has been leading video conferences and virtual Cabinet meetings from his private quarters, the flat above No. 11 Downing Street - traditionally used by Prime Ministers as their home next door to their No. 10 office. Johnson revealed his Covid-19 diagnosis last week, when he said he had tested positive for coronavirus after developing mild symptoms but vowed to remain in charge of the country's fightback against the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/boris-johnsons-pregnant-fiancee-says-she-is-on-the-mend-from-coronavirus/articleshow/74994200.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Why do I need to wear a mask?||Mask-wearing has emerged as one of the important measures to stop the spread of coronavirus. Protective masks are said to lower the chances of coronavirus entering our respiratory system through droplets that are present in the air. Wearing of masks is especially recommended for people living in densely populated areas. "It is suggested that people who are not suffering from medical conditions or having breathing difficulties may use the handmade reusable face cover, particularly when they step out of their house. This will help in protecting the community at large," the ministry of health and family welfare said in its advisory. Reducing the chances of inhaling the virus by wearing a protective mask that is cleaned thoroughly using a combination of approaches that use heat, UV light, water, soap and alcohol, will be vital to stopping its spread. Experts have also said that India will benefit from use of masks. “Widespread use of masks could be the next step for India, combined with awareness on vigorous hand hygiene and hand sanitisers,” they said. It is critical to emphasize that aside from wearing masks, maintaining 6-feet social distancing remains important to slowing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-why-do-i-need-to-wear-a-mask/articleshow/74994245.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||NYKS volunteers use slogans for corona awareness||To help the villagers understand and get the facts right about the novel corona virus, the volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendra are working tirelessly to help them. This virus truly has brought everyone close because all a person wants is to fight it out. The volunteers went an extra step and under the direction of Dr Surendra Shukla the volunteers are writing slogans on the public spaces of the village Hinoti. Apart from Slogan writing they are also informing the villagers that how the doctors and policemen are helping people out in the interior areas. Volunteer Rahul Tiwari says, “We are always ready to help the government and society in any way we can. This is a common fight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nyks-volunteers-use-slogans-for-corona-awareness/articleshow/75096937.cms||Farzana Patowari
April 5, 2020||India||Some doctors believe BCG may be helpful against COVID-19||NEW DELHI: Some doctors here are hopeful of combating COVID-19 with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccination, which is given to prevent tuberculosis. Speaking to ANI, Dr Ashok Seth, chairman of Fortis said, "The BCG which is given for preventing tuberculosis can also help in virus infection. There is indirect evidence of it. It's very early to say that this indirect evidence will help in the prevention of coronavirus infection." "Six trials have already started of BCG vaccinations being given to health workers taking care of corona patients and to the patients of age more than 60. We have to see whether it prevents or decreases the severity of coronavirus infections," Dr Seth said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsHe added, "We can only hope and keep our finger crossed that BCG will help us to limit the number of cases as compared to the West". Dr KK Agarwal had also expressed his analysis. He said it will be good if BCG vaccination is found helpful in fighting COVID-19 because we Indian give this vaccination in childhood only. People in the West are not BCG vaccinated and probably that is why there have been more cases in the West.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-doctors-believe-bcg-may-be-helpful-against-covid-19/articleshow/74994295.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases 4.1 days; without Jamaat incident it would have been 7.4: Centre||NEW DELHI: The rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in India is 4.1 days presently but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation would not have happened, it would have been 7.4 days, the health ministry said on Sunday. Joint secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said there had been 472 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths since Saturday. The total coronavirus cases stand at 3,374 and the death toll now stands at 79. He said 267 people have recovered. Asserting that there was no evidence that Covid-19 was airborne, an ICMR official said, "We need to understand that in science ... some will have a 'for opinion and some against' ... we need to take a balanced, evidence-based approach.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"For example, if it was an air-borne infection then one person can infect the entire family because they are living in same surrounding as the patient and the breathing the same air. When someone is admitted to hospital, other patient would have been exposed (if it was air borne) but that is not the case,” the official said. Talking about the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, Agarwal said that the doubling rate - that is in how many days the cases get doubled - would have been 7.4 days instead of the current 4.1 days. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday held a meeting on Covid-19 with district magistrates, superintendent of police, chief medical officers, state and district surveillance officers, state health secretaries and district health secretaries and chief secretaries, Agarwal said. District officials shared the strategies adopted by them to combat the pandemic like how they delineated containment and buffer zone, how they carried out door-to-door survey through special teams, how through telemedicine and call centres the passengers who had come were monitored. The districts from where many cases were reported like Agra, Bhilwada, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Pathan Mitha, East Delhi also shared their experiences and strategies adopted by them. The main points that came from the experience shared by districts were proactive and ruthless containment implementation at field level and second is preparedness to the extent of being over prepared so that cases can be handled at any stage, Agarwal said. All DMs were instructed pharma units making devices and medicines must run seamlessly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rate-of-doubling-of-covid-19-cases-4-1-days-without-jamaat-incident-it-would-have-been-7-4-centre/articleshow/74994293.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: Urging people to stay home, Balod cops take to shayari||RAIPUR: In a unique initiative to cheer up citizens and spreading awareness during times of crisis, police in Balod district seem to have taken to songs. Bollywood lyricist and Urdu poet Rahat Indori. In a recently surfaced video on social media, two police officers with microphones in their hands are seen cheerfully reciting their own corona version of the Urdu shayari 'Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi', by Bollywood lyricist and poet Rahat Indori. With smiles on their faces, the cops are seen encouraging residents of Sarthak Apartments in Balod to not step out their houses and use masks and sanitizers. The cops' shayari starts with: "Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi... Corona bulati hai magar ghar se bahar ane ka nahi... Mere Balod mere Sarthak apartments wale apne mohalle se ishq kar magar ghar se bahar jane ka nahi.."It further continues, "Halat abhi sudhre nahi hai... magar jeetenge hum... mask aur sanitizer bhool jane ka nahi. Mahamari faili hai chaaro taraf, magar abhi maahol mar jane ka nahi... Suna hai... are maine suna hai... ki corona gardan naap ka hai... magar is virus se dar jane ka nahi..."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/chhattisgarh-urging-people-to-stay-home-balod-cops-take-to-shayari/articleshow/74994465.cms||Nisreen Naaz
April 5, 2020||Business||Air Deccan ceases its operations, all employees put on sabbatical without pay||NEW DELHI: Regional airliner Air Deccan announced on Sunday that it is ceasing its operations until further notice and all employees are being put on sabbatical without pay amid coronavirus pandemic. The airline’s CEO A K Singh in a mail to employees said following the move to stop schedule passenger operations during the lockdown, “Air Deccan has no choice but to cease its operations until further notice. With heavy heart, I am also compelled to inform that all existing employees of Air Deccan (permanent, temporary and contractual) are being put on sabbatical without pay with immediate effect.” Even before the 21-day lockdown, Air Deccan was not in the pink of health in terms of passenger operations. DGCA’s provisional data shows it operated 996 flights in 2018, flying 7,635 passengers that year. In 2019 and January and February of 2020, DGCA data shows, it operated very few flights and had a very high flight cancellation rate. “Air Deccan was a financially very weak airline which could not operate a lion’s share of the RCS routes awarded to it. But unless coronavirus pandemic is over soon and people start flying again, some bigger airlines will also find it difficult to continue,” said an aviation industry insider. “In my past two decades of aviation experience, I have personally seen several cycles of highs and lows. However, the situation in hand was never seen before and is utmost serious - both socially and economically. I am writing this email after aviation ministry and DGCA (asked) all scheduled passenger airlines to (temporarily for the duration of lockdown) cease overall operations from March 24, 2020. In view of the recent global and domestic issues and subsequent directive by the Indian regulator, Air Deccan has no choice but to cease its operations until further notice,” CEO A K Singh’s mail says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/air-deccan-ceases-its-operations-all-employees-put-on-sabbatical-without-pay/articleshow/74994496.cms||Saurabh Sinha
April 5, 2020||India||Army opens command hospital to assist Jammu and Kashmir administration in fight against coronavirus||UDHAMPUR: Lending its support to the Jammu and Kashmir administration in the fight against coronavirus, the Army on Sunday said it has opened its command hospital here to test samples of suspected cases. The hospital is fully equipped to deal with patients infected with the disease and many wards have been converted into corona-specific intensive care units, commandant of the hospital Major General S C Gupta told reporters here. "We have always emerged victorious in the wars against our enemies. This time our fight is against Covid-19 and the command hospital is fully prepared to register its victory over the disease as well," he said. Major General Gupta said the Army responded swiftly to the request of the civil administration in accordance with its tradition to assist the government to meet any eventuality. "The civil administration approached us on April 1 and without wasting any time, we started testing from the next day and so far 68 samples were tested at the command hospital," he said. He said the molecular biology laboratory of the command hospital was recently validated and approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing. Major Gen Gupta said many wards have been transformed into corona-specific ICUs at the hospital to tackle the cases of coronavirus. "We have transformed many wards into isolation units with adequate number of ventilators, multipara monitors and oxygen concentrators. These wards with 100 bed capacity have been turned into corona-specific ICUs," he said. The Army officer said a team of specialists has been assigned the job to handle the suspected cases while adequate number of hazard suits, N-95 masks and protective equipment have been procured for healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-opens-command-hospital-to-assist-jammu-and-kashmir-administration-in-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/74994510.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Do I need to clean and dispose of a mask?||Used masks lying around pose health risks if someone comes in contact with the respiratory secretions in them and then touches their face. So, it is important that the masks are cleaned frequently and disposed of when not needed. According to the WHO, masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand-cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. Here are some of the precautions you need to take before you start using your mask:Cleaning the mask - Change or clean the mask once its inner lining becomes moist Cloth masks should be washed regularly, either by hand using soap or in a machine with regular detergent, and air dried Mask can be reused even if you are sick, but don’t share it with others Surgical and other single-use masks cannot withstand washing and should be disposed of. If you want to reuse a mask, ensure that it remains dry.  You can store mask in dry ziplock bags, preferably with desiccating gel that can absorb moisture Disposing of the mask To properly dispose of a mask, fold it in half inwards so the inner lining is covered.  Fold it in half two more times so it looks like a roll.  Then, wrap the ear loops or strings around the roll so that it does not open up.  Wrap it in a piece of tissue before throwing in a lined, closed bin It is recommended that you have two masks so that you can wear one, while the other is washed and dried. It is critical to emphasize that aside from wearing masks, maintaining 6-feet social distancing remains important to slowing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-do-i-need-to-clean-and-dispose-of-a-mask/articleshow/74994393.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Amid lockdown, state, Centre provide help to cancer patient toddler's parents||ALAPPUZHA: When social media and all the political parties have joined their hands together, the state government has come forward to send one-and-half year-old Anvitha with her parents from Cherthala to Hyderabad for cancer treatment. Vineeth Vijayan and Gopika, residing in Cherthala municipality, needed to take their child Anvitha, suffering from retinoblastoma (a cancer that starts in the retina), to L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad on April 7 for her treatment. But the unexpected lockdown created roadblock for her treatment and her patents didn’t have any idea how they could take their child to the hospital. Following it, her father, made a post in social media explaining their plight. After seeing the post, the state government and politicians like Oommen Chnady, union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan and media persons have come forward for helping Anvitha and her family.   In the ambulance arranged by the state government, Anvitha along with her parents started their journey to Hydreabad from Cherthala at 7.15am on Sunday. Health minister K K Shailaja in her press note said that Anvitha and her parents would reach their destination around 11 pm on Sunday. Her travel expenses are being met by the state government. Social Security Mission officials also reached her home on Sunday early morning and handed over the money for travelling expenses. After the treatment, the government will also take back Anvitha and her family to their home. People from various walks of life also came forward for helping Anvitha for her treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-amid-lockdown-state-centre-provide-help-to-cancer-patient-toddlers-parents/articleshow/74994618.cms||Sajimon P S
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19 death toll in India rises to 79, total number of cases to 3,374: Health ministry||NEW DELHI: As many as 472 new Covid-19 cases have been confirmed and 11 more deaths reported, taking the total number of cases in the country to 3,374 and the death toll to 79, the health ministry said on Sunday. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 106 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 3,624. Of them, 284 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the Union health ministry figures, compared to the numbers announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. Addressing a media briefing, Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said 472 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths have been reported since Saturday. The total coronavirus cases stand at 3,374 and the death toll now stands at 79. He said 267 people have recovered. In its morning update, the health ministry had reported 77 deaths in all, and at the 4PM briefing, Agarwal said the death toll had gone up to 79. However, he did not specify in which state the two fatalities had taken place. According to the ministry, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 24, followed by Gujarat 10, Telangana 7, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi 6 each and Punjab 5. Karnataka has reported 4 deaths, while West Bengal and Tamil Nadu each have recorded 3 fatalities. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh each have reported 1 fatality, according to the data. The highest number of confirmed cases was reported from Maharashtra at 490, followed by Tamil Nadu (485) and Delhi (445). Kerala has 306 positive cases, while the number of cases has gone up to 269 in Telangana and 227 in Uttar Pradesh. There are 200 cases in Rajasthan and 161 cases in Andhra Pradesh. Covid-19 cases have risen to 144 in Karnataka, followed by 105 in Gujarat and 104 in Madhya Pradesh. Jammu and Kashmir has 92 cases and West Bengal has 69. Punjab has reported 57 infections, followed by Haryana at 49. Thirty people are afflicted with Covid-19 in Bihar, while Assam has 24 cases. Uttarakhand has 22 cases, followed by Odisha at 20 cases, Chandigarh at 18 infections, and Ladakh with 14. Ten cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands while Chhattisgarh has 9 infections. Goa has reported 7 Covid-19 cases, followed by Himachal Pradesh with 6 and Puducherry with 5 cases. Jharkhand and Manipur have reported 2 cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported 1 infection each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the Union health ministry said on its website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-death-toll-in-india-rises-to-79-total-number-of-cases-to-3374-health-ministry/articleshow/74994721.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand doctor delivers medicines at doorstep of patients during coronavirus lockdown||JAMSHEDPUR: At a time when the fear of coronavirus spread has kept most private doctors indoors in the Steel City, shutting their clinic doors to even regular patients, there are few who think in this hour of crisis the motto of "duty first, self last" must be followed. Dr Kumar Sarosh, 42, a dental surgeon, who runs a private clinic in Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, is not only attending the patients at his chamber, who need immediate clinical attention, he also delivers medicines at patients’ doorstep. Talking to TOI on Thursday Sarosh said:"If any patient wants to pay a visit to his clinic, he first ensures that he/she does not have any travel history to any foreign country in the last two months." He added: how can a doctor just refuse to attend his patient, as many in the city and adjoining areas had done, terming it to be unethical. The dentist, who graduated from Manipal, said senior citizens can not bear the dental pain for long and if they do not get treatment it can be fatal too. He pointed out that all precautions are being taken so that infection does not spread through his clinic. The Good Samaritan along with three-four volunteers, mostly in the age group of 20 to 40 years, help to supply medicines free of cost to patients at their doorstep in this lockdown, as they are not supposed to venture out. The medicines are supplied at a 10% discount of MRP, said the doctor. Sarosh said the orders are received through the helpline he has floated -- 9308240019, 7004922281, adding on an average he receives 10-12 orders per day. The orders are done from the medicine shop adjacent to his clinic. The doctor said due to shortage of helping hands he is at present confined to Adityapur and nearby areas but if he gets more manpower the delivery service can be extended to all parts of Steel City too. He ensures that senior citizens get first preference in this system. Replying to a query on the road blocks he is facing now, Sarosh said:"The medicines in bulk have to be collected from stockists in Jugsalai, Bistupur and Sakchi, as they are often unwilling to deliver the orders arising due to transportation problems." He goes to these places on his bike to collect the medicines. The doctor complained that even after several requests to the district administration, they have failed to give him a pass for free movement in this lockdown as a result often he has to face volley of question from the cops at the naka bandhis (check points).This does not deter his zeal to serve people. The doctor said he and his boys wear masks and gloves and use sanitizers when they go out to deliver the medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-doctor-delivers-medicines-at-doorstep-of-patients-during-coronavirus-lockdown/articleshow/74994766.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand doctor delivers medicines at doorstep of patients during coronavirus lockdown||JAMSHEDPUR: At a time when the fear of coronavirus spread has kept most private doctors indoors in the Steel City, shutting their clinic doors to even regular patients, there are few who think in this hour of crisis the motto of "duty first, self last" must be followed. Dr Kumar Sarosh, 42, a dental surgeon, who runs a private clinic in Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, is not only attending the patients at his chamber, who need immediate clinical attention, he also delivers medicines at patients’ doorstep. Talking to TOI on Thursday Sarosh said:"If any patient wants to pay a visit to his clinic, he first ensures that he/she does not have any travel history to any foreign country in the last two months." He added: how can a doctor just refuse to attend his patient, as many in the city and adjoining areas had done, terming it to be unethical. The dentist, who graduated from Manipal, said senior citizens can not bear the dental pain for long and if they do not get treatment it can be fatal too. He pointed out that all precautions are being taken so that infection does not spread through his clinic. The Good Samaritan along with three-four volunteers, mostly in the age group of 20 to 40 years, help to supply medicines free of cost to patients at their doorstep in this lockdown, as they are not supposed to venture out. The medicines are supplied at a 10% discount of MRP, said the doctor. Sarosh said the orders are received through the helpline he has floated -- 9308240019, 7004922281, adding on an average he receives 10-12 orders per day. The orders are done from the medicine shop adjacent to his clinic. The doctor said due to shortage of helping hands he is at present confined to Adityapur and nearby areas but if he gets more manpower the delivery service can be extended to all parts of Steel City too. He ensures that senior citizens get first preference in this system. Replying to a query on the road blocks he is facing now, Sarosh said:"The medicines in bulk have to be collected from stockists in Jugsalai, Bistupur and Sakchi, as they are often unwilling to deliver the orders arising due to transportation problems." He goes to these places on his bike to collect the medicines. The doctor complained that even after several requests to the district administration, they have failed to give him a pass for free movement in this lockdown as a result often he has to face volley of question from the cops at the naka bandhis (check points).This does not deter his zeal to serve people. The doctor said he and his boys wear masks and gloves and use sanitizers when they go out to deliver the medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-doctor-delivers-medicines-at-doorstep-of-patients-during-coronavirus-lockdown/articleshow/74994764.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 5, 2020||India||Coronavirus: When do I wear a mask?||In its latest advisory, the government has urged people to wear "homemade face covers", particularly when they step out of their houses in order to curb the spread of Covid-19. In the 'Advisory on the use of Homemade Protective Cover for Face and Mouth', the government said the use of such masks will help in protecting the community at large, and that certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face masks for the general public. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the US also recommends wearing of cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (eg, grocery stores and pharmacies) especially in areas of significant community-based transmission. It is critical to emphasize that aside from wearing masks, maintaining 6-feet social distancing remains important to slowing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-when-do-i-wear-a-mask/articleshow/74994819.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus: Telangana police forms WhatsApp groups for doctors' security||HYDERABAD: Police officials across Telangana were Sunday directed to form WhatsApp groups with doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in dealing with Covid-19 cases to ensure their security. A seamless communication has been established between police and health department officials for responding to emerging issues in real time and taking effective action. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Sunday directed the entire police force across the state to ensure safety and security of all doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in dealing with Covid-19 cases. The police chief asked all district superintendents of police and commissioners of police to form WhatsApp groups between local jurisdictional police officers and doctors and other healthcare professionals. All police stations across Telangana have in turn formed WhatsApp groups and established seamless communication between police and health department officials. All the jurisdictional police officers have been directed to be in constant touch with the doctors and other healthcare professionals dealing with Covid-19 cases and ensure their safety and security by taking stern action against people involved in attacks on doctors and other medical professionals. The district superintendents of police and commissioners of police are also in constant touch with top leadership of the health department at the district level and the state level and have been supporting healthcare professionals on 24X7 basis. "We salute all those medical professionals who are relentlessly involved in fighting Covid-19 with utmost commitment and sincerity risking their own personal safety," the DGP said. He appealed to people to recognize the selfless service being rendered by members of frontline departments namely health and police in fighting the coronavirus menace and help them to discharge their duties effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-police-forms-whatsapp-groups-for-doctors-security/articleshow/74994840.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Two drown while cleaning water tank in Pune||PUNE: Two youths including a minor drowned in a water tank while they were about enter in it for cleaning. Another worker who tried to save them was also drowned. He was rescued by other workers. The accident happened on the premises of a company at Kandali MIDC in Junnar taluka about 95km from here on Saturday evening. The Narayangaon police have indentified the youths as Rajkumar Thakur (15) and Bittukumar Yadav (19) both hailed from Bihar. The injured Rasool Tandel (35) is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Junnar. The police said that company manufactures surgical gloves. Recently, the authorities have given permission to start manufacturing work. On Saturday evening Thakur and Yadav were about to enter into the tank for cleaning work. "Prima facie probe revealed that one of the youths lost balance and fell into the tank and drowned. In a attempt to save him, another too drowned. Tandel also tried to save them, but injured in the attempt," police said. They were rushed to a private hospital, where doctors pronounced Yadav and Thakur dead on arrival. "We have registered a case of accidental death. Our probe is on," the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-drown-near-pune/articleshow/74994874.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||'Lockdown has improved air quality of Bengaluru'||BENGALURU: The COVID-19 related lockdown has substantially improved the air quality of Bengaluru, taking it from satisfactory level to good, a senior state pollution control board official said here on Sunday. "During the course of the lockdown 19 problem, we reached good position from satisfactory. It is between zero to 50 AQI (Air Quality Index) now. We have good quality air," the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board member secretary Basavaraj Patil told PTI. He said the indicator for knowing the air quality in "If the AQI is zero to 50 then it is good. If it is 50 to 100 then it is satisfactory. 101 to 150 is moderate and if it is 151 to 200, then it is poor, he explained. Patil said as per available recrods, there has been a 60 to 65 per cent reduction in pollution during the lockdown. The city railway station and Peenya industrial area, which used to be among the areas with highest AQI, has seen pollution levels come down significantly, he said. Another major contributor of pollution was construction activities, which too had ground to a halt due to the lockdown, resulting in zero dust emission. Patil opined that the improved air quality would boost the immune system of the people. "It will improve the immune system of people, including those who have breathing problems like asthma," he said. He asked the public to learn lessons from the lockdown and later switch to sustainable means of transport such as public transport, walking and cycling,. "We can still reduce the pollution load even after the lockdown is over," Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-has-improved-air-quality-of-bengaluru/articleshow/74994915.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Shimla||Man commits suicide after being taunted over coronavirus in HP's Una district||DHARAMSHALA: A man in Una district committed suicide after he was allegedly taunted by native villagers over coronavirus. The deceased was suspected to have come into contact with people who had attended Tablighi Jammat. The authorities have also taken him for test, but he was tested negative. The person identified as Dilshad Mohamad was dropped back to his home on Saturday in an ambulance. But on Sunday he hung himself from the roof of his house at Bangarh village of Una district. Family of the deceased has blamed villagers. Wife Amardeep Kaur and Ushan Devi has said that people of the village have insulted Dilshad. In a statement given by family members, they said that on Sunday he met family members and also offered Namaz after which he committed suicide. The deceased belonged to a poor Gujjar family. Their main trade was to sell milk. But people have also stopped taking milk from them which is also being considered as one of the reasons for this drastic step. Police has assured that people responsible will be booked. Rakesh Kumar, investigation official said that body will be handed over to the family after post-mortem and process to register the case in this regard was initiated. “We are recording the statements of the people” he added. Una district has come under scanner for coronavirus after persons three persons who had returned from Delhi were found positive. They had stayed in a masjid in this district for more than a week and had met several persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/man-commits-suicide-after-being-taunted-over-coronavirus-in-hps-una-district/articleshow/74995093.cms||Shri Puri
April 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Elderly couple from Bengaluru tests positive for COVID-19; total in Karnataka now 146||BENGALURU: An elderly couple from Bengaluru with a travel history to Dubai joined the list of coronavirus patients in the state, taking the total number of cases to 146, the health department said on Sunday. The list includes four deaths and 11 discharges. The 68-year old man and his 62-year old wife, hailing from Madiwala in the city, had returned from Dubai on March 22. They were quarantined at a private hospital and have been asymptomatic. Meanwhile, the government appealed to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Congregation in New Delhi to contact 080-29711171 Arogya Sahayavani, the medical helpline number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/elderly-couple-from-bengaluru-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-in-karnataka-now-146/articleshow/74995116.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Bhopal||Hand sanitizers distributed to the BMC workers||The entire world is fighting against this pandemic named corona and similarly the city too is fighting the same. To help the government authorities fight against it a group from the city collaborated with a pharmaceutical company distributed hand sanitizers to the workers of the Bhopal Municipal Corporation. These sanitizers further would be distributed to the people who need them immediately. Chairman of the group Sidhharth Chaturvedi says, “Our group has always helped the citizens whenever we can. We are seeing that how hard the people are trying the virus and in this time there are people who are not able get a few items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hand-sanitizers-distributed-to-the-bmc-workers/articleshow/75030884.cms||Farzana Patowari
April 5, 2020||Gurgaon||NIT Kurukshetra comes up with a prototype of low-cost ventilator costing Rs 3,500 for artificial breathing||KURUKSHETRA: The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra head of the department (HOD) of electrical engineering (EE) in support with a doctor of PGIMER, Chandigarh and a student of his department has come up with a prototype of low cost ventilator for artificial breathing, after working on it for three months. On April 4, Prof Lalit Mohan Saini, HOD EE at NIT Kurukshetra, released a video of this prototype on his Youtube channel and shared his email and mobile and asked the industrialists worldwide to contact him and start manufacturing the ventilator on no profits no loss basis for serving humanity and providing the same to the hospitals. Prof Lalit said, “At present, the world is fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic and it is facing a shortage of high-cost ventilators. Therefore, we have made a prototype of a low-cost ventilator which will only cost around Rs 3,500. A patent application has also been filed in the name of NIT Kurukshetra for this invention.” Giving details about the ventilator, Prof Lalit said, “The main objective of this ventilator is to provide artificial breathing to the patient at the hospital who is not able to breathe easily. For this task, a crank shift mechanism has been used which will put pressure on an Ambu-bag and it will be connected to the patient’s mouth to provide artificial breathing through a pipe.” “As per their experience, the doctors at the hospital can control the speed of ventilator and volume of air given as artificial breathing as per age and requirement of the patient. This ventilator works with electricity and in case if the power goes off; it automatically shifts to a battery attached with it and remains operational", said Prof Lalit. "The patent application has many more features like a closed-loop control system to control the above-said parameters as per body parameters of the patient. We can add more features and accordingly the cost would increase", further added Prof Lalit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/nit-kurukshetra-comes-up-with-a-prototype-of-low-cost-ventilator-costing-rs-3500-for-artificial-breathing/articleshow/74995203.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 5, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus outbreak: Delhi cabinet's nod for procuring PPE kits from local firms||NEW DELHI: The Delhi cabinet has given the nod for procurement of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits by city hospitals from local manufacturers and suppliers at market rate not exceeding Rs 1,087.47, amid an increasing demand amid the coronavirus spread. Speaking to IANS, a Delhi Health Department officials said on Sunday that the decision was taken as the city hospitals were facing severe shortage of kits. "In view of the growing number of Covid-19 cases and the shortage of PPE kits, it is directed to take immediate action to procure adequate numbers of PPE kits as per the approval of the cabinet," the order signed by Padmini Singla, secretary (Health and Family Welfare) said. "The cabinet approved that the procurement of PPE kits may be made by the individual hospitals or CPA from local manufacturers and suppliers at market rate, provided the rates are less than or comparable to rates of the HLL," the health official said. The HLL Lifecare Limited has quoted Rs 1087.47 per kit, the official added. The Central Procurement Agency (CPA) is the nodal agency for procurement of all items required by health facilities under the Delhi government. In Delhi, the total cases were 445 on Sunday morning, with six deaths so far. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has demanded the kits from the Centre. "However, we have not received any kits from the Centre so far," the official said. The official said with the limited stock left with the hospitals, the Department has now allowed the hospitals for procuring the kits. "We cannot let our medical staff work without protective kits," the official said. Around 10 healthcare staff, including doctors, have tested coronavirus positive in Delhi, with the number reaching over 50 across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cabinets-nod-for-procuring-ppe-kits-from-local-firms/articleshow/74994811.cms||---
April 5, 2020||World||France turns to speedy trains to catch up in virus response||PARIS: The high-speed train whooshing past historic World War I battle zones and through the chateau-speckled Loire Valley carried a delicate cargo: 20 critically ill COVID-19 patients and the machines helping keep them alive. The TGV-turned-mobile-intensive-care-unit is just one piece of France's nationwide mobilization of trains, helicopters, jets and even a warship, deployed to relieve congested hospitals and shuffle hundreds of patients and medical personnel in and out of coronavirus hotspots. "We are at war," President Emmanuel Macron tells his compatriots, again and again. But as the 42-year-old leader casts himself as a warrior and harnesses the might of the armed forces, critics charge that he waited far too long to act against this foe. France, one of the world's wealthiest countries with one of the best health care systems, they say, should never have found itself so deep in crisis. Macron had just emerged from weeks of damaging retirement strikes and a year of violent "yellow vest" protests over economic injustice when the pandemic hit. Now he is struggling to keep the house running in one of the world's hardest-hit countries. The Rungis food market south of Paris, Europe's biggest, is transforming into a morgue as France's death count races past 7,500. Nearly 7,000 patients are in intensive care, pushing French hospitals to their limit and beyond. Doctors are rationing painkillers and re-using masks. France's centralized state and powerful presidency make it easier to coordinate the exceptional patient-moving efforts, which have crisscrossed the country and even extended to overseas territories. But the pandemic has exposed weaknesses in the world-renowned state hospital system after decades of cost cuts. When the president visited a Paris hospital on the front lines of the virus battle, an angry neurologist challenged him to reinvest massively. "When it was about saving Notre Dame, many were moved," Dr. Francois Salachas said, a reference to the Paris cathedral that was severely damaged by fire a year ago, prompting immediate, massive pledges of public and private funds for reconstruction. "This time it's about saving public hospitals, which are going up in smoke at the same speed as Notre Dame almost did." Many think Macron did not anticipate the severity with which the virus could hit and set a bad personal example. Similar criticisms have been leveled at other world leaders including the presidents of Mexico, Brazil and the United States. In February, Macron made a point of repeatedly kissing Italy's premier on a visit to Naples to show there was nothing to fear. At the time the virus was already spreading fast across France, but limited testing meant health authorities didn't yet know. In early March, he toured a retirement home even as he announced that families should no longer visit elderly relatives. That same day he went with his wife to a Paris theater where the owner tweeted that the president wanted to show that "life goes on." By then the official virus infection numbers in France were doubling every two days. In mid-March, as COVID-19 was ravaging neighboring Italy, France went ahead with the first round of nationwide municipal elections. First lady Brigitte Macron strolled the banks of the Seine, which were crowded with Parisians enjoying a sunny day despite recommendations of social distancing. It wasn't until March 16 that Macron abruptly changed his tune, declaring war on the virus and announcing nationwide confinement measures. A week later he appeared wearing a face mask for the first time at a field hospital set up by troops outside Mulhouse, the eastern city that saw an eruption of cases stemming from a five-day evangelical gathering. The armed forces took on a key role, as military and hospital authorities worked out the system to shuttle patients to less-strained hospitals and medics to virus zones in need. The first "medicalized" TGV made its inaugural trip on March 26. Doctors in protective gear pushed gurneys along the nearly empty platform of the train station in the eastern city of Strasbourg as safety warnings echoed from loudspeakers. Inside the double-decker cars, patients and webs of tubes and wires were squeezed past luggage racks and rows of seats. Once they were secured, the train sped off toward less impacted hospitals in the west. While the militarized mobilizations are popular, public debate has mushroomed over issues such as the relatively low numbers of people being tested for the virus in France and shortages of medical equipment. Macron ordered all face masks requisitioned for medical personnel after it became evident France entered the crisis well short of the necessary supply. "The question of masks is now the priority question for the French," said Jean-Daniel Levy of polling agency Harris Interactive, adding that the public feels the government "didn't take enough responsibility" for it at the outset. France has had to send some patients for treatment to tiny neighboring Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany, which has conducted massive nationwide testing and confirmed more cases than France while recording a death toll about one-fifth as high so far. Macron, a centrist, has taken fire from both ends of the political spectrum. Far-right leader Marine Le Pen told France 2 television that "the government lied about the preparedness of the country," while far-left leader Jean-Luc Melenchon said Macron, a former investment banker, "used to think that the free market would meet the country's needs, so his mental framework collapsed." Among the broader public, Macron "is seen as relatively authoritarian," Levy said. That hurt him during the protest movements but helps his popularity now because "we want to have a strong authority figure" to manage the crisis. In the National Assembly, the lower house of parliament, a fact-finding mission is scrutinizing the government's handling of the emergency. Macron, however, said while visiting a mask manufacturing company that it's not yet time to focus on what went wrong. "When we're fighting a battle, we must all be united to win it," the president said. "And I think those who seek to send people to trial when we have not yet won the war are irresponsible."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/france-turns-to-speedy-trains-to-catch-up-in-virus-response/articleshow/74995210.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lockdown: Punjab government issues showcause notices to five schools for forcing parents to deposit fees||CHANDIGARH: Taking serious note of private schools defying directions issued in wake of coronavirus outbreak, the Punjab government initiated action against five schools. These schools were forcing parents to pay fees during the lockdown period. The education department has issued showcause notices to the erring parties - La Foundation School Sangrur, DAV Public School Bhupindra Road Patiala, Bhupindra International School Patiala, Delhi Public School Ludhiana, Angels Paradise School Amritsar and Mount Litera Zee School Faridkot – after receiving complaints from parents. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “Showcause notices have been issued to the violators and they have been given seven-day time to file their reply. If they failed to give satisfactory reply, the department will cancel their affiliation.” The education minister also cautioned other schools not to defy instructions and said that if any violation will come to light in future, the erring school would be sealed by the district magistrate before seeking any reply. Singla said that the education department had issued an order March 23 directing schools to provide window period of at least 30 days for submission of fees after the situation gets normal. He said that the schools have also been directed not to charge any late fees or fine from the students for this period. He added that after the issuance of these orders, the schools were regularly being warned of strict action for defying the direction. He asked parents to directly lodge complaints on his email vijayindersingla@gmail.com. Last month, the department had taken action against five private schools for defying government orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-issues-showcause-notices-to-five-schools-for-forcing-parents-to-submit-fee/articleshow/74995444.cms||Vinod Kumar
April 5, 2020||Business||Govt considering another package to minimize lockdown impact: Sources||NEW DELHI: The government has started working out the possible post-lockdown scenarios and is considering another booster shot to minimize the impact of coronavirus and revive the economy but nothing has been finalised yet, senior officials said on Sunday. The focus is on issues that may come up after the lockdown is lifted on April 15, an official said. There have been discussions about a package but nothing has been finalised yet, the official said, adding that the idea is to revive consumption, "so some measures might be needed." More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIf a package is announced, it would be the third major initiative by the government to tackle the challenges thrown up by the rapid spread of coronavirus. On March 24, hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a countrywide lockdown, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of relief measures for taxpayers and businesses. Two days later, Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7-lakh-crore for those hit hardest. Read AlsoNirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package: Key pointsUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a comprehensive economic package to deal with the impact of deadly coronavirus outbreak. Several financial benefits have been announced under various schemes. The purpose of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package is for those who are inOn Sunday, the officials said they are also looking at the possibility of redesigning some welfare and other government schemes to suit the post-lockdown situation. Various options are on the table — such as scholarships and fellowships given by ministries, harvesting of rabi crops and the government has started to address them one by one, they said. Out of the 10 empowered groups of senior bureaucrats constituted by the prime minister to prepare India's response to COVID-19, one group is tasked to suggest economic measures. An informal group of ministers, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, is also looking into various aspects of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-considering-another-package-to-minimize-lockdown-impact-sources/articleshow/74995386.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Kochi||Malappuram: Coronavirus test lab to be opened in Manjeri medical college this week||MALAPPURAM: Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) test laboratory to conduct coronavirus tests will start function in government medical college Manjeri this week.  Currently the swab samples of corona suspected cases from Malappuram district are testing in National Institute of Virology lab in Alappuzha and it causes delay in receiving tests results of the persons from the district.  Dr M P Shashi, principal of the medical college said that the laboratory would start functioning this week, immediately after receiving permission from the part of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On Saturday, higher education minister K T Jaleel, who attended a coronavirus review meeting at Malappuram had said that the lab would be functional by April 8.  Principal said that two RTPCR machines would be arranged in the laboratory and the works of the installation of machines are in final stage. "With the opening of the laboratory we can avoid the delay in receiving the results of swab samples collected from the persons who are suspecting Corona virus infection", he said adding that the opening of the lab in Manjeri would also resolve the issues related to the transportation of samples for testing. Meanwhile, 48 more persons from the district tested negative for the coronavirus infection on Sunday. So far, a total of 702 persons from the district tested negative for the viral infection. The test results of 176 swab samples are yet to be received.  328 more persons were brought under observation in Malappuram on Sunday. With this the total number of persons who are under observation in the district has been increased to 16850. 156 persons are under observation in various government hospitals. Among these 150 persons are under treatment at government medical college , Manjeri, which is coronavirus special treatment centre. Others have been admitted to government district hospitals in Tirur and Nilambur and government Taluk hospital at Tirurangadi. 11 persons are under observation in coronavirus care centres. 16683 persons are under observation at their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malappuram-coronavirus-test-lab-to-be-opened-in-manjeri-medical-college-this-week/articleshow/74995507.cms||T P Nijeesh
April 5, 2020||India||With 42 more cases, coronavirus count touches 276 in UP||LUCKNOW: The number of coronavirus patients in Uttar Pradesh jumped to 276 on Sunday, an increase of 42 cases in the past one day. Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said half of the cases (138) were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. Most cases related to the Jamaat were detected from Agra (29), Ghaziabad (14), Meerut (13), Shamli (8), Maharajganj (6), Kanpur (6) and Ghazipur (5), he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Union government a day before had said 30 per cent of the cases in the country were linked to the Jamaat centre in New Delhi's Nizamuddin, where the organisation had held a congregation last month. On Saturday, the coronavirus count in the state stood at 234. The official said so far 31 districts in the state have been affected by the coronavirus outbreak. He said 21 patients have been discharged after treatment so far while three deaths have been reported from the state till date. "The third death was reported from Varanasi on April 3. The patient did not turn up for treatment at the government hospital. He was having diabetes. By the time he came to the BHU hospital, his situation had deteriorated," Prasad said, urging people to get themselves tested if symptoms of the disease are found. "The public can avail the benefit of the health department helpline 18001805145. The trained staff will tell you whether you need to get yourself admitted or there is no reason to worry about," he said. The principal secretary said that there is no need to panic. "People should adhere to social distancing and wash hands properly. The use of masks is advisable when you go to a public place," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-42-more-cases-coronavirus-count-touches-276-in-up/articleshow/74995512.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||Citizens should practice social distancing to contain coronavirus: President Ram Nath Kovind||NEW DELHI: Citizens should follow all government guidelines and practice social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday. In his message on the eve of Mahavir Jayanti, Kovind said Lord Mahavira's noble teachings of non-violence, truth and renunciation are relevant in every age and for every person.  "Let us get inspiration from Lord Mahavira's life and his teachings for spreading peace, love, virtue and harmony in the world," he said.  By following these teachings, an inclusive and egalitarian society can be created where everyone gets equal opportunities by promoting mutual coordination and harmony, the president said.  Keeping in mind the spread of Covid-19, he said, "Citizens should follow all government guidelines, including social distancing, to contain it."  According to a statement by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, he also extended greetings and best wishes to all fellow citizens, especially the Jain community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/citizens-should-practice-social-distancing-to-contain-coronavirus-president-ram-nath-kovind/articleshow/74995571.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Agra||Agra: Windfall for potters as PM urges people to light candles, earthen lamps||AGRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to the nation to light a candle or diya at 9pm on Sunday has provided an opportunity to potters to earn a livelihood even during these days of complete lock down. Noor Begum, 50, who makes earthen lamps in her house in Hathras, was completely out of work since the nationwide lockdown announced on March 25. She, however, earned Rs 600 on Sunday, as customers lined up to buy diyas on PM’s call for victory over darkness in these times of despair. “I am really thankful to Modi ji, who has urged all citizens to light diyas in their houses,” said Begum, adding that she doesn’t know what it’s result would be. However, she’s happy that she has made Rs 1300 in the last two days. Begum, who lives with her three minor grand-daughters, said that she was worried more for the girls than herself. “After their parents death, they live with me and my savings are completely finished,” said Begum, who is widow. Following the PM’s address, several customers came to her for buying diyas that cost 100 for Rs 20. Another Diya maker in Mathura, Asifa Khan, said that she never thought that suddenly many people would start buying diyas during the lockdown. “Its a kind of Diwali sale for us. People here buy diyas in large quantity on Ram Navami too but that too did not happen this year due to closure of all temples” she said. Expressing similar views, Kailash Gola, who sells earthen lamps along with other stuff like piggy banks, jugs and pots, told TOI that though he sells diyas the whole year for the devotees, there was no sale in the last few days as everything including temples are shut. He said today he earned Rs 250 in two hours due to the PM’s call. A customer Balram Dixit, who came to buy 100 earthen lamp, said, “I am just following PM Modi’s directions but instead of lighting up one Diya, I will decorate the whole house”. Another customer, Manoj Sharma, who came to buy routine stuff, said that he was unsure if diyas would be available during lockdown but to his surprise many people were selling them. “I have bought some too and would use them at 9pm today”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-windfall-for-potters-as-pm-urges-people-to-light-candles-earthen-lamps/articleshow/74995626.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 5, 2020||India||Sunday blackout: All your questions answered||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appealed to all the citizens to light diyas, candles or flash their phone lights for 9 minutes at 9pm on Sunday to counter the "darkness" caused by the coronavirus pandemic. As India gears up for the blackout, the government has answered some of the most common questions of the citizens to allay their concerns and confusion.  Are only domestic lights to be switched off or are street lights, common area lighting, essential services etc lights also to be switched off between 9 - 9:09 pm?Only domestic home lights in the houses have to be put off voluntarily as appealed by our Hon'ble PM. It is again reiterated that no street lights, common area places, hospitals and other essential services have to switch off their lights. Are my domestic appliances safe during the said switching off of home lights?All your domestic appliances will be safe. There is no need to switch off Fans, ACs, Fridges etc. Indian Electricity Grid is well designed to handle such kind of load variation and has several in- built levels of control and safety mechanisms to absorb any kind of frequency changes occuring due to such load variation. Thus, all the domestic appliances will be totally safe and hence should be kept in normal functioning mode as per the requirements. Whether adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle grid stability during lights out event on 5th April at 9:00 PM to 9.09pm?Yes, all adequate arrangements and standard operating protocols are in place to maintain grid stability.  Is it compulsory or voluntary to switch off lights?Voluntary. As already said only domestic home lights have to be put off. Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances.These apprehensions are totally misplaced. These are normal phenomenon and the Indian Electricity Grid is well designed to handle such load variation and frequency changes as per standard operating protocols. Whether our grid management and technology deployed will withstand the fluctuation that light out may cause?Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and employs state-of -art technology. It has in place necessary control and protective elements capable of handling such kind of fluctuations in demand at any instant of time.  Whether appliances like fan, Refrigerators, AC, etc should be swiched off or kept in on mode?All your domestic appliances would be safe. These appliances should be operated normally as per requirements by the consumers. No need at all to especially switch off at 9pm. Will street lights go off?No. In fact, all states/UTs/ Local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety. Will hospitals or other emergency and important installations face light out?No, the lights in Hospitals and all other essential services like Public Utilities, Municipal Services, Offices, Police Stations, Manufacturing Facilities, etc will remain on. The call given by Hon'ble PM is to just switch off lights in residences. The load of home-lightings alone is around 20% of the total load. Would a sudden disconnect of 20% load not destabilise the grid? What measures will the Ministry take?Domestic lighting load is much less than 20 per cent. Such kind of reduction in demand can be easily managed for which standard technical operating protocols are in place. Will there be load shedding? If yes what will be the impact?No load shedding is planned. Source: Government of India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sunday-blackout-all-your-questions-answered/articleshow/74995530.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Business||Govt to initiate procurement of pulses during lockdown period, 13 states on board to help farmers||NEW DELHI: Ensuring procurement of gram and lentil during lockdown period, the Centre on Sunday approved a decision to procure these pulses from farmers on minimum support price (MSP) under its flagship ‘price support scheme’ in 13 states. The move to procure these pulses by public sector food procurement agencies will help farmers in getting money in hands and maintaining the crucial supply chain of these farm produce during the lockdown period. Under this approval, 25% of total produce of gram and lentil, amounting to Rs 1,250 crore, can be procured from 13 states including Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. The Centre had in October last year fixed the MSP of gram and lentil at Rs 4,875 per quintal and Rs 4,800 per quintal, respectively for the 2020-21 Rabi marketing season. “This crucial decision of procuring gram and lentil has been taken under price support scheme (PSS) without waiting for any formal proposal from these states,” said Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar. In normal situations, the Centre takes a call on procurement of pulses only after getting formal proposals from states. Pulses are procured under the PSS by central nodal agencies with the proactive role of state governments. The procurement agencies include National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) and Food Corporation of India (FCI). The expenditure and losses due to procurement is borne by the central government. The Centre’s move on procurement of pulses is part of other measures which are being taken to ensure that the farmers can harvest their Rabi (winter sown) crops such as wheat, mustard, maize, millers and pulses and get money by selling it. The state-backed procurement at MSP will help farmers get remunerative prices of their produce when the normal functioning of agri markets got disrupted in many parts of the country during the lockdown period. The home ministry had last week kept farming and procurement operations, and functioning of agri markets under exempted categories to allow farmers to continue with their agricultural operations during the lockdown period. Subsequently, it sent reminders to states this week, asking local authorities to allow these operations while maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-initiate-procurement-of-pulses-during-lockdown-period-13-states-on-board-to-help-farmers/articleshow/74995715.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 5, 2020||India||Trump phones Modi seeking anti-malaria drug for Covid-19 treatment||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump phoned India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to request release of the anti-malaria drug hydrochloroquine that he claimed the US had ordered and which has been held up following New Delhi banning its export. Trump has been insistent that the drug could be effective against coronavirus although there is not sufficient scientific evidence yet to back his assertion. "They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquone…very large amounts frankly. They had a hold (on its exports) …they have1.5 billion people. I said I would appreciate it if they release the amounts we had ordered. They are giving it serious consideration," Trump said at his White House briefing on the pandemic, without specifying when and how much and from whom the US had ordered. The US President has been relentlessly espousing the drug although it is not yet approved by the U.S Food and Drug Administration for use against coronavirus, claiming there is nothing to lose if people try it. On Saturday, he went so far as to say he "may take it too." Although there are anecdotal accounts of the drug being effective and one survey of physicians listed it as the top line of treatment given the lack of alternatives in countering Covid-19 infections, Trump’s own expert team has been cautious about backing the President’s amateur enthusiasm. "The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on the issue of global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and to ensure they continue to function as smoothly as possible during the global health crisis," the White House said in a readout of the call. Prime Minister Modi confirmed Trump’s call with his own tweet that was more generic and tactful about their conversation, saying, "Had an extensive telephone conversation with President @realDonaldTrump. We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight Covid-19." Trump’s India outreach comes amid reports of Washington literally hijacking medical supplies contracted to other countries to US, and using it domestic laws to force US companies manufacturing abroad to renege their global contracts and attend first to US domestic need. Many top U.S and western drug companies such as Pfizer, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline have major presence in India through subsidiaries, although the anti-malarial drug that the U.S President has been espousing passionately is mass manufactured by home-grown pharma majors such as IPCA, Lupin, Sun Pharma and others. But Indian drug majors have had a tortured relationship with the US FDA, with credible reports of shoddy processes and ineffective medications forcing them to clean up their act amid some grumbling about how global pharma giants feel threatened by their ramping up generic drug production and distribution. Globally, India accounts for 20 per cent of generic-drug exports, and 40 per cent of all new generics approved by the FDA in 2018 came from India. Earlier in the week, given India's own needs on the malaria front, New Delhi banned export of anti-malaria formulations, triggering the Trump phone call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trump-phones-modi-seeking-anti-malaria-drug-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/74996090.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
April 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra coronavirus tally mounts to 748; death toll 45||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 113 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of such people to 748 in the state. Simultaneously, the death toll due to coronavirus rose to 45 with 13 more people succumbing to the infection, a health official said. "Maharashtra today reported 113 positive cases, taking the total tally to 748," he added. Of the 113 new cases, 81 are from Mumbai, 18 from Pune, 4 from Aurangabad, 3 from Ahmednagar, two from Kalyan- Dombivli and Thane, one each from Osmanabad and Vasai. Another cases is from neighbouring Gujarat state, as the infected person is undergoing treatment n Maharashtra, he added. "The minimum age of the 13 new victims is 52 years. All the deceased had pre-existing ailments such as diabetes or hypertension. One patient who was HIV positive died in Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital," the official said. He said at least 11 of the 13 victims had no international travel history. "They seem to have contracted the coronavirus infection through close contacts," he said, adding that the travel history of remaining two is being ascertained. Meanwhile, the coronavirus death toll in Mumbai stood at 30 while the number of positive cases rose to 458, the highest in the state. Pune has recorded 100 positive cases. "Five deaths were reported in Pune, six in Thane region, while one each from Aurangabad, Buldana, Jalgaon and Amravati," said the official. In Thane region neighbouring Mumbai 82 people have tested positive to coronavirus so far. The number of new cases are reported from: Sangli (25), Nagpur (17), Ahmednagar (21), Latur (8), Aurangabad (7), Buldana (5), Yavatmal and Osmanabad (4 each), Satara (3), while two each are from Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon, and one each from Sindhudurg, Gondia, Nashik, Washim, Amravati and Hingoli, the official said. At least two persons from Gujarat who have tested positive are being treated in Maharashtra, he said. Maharashtra has so far tested 16,008 swab samples of which 14,837 returned negative. At least 56 people have been recovered from the infection and discharged, he said. "As a precaution, Maharashtra has put 46,586 people under home quarantine while 3,122 under institutional quarantine," he said. The number of people returned from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and who have tested positive remained unchanged at 7. However, five new cases infected by them wee detected on Sunday. A total of 3078 teams are working across the state towards cluster containment while surveillance of more than 10 lakh people is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-747-official/articleshow/74996274.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra coronavirus tally mounts to 748; death toll 45||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 113 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of such people to 748 in the state. Simultaneously, the death toll due to coronavirus rose to 45 with 13 more people succumbing to the infection, a health official said. "Maharashtra today reported 113 positive cases, taking the total tally to 748," he added. Of the 113 new cases, 81 are from Mumbai, 18 from Pune, 4 from Aurangabad, 3 from Ahmednagar, two from Kalyan- Dombivli and Thane, one each from Osmanabad and Vasai. Another cases is from neighbouring Gujarat state, as the infected person is undergoing treatment n Maharashtra, he added. "The minimum age of the 13 new victims is 52 years. All the deceased had pre-existing ailments such as diabetes or hypertension. One patient who was HIV positive died in Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital," the official said. He said at least 11 of the 13 victims had no international travel history. "They seem to have contracted the coronavirus infection through close contacts," he said, adding that the travel history of remaining two is being ascertained. Meanwhile, the coronavirus death toll in Mumbai stood at 30 while the number of positive cases rose to 458, the highest in the state. Pune has recorded 100 positive cases. "Five deaths were reported in Pune, six in Thane region, while one each from Aurangabad, Buldana, Jalgaon and Amravati," said the official. In Thane region neighbouring Mumbai 82 people have tested positive to coronavirus so far. The number of new cases are reported from: Sangli (25), Nagpur (17), Ahmednagar (21), Latur (8), Aurangabad (7), Buldana (5), Yavatmal and Osmanabad (4 each), Satara (3), while two each are from Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon, and one each from Sindhudurg, Gondia, Nashik, Washim, Amravati and Hingoli, the official said. At least two persons from Gujarat who have tested positive are being treated in Maharashtra, he said. Maharashtra has so far tested 16,008 swab samples of which 14,837 returned negative. At least 56 people have been recovered from the infection and discharged, he said. "As a precaution, Maharashtra has put 46,586 people under home quarantine while 3,122 under institutional quarantine," he said. The number of people returned from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and who have tested positive remained unchanged at 7. However, five new cases infected by them wee detected on Sunday. A total of 3078 teams are working across the state towards cluster containment while surveillance of more than 10 lakh people is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-747-official/articleshow/74996101.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra coronavirus tally mounts to 748; death toll 45||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 113 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of such people to 748 in the state. Simultaneously, the death toll due to coronavirus rose to 45 with 13 more people succumbing to the infection, a health official said. "Maharashtra today reported 113 positive cases, taking the total tally to 748," he added. Of the 113 new cases, 81 are from Mumbai, 18 from Pune, 4 from Aurangabad, 3 from Ahmednagar, two from Kalyan- Dombivli and Thane, one each from Osmanabad and Vasai. Another cases is from neighbouring Gujarat state, as the infected person is undergoing treatment n Maharashtra, he added. "The minimum age of the 13 new victims is 52 years. All the deceased had pre-existing ailments such as diabetes or hypertension. One patient who was HIV positive died in Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital," the official said. He said at least 11 of the 13 victims had no international travel history. "They seem to have contracted the coronavirus infection through close contacts," he said, adding that the travel history of remaining two is being ascertained. Meanwhile, the coronavirus death toll in Mumbai stood at 30 while the number of positive cases rose to 458, the highest in the state. Pune has recorded 100 positive cases. "Five deaths were reported in Pune, six in Thane region, while one each from Aurangabad, Buldana, Jalgaon and Amravati," said the official. In Thane region neighbouring Mumbai 82 people have tested positive to coronavirus so far. The number of new cases are reported from: Sangli (25), Nagpur (17), Ahmednagar (21), Latur (8), Aurangabad (7), Buldana (5), Yavatmal and Osmanabad (4 each), Satara (3), while two each are from Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon, and one each from Sindhudurg, Gondia, Nashik, Washim, Amravati and Hingoli, the official said. At least two persons from Gujarat who have tested positive are being treated in Maharashtra, he said. Maharashtra has so far tested 16,008 swab samples of which 14,837 returned negative. At least 56 people have been recovered from the infection and discharged, he said. "As a precaution, Maharashtra has put 46,586 people under home quarantine while 3,122 under institutional quarantine," he said. The number of people returned from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and who have tested positive remained unchanged at 7. However, five new cases infected by them wee detected on Sunday. A total of 3078 teams are working across the state towards cluster containment while surveillance of more than 10 lakh people is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-747-official/articleshow/74996266.cms||---
April 5, 2020||India||J&K: 9 terrorists killed in two separate ops in 24 hours, 3 soldiers martyred||NEW DELHI: Nine terrorists were killed in two operations in the last 24 hours in Jammu and Kashmir, in which three soldiers also laid down their lives, said the Army on Sunday, even as India and Pakistan continued to exchange heavy fire along the volatile Line of Control (LoC). Four Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, who had earlier killed four civilians, were eliminated in the Bhatpura area of south Kashmir on Saturday morning in a joint operation conducted by the Army and police forces. Five more terrorists were killed while they were trying to infiltrate across the LoC in the Keran sector of north Kashmir on Sunday morning. “The terrorists were trying to infiltrate into Kashmir by taking advantage of the bad weather and tough terrain in the Keran area when they were detected by our alert troops,” said an officer. “In the fierce gunfight, one soldier died on the spot, while two more succumbed to their injuries in the hospital later. Two more jawans are injured. The mopping up operation is still in progress,” he added. Officers said the Army continues to maintain high operational readiness all along the 778-km long LoC, which continues to remain highly volatile with regular cross-border firing duels and infiltration bids. India recorded as many as 3,479 ceasefire violations and firings across the LoC and the 198-km international border in J&K in 2019, smashing all annual records since 2003. The number of ceasefire violations along the LoC has already crossed 1,160 this year, with 367 being recorded in January, 382 in February and 411 in March. In the corresponding January-March timeframe last year, the number stood at 685. The already heavy exchange of firing across the LoC had further escalated after the Modi government revoked the special status of J&K on August 5 last year and then split the state into two union territories. “The upward trend in ceasefire violations has continued since then, though there has been a general decline in terrorist violence in the hinterland. With the snow in the mountain passes melting now, there has been a spike in infiltration attempts,” said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-9-terrorists-killed-in-two-separate-ops-in-24-hours-3-soldiers-martyred/articleshow/74996061.cms||Rajat Pandit
April 5, 2020||India||Covid-19 death toll rises to 83, cases climb to 3,577||NEW DELHI: The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 83 and the cases climbed to 3,577 in the country on Sunday after 505 new infections were reported in the past 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The active Covid-19 cases stand at 3,219, while 274 people were either cured or discharged and one had migrated. Seven deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, the ministry data stated. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by states directly showed at least 110 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 3,959. Of them, 306 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the health ministry figures compared to the numbers announced by different states, with officials attributing to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-83-cases-climb-to-3577/articleshow/74996182.cms||---
April 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Three booked for cheating Patiala resident on pretext of getting kidneys for son||PATIALA: The police here have booked three men under various sections of IPC, including cheating on the pretext of getting kidneys to a patient who was resident of Patiala district. The patient was admitted in PGI Chandigarh with both his kidneys damaged where the accused approached him to get the organ for Rs 12 lakh. A case has been registered with Sadar Samana police station in Patiala against one Sanjay Thorpay, Tejinder and owner of Evan Eggs Workers under sections of criminal conspiracy and cheating. The police said the case was registered on the complaint of Harbhajan Singh of Kakra village in Samana division of the district. Harbhajan’s son Gurwinder Singh had both kidneys damaged and was undergoing treatment at PGI Chandigarh. The police added that one of the accused, who is said to be an employee of PGI, told the complainant that he could provide him kidneys but that would cost Rs 12 lakh. “The accused managed to geta deal with Harbhajan’s son at Rs 9 lakh. The complainant alleged that he had paid Rs 4.7 lakh to the accused but he was cheated. The incident took place last year. The complainant could not get the kidneys and meanwhile, his son died. He went to Chandigarh police to lodge a complaint but all in vain and later he approached us for same. We verified the complaint and registered a case against the accused after primary investigation. The complainant had shown us the documents of money transferred in the account of the accused. We are carrying further probe into this matter”, said station house officer Sadar Samana police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/three-booked-for-cheating-patiala-resident-on-pretext-of-getting-kidneys-for-son/articleshow/74993654.cms||Bharat Khanna
April 5, 2020||Pune||190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge on Mumbai-Pune expressway demolished||MUMBAI: The 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge (made up of stones) on Mumbai-Pune expressway that was built by railways for old Lonawala rail network was demolished by using a controlled blasting by the MSRDC at 5.45pm today.  The 2017 structural audit had suggested that the monumental bridge may not withstand the heavy traffic passing from below it and the rough weather during monsoon and may lead to accident such as collapse. The highway police had strongly recommended its demolition as the bridge was four-lane structure standing in the middle of six-lane expresswayTaking advantage of poor traffic amid lockdown, MSRDC decided to blast it and remove the rubble. The rubble will be cleared in next 4 days for which 1200 truck trips will be made and till then the emergency traffic has been diverted via old khandala route, said MSRDC chief engineer Anil Gaikwad. Bridge getting demolishedThe highway police had strongly recommended its demolition as the bridge was four-lane structure standing in the middle of six-lane expressway resulting in a huge bottleneck right next to Pune bound tunnel on Lonavala stretch of expressway. MSRDC engineer said the lockdown helped in demolishing it at a cost of Rs 50 lakh or else amid live traffic the expenses on demolition would have cost Rs 4 crore and a time of 3 months. Now, once lockdown gets lifted the traffic will also move faster and reduce travel time, fuel and pollution. Watch 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge on Mumbai-Pune expressway demolished||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/190-year-old-amrutanjan-bridge-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-demolished/articleshow/74996358.cms||Chittaranjan Thembekar
April 5, 2020||Mumbai||190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge on Mumbai-Pune expressway demolished||MUMBAI: The 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge (made up of stones) on Mumbai-Pune expressway that was built by railways for old Lonawala rail network was demolished by using a controlled blasting by the MSRDC at 5.45pm today.  The 2017 structural audit had suggested that the monumental bridge may not withstand the heavy traffic passing from below it and the rough weather during monsoon and may lead to accident such as collapse. The highway police had strongly recommended its demolition as the bridge was four-lane structure standing in the middle of six-lane expresswayTaking advantage of poor traffic amid lockdown, MSRDC decided to blast it and remove the rubble. The rubble will be cleared in next 4 days for which 1200 truck trips will be made and till then the emergency traffic has been diverted via old khandala route, said MSRDC chief engineer Anil Gaikwad. Bridge getting demolishedThe highway police had strongly recommended its demolition as the bridge was four-lane structure standing in the middle of six-lane expressway resulting in a huge bottleneck right next to Pune bound tunnel on Lonavala stretch of expressway. MSRDC engineer said the lockdown helped in demolishing it at a cost of Rs 50 lakh or else amid live traffic the expenses on demolition would have cost Rs 4 crore and a time of 3 months. Now, once lockdown gets lifted the traffic will also move faster and reduce travel time, fuel and pollution. Watch 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge on Mumbai-Pune expressway demolished||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/190-year-old-amrutanjan-bridge-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-demolished/articleshow/74996324.cms||Chittaranjan Thembekar
April 5, 2020||Chandigarh||RCF Kapurthala manufactures ventilator prototype 'JEEVAN', to send it to ICMR for testing||KAPURTHALA: Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala has manufactured a prototype ventilator 'JEEVAN' within a week, that has an original design and will cost much less than what a regular ventilator cost. The ventilator prototype will now go for final testing at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before being put to production to aid the country's fight against COVID-19.  Conceptualized by RCF General Manager Ravinder Gupta after receiving instructions from the Railway Board for ‘exploring the possibilities of making ventilators’, the prototype has been now tested by the in-house medical professionals of RCF Hospital and they have given it a go-ahead. The body of the ventilator prototype has been made from rail coach components and using in-house capacities. “The argon flow meter is taken from a laser welding machine and the compressor is from an air cooler. Team RCF needed to source just two parts - a regulator valve and a micro processor from vendors in Delhi and Noida. In the midst of the lockdown, RCF used emergency transit services to get the two components by road and train,” said a RCF spokesperson. A team of engineers from Plant, Mechanical & Electrical Design, IT and a group of medical professionals of RCF Hospital and Stores Dept worked on it for the culmination of the prototype of ventilator. Meanwhile, Gupta said: “ The ventilator is very silent, and it is not reverse engineering, but it is an original design from scratch. It will be submitted to ICMR for testing and validation and hopefully, it will be a saviour of lives amidst these hard times. The cost will be under Rs 10,000 without the compressor unit. Overall, the cost will still be a fraction of what regular ventilators available in the market cost. It can be used as an emergency ventilator. Production is easy and can be done with locally sourced components.” “The heart of the device is the compressed air container to work the Ambu bag with air without any moving parts like servo motor or piston or link mechanism. It has a microprocessor­ based controller and the circuit has been designed by the RCF team. A valve has been installed to regulate the breathing of the patient whether young or old. This ventilator can be optimized to more compact size by using small size components,” RCF spokesperson said. RCF is preparing the technical documents for perusal of the ICMR. Very soon, the prototype will be sent there for testing as per instructions of the Railway Board, the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rcf-kapurthala-manufactures-ventilator-prototype-to-send-it-to-icmr-for-testing/articleshow/74996369.cms||I P Singh
