April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Christians ring in Holy Week with online events amid corona scare||Online Eucharistic celebrations are not unheard of, given that the Christian community across the globe has access to televised versions on religious channels. For the longest time, the clergy had maintained that watching mass from the comfort of your home was not as good as attending it in church — something that the Corona pandemic has turned on its head. Since the crisis broke out, churches across the world have been encouraging the community to partake in online services. In namma Bengaluru too, individual parishes began floating streaming links among members a couple of weeks ago, in preparation for the Holy Week that began yesterday with Palm Sunday. “These are extraordinary times and the church has adapted in keeping with the need of the hour,” says Fr George Rebeiro, who did his first Facebook live sermon yesterday. With Easter Sunday, April 12, being during the lockdown period, the Christian community is looking at celebrating all of the Holy Week ceremonies, including Maundy Thursday and Good Friday, at home. Parishioners have been ensuring uninterrupted live streaming. The Archdiocese of Bengaluru has even launched an app to follow updates on Easter celebrations at different churches. Sixty four-year-old Yelahanka-resident Patricia Rebello and her two kids live in flats in the same housing complex. While Sunday mass was a family outing ritual for them, with everything going online, they are looking at keeping up the spirit of the season by dressing up for it, even if they are at home.“The lethargy that one might have from being at home during the lockdown may only increase, especially when you don’t have family with you to celebrate the occasion. So, it’s good to dress up as you would for service while attending a live stream,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/christians-ring-in-holy-week-with-online-events-amid-corona-scare/articleshow/74996835.cms||Hansy Sanctis
April 6, 2020||India||Govt mulls sops for labourers in key services||NEW DELHI: The consumer affairs and food processing ministries will prepare a proposal for additional incentive for labour involved in essential services to encourage them to come to work after April 14. Sources said the framework will be ready soon and this is being done considering that manpower critical for ensuring essential supply chain and services may hesitate initially. Hence there is a need to give some incentive to such critical mass. There is also a fear that labour workforce who are now stranded in cities may prefer going back to their native places. The government will need to offer something extra to them to stay back and work as soon as the umbrella lockdown is lifted, even if in a phased manner. The government is also going to focus on movement of non-perishable items to the north eastern states and even the option of leveraging special charter planes of Indian Air Force special charter is being kept open for this. “The focus is on ensuring that there is smooth movement of goods across country through all means of transportation when lockdown ends. There will be sudden increase in demand and supply chain has to meet that sudden requirement,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-working-on-extra-incentive-for-labour-in-essential-services-post-lockdown/articleshow/75000430.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 6, 2020||India||CRPF airlifts LoC man after son begins 2,100 km cycle ride from Mumbai amid lockdown||NEW DELHI: Mohammad Arif, a 30-year-old watchman working in Mumbai, could barely control his tears as he halted on Sunday his 2,200 km-bicycle journey in Vadodara en route to a meeting with his ill father, suffering from cerebral hemorrhage and stuck near the LoC in Jammu's Rajouri because of the 21-day lockdown. Arif's 2-minute video about his epic trip shot by some locals on the Kandivali highway in Mumbai as he cycled towards Ahmedabad had gone viral three days ago. On Sunday, even as he reached Vadodara after two days on the road, a CRPF team stationed near the LoC and moved by his plight pressed their paratroopers to airlift Arif's father to the Jammu district hospital by a Pawan Hans chopper, a 40-minute ride. They also alerted the Gujarat Police and requested them to try and contact Arif and stop his cycle journey as help was organised for him. A private goods delivery truck was soon requested by the Vadodara Police to carry Arif till Jodhpur, from where the rest of his journey to meet his father would be facilitated. The CRPF has promised a vehicle will pick him up at Jodhpur and bring him till Delhi and then to Jammu. It was nothing short of a miracle for him, the good people he met during his trip, the kindness of strangers. "In Mumbai, for instance, a man called Dipesh Tank, a builder by profession, helped pass on my photographs and story to social media. There was Mohsin bhai in Ahmedabad who filled my bag with food enough for a few days. And there was the media and the CRPF," Arif told TOI. "My wife and three kids were alone in my Rajouri village when my father had a brain stroke on April 2. I had come to Mumbai just 28 days ago. I hope I can see my father alive." Zulfiqar Hasan, CRPF special DG (J&K zone), said, "There was a call on our Madadgar helpline from a TV correspondent. Dr Suneem Khan from the 28 Battalion got in touch with the Jammu and Kashmir doctors' association and a Pawan Hans chopper was quickly arranged this morning (Sunday) at 10.30 am to bring Arif's father to the Jammu hospital." Arif said he only had Rs 1,800 in his pocket when he left Mumbai but a few people along the way offered him food and medicines for the blisters on his feet. "I hope my journey is able to spread the message of brotherhood," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-airlifts-loc-man-after-son-begins-2100-km-cycle-ride-from-mumbai-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75000446.cms||Rohan Dua
April 6, 2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Testing numbers to double to 20,000 in 3 days||NEW DELHI: In a massive ramp up of testing for Covid-19, the government plans to double every three days the number of samples tested through RT-PCR process - considered mandatory for accurate results - by government laboratories. The scope of testing is going to be further widened by a number of other tests, including those used for tuberculosis along with the newly-sanctioned rapid antibody tests for diagnosis of suspected cases. Join TOI initiative to help keep you and the nation safeAt present, government labs under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are testing over 10,000 samples a day. This is expected to reach 20,000 in about three days and increase further over the next few weeks as per the plan. Apart from this, around 250 TrueNat machines and 200 CB-NAAT machines (more popular as GeneXpert) used for tuberculosis testing will be deployed for testing Covid-19 suspects, official sources said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“TrueNat and CB-NAAT are cartridge-based nuclei acid amplification tests. One machine can do around 12 tests a day. We have already placed orders for the cartridge,” an official said. There are also two Roche’s COBAS-6800 machines, while orders for two more have been placed. The four machines can test up to 5,000 samples every day. At its daily briefings, the health ministry has maintained that it is framing its testing strategy in response to the developing situation, keeping in mind the need to test those who require to be scanned and to ensure wasteful testing does not clog the system. After focusing on foreign travellers and their contacts who showed symptoms, the testing arc was widened to include all serious patients who reported flu-like illnesses. Case monitoring was done by the well-developed Integrated Disease Management Programme. The increase in suspected cases due to the migration of workers, the Tablighi Jamaat outbreak and the need to keep tabs on clusters has seen the government expand its testing coverage significantly. This plan, drawn up by the empowered group on testing and isolation, was approved by the Prime Minister’s Office after it was discussed in detail in the joint meeting of the empowered groups on Saturday chaired by PM Narendra Modi. “The response is guided by the increasing challenge and the changing colour of the crisis. It is important to respond differently with the changing scenario,” an official said. A total of 89,534 samples were tested till 9 pm on Sunday, according to ICMR. The new plan also includes substantial number of rapid antibody-based blood tests as part of containment strategy in high-risk areas and hotspots. This mainly includes clusters and large migrations, gatherings or evacuees centres. The test kits should begin arriving from Wednesday. “We have already issued orders to test all symptomatic influenza like illnesses (ILI) and monitoring of such cases in health facilities,” the official said. He added that the increasing number of tests will help rule out wider spread while also ensure that those infected are treated in time. Some experts have criticised India’s testing strategy and raised concerns about the sample size of testing being too little to rule out community transmission. However, the government has maintained that testing had to be process driven and could not merely be a “confidence building exercise”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-testing-shifts-into-top-gear/articleshow/75000569.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 6, 2020||Business||Small shifts, automated production to restart manufacturing?||NEW DELHI: A discussion has started within a section of the government over multiple ways to resume economic activity, particularly in manufacturing, in a limited way after the lockdown ends to enable businesses to pay salaries and meet operating costs and to ensure the economy does not fold up and go into a deep freeze. While discussions are preliminary, and the outcome will depend on the coronavirus threat levels, there is loud thinking on allowing curtailed shifts with social distancing, allowing automated production like automobiles and putting in place a regimen of work passes and companies providing dedicated transport to their workers. In case of automated production lines, it might be easier to commence operations given there are fewer number of hands on the floor and it is easier to observe social distancing. At the same time, it is essential to devise ways to get textiles and some of the other large employment generating sectors running to reduce likely economic hardship. Measures are being considered even as thinking of the next economic package may await a fuller assessment of the domestic and international Covid-19 fallout. The immediate priority, of relief to the poor and tax compliance relief for individuals and businesses, has been addressed for now, it is felt. Officials suggested that such factories will have to ensure that workplaces are not crammed, as it cannot be business as usual till the pandemic is brought under control. But arrangements can be worked out in such a way that 30-40% of the workers are allowed so that at least a part of the production cycle can commence. This will help keep supply chains, crucially in common consumer goods, moving. This will also mean the movement of goods in some of the sectors although the demand for products such as automobiles may be limited. While there are suggestions that some of it can be stocked, for companies, carrying large inventories will impose additional financial burden. There is a proposal to allow exporters, who have already received orders, to complete production and dispatch them to ensure that they fulfil their contractual obligation and are not barred from future contracts. In fact, some businesses that have by and large agreed to pay salaries for March, will find it tough to keep meeting the wage cost going forward as their revenues have stopped. In fact, sectors such as tourism and hospitality are starting the month with zero business and sustaining operations without any sales is going to be tough. Even some of the largest companies in the consumer goods space are only running 15-20% of the production chain, which are part of the ‘essential goods’ set-up, industry sources said. Besides, disruption in the supply chain for even food processing and beverage companies is holding up operations. While big companies may be able to sustain their operations for a longer period, the smaller ones do not have deep pockets to sustain their operations without any revenue for long. The decision to bear the EPFO bill for those earning less than Rs 15,000 in units employing up to 100 workers is expected to cost Rs 20,000 crore annually, leaving the government with no headroom to bear the cost for the entire workforce. Apart from workers, banks and other lenders also need to be paid to ensure that there is no pile-up of bad debt that impacts the stability of the financial sector in the medium to short term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-shifts-automated-production-to-restart-manufacturing/articleshow/75000625.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
April 6, 2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson in hospital for precautionary Covid-19 tests: Office||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was taken to hospital on Sunday for tests, his office said, 10 days after he tested positive for coronavirus. "On the advice of his doctor, the Prime Minister has tonight been admitted to hospital for tests," Downing Street said in a statement, calling it a "precautionary step".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pm-boris-johnson-in-hospital-for-precautionary-covid-19-tests-office/articleshow/75000658.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||Highest single-day casualty of 27 takes India’s corona toll to 124||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 100-mark and reached 124 on Sunday night after registering 27 fresh deaths — the highest single-day casualty since the outbreak — in the last 24 hours. With 13 deaths, the toll in Maharashtra, the worst affected state, stood at 45 – which is 36% of the nation’s casualties. For the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, India registered an increase of 500-plus cases. With 553 news cases, the total number of cases has crossed the 4000-mark at 4218. Maharashtra tops the chart with 748 cases, 113 of which were reported on Sunday. Mumbai is the worst affected with 30 of the 45 deaths in Maharashtra coming from there. Mumbai also accounts for 60% or 458 cases in the state. It also recorded eight new deaths, majority of who were above the age of 55 years and had underlying health conditions. After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of positive cases, 86, taking the total to 571. Delhi continues to be the third worst affected state with 58 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total to 503. Though the toll collated from different states stands at 124, the health ministry has confirmed only 84 deaths and 3,577 positive cases. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases at present is 4.1 days. If the absence of a sudden spurt in cases owing to Tablighi Jamaat delegates testing positive, this would have been 7.4 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highest-single-day-casualty-of-27-takes-indias-corona-toll-to-124/articleshow/75000670.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 6, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Shortage of PPE, masks easing, says govt||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Sunday said shortage of personal protective equipment (PPEs) and N95 masks was easing with supplies being received and dispatched to states while orders for additional procurement were also been placed which should improve availability. “We've discussed this with all health secretaries, chief secretaries and DMs as this is one of the major issues. We've explained to them that PPEs available with us have already been dispatched to states based on case-load basis,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, responding to questions on reports that lack of PPEs and masks was putting health workers at risk. He added that allotments were being made based on the number of cases reported in states. “We are also making an effort to see how procurement be increased. It has started easing out, in coming weeks we should be able to manage these issues to a large extent," he said. Around 4,66,057 PPEs and 25,28,996 masks have been made available to states so far, whereas an additional 1,54,250 PPEs and 1,53,300 masks are in the process of supply and likely to reach states in the next few days. Meanwhile, health minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed preparedness at various hospitals. He said AIIMS-Jhajjar will function as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital consisting of a 300-bed isolation ward which would ensure prompt care for patients requiring advanced medical support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shortage-of-ppe-masks-easing-says-govt/articleshow/75000703.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Manipal doctors develop unique three-in-one mask||MANGALURU: A team of three doctors from the Manipal College of Dental Sciences (MCODS Manipal), MAHE have developed a unique mask that will minimize infectious and airborne diseases and protect the individual from contracting any diseases. The design, a conjoint assembly of face mask, face shield (for eye protection) and head cap, recently received design registration from the controller general patents, designs and trademarks. The mask or the modified face shield has been developed by the team including Dr Aditi Chopra, reader, department of periodontology and Dr Karthik Sivaraman, reader, department of Prosthodontics, MCODS and Dr Swagata Saha former intern and alumnus of the college. Dr Aditi Chopra told TOI: "The idea was to have a single use piece to prevent risk of infection. The novel mask design fits the nasal bridge of the clinician and the shield protects the eyes. It also has a head covering. It provides a complete barrier of the head and neck," she said. The modified face mask aims to provide complete protection against virulent and pathogenic microorganisms, aerosols, chemical and metallurgy dust or particles, water splatter and other hazardous mist and particulate matter. The present modification is a one-step solution for protecting your face, head, forehead, and nose. This precludes the need to use any additional eye-protection devices/ barrier and head cap by the clinician. Other than clinicians, the mask can be used by researchers and laymen who are at risk of contracting a disease and come in contact with biologic fluid and tissues. "The prototype is ready and the commercial launch is expected in a year’s time. Our aim is to provide affordable masks," said Dr Aditi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/doctors-develop-a-unique-three-in-one-mask/articleshow/74997405.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Doctors express concern over quality of personal protective equipment||Mangaluru: Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the front-line workers, including doctors, are going through extreme anxiety. Many have expressed concern over the quality of personal protective equipment (PPE). The judicious use of PPEs is the backbone of good infection control and protection of healthcare workers. PPE selection depends on the type of exposure, duration, appropriateness of task and the right fit. A doctor from a government hospital said, “We are concerned about all medical care providers, including group D workers serving in hospitals. There is no doubt that they are socially and economically vulnerable. The government must ensure that boots and boot covers are included in their kit, because they are the ones who will be moving the patients.” A few doctors expressed doubts over the quality of personal protective gowns, and whether they are impermeable to blood and body fluids. A few doctors allegedly found that the goggles provided were not spectacle friendly, and doctors are forced to use transparent plastic sheets to cover their eyes. Along with quality, quantity is also a major concern. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has issued a circular on the appropriate use of various PPE by various sections working in the hospital, that includes triple layer masks, N-95 masks, gowns, goggles and kits, as part of AIIMS Covid-19 preparedness. “We cannot compromise on the quality of PPE which will have an impact on health workers, and in turn on society,” a doctor said. Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, an internal medicine physician in California, who is currently in his hometown, Puttur, said, “There are several lessons to be learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic, which includes strengthening the public health system and indents for items such as PPE, to be procured annually.” On the use of N-95 masks, he said, “In the United States, qualitative fit testing is done on a yearly basis, which tests the seal between the protective fitted mask like the N95, and the face. That way, you know that your respirator fits you properly, and can protect you, as long as you use it correctly. A mask cannot protect from the coronavirus if it doesn’t fit the face. What I see in India is, the fit test is not talked about, among the medical fraternity. The test relies on smell and taste. Since Covid-19 infection can cause a loss of smell and taste, I don’t know if the test can be reliable, with possible higher chances of false negative results. Wearing N-95 masks without a fit test may put healthcare providers under a false perception of protection” he said. Doctors, especially those working in rural areas, must be guided on the donning and doffing (removing and discarding ) of the PPE. Doffing is very important, as it has been a source of infection for healthcare workers, if not done properly. Further, Dr Nayak said, “I have been interacting with several doctors serving at various government hospitals across the state. They have raised concerns over the safety of the working environment. Many expect the government to provide police security in all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, because in case of a death or if the patient absconds from the hospital, chances of confrontation and violence inside the hospital are high,” he said, advising people not to step out of their homes and rush to the hospital for minor health issues. It is important to isolate senior citizens with chronic diseases, as they are the most vulnerable during these pandemics. Consult your family physician over phone, and go to the hospital only if it is absolutely necessary,” he said. Meanwhile, district surgeon Dr Sadashiv said that there are various categories of PPE for use in the ICU, labs and for other situations. So far, there are no issues with quality. The PPE supplied by the district administration is all right. We have sufficient quantities for now, and stocks will be supplied, he said, adding that there is no need to panic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/doctors-express-concern-over-quality-of-personal-protective-equipment/articleshow/74997576.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 6, 2020||Patna||‘100-bed isolation wards in 4 Purnea varsity colleges soon’||PATNA: The Purnea University has decided to set up 100-bed isolation wards in its four colleges in Araria, Purnea, Katihar and Kishanganj falling under its jurisdiction to cater to the needs of Covid-19 suspects and patients as well. Purnea University vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Rajesh Singh said on Sunday that he has issued an advisory to the principals of Araria College, M J M College at Katihar, Marwari College at Kishanganj and Purnea College to set up at least 100-bed isolation wards in their colleges. According to the VC, the administration of these four districts welcomed the idea. “The isolation wards would become functional in a couple of days from now with the provision for basic requirements like face masks, sanitisers, disinfectants and availability of safe drinking water in each ward,” he said. The VC said the university has already set up a ‘corona warriors’ cell at its headquarters. A dedicated team of university and college teachers was constantly monitoring a mass social awareness campaign launched by the volunteers of NSS and NCC to educate illiterate people of these districts to take precautionary measures against the virus infection, he said. He said the university volunteers were asking poor people to maintain ‘social distancing’ and take precautions as per the district administration guidelines during the nationwide lockdown period. Besides, all teaching and non-teaching staff of the university and constituent colleges have decided to donate their one-day salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund while the VC himself has announced to donate Rs1 lakh in the relief fund. Meanwhile, Patliputra University (PPU) vice chancellor Prof Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal has also announced that the university officials, teaching and non-teaching staff of constituent colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts will donate basic pay of one day to the CM Relief Fund voluntarily to fight the Covid-19 menace in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/100-bed-isolation-wards-in-4-purnea-varsity-colleges-soon/articleshow/74998018.cms||Kumod Verma
April 6, 2020||Patna||ECR to convert 268 sleeper coaches into isolation wards for coronavirus suspects||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has now decided to convert 268 sleeper coaches into isolation wards to quarantine coronavirus suspects instead of 208 coaches announced earlier. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said of the 268 coaches, 85 have already been converted into isolation wards and work is in full swing to create the facility in rest of the coaches. “Since 16 berths are now provided in one coach instead of eight announced earlier, altogether 4,288 people can be quarantined in 268 coaches in ECR alone,” the CPRO added. Railways has designed afresh the shape of the isolation wards with the provision to store life-saving medicines, mini pathology, oxygen cylinders, masks, hand gloves and other equipment to cater to the needs of Covid-19 suspects during isolation period. As announced earlier, the middle berths of sleeper coaches are being removed to create more space for the patients so that they can feel comfortable during quarantine days,” the CPRO said. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said work on converting coaches into isolation wards is in full swing at railway workshops at Danapur and Rajendra Nagar. “About 55 to 60 sleeper coaches are being converted into isolation wards on priority basis. Railways has given special training to 80 healthcare staff of the division to take care of the Covid-19 suspects inside the isolation wards.” he said. Railways has also provided special training to about 250 paramedical staff, including nurses, to take care of the patients. “At least 100 railway doctors from Danapur division are ready to render their services in any emergency situation. The greatest advantage of the ‘hospital on wheels’ is that it can easily reach any part of the state or country,” the DRM said. Meanwhile, railways is running a superfast parcel express train (00607/00608) between Yashwantpur and Gorakhpur via Patna Junction to carry essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-convert-268-sleeper-coaches-into-isolation-wards-for-coronavirus-suspects/articleshow/74997933.cms||Kumod Verma
April 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Daily wager struggles to arrange Rs 15,000 for surgery||PATNA: While most daily wagers returned to their homes following outbreak of coronavirus, Sulendra Manjhi (45) decided to stay put in Patna to earn some money so that he can bear the cost of hydrocelectomy which the doctors had suggested him to undergo. Manjhi, currently staying at Bankipore Girls’ High School quarantine centre, is worried about his treatment. “I had no idea that all sources of earning money would vanish after the lockdown. I urgently require Rs 15,000 to undergo the surgery. I had not been able to arrange the money despite working hard for a year,” he said. “I have been suffering from the problem for the last two years. Even medicines have stopped providing relief now. Doctors have told me that surgery is the only option. I even visited PMCH where the surgery costs Rs 2,000. However, I was told that ‘pairvi’ is necessary to secure admission at the hospital,” Manjhi, who used to work as a daily wager at a construction site in the city before the lockdown, said. Manjhi said his wife Ruby does farming work at their Krishna Nagar village under the Atri police station area in Gaya. “Since crops of pulses got destroyed last year, we suffered a huge loss,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-wager-struggles-to-arrange-rs-15k-for-surgery/articleshow/74997913.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 6, 2020||Patna||All 406 samples test negative||PATNA: Much to the relief of the people of Bihar, there was no positive coronavirus case found in the 406 samples collected from different suspected areas in the state and tested at three health facilities in Patna and Darbhanga. Of the 406 samples, 262 were tested at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna, 120 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna and 24 at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar confirmed that all the samples tested on Sunday were found negative. “The total number of positive cases remained at 32 in Bihar till Sunday,” he said. Of the total positive cases, maximum seven were detected in Munger, six in Siwan, five each in Gaya and Patna, three in Gopalganj, two in Nalanda and one each in Bhagalpur, Begusarai, Lakhisarai and Saran districts. Four persons recovered from the virus while one died. DMCH principal Dr Harsh Narayan Jha told this newspaper that the experts at microbiology laboratory tested total 36 samples and the results of 12 were pending. “Besides Darbhanga, the samples came from Purnia, Madhepura and Sitamarhi. Since the testing lab facility started at DMCH, the experts tested 88 samples so far and all of them were negative,” he said. He added: “Initially, we faced some glitches. However, the testing is going on smoothly now and we got all the required kits and other materials from the state government.” According to the state health society officials, total 3,387 samples had been collected till Sunday evening, of which 32 were positive and rest negative, while four got rejected. Total 941 suspected cases were discharged from hospitals. Meanwhile, the health department issued a circular cancelling the leave of all health personnel, regular and contractual, (except study and maternity leave) till April 30 in view of emergent situation due to Covid-19 virus. The health department is likely to get 12,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits on Monday for the doctors treating Covid-19 suspects and patients at several hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-406-samples-test-negative/articleshow/74997853.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 6, 2020||Patna||Cops donate blood to save a woman’s life in Bhagalpur||PATNA: At a time when the police are overstressed to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19 outbreak, four policemen posted in Bhagalpur have set an example by donating blood to save the life of a woman undergoing treatment in the local government hospital. The four cops headed by Babarganj police station SHO Pawan Kumar Singh donated four units of blood to a woman, who was to be operated upon soon after she developed complications due to appendicitis. The 36-year-old woman, Suman Devi of Banka district, required seven units of blood for the operation. As the patient’s condition had deteriorated, her relative Awadhesh Kumar contacted his other relatives to donate blood, but they all expressed their inability due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. Then an idea struck Kumar and he went to the nearby Sheetla Sthan Chowk where he met SHO Pawan, who along with City SP was on the patrol duty. Kumar narrated his ordeal and asked for his help to save a human life. Pawan rushed to the police station, summoned his three subordinates — Baloo Kumar, Shiv Shanker and Neeraj Kumar (all constables) and asked them to accompany him to the Mayaganj hospital where they all donated four units of blood. The doctor and the paramedical staff of the hospital were all praise for the cops. “Rakt daan, maha daan (Blood donation is the supreme sacrifice),” said the SHO. “I have done what I am supposed to do,” he said while thanking his subordinates for donating blood to save a human life. “I have no words to express my gratitude to the men in uniform. In fact, their cooperation has changed my perception about the police,” Kumar said. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti also praised his subordinates for supporting a man in dire need of help. “Such an action by the police will certainly left a memorable imprint on the minds of the family members in particular and other people in general,” he added. The SSP is himself helping the poor during the lockdown. He is learnt to have distributed food packets among the members of Dalit community and deprived people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-donate-blood-to-save-a-womans-life-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/74998422.cms||Ramashankar
April 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Woman cop axed for suppressing rape case||PATNA: Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant removed the station house officer (SHO) of the women’s police station after receiving complaints that she had suppressed an incident of rape of a minor girl under Karza police station area of the district. Abha Rani, the SHO of women’s police station, was shifted to the police lines and replaced by Neeru Kumari, who was posted in Minapur as circle inspector. The action followed a complaint against Abha that she tried to settle the matter and exerted pressure on the relatives of the 13-year-old rape survivor to reach a compromise. The former SHO didn’t stop there and allegedly demanded Rs 1.5 lakh for registering an FIR against the accused. The relatives of the rape survivor were allegedly detained at the women’s police station and threatened to be booked in a fabricated case. The girl’s brother finally sought intervention of a senior police officer. The case was lodged on Saturday two days after the incident. City SP Neeraj Kumar Singh, however, described the transfer of Abha to the police lines as a routine affair. He said the preliminary report didn’t confirm rape of the girl. “No external injury was found on her body,” he added. The girl’s family, on the other hand, demanded immediate arrest of the culprit. “We apprehend threat to our lives if he continues to move around freely,” said a family member. According to the complaint, the girl was picked up on a two-wheeler when she was alone in the house on March 27. The accused later outraged her modesty at a deserted place after threatening her with dire consequences.  ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-cop-axed-for-suppressing-rape-case/articleshow/74998488.cms||Ramashankar
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Academicians worry pay cut may also delay salaries||Nagpur: While academicians support state government’s decision of cut in March salary of employees, they are worried revised tabulation paperwork will lead to delay in salary disbursement. School and junior college principals and teachers say their March salary may come only by April end because the revised paperwork to incorporate the cut can be started only after lockdown is lifted. They say the best option is to deduct 25% from their last drawn net salary and avoid paper work. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) general secretary Ashok Gavhankar said, “The way our salary process works is that we prepare a wage/salary bill at institution level. Once endorsed by the principal, it is submitted to the pay unit after which it is cleared by treasury and the amount is credited into our accounts.” Ashnarayan Tiwari, executive body member of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said the timeline for the process to be completed is long. “By March 5 or 6 itself all of us had submitted our salary bill to the pay unit. This is for March-paid-in-April salary. So for bill submitted on March 6, the salary should have been credited into our accounts by April 5. This did not happen because of the government resolution about deductions,” said Tiwari. Gavhankar said all the bills submitted in March first week are likely to be rejected. “We may have to submit fresh bills, which is something all of us want to avoid. Our stand is simple, that you accept our bills but release only 75% of the last drawn salary. Or give 30% of our net salary as ‘advance’. Starting fresh paperwork now means a tough time for us,” he said. Due to the lockdown, they say clerical staff won’t be available. Tiwari said, “Schools are closed and staff is at home. Till April 14 at least, everything is shut and hence not possible to call them now and restart paperwork. Even if we do it on April 15, there will be huge rush at the pay unit with all schools trying to submit their paperwork first. That will defeat the purpose of social distancing.” The deputy director of education (DDE) office is expected to issue instructions to all education officers regarding this on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/academicians-worry-pay-cut-may-also-delay-salaries/articleshow/75000393.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 6, 2020||Patna||Nearly 30% test results awaited in Gaya||GAYA: As against 303 samples sent from the district to the virological lab in Patna, 211 reports have been received. About 30% reports are still awaited. Of the 211 reports received, 206 tested negative and five positive. The Covid-19 patients have since been transferred to Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Patna. As per the testing criteria being followed, persons with recent foreign travel history, those showing Covid symptoms and immediate family members of positive cases are being tested. Those who came into contact with Covid positive persons and migrant workers have been quarantined. As per official statistics, there are four isolation wards with a 230 bed capacity spread over four places in the district. Besides 130 bed isolation ward in ANMMCH, the isolation wards are located in Sherghati sub-divisional hospital (30 beds), Tekari sub-divisional hospital (50 beds) and Mahkar additional primary health centre (20 beds). Mahkar, it may be recalled, is the home village of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi who got several facilities including APHC with improvised facilities established during his tenure as the CM. Altogether 12,975 persons regarded as more vulnerable to Covid-19 are currently under watch either as home quarantined or quarantine centres. Most of the under observation persons, 11,039 of the 12,975 suspects are under home quarantine. A total of 102 Covid suspects have so far been admitted to the isolation ward. Of these 84 have been discharged as their reports were found negative. Sources say that the doctors on duty feel vulnerable and some of them are said to be looking for alibis to skip duty. One such doctor reportedly feigned illness and sought voluntary home quarantine for 14 days. Sensing the real intention, the home quarantine request of the said doctor was turned down and he was instead put under quarantine at a centre located in Bodh Gaya. In another incident, a doctor of the ANMMCH allegedly made a false post on a social network site regarding the death of a Covid-19 patient. Being credibly sourced, it spread like wild fire. Swiftly putting the facts on the record, district magistrate Abhishek Singh also recommended action against the said doctor. Asked about the response of the medical fraternity to Covid-19 challenge, DM Abhishek Singh that by and large the response of the doctors, with few exceptions, has been satisfactory. Singh hoped that the doctors prove equal to the challenge and play a more proactive role in combating the menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nearly-30-test-results-awaited-in-gaya/articleshow/74998515.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 6, 2020||Patna||Patna: DM orders compulsory screening of migrants||PATNA: DM Kumar Ravi on Sunday ordered for compulsory medical screening of around 1500 migrant workers for Covid-19. They have reached Patna from outside the state on or after March 29. He also issued orders that migrant workers who reached Patna between March 22 and 28 from places like Mumbai, Pune and Kerala would have to undergo compulsory medical test for coronavirus. When asked, he said the screening procedures started on Sunday itself. “The administration has a list of around 1500 migrant workers who are presently staying in Patna after reaching here on or after March 29. Besides the administration also has a list of altogether 3,996 such workers who came here between March 22 and 28,” he said. Ravi said the test for Covid-19 would be conducted on those migrant workers who would show any kind of symptom during screening. “This is also the ICMR guideline that test would be conducted only in case of any symptom is found after medical screening,” he said. Besides, the DM also said directives had been issued to the drug controller for serving notices on all those wholesale drugstores in the district who have kept their shops shut after the lockdown. “Such shops can’t be kept shut. They fall under the category of essential services. They have to remain open,” Ravi said. He said the order to serve notices was given after a late evening district level meeting with health department officers and members of chemists and druggists association on Saturday. “The association members were urged to take steps for home delivery of medicines for pregnant women, senior citizens and children if they have less staff and are unable to cater to every customer. Bigger stores have agreed to supply medicines in their surrounding areas,” Ravi said. He said the association members complained that some people were trying to hoard medicines amid lockdown. “They were asked to provide medicines for a month as things would normalize within fortnight. The administration would issue orders for it, if it is felt necessary,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-orders-compulsory-screening-of-migrants/articleshow/74997926.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 6, 2020||Business||Summer internships go virtual in lockdown||CHENNAI: It’s that time of the year when internships happen for students. But the Covid-19 lockdown is forcing companies to look at virtual internships this time. Brewing company AB InBev has 40 B-school students working on virtual internships at its global captive centre and business units to keep it going. “The format of the summer internship remains the same, except that it is powered digitally — in line with the ongoing social distancing directives from the government,” said AB InBev people director (South Asia) Tanushree Mishra. Internship portals are also seeing companies coming in with vacancies for work-from-home (WFH) opportunities that last for two, four or six months. Internship platform Internshala has seen a 30% rise in postings from companies and a 36% increase in applications from students. “There is a subsequent 27% drop for in-office internships. Some companies have postponed their internships to a later date,” said Internshala CEO Sarvesh Agarwal. Fintech companies are expanding their scope of internships to outside India. Digital lending platform MoneyTap is evaluating options to hire more interns from the Middle East and Europe as the current environment has provided it with multiple options to explore different skill sets available abroad. “With this lockdown in force, we are also retaining the many interns who we hired already for HR, marketing and operations teams. Since it is virtual internship, we also save on cost. Thus, it gives an edge to explore the talent available abroad,” MoneyTap co-founder and COO Anuj Kacker said. However, some of these companies are not offering tech-based roles as data security may be an issue when the interns are working from home. Realme PaySa has 20 interns working on UPI. The company’s CEO Varun Sridhar said, “We have proposed for interns to work for us virtually for another six months and commit 6-12 working hours a week. Unlike technical work, which requires daily monitoring due to data security, these interns will be used for product innovation and testing that can be done from remote areas.” However, even as virtual internships see an increase, overall opportunities have dropped by up to 10%, say such platforms. Angaros Group director Aashish Malve said that virtual internships in content, UI/UX, design and tech are being given by companies. “The movement of virtual internships has been almost the same as last year. Some of them have postponed their internships and the overall opportunities are seeing a marginal dip,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/summer-internships-go-virtual-in-lockdown/articleshow/74999944.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 6, 2020||Patna||Candles, diyas light up Patna amid gloom||PATNA: Responding to PM Narendra Modi’s appeal, residents of the city switched off lights at their homes for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday and lit diyas and candles in their balconies to express solidarity with the country’s fight against coronavirus. The rays of light emanating from the balconies and front doors of residential complexes amid darkness sent a message of hope and positivity among the common people in general and corona victims in particular. In fact, people were seen looking for earthen lamps and candles right since the morning as they made anxious enquiries about the same from the neighbourhood shops. Since many did have some old diyas and candles in their houses, they did not face any difficulty. Some people who could not procure either diyas or candles flashed torchlights or mobile lights standing at their doorsteps and balconies. Patna University vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh lighted more than nearly a dozen diyas in the balcony of his official residence after switching off all the lights in the house. The lights were switched on again after 10 minutes, but the diyas were allowed to burn until the oil was exhausted. Retired civil surgeon Dr Kumkum Upadhyaya, who resides at Anandpuri locality in west Patna, lighted diyas just because they purified the environment by killing harmful bacteria. “It created a sense of satisfaction and happiness in an otherwise sombre atmosphere. By lighting diyas, I also paid my homage to thousands of people who have lost their lives due to Covid-19 across the globe,” she said. A N College retired Hindi teacher Badri Narayan Singh said, “I lighted two diyas, one each at the balcony and the doorstep, of my house at Punaichak at the call of the PM and extended my full support to all the programmes launched by the government for controlling the spread of coronavirus. We should all remain united and contribute our bit in ridding the entire country free of this deadly virus.” Mithilesh Kumar Pandey, a bus operator residing at Kankarbagh Colony in south Patna, said he lighted only one diya at the doorstep of his house after switching off all the lights on account of its religious and spiritual significance. “Lighting of earthen lamps amid complete darkness created a soothing impact on our stressed minds and also created an emotional bond among all the countrymen,” he said. P K Mishra, an advocate of Patna high court, lighted diyas as well as candles in the balcony of his house in Shrikrishna Nagar locality to express his gratitude to all those who are working 24x7 to make the country free from Covid-19. “This is the minimum we can do to acknowledge their valuable services,” he said. RJD functionaries and workers, however, lighted lanterns instead of diyas and candles and expressed their solidarity with the people fighting against the coronavirus. State RJD EBC cell chief Ram Bali Singh said he lighted a lantern in his house on Sunday night just to express his solidarity with the countrymen in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/candles-diyas-light-up-city-amid-gloom/articleshow/74997991.cms||B K Mishra
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Hindalga prison steps forward to stitch masks for newspaper hawkers||Belagavi: That Covid-19 infection has sent the Indian economy into a tailspin is an acknowledged fact today. But help for many an ailing sector is coming from unexpected quarters, and one such instance is the Hindalga Central Prison offering to make and provide masks for newspaper hawkers to help the print media in a time of considerable distress. Misinformation about newspapers spreading the Covid-19 infection on various social media portals has resulted in many readers growing apprehensive about picking them up. Consequently, representatives of various newspapers convened a meeting with agents and vendors of Belagavi district, also attended by officials of the government, wherein it was resolved to provide masks, surgical gloves and hand sanitisers to all the hawkers to allay any niggling fears in the minds of the readers. Across Belagavi district, there are around 300 individuals employed by various vendors and agents to deliver newspapers, and the decision to equip them with the necessary safety gear will help convince the readers of the precautions being taken to keep newspapers safe. Belagavi deputy commissioner SB Bommanahalli asked the agents to place an order for masks from the Hindalga Central Prison. Inmates of the prison have been stitching masks for the past ten days, which are currently being used by the cops, he said. “The pharmacies do not have enough masks and the district administration cannot provide the safety equipment as a result. Under such circumstances, getting masks from Hindalga prison is a good alternative,” Bommanahalli said. Mahantesh Patil,a newspaper agent in Belagavi, said that providing masks and gloves will make their hawkers feel a lot safer. “We will approach authorities at Hindalga to buy masks. The authorities are offering them at a very nominal price of Rs 6 or Rs 7, which will make it easier for us to purchase and also ensure our operations remain viable,” Patil added. Chief superintendent of police (prisons) Krishna Kumar confirmed to TOI that Hindalga jail could provide sufficient number of masks for the hawkers. “This way, we will also join the battle against the misinformation campaign. U have asked our skilled inmates to start stitching more masks so we can meet the demand soon,” Kumar added. The senior police official said that manufacturing 300 masks was not in the least an onerous task for the inmates. “These masks are being stitched from cotton, and we will charge a minimal price. We have already distributed 30 masks stitched at the prison to journalists in Belagavi,” Kumar said. The inmates are being taught tailoring under the skill development programme at the prison to enable them to lead a life of dignity once they are freed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hindalga-prison-steps-forward-to-stitch-masks-for-newspaper-hawkers/articleshow/74997482.cms||Shreyas HS
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||4 more test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand, 2 discharged||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported four new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 26. Meanwhile, the state’s first case, the trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer admitted to Doon Hospital on March 15, and a man from Kotdwar who had a recent travel history to Spain, were both discharged on Sunday after their second consecutive report were found negative. According to health officials, all four positive cases reported on Sunday were members of Tablighi Jamaat. While one positive person is admitted to a Ramnagar hospital, three others are from Suddhowala quarantine centre in Dehradun. An official statement from Dr Amita Upreti, director general (health), stated, “We got reports of 144 people on Sunday of which four were Covid-19-positive. As many as 101 new samples were sent for testing on April 5. A total of 983 tests have been conducted in Uttarakhand so far.” The state has so far quarantined 15,217 people of which 184 are in hospital isolation. In an appeal to residents on Sunday, the health department said that people should follow the guidelines of the lockdown and those who have been placed in home quarantine must follow the same for the prescribed duration. “If a person placed in home quarantine does not follow due instructions, he/she will be moved to the institutional quarantine,” Dr Upreti added. Meanwhile, the members of Uttarakhand nurses service association on Sunday wrote to the chief minister saying that they shouldn’t be allotted duties in facilities which house only men. They also demanded N95 masks and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits while working in the hospitals. Kanti Rana, president of the association, alleged, “In quarantine facilities, nurses are being made to sleep in rooms next to suspected cases which increase our risk of getting infected. There is also no arrangement of food, sanitisation and other basic facilities for nurses at these centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-ukhand-2-discharged/articleshow/74997793.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 6, 2020||Patna||Corona relief disbursement soon: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday said the beneficiaries would start getting their share of free foodgrain from the public distribution system (PDS) shops, Rs 1,000 from the banks and free LPG gas cylinders in the next three days under the corona relief package (CRF) announced by the Centre and the state government. Modi also cautioned people against gathering at PDS shops, bank branches, customer service centres and gas agencies in view of the coronavirus outbreak. He said the beneficiaries should go to the PDS shops, banks, customer service centres and offices of gas agencies by wearing masks only on days fixed for the distribution of relief and money transactions. Modi said the CRF funds would be sent to the banks in three days. Similarly, the Centre had announced to give free LPG gas cylinder under the Ujjwala scheme for which Rs 851 would be transferred into the Jan Dhan accounts of each of the beneficiaries, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-corona-relief-disbursement-soon/articleshow/74997902.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Allahabad||Admin distributes food kits to hostellers||Varanasi: Despite the claims of Banaras Hindu University administration to have made sufficient food arrangements for the students stranded in different hostels, district administration ensured distribution of food kits among dozens of inmates of nine hostels on the campus on Saturday evening. As per the directives of district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, a team of officials reached the campus and distributed with food packets among inmates stranded at Birla, Raja Ram Mohan Rai, Dr CPR, Dr Homi Bhabha, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Pt Brijnath, Dr Bhagwan Das and Ruia hostels. When BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh was asked why the district administration had to distribute food, he said, “The university had no intimation of distribution of food packets among students by the district administration. It is not clear whether students had sought for such help or whether it was an initiative of the administration.” After announcement of closure of the university, the BHU administration had on March 18 appealed all hostel inmates to return home, he added. “Maximum rooms in all hostels had been vacated. But, some students from distant states could not leave and are staying in hostels,” said Singh. The spokesman said all messes of hostels had also been closed and the Annapurna Bhojnalaya near SSL hospital had been asked to provide food at Rs 25 per plate to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/admin-distributes-food-kits-to-hostellers/articleshow/74999214.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||16 Zampa Bazaar shopkeepers held for not ensuring social distance||SURAT: Police arrested 16 shopkeepers in Zampa Bazaar area on Sunday for allegedly risking lives of people by not ensuring social distancing in front of their shops. The offence was registered after a video went viral of crowd at the shops mostly of meat and bakery products. They were booked in Mahidharpura police station for violation of order issued under public notification by police commissioner and also under Epidemic Diseases Act. Preliminary investigation revealed that the video was taken on Sunday morning itself and soon after it went viral, police registered an offence. "Taking immediate steps police registered the offence and arrested 16 people. Police will take strict actions against all such business establishment who are not following required guidelines for social distancing,” said city police commissioner, R B Brahmbhatt. At present, 3,000 policemen, three companies of State Reserve Police (SRP), one battalion of Rapid Action Force (RAF), 1,500 traffic brigade jawan and 1,150 home guard jawans are on bandobast duties across the city. "City police likely to get cadets of National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme and they will be helpful in smooth enforcement of lockdown," Brahmbhatt added. Since the lockdown imposed, police so far have registered 287 cases of violation of police notification and 1,039 cases related to negligence which may prove dangerous to life. Police registered 98 cases using drone cameras, 8 cases using CCTV network and 16 cases based on photos received over social media pages of city police. So far 2,256 persons were arrested and 5,521 vehicles were detained by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/16-zampa-bazaar-shopkeepers-held-for-not-ensuring-social-distance/articleshow/74999743.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Patna||58 released from 2 quarantine centres in Munger for creating ruckus||PATNA: The Munger administration released 58 persons quarantined at two centres on Saturday night after they allegedly created ruckus and broke furniture in two separate incidents since Friday. A video shows women and men quarantined at Goenka dharmashala breaking plastic furniture, alleging poor and untimely food facilities for them. All of them were marked under low-risk category and suspected of coming in contact with Covid-19 patients. GNM College is the other quarantine centre from where ruckus was reported on Thursday. Altogether seven persons from Munger have been tested positive for Covid-19 so far, including the one who died at AIIMS-Patna on March 21. When asked, Munger civil surgeon Kumar Purushottam said 39 persons were released from GNM College quarantine centre and 19 from the dharmashala. “More than 20 are to be released from both centres on Sunday too,” he said. Kumar, however, said he had visited the two centres on Saturday evening but everything was peaceful that time. “I had not come to know about any ruckus. I have also not seen the video showing people creating ruckus. So I can’t comment on it,” he said. Purushottam said 18 persons, including the family members of the Munger man, 15 from the contact list of the ambulance driver who had taken the Covid-19 positive patient from a Munger hospital to Patna, staff of that hospital, 27 from contact list of those who had reached or attended the funeral of that person were among those who had been quarantined at the college. “Those released had completed their quarantined period. All of them had tested negative,” he said. The civil surgeon said the family members of a deceased minor girl, who was the neighbour of ambulance driver at Hasratganj, and other suspected from the area, were quarantined at dharmashala centre. Incidentally, a team of doctors had come under attack alleging poor facilities at quarantine centres when they had gone to Hasratganj to quarantine six family members of the minor girl on April 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/58-released-after-2-quarantine-centres-in-munger/articleshow/74998044.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 6, 2020||Surat||Surat positive cases rise to 14||SURAT: Three persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking total number of positive cases to 14 in the city. Rameshchandra Rana, 65, from Begumpura, and Abdul Wahid Qureshi, 50, from Adajan Patia, and Satyabhama Vanare, 40, from Pandesara, tested positive for on Sunday. Health condition of all the three patients, who do not have any travel history, is said to be stable. Sources said Vanare is mother of the the supermarket executive, who had tested positive on April 1. Meanwhile, a positive patient Tohled Arif Pathan, 32, of Rander, was discharged from New Civil Hospital after his samples tested negative for the virus on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-positive-cases-rise-to-14/articleshow/74999707.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Delivering sev-usal does father-son in||VADODARA: Two persons were arrested from Ajwa Road on Sunday for preparing Barodians’ daily fix – sev-usal – and taking home delivery orders on phone. Cops from Bapod police station said they had received information that two persons had opened a food cart near Bahar Colony on Ajwa Road and were selling sev-usal. Police went there on receiving information and found out that accused Anish Bookbinder and his son Nauman Bookbinder were preparing sev-usal at their home and also delivering it to people. “The duo was preparing sev-usal at their home which is not a problem, but they were taking orders for home delivery and delivering them on scooter which is illegal,” said a police official. They did not have any pass for delivering food and essential items issued by district administration, which has been issuing passes to delivery persons of food aggregators and grocery stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/delivering-sev-usal-does-father-son-in/articleshow/74997838.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) legislator receives threat calls, lodges FIR||PATNA: JD(U) MLC Dinesh Prasad Prasad Singh lodged an FIR at Sadar police station in Muzaffarpur town on Sunday after he received threat and extortion calls on his cellphone on Saturday. Singh, who is the husband of LJP MP from Vaishali, Veena Devi, said in his complaint that he received an anonymous call on Saturday morning. The caller hurled abuses on him and also threatened him with dire consequences. Singh, however, didn’t take notice considering it to be the handiwork of some mischievous elements. But he got serious when frequent calls were made on his phone and the caller allegedly demanded huge money as extortion. “At least four calls were made on my cellphone between 7.15pm and 10.30pm on Saturday,” he told the police. He informed SSP Jayant Kant, who asked Sadar police station house officer (SHO) Mithilesh Jha to look into the matter on a priority basis. When contacted, Jha said, “We have taken the matter as a big challenge and the accused will be arrested at the earliest.” He, however, didn’t rule out the possibility of extortion demand as one of the reasons behind the threat calls. SSP Jayant Kant said the case was being probed from different angles. An investigating officer said the JD(U) leader has already provided the mobile number used in the crime. Singh along with his family members lived at Nand Colony under Sadar police station in Muzaffarpur town. Singh had earlier received similar threat calls during the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which his wife Veena was an LJP nominee from Vaishali. A source said the ruling party leader has got into a legal wrangling following construction of a building purportedly for a private school near Kalambagh Chowk under Kazi Mohammadpur police station in the town. In addition, his close connection with real estate dealers of the region is an open secret. “Our investigation will be based on scientific evidences and not merely on the statements,” a senior police officer associated with the investigation said over phone. This is the third incident of a VIP in the state receiving threat calls during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Earlier, a youth hailing from Rohtas district was arrested from Ludhiana in Punjab for his Facebook post in which he had issued threat to CM Nitish Kumar. An FIR was lodged against the arrested youth, Dharmendra Kumar Pandey, on the statement of Dinara police station SHO Siyaram Sah on March 31. That apart, Darbhanga DM SM Thiyagarajan was also threatened with dire consequences on his Facebook page for issuing directive to the officials to ensure medical examination of those who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi in the wake of Covid-19. The police have, however, failed to make any headway in the Darbhanga DM threat case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-legislator-receives-threat-calls-lodges-fir/articleshow/74998059.cms||Ramashankar
April 6, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank sees 24% growth in deposits||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has ended FY20 with a 24% increase in deposits and a 21% jump in advances, in sharp contrast to its smaller private lenders which lost some bulk deposits in March 2020. Despite outperforming the sector in terms of business, shares of HDFC Bank have been under pressure because of the high proportion of unsecured retail loans. These are estimated to be nearly 18% of its loans. In a statement released on Saturday, the bank said that its advances have risen by around 21% to Rs 9.93 lakh crore as on March 31 and have grown by over 6% for the March quarter as compared to December-end. It purchased Rs 5,479 crore of loans from parent mortgage lender HDFC during the quarter, the bank said in an intimation to the stock exchanges late on Friday. For the January-March 2020 quarter, the bank reported a 7.4% increase in aggregate deposits to Rs 11.5 lakh crore. The bank’s deposit base was 24% higher as compared to March 31 last year. The bank said on Sunday it has received a mandate from the government to collect donations for the PM CARES fund. This is in addition to the account that the government has opened with the SBIFollowing the crisis at Yes Bank, which saw a flight of deposits from the private lender, the Maharashtra government took a decision to close all accounts with private banks. This resulted in lenders like IndusInd Bank and RBL losing some bulk deposits. HDFC Bank, however, appears to have gained from the flight to safety. In a recent teleconference, HDFC Bank CEO Aditya Puri had said that the bank has $5 billion of surplus liquidity, which translated into over Rs 35,000 crore of surplus cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bk-sees-24-growth-in-deposits/articleshow/74999664.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus: DRDO, DFRL contribute their ‘mite’ to fight against pandemic||MYSURU: Among the many government agencies working tirelessly in the background to help the nation combat Covid-19 is the Defence Research Development Laboratory (DRDO), which in addition to manufacturing N-99 five-layered masks, has ordered a Mysuru-based private firm to manufacture 30,000 ventilators to help bridge the supply gap. Ajay Kumar Singh, director of DRDO’s life sciences wing, confirmed that the agency had been working on the manufacture of body suits for healthcare personnel, sanitation workers, et al. “The suit we have designed in washable, and measures up to international standards. The suit was tested, and we found that it is suitable for use by healthcare personnel,” said Singh, confirming that DRDO had entrusted Skanray Technologies in Mysuru with the task of producing 30,000 ventilators. The ventilators will be designed and manufactured in accordance with DRDO’s technical blueprint, Singh told TOI. “We will assist Skanray in the procurement of some critical components,” said the senior DRDO official, adding that the agency had been making hand sanitisers for its staff and employees of other government offices. The N-99 masks are being manufactured at our centres in Kolkata and Mumbai, while work on personal protective equipment (PPE) kits is under way at Gwalior, Singh said. “Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL) in Mysuru is performing an essential duty at this time by preparing food for healthcare personnel. Since a common or community kitchen cannot function at this time, the food prepared at DFRL is ensuring that doctors, nurses and support staff at hospitals are well-nourished. In fact, they have been working on ready-to-eat packaged food over the past few days and once ready, the consignment will be dispatched to other places,” he added. Despite working with reduced human resources, DFRL is acquitting itself distinguishably in a time of national crisis. “Among the dishes being prepared are chapathi, pulao, tomato rice and beverages such as lemon juice. The demand for our products is very high but owing to the conditions of lockdown we are unable to work at full capacity. But DFRL staff is still ensuring the preparation of up to two tonnes of food, which can feed 2,000 people,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drdo-dfrl-contribute-their-mite-to-fight-against-pandemic/articleshow/74997810.cms||R Uday Kumar
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Four from Belagavi who attended Tablighi Jamaat test positive||Belagavi: Four people from Belagavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. According to the state bulletin, a 36-year-old woman, 40-year-old man, 67-year-old woman and 41-year-old woman, who hail from Raibagh taluk of Belagavi district, tested positive for Covid-19. They had visited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 13 to March 18. With this the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 7. The earlier three Covid-19 cases were also linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. The district administration has quarantined all the patients. The district administration has also begun contact tracing to isolate primary and secondary contacts. Earlier in the day, a video clip claiming that two Covid-19 patients were loitering around corridors of the quarantine facility, showcasing that proper treatment was not given to the patients, surfaced on social media. This led many to question how the authorities were dealing with the crisis. However, the deputy commissioner disputed the claims in a video briefing. He said, “Some audio and video clips are going viral on social media. I would like to inform that these materials are misleading in nature. Some people from outside are circulating this video, and we have already filed a case in the relevant police station. Action will be taken against the people who are circulating the video.” He said that all the Covid-19 patients are being treated as per protocol, and that there is no scope for any discrepancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-from-belagavi-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-test-positive/articleshow/74997773.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Business||Personal loans are now 28% of total bank credit||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The share of personal loans in the books of banks has outgrown credit to large industry over the last 12 months. Home loans are now the single biggest sector in terms of advances, accounting for nearly 15% of bank credit as against infrastructure which has an 11.3% share. According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), bank credit as of end-February stood at Rs 89.8 lakh crore — an increase of only 7.3% over the previous year. Of this, the share of credit to the manufacturing sector is 31%, or Rs 27.9 lakh crore. This is almost unchanged from the end of February 2019 when, because of a much smaller base, industry accounted for a third (33%) of bank credit. Personal loans on the other hand have grown 17% and stand at Rs 25.3 lakh crore (28% of the loan book) as of end February 2020. Growth in the personal loan segment has been driven by home loans, which also grew 17% year-on-year to Rs 13.3 lakh crore. This surge has increased the share of home loans in overall bank credit to 14.8%. Other personal loans, which include unsecured credit, grew at 20% to Rs 7 lakh crore, or nearly 8% of the banking sector’s portfolio. The third-biggest segment is personal services where non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are the biggest borrower category. Loans to NBFCs, which stood at Rs 5.75 lakh crore as of February 2019, jumped 22% to Rs 7 lakh crore. Overall, the services sector accounts for Rs 24.3 lakh crore of bank loans (27% of bank credit). It is in this segment that some of the most impacted businesses like tourism and hotels fall. However, bank exposure to this segment is relatively small at Rs 45,000 crore. Specific industries that are expected to be hit on account of the Covid-19 crisis include iron and steel, because of a slowdown in construction and auto. Bank exposure to this industry has fallen from Rs 2.8 lakh crore to Rs 2.5 lakh crore due to deleveraging by some companies and the sale of stressed producers to foreign companies. There have been concerns that the Covid-19 crisis could lead to stress among borrowers, including in the individual segment. This is because personal loans (other than home loans) saw a lot of defaults in the wake of the global financial crisis. According to Macquarie Capital associate director Suresh Ganapathy, “Drawing parallels with the global financial crisis of 2008 won’t work here…At that time, banks lent recklessly, not much analytics was used, dependence on Cibil or Cibil’s database at that time was still developing. Today, Cibil has 400 million plus unique records,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/personal-loans-are-now-28-of-total-bank-credit/articleshow/74999627.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 6, 2020||Surat||Diamond City reports second death due to COVID-19||SURAT: A 61-year-old woman from Pal, who had tested positive for COVID-19, passed away at Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital on Sunday, taking the toll due to the deadly virus to two in the city. Rajani Lilani, suffering from hypertension, breathlessness and diabetes, was immediately put on ventilator at the hospital on Friday. Her tests came positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. A 67-year-old man from Nanpura had died at Mahavir Hospital due to COVID-19 on March 22. Health officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that the health of the woman deteriorated on Saturday night and that she breathed her last at about 1.15am. Sources said the woman's son owns a shop at Radha Krishna Textile Market at Sahara Darwaja where a 62-year-old textile trader from Parvat Patiya tested positive for COVID-19 on March 25. While the woman had no travel history, her son had been to Mumbai in the last 10 days. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), said, "The woman breathed her last at Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital. Her last rites were performed at Jehangirpura crematorium as per government protocol at about 4am. Hers was second death due to COVID-19 in the city." Later, the entire crematorium was disinfected Dr Naik informed that about eight close contacts of the woman were shifted to government quarantine facility at Samras hostel on VNSGU campus. Their samples have been sent for testing at a laboratory. Three test positive for COVID-19 in city Surat: Three persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking total number of positive cases to 14 in the city. Rameshchandra Rana, 65, from Begumpura, and Abdul Wahid Qureshi, 50, from Adajan Patia, who were admitted to Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital, and Satyabhama Vanare, 40, from Pandesara, admitted to New Civil Hospital, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Health condition of all the three patients, who do not have any travel history, is said to be stable. Sources said Vanare is mother of the sales executive of a supermarket, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 1. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 positive patient identified as Tohled Arif Pathan, 32, residing in Rander, was discharged from New Civil Hospital after his samples tested negative for the virus on Saturday night. About one square kilometre area of Rander town was placed under mass quarantine after detection of two positive COVID-19 cases there recently. Health officials said about eight people with suspected symptoms of the virus were admitted to SMIMER hospital and Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital on Sunday. COVID-19 Metre Total suspected cases: 195 Total positive cases: 14 Total negative cases: 177 Reports pending: 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-city-reports-second-death-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/74999686.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Patna||Archbishop leads prayer services on Palm Sunday||PATNA: Around 11,340 people attended the special prayer services through live streaming on social media on the occasion of Palm Sunday. Patna Archbishop William D’souza led the prayer ceremony held on Patna Women’s College premises at 7am. Palm Sunday marks the start of Holy Week, the most significant seven days of the Christian calendar and end of Lent period. The prayer ceremony started with a brief address by the Archbishop asking the faithful to participate actively and consciously in the celebration of the Holy Week from their homes. “In this week, we need to pray, understand the sufferings of Jesus Christ, penance for our sins and indulge in charitable work, then only we would get the blessings of the Lord,” he said. He urged devotees to read St Marcus and St Lucas before Maundy Thursday at their homes and self-empty themselves from all kind of bad thoughts like anger, enmity, gossiping, boasting, resentment and grudge. He read verses from Chapter 14 of Gospel of Lucas, which account of the Christ’s entry into Jerusalem, marking the beginning of his passion, his time of suffering, death and resurrection celebrated during the Holy Week. He then poured the holy water on palm leaves. “Jesus, the saviour of the world and the kings of the king, was born in the humility of Bethlehem. All throughout the Gospels, he taught his apostles and disciples the importance of humility with that he entered Jerusalem,” William D’souza said. The other prayer services, including Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter would also telecast on the YouTube channel of the Patna archdiocese. Ashish Lawrence, a resident of Digha locality, said it was a different experience to attend prayer services online. “But we participated with utmost devotion as if we were attending the mass congregation at church,” he said. The parish priests of city churches conducted closed-door prayer services at deserted churches due to the nationwide lockdown in view of coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/archbishop-leads-prayer-services-on-palm-sunday/articleshow/74998454.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 12 persons sent to isolation centre||BHAGALPUR: Eleven residents of Naugachia besides son of a 65-year old person, who tested Covid-19 positive, has been sent to the isolation centre at the Naugachia sadar hospital on Sunday. While intensive door-to-door identification of the Naugachia locality, where the corona positive person lived, has been ordered by the district administration in order to identify the other persons who might have come into the contact of the positive person. The district and health department is also contemplating to declare the 3km of circle area around the corona positive man’s house as the ‘containment zone’. Beyond the 3km containment area, the next 7km would be declared as ‘buffer zone’, said sources adding, “Asha workers, anganbari workers, ANMs, panchayat members and others will make a door-to-door survey in the containment zone to identify persons who might have come into the contact of the positive man.”  Naugachia SDO Mukesh Kumar is monitoring the persons who have been kept in the isolation ward at sadar hospital. The corona positive man along with his family had travelled to UK (England) recently for a family function there and arrived at teh Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata, from London on March 18 and then to Naugachia on March 19. On April 2, the man developed cough and cold and also complained about breathing problem. The man, accompanied by his wife, reached the ‘flu corner’ at sadar hospital where his and his wife’s throat swab samples were taken and sent to RMRI, Patna for pathological test. “On April 4 evening, the man’s pathological report confirmed his being infected with coronavirus (positive) whereas his wife’s report was negative,” said civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Singh. Following the report, the health department got the man admitted at the isolation ward of JLNMCH in the night of April 4. JLNMCH superintendent Dr R C Mandal said the corona positive man was admitted on Saturday night and is being treated by medical experts. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar has ordered to identify all persons who came in contact of the corona positive man after he reached Naugachia. Meanwhile, according to unconfirmed reports, the man, even during his home quarantine period had roamed around in his locality and mingled with people freely which is a cause of concern for the district administration and health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-persons-sent-to-isolation-centre/articleshow/74998537.cms||Kumar Rajesh
April 6, 2020||Business||Personal loans are now 28% of total bank credit||MUMBAI: The share of personal loans in the books of banks has outgrown credit to large industry over the last 12 months. Home loans are now the single biggest sector in terms of advances, accounting for nearly 15% of bank credit as against infrastructure which has an 11.3% share. According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), bank credit as of end-February stood at Rs 89.8 lakh crore — an increase of only 7.3% over the previous year. Of this, the share of credit to the manufacturing sector is 31%, or Rs 27.9 lakh crore. This is almost unchanged from the end of February 2019 when, because of a much smaller base, industry accounted for a third (33%) of bank credit. Personal loans on the other hand have grown 17% and stand at Rs 25.3 lakh crore (28% of the loan book) as of end February 2020. Growth in the personal loan segment has been driven by home loans, which also grew 17% year-on-year to Rs 13.3 lakh crore. This surge has increased the share of home loans in overall bank credit to 14.8%. Other personal loans, which include unsecured credit, grew at 20% to Rs 7 lakh crore, or nearly 8% of the banking sector’s portfolio. The third-biggest segment is personal services where non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are the biggest borrower category. Loans to NBFCs, which stood at Rs 5.75 lakh crore as of February 2019, jumped 22% to Rs 7 lakh crore. Overall, the services sector accounts for Rs 24.3 lakh crore of bank loans (27% of bank credit). It is in this segment that some of the most impacted businesses like tourism and hotels fall. However, bank exposure to this segment is relatively small at Rs 45,000 crore. Specific industries that are expected to be hit on account of the Covid-19 crisis include iron and steel, because of a slowdown in construction and auto. Bank exposure to this industry has fallen from Rs 2.8 lakh crore to Rs 2.5 lakh crore due to deleveraging by some companies and the sale of stressed producers to foreign companies. There have been concerns that the Covid-19 crisis could lead to stress among borrowers, including in the individual segment. This is because personal loans (other than home loans) saw a lot of defaults in the wake of the global financial crisis. According to Macquarie Capital associate director Suresh Ganapathy, “Drawing parallels with the global financial crisis of 2008 won’t work here…At that time, banks lent recklessly, not much analytics was used, dependence on Cibil or Cibil’s database at that time was still developing. Today, Cibil has 400 million plus unique records,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/personal-loans-are-now-28-of-total-bank-credit/articleshow/74999595.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||108 EMT heeds to duty than ailing dad||RAJKOT: This emergency medical technician (EMT) of 108 ambulance cannot brush duty aside for family, not even when his father suffered a cardiac arrest. Jayanti Gohil is serving as EMT in Vijpadi village of Savarkundla taluka in Amreli district and with only two 108 ambulances in Savarkundla taluka, they are constantly in demand now. Calls of emergency have increased by 50 percent looking to the current situation, said Gohil who took his father, Keshavbhai, to Bhavnagar Sir T hospital and got him admitted, while returning to duty the same day. “This is a critical time and I have to serve the entire society. For me, my duty comes first before the family,” said Gohil, whose father is engaged in agricultural work. Program manager of Amreli, Bhavnagar and Botad, Chetan Gadhe said, “The call flow has increased by 50 percent now because private clinics and hospitals are closed in many areas. Therefore, all these calls are directed to us and we have to take the patients to the hospital. With fear of the virus so huge, that people even call if they have common cold.” The two ambulances between Savarkundla and Vijapadi get an average 55 to 60 calls every day. “This is a critical situation and we need more hands. Vaghela is a inspiration for all of us as despite the crisis in his own family, he hasn’t even asked for leave in this critical juncture when we are busy serving the people,” Gadhe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/108-emt-heeds-to-duty-than-ailing-dad/articleshow/74998796.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC sanitises areas near Covid victim’s home in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 83 teams were pressed into action at Ramswamy Compound in Secunderabad’s Gandhinagar on Sunday following the death of a person due to coronavirus on April 3. Each team consisted of an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), entomology staff, sanitation worker and Asha workers. For every 10 teams, a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) staff member has been appointed to monitor the operations. While ANMs are checking residents for coronavirus symptoms, the entomology staff is spraying sodium hypochlorite solution to disinfect the area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-sanitises-areas-near-covid-victims-home/articleshow/75000411.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man who stands guard for nine hours to keep us safe||JAIPUR: Standing in front of the barricade in one corner of Badi Chaupar near Ramganj, 26-year-old Prahlad Rai, a constable with Rajasthan police, works tirelessly to ensure full compliance of curfew. He has been posted here for a fortnight and with a sudden rise in the number of positive cases at Ramganj, he has been receiving frantic calls from his jhunjhunu-based family and friends. “Initially, people were not abiding the lockdown and used to come out of their homes in numbers. However, now after realising that number of cases in Ramganj is increasing, most people abide by curfew rules. But there are still few youths who come out with various excuses and need to be managed,” said Prahlad, who along with three others spends 8 to 10 hours daily guarding the checkpoints at these barricades. “It is tiring but necessary. We all need to take pain killers at times for muscle pain,” he said. Prahlad stays at Rajasthan police lines at Chandpole and stays on duty from 1 pm to 10 pm. “We are not standing without a purpose. Why are you defying curfew orders and roaming without work?” Prahlad, reprimanded a 54-year-old man who had come near the barricade. Prahlad and his co-workers keep track on developments and Covid-19 cases through social networking platforms. “Like everyone else, we are also worried as the cases are increasing everyday. My wife and parents talk to me every night and urge me to be safe. My colleagues too are getting frequent calls from their families,” he said. “For most of us, the phone call from home is what refreshes us after a tiring day and prepares us for the next one. I look forward to hearing my infant son babbling over the phone,” he added. They visit the interiors of Ramganj and distribute food and other supplies, which leaves no time for them to have proper lunch. “We hurriedly eat whatever is available and there are times when all we manage is a packet of biscuits,” he says. After reaching the police lines, Prahlad takes a bath and washes his uniform. “In normal days, we wash our uniform once in three days. But, these days we wash it everyday. Since I have two pairs, I manage,” he says. “Since most of us are living alone, we have to take care of ourselves and make do with whatever is available,” he said. Prahlad is one of 5,000 policemen in Jaipur and 90,000 in the state who are serving during the lockdown to ensure safety of public. “At least 90,000 policemen of all units are working since lockdown. We are into arranging and sending food, grocery and other items. At times, we also use our vehicles to take those who are ailing and need immediate medical attention,” said BL Soni, additional director general (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-who-stands-guard-for-9-hours-to-keep-us-safe/articleshow/75000399.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||BJP MLA booked for celebrating birthday with ration distribution||WARDHA: Offences were registered against MLA Dadarao Keche at Arvi police station under sections 188 and 269 of IPC by the police on Sunday for violating social distancing and lockdown norms. The BJP Arvi MLA had celebrated his birthday by inviting poor people to his residence to distribute ration on Sunday. The crowd, which included poor as well as labourers, started pouring in at the MLA’s residence since 9am. Those who noticed the event informed the police. After reaching the MLA’s residence, the police and sub-divisional officer Harish Dharmik reduced the flow of the crowd considerably. “All the rules imposed by the state as well as the Central government to curb the spread of coronavirus were violated. The MLA did not inform us about the programme and neither did he seek permission from any authority,” said Dharmik. Keche also received flak from other public figures. “When all organizations have cancelled programmes, the MLA should have done the same. If he wanted to distribute ration to the poor, then he could have done so by giving it to them at their homes,” said Bala Jagtap of Prahar Social Forum. In his defence, Keche said his detractors are bent on tarnishing his image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-mla-booked-for-celebrating-bday-with-ration-distribution/articleshow/75000410.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun Municipal Corporation sanitises areas where Covid-19 positive cases were found||DEHRADUN: A day after district administration sealed Bhagat Singh Colony and Kargi Grant after five Covid-19 positive patients were found in the areas, Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) carried out an intensive sanitisation drive in these localities on Sunday. DMC commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey told TOI, “We had recently conducted sanitisation drives in all the residential colonies in three phases. On Sunday, teams were sent to the areas where Covid-19 patients have been found. The drive will help in preventing any possibilities of the spread of the virus. The sanitisation team members have also been ordered to take utmost precaution while working in critical areas”. He added that all places of social gathering, including temple and mosque, were sanitised. Meanwhile, district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has issued orders to restrict any movement of people in these colonies. Only the supply of essentials would be permitted in these areas under supervision.MA Javed, a local shopkeeper and a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony, told TOI, “I have not moved out of my house since March 22. My shop has also remained shut since then. There is a panic in the area after five patients of our locality were found Covid-19 positive. My family is following the lockdown guidelines and I just hope others also remain inside their homes till our country gets rid of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-sanitises-areas-where-covid-ve-cases-were-found/articleshow/74998782.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Varanasi||Curfew clamped in 4 areas after new cases reported in Varanasi||VARANASI: The city registered its first coronavirus casualty while four new Covid-19 cases were detected following which curfew was imposed in Madanpura, Bajardiha, Gangapur and Lohta localities on Sunday while some areas under Shivpur police jurisdiction were sealed. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Curfew has been clamped in Madanpura under the limits of Dashashwamedh police station, Bajardiha under Bhelupur, Gangapur and Lohta, both under Mirzamurad police station area. There is no curfew in other localities of these four police station areas. It has been done for proper screening of people of these localities, sanitisation and other necessary exercises.” Covid-19 infection was confirmed in a person who had died in Gangapur area while a woman of Bajardiha, who had recently returned from Umrah, was found to be infected by the virus. A 55-year-old shopkeeper of Gangapur area was referred to SSL Hospital of BHU after being treated by two private doctors. He died late on April 3 before his Covid test reports could arrive. Earlier, two Tablighi Jamaat attendees staying in mosques in Madanpura and one youth of Lohta area, who had returned from Moradabad, had tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. On Sunday morning, the administration received report of another Covid-19 positive case. A 42-year-old woman of Bajardiha, who had gone for Umrah with her husband and returned by train on March 16 via Delhi after arriving there from Jeddah by flight, was confirmed as Covid-19 positive, the DM said. “She is already a tuberculosis (TB) patient and has been undergoing treatment for it. Her husband has tested negative. The couple had turned up for coronavirus test following repeated warning by district administration to those foreign returnees. The woman was suffering from fever,” he added. The administration had sealed Madanpura and Lohta areas on Saturday after two Jamaat attendees were confirmed Covid-19 positive. Samples of 23 persons of different localities of Varanasi were sent for test. A 25-year-old youth of Lohta, an undergraduate student of Shahi madrassa in Mandi Chowk area of Moradabad, was also confirmed as Covid-19 positive on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/curfew-clamped-in-4-areas-after-new-cases-reported/articleshow/74999224.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Two women killed in year’s 1st forest fire casualty in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: In this year’s first forest fire casualty incident in Uttarakhand, two women were killed when they got trapped in a forest fire in Bageshwar district of Kumaon on Saturday evening. The incident occurred at Kapkot block of Bageshwar forest division when both the victims along with one other woman of the village had gone to collect fodder in the jungle. The women, identified as Ganga Devi and Indira Devi, both between the age group of 35 to 40 years, were residents of Chechai village in the area. The body of one woman was found late Saturday evening while the burnt remains of another could be retrieved on Sunday morning around 6.30 am. "Villagers told us that the women were trapped in a very difficult terrain and therefore couldn’t get any space to come out of the fires. The person who was with them is still in a state of shock. We had gone to meet the victim’s family, who will be compensated after post-mortem and due investigations,”" said Mayank Jha, DFO, Bageshwar. Meanwhile, some forest officials said that with rains in the hilly areas, the forest fire does not seem to have been triggered naturally and in fact, could be ‘man-made’. “When rains are still going on, it is impossible to have fires in the forest naturally. We are going to register FIRs against unknown people and ensure proper investigation brings the guilty to book. Any kind of negligence by villagers will not be tolerated at any cost," said BK Gangtey, state nodal officer (forest fires), Uttarakhand forest department. Forest teams have meanwhile sealed the area and investigations are ongoing. Uttarakhand recorded 2158 forest fire incidences in 2019 and lost 2981 hectares forest cover to the wild fires along with half a dozen instances of burn injuries being recorded. No human casualties were recorded in last year's fires. This year, since the beginning of the forest fire season on February 15, the state has witnessed five fire incidents in Tehri, Pithoragarh and Almora districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-women-killed-in-yrs-1st-forest-fire-casualty-in-ukhand/articleshow/74997802.cms||Shivani Azad
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops intercept 7 trucks taking 200 sugar cane cutters to Beed||Kolhapur: The police on Saturday intercepted seven trucks that were carrying as many as 200 sugar cane cutters along with 36 animals.According to police, these workers were going from Shirol taluka to their native villages in Beed district. They were, however, persuaded by the police to stay put on the premises of Datta Shirol cooperative sugar mill until the ongoing 21-day lockdown is lifted. “A police team spotted a truck that had stopped at a fuel station to fill diesel. When the driver of the vehicle was asked about the people in the truck, he said that they were sugar cane cutters. The workers then revealed that there are six more trucks that are planning to leave Kolhapur. The police team stopped the workers and sent them to the sugar mill” a police officer said.Kishor Kale, deputy superintendent of police (Shirol division) said, “We persuaded the workers to stay on the mill premises till April 14. We conveyed them the message from our Beed counterparts, who also asked them to stay in Kolhapur till the lockdown is lifted. We have directed the mill administration to take care of the workers and provide them with all the essential commodities.”Ganpatrao Patil, chairman of Datta Shirol cooperative sugar mill, said, “We had appealed to the workers to stay on the mill premises. We also told them that we will make all the arrangement for their stay and food. However, they were adamant to leave for their homes. During floods we took care of more than 15,000 people and now we do not have any problem to take care of 4,000 cane cutters till the lockdown is in place. We are providing all the necessary material required by them to stay on the mill premises.”Meanwhile, 23 workers, who were trying to go back to their hometown in Beed from Talandge village in Hatkanangle taluka, met with an accident on Friday night at Kagwad near Sangli after the tractor trolley that was carrying them overturned.They have been admitted to a government hospital in Sangli. Two people attached with Datta Shirol sugar mill who were looking after the management of these workers have been booked for violating the lockdown rules by allowing them to go home. A case has been registered against them under relevant sections at the Shirol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-intercept-7-trucks-taking-200-sugar-cane-cutters-to-beed/articleshow/74999953.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh cops ‘home-deliver’ 63 FIRs to lockdown violators in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police in UP’s Muzaffarnagar on Sunday “home-delivered” copies of 63 FIRs at the door steps of 275 people booked for violating lockdown on the first day of its novel initiative to keep people indoors. Upping the ante against the lockdown violators, local police has now decided to not only register but also home-deliver FIRs to offenders based on video footage and CCTV surveillance. On Sunday, CCTV grabs of policemen baton-charging people coming out of their houses also surfaced on social media. Notably, as many as 1,300 people who were caught breaking lockdown here in Muzaffarnagar have been booked under section 188 of IPC so far. Several people, including 12 Jamaatis from Nepal, were slapped with sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code. Senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav had ordered to track the lockdown violators by using CCTV cameras, mobile phone footages and deliver FIR copies at their doorsteps. “We will continue to register cases against them. If someone is found violating the lockdown twice, we will send him to jail,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-cops-home-deliver-63-firs-to-lockdown-violators-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/74999955.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||10 booked for spreading rumours||Kolhapur: The city police have booked as many as 10 people in six different cases of spreading rumours on various social media platforms regarding Covid-19 and hatred against a particular community.  No arrests have been made so far. In all the six cases, police have booked the group administrators and members of different social media groups where such messages were posted. Police initiated action after the teams monitoring social media platforms noticed the messages and videos spreading false information related to Mahalaxmi temple, people returning from Tablighi Jamaat inDelhi and messages spreading hatred among the communities. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police (Karveer division), said, “Action against these suspects have been taken under relevant sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act, 2005.” He added, “We also appeal to the people that if they come across any fake message being circulated on the social media, they should send us the screen shots. We will immediately take action.” Meanwhile, police on Sunday seized 227 two-wheelers of those violating lockdown rules. — Vivek Waghmode||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-booked-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/74999960.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 6, 2020||Business||Co-working companies offer sops, waive rents to retain clients||BENGALURU: Several co-working space providers have waived rentals, or are providing rental discounts, for their customers for April, since most customers are not using the spaces on account of the lockdown. Some are doing it because they are worried that the clients, many of who pay on a monthly basis for each seat, will move away from them if they don’t provide concessions during this difficult time.  For some of the space providers, the biggest customers are startups — a segment that has been among the worst hit, given their limited cash reserves. WeWork India, the franchise arm of WeWork and run by billionaire Jitu Virwani’s Embassy Group, has decided to provide heavy discounts to its clients, industry executives said. “Whatever the period of lockdown, they have told their clients that they only need to pay 30% rent for that time. This has been done to ensure at least some steady cash flow, and to not lose clients,” said one person aware of the development. WeWork India CEO Karan Virwani did not respond to a request for comment. WeWork’s clients are a mix of corporates and startups. Several companies said that clients plan to invoke the force majeure, or ‘Act of God’, clause in their agreements. This is a clause that allows a contracting party to not fulfil a responsibility when some unpredictable and extraordinary circumstances emerge. Co-working space provider 91springboard’s CEO Anand Vemuri said given the Covid-19 situation, the company will not contest against force majeure. People familiar with the matter said 91springboard has not yet raised invoices for this month and plans not to do so even for the next. The company is also in talks with landlords of its 27 hubs to cut or waive rentals. It is asking its members to cover a nominal space management fee, which includes the cost of maintenance, internet and salaries of housekeeping and security staff, which is 20% of the membership fee. Awfis, which counts Sequoia Capital and ChrysCapital among its major investors, has not waived rentals, but said whatever savings it incurs on lower electricity consumption and internet charges will be passed on to its clients. “For the buildings we have leased, which is about 40% of our portfolio, we too have asked for waivers. Only 20% of the landlords have agreed till now. It is a wait-and-watch situation,” said CEO Amit Ramani. An executive of Blackrock-backed firm GoWork said most of its clients have asked for a rent waiver. He did not say how GoWork would respond. But he indicated that the job situation is so bad that even if clients renew contracts, it will be for far fewer seats. CoWrks, owned by Bengaluru-based office developer RMZ Corp, said it hasn’t waived rentals for its clients nor has asked its parent company to do so. “But if the lockdown extends, we may change our position,” Siddharth Menda, founder and vice-chairman, said. Even before the pandemic, co-working space providers were under pressure due to greater investor scrutiny and an increasingly difficult environment to raise funds after WeWork’s botched IPO. It has now become significantly worse with the swanky spaces, with all modern amenities and recreational facilities, being deserted. Industry analysts believe an industry consolidation is inevitable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/co-working-cos-offer-sops-waive-rents-to-retain-clients/articleshow/74999965.cms||Avik Das
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Bathing in cow dung: Superstitions abound on how to tackle Covid-19||DEHRADUN: The scourge of novel coronavirus has triggered the surge of several superstitions on how to fight the disease. From bathing in cow dung to putting a black mark on the small finger of a hand to ward off the effects of the disease, several people are trying every advice in circulation online to keep the virus at bay. Self-styled godman Gopal Mani Maharaj for instance has released videos in which he can be seen bathing in a mixture of cow dung and cow urine. The godman, who is also involved in ‘cow protection’, can be seen addressing devotees while standing immersed inside a mound of cow dung. In another video, he can be seen claiming that Covid-19 is a venereal disease that requires a ‘hidden’ cure, which is cow dung. The godman has many followers in the state and outside. His video appeared a fortnight after Hindu Mahasabha members organised a cow urine party in Uttar Pradesh, many of whom were later arrested for it. “What if someone catches an infection by trying to copy the godman? People must understand the sensitivity of the matter and refrain from giving such advice,” said Dr N S Khatri, nodal officer of Covid-19 ward at Government Doon Medical College, who advised people not to follow any superstitions or ideas being shared on social media. There are many who are also putting a black mark on their finger, an advice that has gone viral on several Whatsapp groups. Another superstition that had caused much havoc a few days ago was that Covid-19 could kill people in their sleep, believing which many people in Bijnor and Rudrapur had come out of their houses at night, too terrified to sleep. Speaking to TOI, Haridwar-based Nikhil Jain said he has started switching off his phone at night nowadays, after his uncle in Bareilly began calling him to proffer superstitious advice on how to remain safe during the outbreak. “Twice he called and said I’ll die if I remain asleep. So now, I’m switching off my phone at night. Of course, I could end up missing an urgent call, but I can’t deal with superstitions and rumours any more,” he added. According to psychologist Dr Vipul Singh, superstitions are no less dangerous than any disease. “People feel they have done what is needed to fight the disease and then, they might become a victim because of carelessness. One must understand that it’s a pandemic, and while being positive could help them psychologically, superstitions definitely won’t.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bathing-in-cow-dung-superstitions-abound-on-how-to-tackle-covid-19/articleshow/74998817.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital: Kumaun University asks professors to create online courses, says virtual classes will be started as well||NAINITAL: In view of the ongoing lockdown and the impact it is having on studies, Nainital-based Kumaun University has asked all its professors to prepare online course contents for its students. Vice-chancellor KS Rana , through a circular issued on Sunday, said that the varsity is exploring options of virtual classes and libraries so that the teachers, while working from their homes, can help students. “The university has remained shut for several days now. Therefore, we have urged all the faculty members to prepare online course content and make them available to the students," said V-C Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaun-university-asks-professors-to-create-online-courses-says-virtual-classes-will-be-started-as-well/articleshow/74998846.cms||Prashant Jha
April 6, 2020||Delhi||Jamaat probe: Police enter Markaz to get ‘real’ picture||NEW DELHI: The halls at the Alami Markaz, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, can comfortably accommodate around 1,000 people. But more than 1,800 people were fitted in and asked to sleep within a few inches of each other during the recent congregation, clearly violating the social distancing norm between March 11 and 25, said a police team that went inside on Sunday afternoon. A team of Crime Branch cops videographed the visit to find out how the people were living on various floors. On Saturday, they visited the site but didn’t go inside as the building was not adequately sanitised. The cops were asked to wear safety suits on Sunday, too, as many areas are yet to be cleaned. The team is trying to understand how things could have unfolded. The video footage clicked by an inmate is also being scanned. Cops found that people were made to sleep on the ground in close proximity. The foreigners, too, were staying in a similar condition. In a statement issued by the Markaz authorities on Saturday, Maulana Yousuf, son of Tablighi head Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, said the volunteers didn’t depend on any external support during their stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamaat-probe-police-enter-markaz-to-get-real-picture/articleshow/75000637.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Salem||Delay in collecting fees: Unable to pay staff, say private schools in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A majority of private schools claim they are not in a position to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for March, following the state government’s order not to collect fees from parents due to the Covid-19 lockdown. More than one lakh teachers and non-teaching staff work in more than 12,000 private schools in Tamil Nadu. While some schools collect fees term wise, many schools collect fees monthly based on the economic condition of their students’ parents. Such schools were caught unawares due to the sudden closure of educational institutions to contain the spread of Covid-19 last month. “More than 50% of students are yet to pay term fees and monthly fees. The sudden closure announced by the state government came as a rude shock to them,” said N Vijayan, patron of Kancheepuram District Self-Financing Private Schools Association. “We understand the situation and respect the government’s order to not collect fees. But naks are hesitating to give us soft loans for three months. Either the state government or Centre should direct banks to give short-time loans to schools,” he added. K R Nandakumar, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Association, said financial stress on private schools would be eased if the state government released the reimbursement for RTE admissions immediately. “State government owes several hundred crores for RTE admissions made in 2018-19, 2019-20,” Nandakumar said. Officials from the school education department said private schools have to keep a month’s salary for their staff in bank accounts and that it was a condition for affiliation. “The state government has released Rs 248 crore as reimbursement for RTE admissions for 2018-19 and it will reach schools shortly,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/delay-in-collecting-fees-unable-to-pay-staff-say-private-schools/articleshow/75005903.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Puducherry||Delay in collecting fees: Unable to pay staff, say private schools in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A majority of private schools claim they are not in a position to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for March, following the state government’s order not to collect fees from parents due to the Covid-19 lockdown. More than one lakh teachers and non-teaching staff work in more than 12,000 private schools in Tamil Nadu. While some schools collect fees term wise, many schools collect fees monthly based on the economic condition of their students’ parents. Such schools were caught unawares due to the sudden closure of educational institutions to contain the spread of Covid-19 last month. “More than 50% of students are yet to pay term fees and monthly fees. The sudden closure announced by the state government came as a rude shock to them,” said N Vijayan, patron of Kancheepuram District Self-Financing Private Schools Association. “We understand the situation and respect the government’s order to not collect fees. But naks are hesitating to give us soft loans for three months. Either the state government or Centre should direct banks to give short-time loans to schools,” he added. K R Nandakumar, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Association, said financial stress on private schools would be eased if the state government released the reimbursement for RTE admissions immediately. “State government owes several hundred crores for RTE admissions made in 2018-19, 2019-20,” Nandakumar said. Officials from the school education department said private schools have to keep a month’s salary for their staff in bank accounts and that it was a condition for affiliation. “The state government has released Rs 248 crore as reimbursement for RTE admissions for 2018-19 and it will reach schools shortly,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/delay-in-collecting-fees-unable-to-pay-staff-say-private-schools/articleshow/75005900.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttrakhand observes 9-min blackout, UPCL reduces power generation at main plants to avoid glitches||DEHRADUN: PM Modi’s call to observe a 9-minute long blackout at 9 pm on Sunday saw an enthusiastic response in Uttarakhand with several residents switching off their home lights and lighting earthern lamps (diyas) and candles. Many came out of their homes holding candles, diyas and lit-up torches while some could be seen bursting crackers during this period. There were fears that the sudden drop in consumption and surge in demand after 9.09 pm could strain the northern grid and unleash a series of equipment failure including tripping of transformers at the sub- stations. In light of this concern, Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) had reduced power generation of its main plants ten minute before the clock struck 9 pm. Speaking to TOI, BCK Mishra, managing director, UPCL, said, “Although we had taken adequate precautions, there was no sudden load or drop in the power consumption because only lights were switched off in residential premises while other equipment-- like TV, AC, heaters, fridge and geysers--were kept out of the blackout.” He added that all essential services like hospitals, police stations and other vital establishments of central government were also kept out of the blackout. Incidentally, as per UPCL, the ongoing lockdown has plummeted the state’s power consumption to 18 million units from the average daily demand of 36 million units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-observes-9-min-blackout-upcl-reduces-power-generation-at-main-plants-to-avoid-glitches/articleshow/74997826.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 4th +ve case, 11 samples sent for testing||Kolhapur: Satara registered its fourth case on Sunday after a 54-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19. His throat swab samples were sent to NIV, Pune, on Saturday and the reports on Sunday confirmed the infection. According to the district health department officials, the patient works as a driver in Mumbai and has been staying alone for the last 14 years while his family stays in a village near Satara. He is diabetic and had travelled to his native place on March 8 using a private vehicle. He reported of cold and fever on March 30 at a rural primary health centre in Satara. Shekhar Singh, district collector, Satara, told TOI that there is little uncertainty over his travel history. “Our officials are working out the patient’s exact date of arrival and other details,” he said. “The preliminary information that we have received states that he was suggested home quarantine upon his arrival, though he was not stamped. He had a fever on March 27 and reported it to a primary health centre on March 30. We found that he had severe pneumonia from his X-ray report on April 3. He was referred to the district hospital on April 4, when his swab sample was sent to NIV, Pune,” said Aniruddha Athalye, Satara’s district health officer. He added that they are already working to trace his close associates and the primary health centre staff members, where he was admitted. They all have been asked to quarantine themselves. The patient has a wife, two daughters and a son. “There is also a possibility that the patient might have travelled to other parts of the village or to some other event, which needs to be verified,” said Athalye. On Sunday, the health department officials sent 11 swab samples to NIV. Among them, four had a travel history to Delhi during the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz period. The collector confirmed that the swab sample of the first two positive cases has also been sent to the NIV for further tests. “If found negative, we will start with the discharge formalities,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-4th-ve-case-11-samples-sent-for-testing/articleshow/74999968.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man who fired at dairy owner lynched||RAJKOT: A 34-year-old man was allegedly lynched by family members of Surendranagar municipality member after the former opened fire at him over an old dispute. The victim Rama Lanbariya had gone to the dairy of municipality member Gautam Gamara and fired four rounds at him in Kumbharpura locality. Two bullets hit Gamara in the stomach and ribs. Gamara collapsed and his family members rushed out of the house hearing the firing. While some of them rushed Lanbariya to the hospital, others, whose numbers and identities were not ascertained, launched a brutal assault on Lanbariya with bats and iron pipes. Lanbariya was rushed to Ahmedabad in an ambulance but he died on the way, said V P Malhotra, sub-inspector with Surendranagar B division police station. Meanwhile, Gamara is recovering in the Surendranagar civil hospital and he regained consciousness. Police said there was a bitter dispute between Gamara and Lanbariya for the past 18 months over the elections to the director of Surendranagar milk cooperative society. “Gamara’s sister-in-law had filed her nomination for the director’s post. Lanbariya had asked Gamara to persuade her to withdraw the nomination. However, Gamara refused and this caused lot of bitterness between the two ,” said Malhotra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-who-fired-at-dairy-owner-lynched/articleshow/74998843.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 cases surge past 250 mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Sunday recorded 60 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the state to 252. It took just five days for the state to surge past the 250 mark from 44 cases on March 31. Kurnool has the highest number of 53 cases, followed by Nellore at 34, Guntur at 30, Krishna at 28 and Prakasam at 23. Of the 252 cases, nearly 225 are linked to the Delhi Jamaat meeting. According to health authorities, they tracked nearly 950 Delhi returnees and their 1,118 primary contacts. Samples have been collected from nearly 880 people, who went to Delhi meeting and their immediate contacts. The health department announced the details of 90 patients including towns and cities they belong to. Apart from demarcating an area of 3-km radius around their residences as containment zones, officials informed that they declared a buffer zone in an additional 5-km radius. In another dvelopment which could reflect the fear among the public over the pandemic, about 200 ‘108’ ambulances had ferried nearly 3500 persons to various hospitals in March in the state after receiving panic calls. According to sources, the 108 vehicles would hardly get 1,500 emergency calls a month. “But there was a sudden increase in the number of calls, primarily due to the panic situation over the coronavirus. The trend may even continue in April due to the increasing cases, ongoing lockdown and travel restrictions,” said an official. A newly inaugurated virus research and diagnostic laboratory at the King George Hospital became operational from April 6. The state government has already set up six 24x7 VRDLs in Tirupati, Vijayawada, Kakinada, Kadapa, Guntur and Anantapur with combined testing of 570 samples a day. The new lab is expected to further increase the testing capacity of the samples in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-covid-19-cases-surge-past-250-mark/articleshow/75000416.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Delay in collecting fees: Unable to pay staff, say private schools in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A majority of private schools claim they are not in a position to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for March, following the state government’s order not to collect fees from parents due to the Covid-19 lockdown. More than one lakh teachers and non-teaching staff work in more than 12,000 private schools in Tamil Nadu. While some schools collect fees term wise, many schools collect fees monthly based on the economic condition of their students’ parents. Such schools were caught unawares due to the sudden closure of educational institutions to contain the spread of Covid-19 last month. “More than 50% of students are yet to pay term fees and monthly fees. The sudden closure announced by the state government came as a rude shock to them,” said N Vijayan, patron of Kancheepuram District Self-Financing Private Schools Association. “We understand the situation and respect the government’s order to not collect fees. But naks are hesitating to give us soft loans for three months. Either the state government or Centre should direct banks to give short-time loans to schools,” he added. K R Nandakumar, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Association, said financial stress on private schools would be eased if the state government released the reimbursement for RTE admissions immediately. “State government owes several hundred crores for RTE admissions made in 2018-19, 2019-20,” Nandakumar said. Officials from the school education department said private schools have to keep a month’s salary for their staff in bank accounts and that it was a condition for affiliation. “The state government has released Rs 248 crore as reimbursement for RTE admissions for 2018-19 and it will reach schools shortly,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/delay-in-collecting-fees-unable-to-pay-staff-say-private-schools/articleshow/75000636.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Homes light up the dark to fight coronavirus||Pune: Tubelights and bulbs at most homes across the city went out a minute before the clock struck 9 on Sunday night. At 9pm sharp, diyas, candles, torches and flashlights were visible at nearly every home in response to the appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Deccan area, families stood on balconies or terraces of their homes around a single diya and were heard chanting Vedic mantras. “We could hear some families singing traditional prayer songs and clapping near our house. Some families stood on the terraces looking around while the younger members of the families could be heard screaming restlessly. We also saw firecrackers going off at a distance,” a resident of Bhandarkar Road said. Firecrackers were reportedly set off at numerous areas, including Ahmednagar Road, Old Sangvi, Sinhagad Road, Baner and others. Along Sinhagad Road, people used torches and mobile phone flashlights while some walked on the roads shouting their support for the government. The atmosphere at Dhayari Phata was like India had won the cricket World Cup, with gatherings on terraces of buildings and rousing chants of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, a local resident said. At Pimple Saudagar, a few firecrackers were heard going off while most people used torchlight and mobile flashlights in equal measure with diyas. Chants of ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Go Corona’ filled the silent airspace throughout the nine minutes. “Most housing societies in Bhusari Colony and Bavdhan had switched off lights. Many residents decorated their balconies with diyas like they do during Diwali. People were even lighting fire crackers while standing their balconies and shouting ‘Go Corona Go’,” said a local resident. In several areas, the street lights had also been turned off for 9 minutes. A number of hotels in the city played with lighting to display lit diyas on the facade of their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/homes-light-up-the-dark-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75000415.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Erode||Delay in collecting fees: Unable to pay staff, say private schools in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A majority of private schools claim they are not in a position to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for March, following the state government’s order not to collect fees from parents due to the Covid-19 lockdown. More than one lakh teachers and non-teaching staff work in more than 12,000 private schools in Tamil Nadu. While some schools collect fees term wise, many schools collect fees monthly based on the economic condition of their students’ parents. Such schools were caught unawares due to the sudden closure of educational institutions to contain the spread of Covid-19 last month. “More than 50% of students are yet to pay term fees and monthly fees. The sudden closure announced by the state government came as a rude shock to them,” said N Vijayan, patron of Kancheepuram District Self-Financing Private Schools Association. “We understand the situation and respect the government’s order to not collect fees. But naks are hesitating to give us soft loans for three months. Either the state government or Centre should direct banks to give short-time loans to schools,” he added. K R Nandakumar, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Association, said financial stress on private schools would be eased if the state government released the reimbursement for RTE admissions immediately. “State government owes several hundred crores for RTE admissions made in 2018-19, 2019-20,” Nandakumar said. Officials from the school education department said private schools have to keep a month’s salary for their staff in bank accounts and that it was a condition for affiliation. “The state government has released Rs 248 crore as reimbursement for RTE admissions for 2018-19 and it will reach schools shortly,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/delay-in-collecting-fees-unable-to-pay-staff-say-private-schools/articleshow/75005901.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP Sawang appeals for cooperation||Vijayawada: The director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang on Sunday appealed to the people to support the authorities to implement lockdown for another nine days to contain the spread of Covid-19. He said the next nine days are crucial in the fight against Covid-19 and it requires everybody’s cooperation to win the battle against the virus. Appreciating the police personnel, who have been on duty since the lockdown came into force, he said the cops, irrespective of rank and file, have worked relentlessly in the most challenging of conditions. He observed that police personnel have shown a great resolve to keep people safe. Although some unwanted incidents were reported at few places, he requested the people to understand the circumstances the police are working in to ensure the safety of everyone. Sawang distributed eggs among police personnel, working in the field, donated by the alumni of Andhra Loyola College. Sawang thanked the alumni for the donation. On the other hand, the ITC Group, too, donated essentials among police personnel on Sunday. The ITC donated 1.2 lakh units of juice, biscuits, noodles and other essential material. Sawang flagged off three truckload of material on Sunday at the AP police headquarters that will be distributed among all district units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-sawang-appeals-for-cooperation/articleshow/74998850.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||NMC says no onions and potatoes at temporary veggie markets||NAGPUR: Believe it or not, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) that has set up temporary 24 vegetable markets on open grounds across the city to help people during lockdown has barred sale of potatoes and onions in those markets. Citizens visiting the markets were shocked not to find potatoes and onions. The two are most important vegetables primarily because of their versatility and long shelf life. One cannot imagine cooking without onions and potatoes, was the general reaction of buyers. Archana Raut, a resident of Reshimbagh, said NMC has done a remarkable job by setting up vegetable market on Reshimbagh ground. “But I am not convinced their decision not to allow sale of potatoes and onions is right one,” she said. The decision will defeat the purpose of lockdown as people will have to make another outing or visit another place to buy potatoes and onions, said Dinesh Palange, another local resident. Kishan Balpande, a wholesale dealer of onions and potatoes, said he was standing in a queue since 10am to enter Reshimbagh ground. “In the evening the NMC officials told me I will not be allowed there,” said Balpande. Though municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was not available for comments, a senior NMC official justified civic chief’s decision saying it was to help farmers selling fresh, perishable produce. He stated that potatoes and onions were available at other markets like Budhwari Bazaar, Itwari, Gokulpeth, Mangalwari etc Chetan Bhagwan Kewte, a farmer from Dighori, expressed anguish over NMC’s decision to restrict vegetable growers’ entry to Reshimbagh ground to 60 only. Kewte said that as most of the farmers supplying vegetables to city hail from southern part of the district, they prefer Reshimbagh ground. The NMC official said entry had been restricted at all 24 vegetable markets. NMC is allotting tokens to farmers to do business in designated markets across the city, he said and added the decision had been taken to streamline functioning of all 24 markets in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-says-no-onions-and-potatoes-at-temporary-veggie-markets/articleshow/75000422.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 6, 2020||Pune||Raut for ration to those sans cards||Pune: Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to provide food articles to those without ration cards so that they do not have to starve during the lockdown. In a letter to Thackeray, the energy minister said that thousands of people living in slums do not have ration cards. Most of them are industrial workers, labourers, cycle richshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, sanitary workers, homeless persons living on footpaths, orphans, brick-kiln workers, construction workers, boot polishers, coolies and sugarcane labourers. "The lockdown has rendered them jobless and they are now starving," he said in the letter. These people have shelter, but no ration, stated the minister in his letter. Raut also urged the chief minister to allow MLAs to spend Rs25lakh from their local development fund to ensure that people do not remain hungry during the lockdown. He requested the chief minister to take a policy decision in this regard at the earliest. He pointed out that though the government was providing foodgrains to those holding ration cards, those ‘above poverty line’ who were not covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, were left out. They also needed to be provided with foodgrains from fair price (ration) shops. Besides, there are many needy people, including slum-dwellers, rickshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, people running tea stall or paan kiosks, brick-kiln workers, industrial workers, destitutes etc. These people do not have ration cards and, hence, are deprived of the benefits of the public distribution system in this hour of crisis, Raut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/raut-for-ration-to-those-sans-cards/articleshow/75000420.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||First four patients from Islampur family test negative, to be in quarantine||Kolhapur: The first four ‘index patients’ from Islampur, in Sangli district, had tested negative for Covid-19 on Sunday. Sangli guardian minister Jayant Patil said that the news comes as a relief. The tests on the remaining 21 family members will also be done soon, as they near the end of their 14-day quarantine period. The health of all the patients is said to be stable as they are recuperating at the Miraj Government Medical College (GMC). Abhijeet Chaudhary, the district collector of Sangli, told TOI: “The patients will be kept at institutional quarantine facility in Sangli. Their health will be regularly monitored. However, there will not be any more tests unless any of them develop symptoms again. The remaining family members, who near the end of their 14-day quarantine period, will also go through the same tests and will be shifted to the same institutional facility as these four.” He added that these tests were done at the newly installed laboratory at the Miraj GMC, where samples from other districts too are being tested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-four-patients-from-islampur-family-test-negative-to-be-in-quarantine/articleshow/74999983.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Professionals geting conscious about health, says MSU survey||VADODARA: Majority of people are finding the 21-day lockdown period the best time to learn new things. They are focusing on their health like never before, are getting more time to do yoga or exercises and happy to be with their families. These are the findings of a quick survey of working professionals conducted by a team from M S University’s Faculty of Management Studies (FMS). The survey carried out by associate professor (HR) Dr Sunita Sharma and her student Tejashree Nirgude was done on 100 working professionals who were asked to give their views on ‘work from home’ and effects of lockdown on their work life. “We had carried out the survey on a mixed group of professionals, including HR executives, those handling operations and finances and those handling essential services, all in the age group of 30 to 50 years,” said Sharma. “We are going to continue this survey in phases. The first phase was to gauge the initial reaction of working professionals in the first week of lockdown. We will analyze results of other weeks of lockdown period and then make a comparative analysis of whether their perception changes,” she said. So far, the response from majority of professionals is positive. “As many as 81 % of those surveyed said they have become more conscious about their health while 69 % said they get enough time to do yoga and exercises. Over half of those surveyed said their stress level has also reduced while working from home,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/professionals-geting-conscious-about-health-says-msu-survey/articleshow/74997984.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vegetables prices slump in Market Yard after farmers rush to cut back losses||PUNE: The wholesale price of vegetables slumped in the Gultekdi market yard on Sunday following a surplus arrival of the farm produce. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) recorded 11,038 quintal of vegetable arrivals, which was 2,502 quintal in excess of the 8,536 quintal arrivals at the last bazaar on April 2. The surplus arrivals led to a slump in the prices at the auction for vegetables, APMC officials and commission agents pointed out. The APMC authorities have been conducting alternate day bazaar for vegetables and for onion, potato and fruits to avoid crowding in the market ever since the lockdown was imposed. Dattatray Kalamkar, head of the vegetables division in the market, told TOI, “The intake increased because farmers couldn’t sell their produce in other markets in the last three days. The prices of almost all vegetables decreased in the open auction today.” He said that people were buying vegetables at much higher rates from the retail vendors despite adequate availability of vegetables. As of now, there is no worry about vegetable supplies, he added. The market committee decided not to allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables in a day in the market. But over 600 vehicles reached the market on Sunday. A senior APMC official said, “It has become difficult for the market committee to restrict farmers from bringing their produce here. The farmers are not getting good response in the local bazaars. Hence , they bring their produce here. Since we are holding a bazaar on alternate days, the farmers are facing problems. They can’t hold their produce in the farm and face losses. Hence, the arrivals are is high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veggie-prices-slump-in-market-yard-after-farmers-rush-to-cut-back-losses/articleshow/75000425.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Vegetable vendors allowed to sell produce at junctions & lanes; customers to benefit||Kolhapur: Citizens will no longer have to walk long miles to buy vegetables and fruits, among other essential goods, as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has allowed vendors to put up vegetable carts at lanes or junctions. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti visited some areas and fixed the spots where the vendors can put up their carts. The farmers and vendors from nearby vegetable markets will be shifted to these places. Kalshetti said that the move will ensure that people avoid walking long distances or travel on their vehicles to reach vegetable markets. It has been observed that people leave home on a daily basis to buy vegetables. Also, many people have been seen wandering unnecessarily on the pretext of buying essentials. This has defeated the purpose of lockdown. Kalshetti said, “Heavy rush is observed daily at markets. We have planned the decentralisation of the vegetable supply. People can step out of their house and buy vegetables, fruits from the local vendor authorised to sit in the lanes or at road junctions. We have marked such vending sites in localities such as Rajarampuri, Shahupuri and Gangavesh which are predominantly residential areas.”Markings will be done in more localities in the upcoming days. Also, people have been asked to follow social distancing norms at these makeshift vegetable spots. Most of the areas have started home deliveries to ensure that people stay indoors as much as possible. However, people in most areas prefer to check the vegetables themselves before making a purchase. “We have moved the mandi from Kasba Bawda fire station to Shiye-Bawda road. The new location is spacious and social distancing can be effectively followed there. Also, we have opened the grounds and gardens for vegetable carts,” Kalshetti added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vegetable-vendors-allowed-to-sell-produce-at-junctions-lanes-customers-to-benefit/articleshow/74999986.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai travel curbs: Stem cell transplants hit, patients in limbo||CHENNAI: Travel restrictions due to the lockdown have forced hospitals to postpone blood stem cell and bone marrow transplantations for patients with cancer and blood disorders. Many doctors continue to provide chemotherapy for the patients to buy another three or four weeks’ time for the transplantation. But chemotherapies too are getting increasing difficult due to a drop in blood donations. Blood stem cell transplantation (BSCT) is a life-saving treatment for leukemia, thalassemia and patients with other blood-related disorders. In this procedure, stem cells are first collected from bone marrows, peripheral blood or umbilical cord of donors and transplanted into patients. The cells then must adapt and reproduce healthy cells in the recipient for a successful transplant. Finding a compatible stem cell donor is considered the most challenging part of this. Datri, a NGO that runs a blood stem cell donor registry, has more than 2,700 patients in need of viable donors. “Right now, we have found 15 matching donors for patients. But we are unable to take them to hospitals for collecting stem cells due to travel restrictions,” said Sumati Misra, head of counselling and transplant centre, Datri. “Even if we manage to harvest the donor cells, taking the stem cells in special boxes to hospitals where the patients are admitted is almost impossible. When we moved a box from Kochi to Chennai last time, it took us two days,” she added. In India, less than one-third of patients find a sibling match and a majority depend on unrelated donors. Revathi Raj, a Chennai-based haematologist, said unrelated transplantation requires a lot of coordination across the borders — both national and international. As systems are down in the pandemic, we have limited the transplantation activity and stopped all non-urgent activity. “Even if patients need transplants urgently, hospitals are continuing with chemotherapy to buy more time. But to continue chemotherapy too we need more voluntary blood donors,” said Ruchira Mishra from SRCC Mumbai. The Union health ministry has promised support to ensure that patients get adequate blood and related components for chemotherapy. “More importantly, the patients should follow strict social isolation as their immunity levels will be weak and infections can be potentially life-threatening,” Ruchira added. Seconding this, Mayur Abhaya, managing director of LifeCell, a private stem cell bank, said patients needing stem cells are under significant risk immunity-wise and that doctors don’t choose to add further risk by performing the transplantations now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/travel-curbs-stem-cell-transplants-hit-patients-in-limbo/articleshow/75000639.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||For the poor, sarpanch nearly mortgaged wife’s ornaments||Rajkot: Few days ago, the scene at Danabhai Sidha’s house was much like the emotional ones seen in Bollywood films. Sidha, the sarpanch of Taveda, a village six km from Mahua town of Bhavnagar, was hell bent upon mortgaging all the gold ornaments of his wife and mother even as they desperately pleaded with him not to do so. By mortgaging these valuables with a bank, Sidha wanted cash as he could no longer see the plight of poor people around him due to lockdown. His wife and mother were wary of him taking such a risky step, mainly due to the emotional value attached to the ornaments. It was with great difficulty that Sidha relented after relatives and friends asked him to eschew the mortgaging idea. Instead, they got together and lent him Rs 4 lakh to serve the poor. Taveda has population of around 3.500 and most of the men work as daily wagers in onion dehydrating units of They also work in farms but are unemployed for the last fortnight. “Being the sarpanch. I could not see the pain and suffering of my people. So I decided to provide them money and food. As I don’t have so much cash, I decided to mortgage my wife’s and mother’s ornaments with the bank,” Sidha told TOI over phone. “My relatives and friends, however, convinced me not to do this and instead lent me Rs 4 lakh. They have even told me that I can return the money whenever it’s convenient and they haven’t set any deadline,” Sidha said. From the money, Sidha purchased food grains and edible oil from shops and has been distributing it among the needy people from Saturday onwards. He is also giving cash ragning from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 to anyone who requires. Sidha’s sole source of income is farming and he owns 20 bighas land in the village. “Last season, I grew cotton and groundnut, but the yield was not very good. This time I have sown white onions. I will repay in instalments to all those who lent me from my farm income,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/for-the-poor-sarpanch-nearly-mortgaged-wifes-ornaments/articleshow/74998885.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Closed HMT factory to turn into isolation centre in Uttarakhand||Nainital: With the number of coronavirus cases rising and quarantine facilities likely to run out of space, Nainital district administration on Sunday said that it will take over the erstwhile HMT watch factory on the Haldwani-Bhimtal road and turn it into an isolation centre. The factory has over 100 residential flats. The decision to take over the factory was taken after newly-appointed Kumaon Commissioner Neeraj Kharwal held a meeting with district magistrate of Nainital and the senior superintendent of police. “We have decided to take over the factory and develop it as a quarantine facility. The factory is far away from the city limits and therefore can be safe as a quarantine facility for city residents as well,” said Kharwal. Kharwal added that a team of the district administration and health department has already visited the factory and started working on cleaning the entire area. “The health department is making arrangements to clean the premises and as more cases develop in the region, they will be moved to the quarantine facility,” the commissioner said. Till now, more than 700 people have been placed in isolation in different shelter homes across the district. The district administration has also taken over several hotels in Nainital and nearby areas to develop those as quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/closed-hmt-factory-to-turn-into-isolation-centre/articleshow/74998868.cms||Prashant Jha
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune: Vegetables prices slump in Market Yard after farmers rush to cut back losses||PUNE: The wholesale price of vegetables slumped in the Gultekdi market yard on Sunday following a surplus arrival of the farm produce. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) recorded 11,038 quintal of vegetable arrivals, which was 2,502 quintal in excess of the 8,536 quintal arrivals at the last bazaar on April 2. The surplus arrivals led to a slump in the prices at the auction for vegetables, APMC officials and commission agents pointed out. The APMC authorities have been conducting alternate day bazaar for vegetables and for onion, potato and fruits to avoid crowding in the market ever since the lockdown was imposed. Dattatray Kalamkar, head of the vegetables division in the market, told TOI, “The intake increased because farmers couldn’t sell their produce in other markets in the last three days. The prices of almost all vegetables decreased in the open auction today.” He said that people were buying vegetables at much higher rates from the retail vendors despite adequate availability of vegetables. As of now, there is no worry about vegetable supplies, he added. The market committee decided not to allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables in a day in the market. But over 600 vehicles reached the market on Sunday. A senior APMC official said, “It has become difficult for the market committee to restrict farmers from bringing their produce here. The farmers are not getting good response in the local bazaars. Hence , they bring their produce here. Since we are holding a bazaar on alternate days, the farmers are facing problems. They can’t hold their produce in the farm and face losses. Hence, the arrivals are is high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/veggie-prices-slump-in-market-yard-after-farmers-rush-to-cut-back-losses/articleshow/75003381.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Pune: Vegetables prices slump in Market Yard after farmers rush to cut back losses||PUNE: The wholesale price of vegetables slumped in the Gultekdi market yard on Sunday following a surplus arrival of the farm produce. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) recorded 11,038 quintal of vegetable arrivals, which was 2,502 quintal in excess of the 8,536 quintal arrivals at the last bazaar on April 2. The surplus arrivals led to a slump in the prices at the auction for vegetables, APMC officials and commission agents pointed out. The APMC authorities have been conducting alternate day bazaar for vegetables and for onion, potato and fruits to avoid crowding in the market ever since the lockdown was imposed. Dattatray Kalamkar, head of the vegetables division in the market, told TOI, “The intake increased because farmers couldn’t sell their produce in other markets in the last three days. The prices of almost all vegetables decreased in the open auction today.” He said that people were buying vegetables at much higher rates from the retail vendors despite adequate availability of vegetables. As of now, there is no worry about vegetable supplies, he added. The market committee decided not to allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables in a day in the market. But over 600 vehicles reached the market on Sunday. A senior APMC official said, “It has become difficult for the market committee to restrict farmers from bringing their produce here. The farmers are not getting good response in the local bazaars. Hence , they bring their produce here. Since we are holding a bazaar on alternate days, the farmers are facing problems. They can’t hold their produce in the farm and face losses. Hence, the arrivals are is high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/veggie-prices-slump-in-market-yard-after-farmers-rush-to-cut-back-losses/articleshow/75003383.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Pune: Vegetables prices slump in Market Yard after farmers rush to cut back losses||PUNE: The wholesale price of vegetables slumped in the Gultekdi market yard on Sunday following a surplus arrival of the farm produce. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) recorded 11,038 quintal of vegetable arrivals, which was 2,502 quintal in excess of the 8,536 quintal arrivals at the last bazaar on April 2. The surplus arrivals led to a slump in the prices at the auction for vegetables, APMC officials and commission agents pointed out. The APMC authorities have been conducting alternate day bazaar for vegetables and for onion, potato and fruits to avoid crowding in the market ever since the lockdown was imposed. Dattatray Kalamkar, head of the vegetables division in the market, told TOI, “The intake increased because farmers couldn’t sell their produce in other markets in the last three days. The prices of almost all vegetables decreased in the open auction today.” He said that people were buying vegetables at much higher rates from the retail vendors despite adequate availability of vegetables. As of now, there is no worry about vegetable supplies, he added. The market committee decided not to allow more than 400 vehicles of vegetables in a day in the market. But over 600 vehicles reached the market on Sunday. A senior APMC official said, “It has become difficult for the market committee to restrict farmers from bringing their produce here. The farmers are not getting good response in the local bazaars. Hence , they bring their produce here. Since we are holding a bazaar on alternate days, the farmers are facing problems. They can’t hold their produce in the farm and face losses. Hence, the arrivals are is high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/veggie-prices-slump-in-market-yard-after-farmers-rush-to-cut-back-losses/articleshow/75003380.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Lohegaon sizzles at 39.7 degree Celsius, season’s highest so far||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Lohegaon observatory, which covers the eastern parts of the city, on Sunday recorded 39.7°C day temperature — the highest this season, so far. It was 1.7 degree above normal. The Shivajinagar observatory, which covers most of the remaining parts of the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 39.3°C, which was 2.2 degrees above normal. The night temperature too increased to 21.8°C in Lohegaon and 19.3°C in Pune, which was 2.8 degrees and 1.2 degrees above normal. Anumpam Kashyapi, the IMD’s head of forecast division, said, “For the next three days, the day temperature in the city will hover around 39°C, while the night temperature was expected to drop by one or two degree Celsius, under the influence of the Northerly winds.” The presence of trough line between Madhya Maharashtra and Southern Kerala in the lower atmospheric level was the main reason behind the increase in day temperature. “The wind pattern is in the north westerly direction because of this, bringing in heat from the Southern peninsular over many parts of the state including Madhya Maharashtra. This scenario has resulted in spike in maximum temperature in Pune district and Madhya Maharashtra,” he said. In Pune district, there was no chance of rainfall at least for the next three to four days, the IMD stated. “But, southern parts of Madhya Maharashtra will get very light rain with isolated thundery activity in the next 24 hours. Similarly, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions will witness the same weather condition in the next 48 hours and 72 hours respectively,” the met official said. Several observatories in the state recorded similar range of day temperature on Sunday. The neighbouring Solapur district has been consistently recording day temperatures close of 40°C. But, on Sunday, the mercury surpassed the mark and recorded 41.9°C. Meanwhile, Akola recorded 39.6°C, Chandrapur recorded 38.5°C, Nashik recorded 38.4°C and Nagpur and Aurangabad recorded 37.6°C each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lohegaon-sizzles-at-39-7c-seasons-highest-so-far/articleshow/75000427.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Allahabad||Demand for diyas surges after PM’s ‘lights-out appeal’||Prayagraj: Potters ruing the lack of sales because of the 21-day lockdown announced to check the spread of Covid-19 outbreak had a reason to cheer as residents rushed to buy diyas to join in PM Narendra’s Modi ‘lights-out call’ on Sunday night. Residents living in Shivkuti, Rasoolabad, Kydganj, Chota Baghara, Teliyarganj , Rajapur and other areas managed to get earthen lamps as potter colonies are located just a stone’s throw away from their homes. Kumar, a potter, said, “ I had an old stock of diyas. I was surprised to see several traders coming to my workshop to buy earthen lamps in the past two days.” Earlier this week, PM Narendra Modi urged Indian citizens to either light diyas and candles or switch on the torch lights of their mobile phones and switch off lights for nine minutes on Sunday 9pm to ‘dispel’ the darkness spread by novel coronavirus. Residents thronged grocery shops in areas like Rajapur, Civil Lines, Teliyarganj, Katra, Chowk, Bahadurganj, Mutthiganj and adjoining pockets to purchase not just essential commodities, but candles and earthen lamps too. “Since PM made the appeal, there has been a rise in demand for candles, diyas and torches. People started demanding these articles since Saturday morning and the requests only increased by Sunday evening,” said Nitin Mehrotra, who owns a grocery store in Rajapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/demand-for-diyas-surges-after-pms-lights-out-appeal/articleshow/74999732.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two men injured in leopard attack in Almora village||ALMORA: Two persons sustained injuries in a leopard attack on Sunday morning in Papoli village of Almora district. The victims were rushed to the district hospital where they are undergoing treatment. “The treatment is ongoing and both of them are out of danger,” said Sanchita Verma, range officer, Almora. The official added that the leopard was trapped after it attacked two men and was subsequently, brought to Almora Rescue Centre. Papoli locals say that the leopard ambushed one Mahendra Singh, 44, when he was returning to his home after leaving his cattle for grazing at around 8 am in the morning. The big cat fled the spot after several people gathered there and started making noise. Later, the leopard barged into the house of Rajendra Singh, 53, former gram pradhan of the village, and pounced at him. Singh, somehow, survived the attack sustaining severe injuries.The forest department said that a team was sent to Papoli village to catch the leopard immediately after the attack was brought to their notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-men-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-almora-village/articleshow/74998893.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Train reservations hint at exodus from Chennai on April 15||CHENNAI: Looks like hundreds stuck in Chennai will be heading home once the lockdown ends on April 15, as tickets on trains to southern towns and cities in the neighbouring states are sold out already. Reservation status for sleeper class tickets on night trains to Madurai, Tuticorin, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Mumbai and other cities has hit waitlist and RAC (reservation against cancellation), hinting at a major exodus soon after the lockdown is lifted. Several people including students and families, who could not travel back home because of the Covid-19 scare and subsequent lockdown, are stuck in the city. “Sleeper class coaches are full. Berths available in AC coaches too may get sold in the coming days. There is a surge for travel on April 15. Then there is a dip for two days before bookings pick up for travel on Saturday and Sunday,” said a railway official. Sleeper class reservation is at waitlist 28 in Chennai-Madurai Pandian Express for April 15, but is at RAC 2 for April 16. It then climbs to waitlist 52 for April 17, a Friday. However, tickets are available on Tejas Express and Duronto Express on the same route. Waitlists are also long for Bengaluru Mail, Tamil Nadu Express to Delhi and Mumbai Mail. Rush on day train to Tuticorin that departs at 8.20am from Egmore is also expected to be high as the reservation status on Sunday was at waitlist 17. “This must be because some of the tickets must have been booked much before the lockdown was announced,” he added. Though demand for tickets is usually high in April, not many travel outwards from Chennai a day after holiday. April 14 is a public holiday. Railway officials also expect a huge outflow of guest workers soon after train services resume. There is a possibility to run special trains if the demand for unreserved class tickets shoot up on trains to Odisha, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/train-reservations-hint-at-exodus-from-chennai-on-april-15/articleshow/75000642.cms||V Ayyappan
April 6, 2020||Allahabad||Mosque where corona positive Jamaat members stayed sealed||Prayagraj: Pratapgarh police on Sunday morning sealed and sanitised a mosque, two villages and a ward of the district hospital, where three Tablighi Jamaat members who tested positive for novel coronavirus stayed after they came to the district from Delhi. The sealed locations were Narsinghgarh village, Delupur village, Jama mosque and Begum ward of Pratapgarh district hospital. The three were among a group of 11men who arrived in Pratapgrah on March 18 attending the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizammuddin West area, which was organised amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. They arrived via train and stayed at two different mosques in Narsinghgarh (Raniganj) and Kotwali areas of Pratapgrah. After police got to know about them on March 31, they were taken to a primary health centre and later quarantined at the district hospital. On April 2, their swab samples were sent to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) for testing. Of the 11 members, three tested positive for novel coronavirus when the test reports came in a day later. Police said that health department also sent samples of six persons who came in contact with the the coornavirus positive men for testing on Saturday. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “The four locations where these three Jamaat members visited and stayed — Delupur ( Mandhata), Narsinghgarh (Raniganj), Jama mosque and Begum ward of Pratapgarh district hospital ( Kotwali) — were sealed.” The two villages have been sealed and the residents cannot leave their homes and no outsiders can come into the village. “If any resident of the two villages needs any essential commodity or service, then authorities will make them available,” said Singh. Meanwhile, police was tracking those persons who allegedly misbehaved with health department employees when the latter had gone to Pawarpur and adjoining villages for thermal screening on Saturday. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said, “While the lvillagers did not chase away the officials, but some of them had got into an argument with the staff. Police have identified those involved and would soon take action against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mosque-where-corona-positive-jamaat-members-stayed-sealed/articleshow/74999785.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Gangotri highway blocked for 3rd day, supply of essentials affected||UTTARKASHI: The Gangotri national highway remained blocked for the third consecutive day on Sunday due to continuous landslides near Dharasu region of Uttarkashi district. Due to the blockage, emergency vehicles have to travel nearly 70 km extra to reach Uttarkashi district headquarters, which has adversely affected the supply of essential items during the lockdown. Border Roads Organisation (BRO), along with other agencies concerned, are trying to reopen the highway, but were being hindered by rocks and debris falling from the hill from time to time. To get around the situation, the district administration has started constructing an alternate route alongside the highway. Inspector Vinod Thapliyal, in-charge Dharasu Police station told TOI, “The Gangotri highway is closed due to heavy landslides since Friday afternoon. Due to this, we have diverted the route of vehicles going to Uttarkashi from Badethi-Banchora region. Although now the BRO is constructing an alternate route over the Ganga Bhagirathi river alongside the highway to ease the traffic flow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangotri-highway-blocked-for-3rd-day-supply-of-essentials-affected/articleshow/74998922.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||6 cases by cyber cell against hate mongers on social media||NAGPUR: Eleven people have been arrested in 20 offences registered across the state by cyber cell units against communal hate mongers on social media. Out of the 20, six offences were registered across the state on Saturday, after a deluge of hate messages started flooding social media. Post Covid-19, cyber cells across the state have registered 85 offences so far including four in Nagpur city and two in Nagpur rural. The offences were related to fake news spreading misinformation, rumours and also hate mongers targeting each other on spread of corona among Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi. State home minister Anil Deshmukh has now alerted the centralized state cyber cell to keep vigil on social media and take stringent action against anyone fomenting communal hatred on social media. State police and intelligence agencies are facing a tough time ensuring there is no violence in the backdrop of nationwide screening of attendees of the Markaz of Tablighi Jamaat after some Covid-19 deaths and many positive cases came to fore. The state cyber cell, which is coordinating action against social media mischief, has now appealed to citizens to maintain ‘social media distance’ and ‘break the chain’ of hate messages and fake news. They warn such messages can trigger confusion and chaos in the already tricky situation. SP, state cyber cell, Balsingh Rajput under supervision of IG Brijesh Singh said hate mongers would be ‘legally quarantined’. Home minister Deshmukh, talking to TOI, said the cyber cell has been alerted to keep vigil. “I have instructed cyber units to be prompt on spotting rumours and hate mongers,” he said. Later in the day, Deshmukh also took to social media to caution citizens against fake news, spreading rumours, misinformation and hate messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-cases-by-cyber-cell-against-hate-mongers-on-social-media/articleshow/75000434.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||Woman strangles her ailing son to death in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Tired of his prolonged illness and immobility, a woman allegedly strangled her 17-year-old son in Ranchhodvadi locality of Rajkot on Saturday. Cops, who arrested the mother on Sunday, said Daksha Dangaria (38), had allegedly strangulated her son Prince Dangaria using her dupatta. “Our preliminary investigation revealed that Prince who was afflicted with brain tumour, had been bedridden since his childhood. As Dangaria was tired of looking after his daily needs, she decided to kill him,” said V J Fernandes, inspector with Rajkot B division police station. The woman was booked based on the complaint lodged by her husband Kishor Dangaria (40), a labourer in a factory at Satellite Chowk. He alleged that his wife had confessed to her crime before him on Saturday evening itself. “We arrested the woman the moment she returned from her village Khokhari in Padadhari taluka in Rajkot district where she had gone to perform her son’s last rites,” added Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-strangles-her-ailing-son-to-death/articleshow/74998920.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Allahabad||Security beefed up, 31 held for flouting Covid lockdown rules||Prayagraj: Police tightened security in Prayagraj on Sunday even as the streets remained deserted in the wake of the lockdown, following the murder of a man after an argument between two rival groups over the Covid-19 outbreak turned violent in Kareli. Police booked 60 persons in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating rules of lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus and which entered its 11th day on Sunday. Police also arrested 31 persons after lodging 15 FIRs under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with violations of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. Five police teams kept vigil on Old City localities like Kareli, Attarsuiya, Kydganj, Shahganj and Kotwali with drones, while not allowing to sit outside their homes or roam in streets. Barricades around 185 crossings and intersections in the district were put up to regulate non-essential traffic movement. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Over a dozen FIRs were registered in different parts of the city like Civil Lines, Colonelganj, Mutthiganj, Soraon, Handia, Naini, Bahariya, Sarayinayat and Koraon in the past 24 hours and 31 persons were arrested.” The SSP added that a man was booked under section 3\7 of the Essential Commodities Act with Tharwai police station on charges of black marketing. On Sunday, police sealed inter-district borders after putting a two- tier barricading system. Adequate police force was deployed at seven inter-district border areas. With the help of drones, police kept a tab if residents were practising social distancing. Mobile police teams were also deployed in Leader Road — the hub of wholesale medicine shops — to check if traders were following social distancing norms. Meanwhile, district authorities have prepared a list of 480 shops who would be roped in for delivery of essential commodities at Prayagraj residents’ doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/security-beefed-up-31-held-for-flouting-covid-lockdown-rules/articleshow/74999769.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Four Delhi-returned men test positive in Buldhana||Nagpur: Four men from Buldhana district, having travel history of Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, the number of confirmed Covid-19 patients in Buldhana has increased to nine, including the 45-year-old man who had died on March 28.Now, Vidarbha has reported 32 Covid-19 cases so far. These include seven recovered patients and two deaths. Two of the four new confirmed positive in Buldhana are from two distant villages in Chikhli tehsil while one each is from Khamgaon and Deulgaon Raja towns. According to district collector Suman Rawat Chandra, all four had visited Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. “The total number of Covid-19 positive patients admitted in Buldhana has risen to eight. The latest patients are Nizamuddin Markaz returnees. Containment plan has been activated and the cluster survey has been initiated,” she said.The Buldhana district administration had received a list of travellers who had returned from Delhi during the period when Markaz congregation was held in March.Based on the list, 30 residents were identified and put under isolation at District Hospital in Buldhana. Out of them, 12 tested negative while four tested positive on April 5. Results of 14 samples are pending. Meanwhile, one of the four positive patients issued a video message on social media and claimed that he never went inside the Markaz building in Nizamuddin despite visiting Delhi. Buldhana civil surgeon Dr Premchand Pandit claimed that the patients have changed their stand after they tested positive and shifted to isolation rooms for 14 days. “I don’t want to comment on the video but these patients admitted that they had been to Markaz during their Delhi tour when police brought them to hospital. As doctors, we have nothing to do with their travel history. At present, we are concentrating on their treatment and cure,” said Dr Pandit adding that all four patients are asymptomatic. “They are doing well in the isolation ward. Our department has started contact tracing and active surveillance of their villages,” he said. As these four men live in villages of Buldhana district, the district administration is on the toes since early Sunday morning. Their villages have been have sealed, and close contacts are being identified. They all will be brought to Buldhana and their swab samples sent to Nagpur for test. District administration has appealed villagers to cooperate with the containment drive.Four persons who tested positive earlier are from the close contact of the 45-year-old deceased. Buldhana timeline March 28 | 45-year-old teacher died of viral pneumonia March 29 | Deceased tested positive for Covid-19March 31 to April 2 | Four close contacts of the deceased tested positive April 3 | Contact tracing started for those who travelled to Delhi when Nizamuddin congregation was held April 4 | Total 30 such travellers identified, shifted to Buldhana district hospital, and their samples sent to NagpurApril 5 | Four of them tested positive, 12 negative while 14 results awaited||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-delhi-returned-men-test-positive-in-buldhana/articleshow/75000046.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Counsellors to keep quarantined persons engaged||Kolhapur: People kept at institutional quarantine centres have begun to show signs of restlessness and unruliness. There have also been reports of false complaints being made to the district authorities, political leaders and family members. On Sunday morning, the district authorities got a complaint that the food served to people in one of the quarantine centres in the city had been discarded in the dustbin. After enquiry, it was found that some of the inmates had declined to eat the food and were demanding that they be allowed to go home. A couple of days earlier, some inmates complained that they were not being treated well by the staff. Some political party functionaries went to the centre to check what was happening there. Similar complaints were also made on social media and to the family members. The inmates, totalling 995, are the persons identified by the door-to-door screening teams. They were earlier quarantined at home after their return from coronavirus-hit foreign countries or Indian cities. Stamps had been marked on their hands for easy identification. Many of them, however, were found violating the home quarantine norms. Prasad Sankpal, the district disaster management officer said: “Many complaints made by the inmates are false and made out of restlessness they experiencing due to the quarantine rules. We are letting them go only after they complete 14 days. We are going to deploy counsellors to consult them individually. The counsellors will tell them about the need for quarantine and the seriousness of Covid-19. Also, we are making entertainment arrangements for them in quarantine centres.” After an individual completes the quarantine period, they are allowed to go homes. Around 29 people have been discharged so far. Institutional quarantine is important to stop the community spread of the coronavirus. The total number of beds reserved in various establishments such as hospitals, community centre, lodgings and even hotels is 2,193. The inmates are screened regularly to check for symptoms. Also, throat swab samples of the persons showing symptoms are taken for testing. The district administration is going to take help of 200 professionals from known counselling agencies, teachers, doctors and even the youth from various walks of like. “The inmates will be engaged in the activities while following social distancing rules. Their mind will be kept busy,” added Sankpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/counsellors-to-keep-quarantined-persons-engaged/articleshow/75000020.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||Goa yet to take over private hospitals, hotels for quarantine facilities||PANAJI: The state administration, which was quick to take over residencies and hotels belonging to Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) residencies for quarantine facilities, is yet to issue orders requisitioning starred hotels and hospitals even nine days after health minister Vishwajit Rane moved a note. Moved on March 27, the note had asked the administration to start the process to requisition Manipal Hospital on priority. If not Manipal Hospital, Healthway Hospital is to be requisitioned, Rane’s note stated. In South Goa, Rane asked that the Victor Apollo Hospital and some hotels be taken over. He said that it was “important” to be prepared. However, till Wednesday no orders were issued by either district collectors. Under the Epidemic Act, the state has power to take over private properties to convert them into quarantine facility. Health official said some hotel owners are reluctant so also private hospitals for obvious. “This is the time they should pay back to the society,” he said. Rane recommended that hotels be requisitioned for quarantine facilities as GTDC residencies were not adequate and there had been complaints of unhygienic conditions. He had noted that the facilities at Margao residency were bad. “No housekeeping was done and they (persons quarantined) are being treated worse than animals.” Secretary health Nila Mohanan has issued a detailed directive over maintenance of quarantine facilities. Admitting that there had been teething problems, nodal officer for quarantine facility, P S Reddy, said the issues have been sorted out. “We have appointed good caters to provide quality food to people who are quarantined in GTDC residencies,” he said. Problems arose as GTDC-appointed contractors stopped providing service after the lockdown compelling the government to appoint independent caterers. Some of the GTDC staff was scared but clear instructions have been given to inmates as well staff. “With regards to waste, inmates are required to put it in a plastic bag provided and leave it outside their room to be picked up by cleaners. This is done to avoid cleaning staff from being exposed to suspects,” he said. With regards to complaints about food plates being left outside the door, he said the staff has been instructed to inform inmates what time food will be served and a chair or a table be placed outside the door to place the plate on. He said it is not possible to provide either fish or chicken and they are serving vegetarian food at all facilities. “Some suspects asked that they be served non-vegetarian food, but it is not possible. Boiled eggs are included in their meals,” he said. He said inmates have been told that they can order food of their choice from outside or on Swiggy or Zomato, but the government will not pay for it. “They will have to pay for online for food ordered from out. The food ordered will be delivered in the reception. Residency or hotel staff will deliver it outside the room,” he said. As many as 46 suspects have been placed in Margao residency, 18 at the Mayem residency, 15 at Old Goa and 9 at the Water Resources Department (WRD) centre at Keri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-yet-to-take-over-private-hospitals-hotels-for-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75000436.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 6, 2020||Kanpur||Citizens brighten city sky with diyas, burst crackers||KANPUR: As the clock struck 9 on Sunday night, Kanpurites came out in balconies and rooftops to celebrate 'Diwali' by lighting diyas and candles and burst firecrakers on a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to light diyas at 9 pm for 9 minutes. Modi had asked the countrymen to light diyas or flash lights of mobile phones to display that the entire country stands united in the fight against coronavirus. But locals went a mile ahead and burst firecrackers and even raised slogans 'Jai Shri Ram'. Millions of diyas were lit in the city and it gave an impression as it was Diwali being celebrated. It was exactly at 9 pm when the people switched off lights and lit candles and diyas. The city sky wore a festive look and the silence due to lockdown was shattered by firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/citizens-brighten-city-sky-with-diyas-burst-crackers/articleshow/74999819.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Allahabad||Man booked for offensive post on social media portal in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A man was booked on Sunday for allegedly hurting the sentiments of a minority community with an objectionable post about the novel coronavirus outbreak on social media. According to reports, the accused Patel Saurabh Verma was booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295 A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feeling of any class insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 188 (violating orders) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “The accused had uploaded an objectionable post related the Covid-19 outbreak on his Facebook account. Other users had complained against the man and demanded strict action against the man.” In another case, a man was arrested on Saturday evening for allegedly uploading objectionable comments against Hindu deities on his fake social media account. The accused was identified as Mohammad Shahid. Till now, around a dozen cases have been lodged with different police stations of the city wherein social networking site users had allegedly uploading objectionable articles \ photos or comments to hurt the religious sentiments of other community. A five-member team of police’s social media cell is keeping an eye on various platforms. Police have also issued a strict warning to users against trying to disturb peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-booked-for-offensive-post-on-social-media-portal/articleshow/74999761.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Indore||Indore: Special teams will keep tabs on people in containment areas||INDORE: District administration on Sunday announced to form special teams of health staff including Anganwari and Asha workers for monitoring and taking care of residents’ health in containment areas. The administration has already formed teams for hotbed areas like Tatpatti Bakhal, Chandan Nagar, Tanjim Nagar, Azad Nagar and provided them with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, sanitisers, hand gloves etc. Each Anganwari and Asha workers will have responsibility of as many as 200 houses of their respective areas. There will be an ANM staff on every three of these workers for supervision and for every three ANM there will be a doctor in charge for monitoring and providing medical assistance if needed. Indore collector Manish Singh said that these teams will keep contact with each one of the families of containment areas by going door to door. “These workers will generate awareness among residents about coronavirus and also collect information on people with any kind of illness. In case of any symptom of coronavirus or any other diseases, concerned worker will have to report it to his or her respective ANM supervisor, and then to the doctor, who will have to see the patient, and provide treatment and also arrange for sample collection from home of the patient,” he said. The collector said that team members will have to take care of the families of their respective area as parents, and also spread awareness on coronavirus. Singh on this first phase of plan, conduced a training session for team members of Ranipura and nearby areas. He also appealed to all workers to perform their duties seriously, and also assured them of reward for exemplary work. Singh said that team members will also be given medicines for first-aid for distribution among residents of affected areas to prevent spread of the virus. “These workers will also have an application installed at their smartphone for data collection and also to keep record of families living in such areas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/spl-teams-will-keep-tabs-on-people-in-containment-areas/articleshow/75000038.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Agra||Denied treatment due to curbs, TB patient dies; doctor gets notice||AGRA: The district health department has decided to issue a notice to a private doctor in Aligarh after the family of a 45-year-old man, who was possibly suffering from tuberculosis and died on Saturday, alleged medical negligence. The family of Sanjay Gupta alleged that he was not provided treatment by the doctor due to the lockdown. The district TB control office claimed they were not at fault, as the patient never came to them. Talking to TOI, district disease control officer Dr Anupam Bhaskar said according to information received, Gupta was being treated by a private doctor, who had not informed the department about the illness, which is mandatory. He said, “We don’t know for certain if he was suffering from tuberculosis as we don’t have his medical record.” The notice will be issued to the doctor on Monday, asking him to provide details of treatment given to the deceased. Further action would be taken after the response from the doctor, said officials. Gupta is survived by four minor daughters and his wife. He was running a makeshift tea stall, but illness and lockdown had rendered him jobless over the past two weeks. His family was availing food from the administration every day, said relative of the deceased. Considering the dire condition of Gupta’s family, DM C B Singh on Sunday ordered allotment of a house for them under Kanshiram Aawas Yojna. He also directed officials to help the family under other government schemes as per rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/denied-treatment-due-to-curbs-tb-patient-dies-doc-gets-notice/articleshow/74998946.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||IMFL worth Rs 2L seized in Ichalkaranji||Kolhapur: Police seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 2 lakh that was being transported in a vehicle in Ichalkaranji on Friday night. Ichalkaranji police have booked the driver and two others who were accompanying the driver in the vehicle for illegally transporting the IMFL. A team of police officers led by deputy superintendent of police Ganesh Biradar was patrolling in Ichalkaranji when it found the vehicle moving suspiciously. After checking the vehicle, the police found that the driver had hidden IMFL worth Rs 2 lakh in it. “We have launched a search operation to find out from where the driver managed to get the IMFL and where was he taking it to. We suspect that the IMFL continues to enter in Maharashtra from Goa. The information has been passed to the concerned authorities to look into the matter and initiate action to tighten surveillance around the borders of Maharashtra-Goa” said a senior police officer. Ganesh Patil , deputy superintendent of police excise said, “Strict instructions have been issued to the officials deployed on the roads connecting Kolhapur to Goa. We have increased vigilance at the check posts set up on these roads. There is hardly any transport of vehicles on the main roads and we suspect that the people involved in smuggling the IMFL are using some other internal roads. We are gathering information about these roads and will soon nab the suspects .” Kolhapur police have booked more than 54 people for allegedly being involved in crimes related to carrying of IMFL, country liquor, buying it or selling it in the last 10 days during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/imfl-worth-rs-2l-seized-in-ichalkaranji/articleshow/75000034.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||Woman with diabetes, high BP defeats Covid-19, son too recovers||RAJKOT: When Vimla Kanabar and her son Kaushal walked out of the Rajkot Civil Hospital’s isolation ward, the entire staff including doctors gave them a rousing applause. The hospital staff was more relief for Vimla, the 75-year-old woman, who bravely fought coronavirus infection despite having other co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension for many years now. It must be noted that all the 11 Covid-19 patients who succumbed to the infection in Gujarat had co-morbid conditions, which resulted in deterioration of their health and ultimately death. “We were so happy to breathe fresh air on coming out,” Vimla and Kaushal said after walking out. Kaushal , who runs a showroom of ethnic wears on Yagnik Road, remained in the hospital for 11 days, two days more than his mother. “I was scared when I tested positive. But the only weapon I had to fight back this situation was my immense faith in God and the doctors who took care of me day and night,” said Vimla. Talking to TOI, 42-year-old Kaushal said: “I have never been admitted to any hospital in my life, so I was obviously very frightened on the first day. There was complete uncertainty and the atmosphere inside scared me even more.” “But as my treatment progressed, I started gaining confidence that I would recover. I started figuring out from the body language of doctors and nurses that my body was responding to the medicines. I was also worried for my mother. But now I am happy that we both have recovered,” he added. Kaushal and his mother have a message for those who test positive. “We want to tell all those who are under treatment to have courage. If you are mentally strong, your recovery gets faster and surer. Don’t panic and maintain social distancing and the guidelines issued by the government.” The mother-son duo can’t thank the civil hospital doctors and staff enough for the kind of treatment they had received. Vimla wanted to stay back and serve patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-with-diabetes-high-bp-defeats-covid-19-son-too-recovers/articleshow/74998953.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 6, 2020||Indore||Indore: Veggie vendors out on streets sans permission||INDORE: Despite restrictions, pushcart vendors have started selling vegetables at inner wards of the city especially during morning hours. The practice has been rampant in areas like Gauri Nagar, Shyam Nagar, Scheme-54, Palasia, Rajmohalla, Scheme-78, Khandwa Road among others, where vendors are seen selling vegetables on pushcarts while flouting ongoing lockdown. “There is no social distancing practice and vendors operate without any hustle. Huge crowd can be seen buying green vegetables from these vendors,” complained Lali Choukse, a resident of Shyam Nagar. In some of the areas, milkmen are seen carrying vegetables and selling them in dense localities. “There is no check on the practice and residents are also not ready to understand the risk of gathering near these vendors to buy milk and vegetables,” said Sanjay Kamble, a resident of Scheme-78. The administration has already restricted pushcart vendors from running business in residential areas. However, most of them seem to be unaware about it. Many of them were confused with permission for milkmen and said that vegetables are also one of the essential items. “What are we going to do with vegetables, and how are we going to earn if they don’t allow us to sell,” said one of vendors of Heera Nagar. IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said that the restriction has been enforced to prevent spread of coronavirus “Action will be taken against all vendors who is found selling vegetables in open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/veggie-vendors-out-on-streets-sans-permission/articleshow/75000029.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Delhi||It affects mind more than body: Doctor who beat virus||NEW DELHI: The psychological effects of Covid-19 are harder to fight than its physical manifestations, Dr Vivudh Pratap Singh, an interventional cardiologist who recovered from the disease recently, told TOI. Singh, who works at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, had gone to Paris in February to attend a fellowship for an advanced cardiology course. However, with the Covid-19 crisis building up globally, he decided to return. He underwent thermal screening at IGI Airport on arrival, but didn’t show any symptoms. Therefore, he was allowed to go home. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageHowever, because he had a travel history, the 40-year-old cardiologist quarantined himself in his house at Kaushambi, Ghaziabad. “I locked myself in a room and maintained a distance of six feet with everyone in the family, including my two-and-a-half-year-old daughter. I also ensured that everyone followed the six steps to wash hands, something doctors are used to,” Singh said. Three days later, the doctor recounted, he started feeling pain in his tonsil and got a sore throat. Later, he developed fever and extreme levels of fatigue, which are symptoms of Covid-19. “I got the test done and it confirmed my worst fears. I had Covid-19,” he added. The doctor was admitted to Safdarjung hospital. “Dr Nitesh Gupta, who heads the Covid-19 management team, nurses and other staff at the hospital were very cordial. They were patient and dedicated in their work. Looking at them, I felt proud to be a healthcare professional,” said Singh. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe biggest worry of the cardiologist was his wife and daughter and other family members having contracted the infection from him. However, their tests came negative. “When you are down with a disease that is wrongly projected as equivalent to death, you feel stressed, something similar to post-traumatic stress disorder. You feel as if you have no control over your life. You worry whether you will be able to meet your near and dear ones and then a vicious cycle starts inside the mind, which you have to break. One has to be spiritually and emotionally strong to tide over the negativity,” the 40-year-old said. When Singh was in hospital, he said some people in his neighbourhood spread rumours about his wife testing positive too. “But there were many others who supported us. Social support and family support is the most important to get out of tough situations like this,” the doctor said. The cardiologist said sometimes it’s better to switch off from social media, which is full of fake news. “Always remember, 80-85% Covid-19 patients have mild symptoms and recover on their own. Just 10-15% require symptomatic treatment and 5%, mostly the elderly, require advanced care,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/it-affects-mind-more-than-body-doc-who-beat-virus/articleshow/75000653.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 6, 2020||Kanpur||Coronavirus patient creates ruckus in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: A 33-year-old native of Meerut, who tested positive for COVID 19, allegedly created ruckus at Sarsaul CHC quarantine facility, before being shifted from Rama Medical college in Mandhana on Sunday. "Not only, he created ruckus, but he spit on a doctor and bolted the room from inside demanding better hospitality," said medical superintendent Dr SL Verma. The matter escalated to such an extent that the cops had to intervene and explain him to follow protocol. The man who had come to the city recently had attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. "On Friday, he has been put under quarantine at Rama Medical college as a precautionary measure," said senior health official. CHC medical superintendent further stated that one should understand that this is not a luxury retreat, but this is a quarantine facility. Meanwhile, a man was booked for selling `gutkha' from his outlet in Gilish Bazar area under the limits of Kotwali police station on Sunday. "The incident came to light after some local posted a video of the shopkeeper selling gutkha from his outlet in Gilish bazar area. Police swung into action after coming across the video on social media and subsequently booked the owner of the outlet under section 188/271 of IPC and launched an investigation in this regard," said SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/corona-patient-creates-ruckus/articleshow/74999895.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Agra||AMU teachers urge people not to add communal colour to Covid-19 outbreak||AGRA: Worried over the rise in the number of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases due to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, senior faculty members of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), on Sunday, said that the event was an aberration and warned people against communalising the Covid-19 outbreak. They also urged the Union government to bring the guilty to book. Taking strong exception to attempts being made by certain people to hold all Muslims responsible and to be squarely blamed for accentuating the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, faculty members expressed their deep concern. They were particularly concerned over the campaign launched by such people to add a communal colour to this monumental human tragedy. In an appeal signed by several professors, it was stated that there had been negligence in allowing such a large gathering, knowing well that the deadly Covid-19 has already spread its tentacles far and wide. The professors were of the opinion that the Nizamuddin Markaz episode is only an aberration as the Muslim community is religiously following all the instructions and directives of the Union government, including social distancing, complete lockdown and maintaining personal hygiene, and is cooperating fully with the local authorities. AMU faculty members called upon the Centre to institute a high-level inquiry on the lapses. The AMU faculty also appealed to all sections of society, including the Muslim community, that at a time when the entire human race is passing through a huge crisis, “we should join hands and face the menace of Covid-19 together, with full determination and should follow all the directives of the government and advice of the doctors so as to win this battle against the deadly virus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-teachers-urge-people-not-to-add-communal-colour-to-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/74998970.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Seized vehicles will be released after payment of fine: Police||Mangaluru: The owners of more than 600 vehicles seized by the Mangaluru city traffic police for violating lockdown orders have been booked under Indian Penal Code Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and Motor Vehicles Act, said a senior police source. “These vehicles are seized to prevent people from commuting, which can lead to the spread of Covid-19. We had seen people taking joy rides across the city, due to which we have stopped them. The city police personnel have seized more than 600 motorbikes and fined the offenders under IPC Section 270 and the Motor Vehicles Act,” said a senior police source. The source added: “The police will only release the vehicles after appropriate fines are paid for the violations. It is advisable that everyone stays at home and that they do not to venture out aimlessly. It is in the larger interest of society. The drive of seizing vehicles will continue till the lockdown is in force.” Another official from the traffic division revealed that the seizure of vehicle has resulted in less unnecessary movement of motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/seized-vehicles-will-be-released-after-payment-of-fine-police/articleshow/74998957.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Indore||Demands of local netas hamper IMC’s food distribution to needy||INDORE: Local netas have apparently started poking their nose in Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC)’s free delivery of groceries. Corporation sources have accused ex-corporators of forcing them to give them food packets depriving those who are actually in need. The fact is visible with series of complaints raised by residents of various dense localities, who are blaming officials for failing to provide them with ration packets. Officials on the other hand have passed the blame on interference by ex-corporators of different wards as one of the major reasons behind the issue. “We are receiving demand calls from not only residents, but formers corproators of different wards who are asking for a large number of ration packets daily,” complained one of the corporation officials requesting anonymity. Some of the officials even accused former corporators of collecting ration packets from them and distributing among their own volunteers. “This ration is meant to be distributed among needy people, while local representatives are collecting it from us and distributing among their own workers. This is happening for last three days and every day we are given over at least 2000 packets of ration to public representatives especially corporators,” said another official. “This is the only reason that there is no decline in number of demand calls from residents. We keep on getting calls from areas like Khajrana, Vijay Nagar, Sukhlia, Ahirkhedi, Chhota Bangarda, Bhuri Tekri etc,” he said. IMC additional commissioner Sandeep Soni said that they are distributing packets of raw food items on basis of demand received through IMC’s helpline service and also that of public representatives. “We are distributing 2000 food packets with help of public representatives including former corporators,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/demands-of-local-netas-hamper-imcs-food-distribution-to-needy/articleshow/75000044.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Agra||3 more test positive for Covid-19 in Agra||AGRA: Three new novel coronavirus cases surfaced in Agra on Sunday morning, taking the district’s tally to 48. While two of the three latest cases are the mother and brother of a Covid-19 positive Dubai-returnee, the other one is a TB patient with no travel history or known contact with any Covid-19 patient With three new cases, the total number of active coronavirus cases in Agra rose to 40 on Sunday. Earlier, eight Covid-19 infected patients recovered and were discharged from hospital. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All three were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Sunday. They have been shifted to SN Medical College. A team of doctors is attending to them. We are also screening the people living around the patients' houses. Health of their contacts is also being monitored.” Vats added, “We are also investigating how the 40-year-old man, who was suffering from tuberculosis, was infected by the novel coronavirus.” Out of the 40 active coronavirus cases in Agra, 31 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contracts. The health department teams have shifted 137 people from different mosques of the city to three quarantine centres. Police have sealed the area around the mosques in the city. Drone-mounted cameras are being used to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown in densely populated localities. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “All the people who have come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. The vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying are being sanitised. Health department teams are closely monitoring health of more than 900 people who had recently returned from foreign countries. Those having cough, fever and problem in breathing are advised to call helpline numbers -- 108, 102 or control room number 0562-2600508 and 512. Everyone should fill up and submit a self-assessment form available on the Agra Smart City website. Stepping out of the house should be strictly avoided. We will be taking legal action against those found violating the lockdown.” The district administration is not counting the father-son duo, both doctors,who tested Covid-19 positive in a private hospital in Gurugram. They are under treatment at the same hospital. However, a private hospital owned by the father in Agra has been sealed. Samples of 107 of their contacts have been sent for lab testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-agra/articleshow/74998958.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||City lights up with candles, diyas & torches||Kolhapur: Hundreds of citizens either took to the streets or poured out into the balconies answering Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to light candles or diyas at 9pm for nine minutes on Sunday. In some parts of the city, residents got a feel of Diwali as a section of people went a step ahead and burst crackers and released lanterns in the sky. Citizens seemed to have made prior arrangements to keep in line with the Prime Minister’s appeal. At a time when almost all shops are shut due to the lockdown, except for grocery stores and medicines shops, a section of citizens managed to get hold of firecrackers. Some even installed laser lights in the residential areas or flashed the headlights of their vehicles. In many places, citizens caught in the frenzy defied the rule of social distancing and gathered in huge numbers on balconies, terraces and common spaces to light the lamps and torches. The electricity department had sent messages to all its consumers in the the city and district appealing them to switch off only the bulbs and tubelights and not the appliances. The staff of the state power utility visited a few places to make the same appeal to the citizens. Technical staff was deployed at the substations to address any glitch that may have resulted from switching off the lights. Meanwhile, many groups in the city have taken to social media or are telling people to stay indoors and strictly follow social distancing. The campaigns taken out stress on containing the spread of coronavirus. One message put out by a group online that has fetched many likes states there will not be enough beds and doctors if one gets infected. Samir Shinde, an IT engineer living in Tarabai Park and a member of one such campaign said, “Our state is leading in the number of positive cases. All the agencies are doing their best to curb the spread of the infection. We are putting out details of the infrastructure and personnel available to tackle the outbreak. The messages are helping people realize the gravity of the situation and making them stay at home.” At some places, the community groups are distributing home-cooked meals or giving out ration kits to the people moost affected by the lockdown. Some community groups are also delivering the food parcels or the ration kits at the doorstep of the poor people. The administration is allowing the groups to operate after they are giving in writing that they would personal sanitisation and observe social distancing during the distribution process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/city-lights-up-with-candles-diyas-torches/articleshow/75000043.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||8 kin, 7 close contacts of cap seller test –ve||Nagpur: In some respite to the medicos as well as administration, reports of eight family members of the cap seller, who tested Covid-19 positive a day ago, came negative on Sunday. Seven close contacts of the cap seller, lodged in Vanamati quarantine centre, also tested negative for the coronavirus infection.After the cap seller, a resident of Takia Deewanshah slum in Mominpura of Central Nagpur, tested positive for Covid-19, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) team had identified, tested and admitted eight family members — wife, five children and two nephews — to the GMCH. All were residing in one flat in the G+3 floor building.NMC’s additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI, “We got tested these eight family members on top priority and all are negative. The cap seller was quarantined in Vanamati and was in touch with seven more persons there. These seven persons also tested negative,” he said.NMC’s Gandhibagh zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin said, “In all 47 persons live in the building with the owner, along with family members, residing on the ground floor. Upper floors have been rented out. The cap seller along with his family members was living in one of the units. The owner is bedridden and highly diabetic and hence has been admitted to Mayo Hospital. Remaining 38 persons were tested for Covid-19 and have been quarantined at Central India College of Pharmacy, Lonara. Reports of all these persons are awaited.”The NMC has shifted all residents of the building. The administration has also sanitized entire building and locked it down.Dr Gantawar added, “People residing in the locality were not cooperating with NMC teams during the door-to-door containment survey. Some people dropped water, vegetables on the teams. I had to rush there to make them realize the importance of the survey. The residents kept on asking whether this survey was meant for National Register of Citizens (NRC). We, with the help of police, managed to convince the people and commenced the survey.”NMC officials said people seem to be not giving correct information. “Video of the cap seller sent a wrong message among the people that he is fit and still tested positive. We also sought help of heads of religious bodies to make people understand. We have to carry out the survey continuously for next 14 days,” the officials said.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has cordoned off the entire area where the cap seller used to reside. Movement of people from Takia locality under ward no. 8 has been restricted up to Teen Khamb Chowk, Naalsaheb Chowk, Bhagwaghar Chowk and Jama Masjid. Only government staffers, police, locals having medical emergency, funeral and essential goods sellers who have obtained pass from the police will be allowed to move in this area having around 40,000 population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-kin-7-close-contacts-of-cap-seller-test-ve/articleshow/75000066.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops, doctors to connect on WhatsApp||HYDERABAD: To avoid the recurrence of attacks on doctors and medical staff attending to Covid-19 suspects and patients, DGP M Mahendar Reddy instructed all the superintendents of police and commissioners to create WhatsApp groups locally with police and medical staff as members, so that coordination and communication can be improved. In a press note, DGP office said, “All police stations across the state have in turn formed WhatsApp groups and established seamless communication between Police and Health Department officials for responding to emerging issues in real time and taking effective action at once.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-doctors-to-connect-on-whatsapp/articleshow/75000442.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Agra||Agra: Water supply hit in 10 localities due to pipeline leaks||AGRA: Water supply in at least 10 localities in the city was affected on Sunday due to leakages in supply pipelines and other mechanical faults. Despite several complaints by the residents, the Jal Sansthan failed to send water tanks to the affected areas. Due to leakages in the pipelines, water supply was affected in 10 localities, including Awas Vikas, Sikandra, Dayalbagh, trans Yamuna, Baluganj, Mantola, Subhas Bazaar, Kailash Road, Balkeshwar locality, Belanganj. Water supply in the Old City areas is dependent on Jeevani Mandi waterworks station whereas half of the city gets its supply from Sikandra waterworks. Both these pumping stations are not working to their full capacity. Around 20 leakages in supply pipelines, maintained by Jal Sansthan, result in wastage of thousands of litres of water in different parts of the city on daily basis. It is estimated that at least 50 million litres per day (MLD) of water is wasted in the city due to pipeline leakages. So far, Jal Sansthan has no city-wide plan to check the situation. The ad hoc arrangement to deal with this problem is temporary in nature. General manager of Agra Jal Sansthan RS Yadav said, “We are working towards fixing all the leakages. Pipelines are too old and weak. They are not able to bear the pressure of water which leads to leakages. We are working on a plan to lay new pipelines in areas where frequent leakages take place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/water-supply-hit-in-10-localities-due-to-pipeline-leaks/articleshow/74998986.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lack of ‘non-essential’ items makes life under lockdown tougher for citizens||KOLKATA: They don’t belong to the essential category of goods, but in the current situation, their absence tends to derail life and leave households topsy-turvy. The list of ‘non-essential’ essentials seems quite exhaustive, with people saying they are missing out on things they are used to. And many of these items are humble snacks and other things available with road-side vendors. For instance, Ramen Sarkar of Parnashree has been desperately looking for a mop with a long handle ever since his domestic help has stopped coming. But he has failed to find one. “My wife cannot stoop because of a problem in the knee and I am getting exhausted after mopping my entire flat every day,” Sarkar said. Times ViewWe tend to forget that several non-essentials, too, become essential items in times of crisis. So people tend to hoard stuff, leading to a temporary disruption in the demand-supply chain. It is a very difficult task to manage this but it should be on the radar of market-controllingagencies.Forget mops or brooms, even garbage bags are not available anywhere. “On March 20, I was so overwhelmed by the idea of stocking the most essential items that the garbage bag just slipped my mind. Now I am regretting not paying attention to some of the non-essential items. People will any way get the essentials during an emergency, but the no so-called non-essential items are nowhere to be found,” said Badri Chatterjee, an architect. Chatterjee is now scouting for a bag big enough to accommodate his kitchen garbage so that he can take it to the vat in the market every morning. “Big plastic bags are not a common thing in the morning market, even if we are ready to pay for it,” he added. Samar Upadhaya, whose twin daughters have just been promoted to Class XII, has a much bigger crisis at home. “I got the book list on their school WhatsApp group two days after the lockdown was announced. Now I am finding it to be a real issue to get the books. Their school has already started classes online and non-availability of books has created a lot of tension in my family,” said Upadhaya, an automobile engineer with a big service centre. Gouranga Basak of Chetla managed to bring the books for his ward in Class VIII, but he could not buy exercise books. “My wife has brought out my child’s childhood slate, but he is unhappy with that,” Basak said. Urmi Sarkar, a student at South City College, is a phuchka fan whose evenings are incomplete without the snack. “It might be a non-essential item to most, including my parents, but it is essential to me. Life in lockdown is so horrible. And it is tasteless without phuchka,” she said. She said she had also gathered some funds to help her neighbourhood phuchkawala at Kalighat, but could not find him even after hours of search on successive evenings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-non-essential-items-makes-life-under-lockdown-tougher-for-citizens/articleshow/75000395.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 6, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 takes the limelight from Chaitra festivals||KERI: Chaitra, the first month of the Hindu calendar year, has its own significance from religious as well as cultural point of view. During this month, many festivals and celebrations take place in temples across Goa. This year, most temple committees have decided to not celebrate festivals on a grand scale in keeping with social distancing norm. Gudi Padva marks the beginning of the new year for Hindus. On this day, people erect a pole in front of their houses with a saffron flag and a pitcher atop it. People kept rituals to a minimum. On April 2, Ramnavami was observed in the state. Every year, a huge crowd gathers at the Shree Ramchandra temple in Pilgao. Mostly, devotees from the Chari community besides others hailing from even Maharashtra and Karnataka make it to the festival. But there was no big celebration this year. People also gather at Partgal math in Canacona. It is one of the biggest attractions for the devotees during Ramnavami. This year, celebrations were symbolic. Between April 3 and 8, folk drama ‘Dashavtari’ is normally organised in Bicholim. A palanquin procession, Veerbhadra tradition and rathotsav are also held at the Shree Vitthal temple in Bicholim. The temple committee headed by Poriem MLA, Pratapsingh Rane took the decision not to hold festivities. Raosaheb Rane from Sankhali associated with the Vitthal temple of Karapur said, “As devotees throng in large numbers during the Chaitra festivities, our committee decided to avoid grand celebrations.” April 8, being Chaitra Pournima (full moon day), marks the birth anniversary of lord Hanuman. Most of the temple committees have decided to celebrate the festival symbolically. On the day of Gudi Padva, devotees of goddess Lairai of Shirgao eat only vegetarian food and stay in thatched-roof structures. This year most devotees have decided to follow the Covid-19 norms by offering prayer to the goddess seeking welfare of all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-takes-the-limelight-from-chaitra-festivals/articleshow/75000447.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Doctor drives 540km to drop 8-year-old patient, kin home||KOLKATA: A doctor at SSKM hospital helped a patient reach her home 270km away from the city during lockdown by driving the eight-year-old girl himself. While leaving the hospital on March 25, Bablu Sardar, an anaesthetist, had spotted a family bargaining with ambulance drivers to drive them home. But the fare the drivers were demanding was beyond Rajesh Baskey, who works as a daily labourer in a stone crushing unit in Birbhum. Sardar was moved by the appalling condition of the family who came for the treatment of their eight-year-old daughter Angela who had an intestinal obstruction. After being treated, she was discharged from the hospital on March 23. However, due to the lockdown, the family failed to take her home and had been on the hospital campus for over 48 hours. “She was released from the hospital on March 23, but it was already the night of March 25 and they couldn’t go home. So I decided to help them, though Angela was not my patient. I could understand that due to lack of money the family was unable to reach home. Though her parents were with her at the hospital, she had a younger sister alone at home. Baskey told me that a week ago, two of his brothers had died. I could understand the condition of the family. Many of the ambulance drivers were charging an exorbitant fee — ranging between Rs 13,000 to Rs 14,000 — which the family could not afford,” Sardar said. The doctor said that since he had duty from 10am the next day, he decided to drive them home without going to have his dinner. “We started at 9pm from SSKM Hospital and reached Sulunga, which is exactly 270km away, around 3am. We only had to face police interception at Illambazar, where I narrated the story and there was no trouble on the way,” said Sardar, who drove the family to the village close to the Jharkhand border. “I was earlier posted in Dubrajpur in Birbhum and knew a part of the road. But after crossing Illambazar, it was a difficult task charting out the route through the villages. I had to drive around 15km in from the state highway. The family is so poor that they could not even offer me a cup of tea, However, I felt elated seeing the smile on the face of little Angela when she finally got home to be with her sister,” Sardar said. Driving back, he managed to attend duty again at 10am. “It took nearly 30 litres of petrol to help the family, for which I paid,” the doctor said, adding that he has been flooded with congratulatory messages after he posted about the incident on social media. Baskey, however, said the family was indebted to Sardar. “He is like God to us,” the daily labourer said. Watch Doctor drives 540km to drop 8-year-old patient, kin home in Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctor-drives-540km-to-drop-8-year-old-patient-kin-home/articleshow/75000414.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Liquor bottles sell at thrice the MRP as bootleggers fleece desperate tipplers||KOLKATA/NADIA: With stocks touching rock bottom, people are paying through the nose to buy liquor while bootleggers are making most of the lockdown. With every passing day, the price of a bottle of liquor keeps soaring high. A Parnashree resident, for instance, paid nearly Rs 3,000 for a bottle of liquor, thrice its MRP. After six-seven days of the lockdown, bootleggers have started raking in money as customers make desperate calls for liquor supply. Initially, these people were selling bottles at double the price and adding Rs 100 as delivery charge. Now, every bottle comes for thrice its price. In some areas, bootleggers are charging a transportation cost of Rs 200. Such is the desperation among buyers that a group of friends who had shared their numbers on social media, pledging to deliver medicine and groceries to elderly citizens, was flooded with calls asking them to deliver liquor. “We realized that someone had modified our initial post and replaced it with a message saying we deliver booze as well. Since April 1, our phones have been flooded with such calls. From Saturday, we were forced to stop the service and block unknown numbers,” said Sourav Chakraborty. The Salt Lake resident has lodged a complaint with cops regarding the issue. Chakraborty added he started the service with his friend Saikat as a commitment to the citizens in these difficult times. They received good feedback and a good amount of calls for the first few days. But since Sunday morning, Chakraborty alone received 2,022 calls from men asking for booze to be delivered. “The other team members — from Behala, Garia and other places — have also been receiving similar calls for the last four days. As instructed by cops, we are blocking the numbers and have stopped the service. It’s a shame, but we have no other option,” he said. With allegations of bootlegging, West Bengal Liquor On and Off Shop and Hotel Owners’ Association demanded the administration step in. “If any black marketing of foreign liquor takes place, the administration must take steps against it,” said Goutam Mukherjee, the association’s state secretary. However, the the association has refused to make any special plea before the state to reopen foreign liquor shops. But some shop owners said they want the state to allow over-the-counter sale for a certain period with adequate police security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-bottles-sell-at-thrice-the-mrp-as-bootleggers-fleece-desperate-tipplers/articleshow/75000408.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Statue of Unity put up on sale for Rs 30,000 crore on OLX!||VADODARA: It was a scene straight of out Abhishek Bachchan-starrer ‘Bunty and Babli’ who lease Taj Mahal to an unsuspecting foreigner for millions of US dollars. An unidentified man kept the world’s tallest statue – the Statue of Unity (SoU) - for sale on the global online marketplace OLX for Rs 30,000 crores. The post was deleted by the website within hours but screenshots of the sale went viral. The mischief monger seemed to be taking pot-shots at the government for spending thousands of crores for building SoU instead of using the money on hospitals and healthcare. The incident came to light on Saturday when screenshots of SoU’s photo along accompanying a text reading ‘Emergency! Selling Statue of Unity because of urgent money required for hospitals and healthcare equipment’ went viral. SoU authorities on Sunday filed a complaint against the unidentified person at Kevadia police station in Narmada district. The complaint stated that the miscreant deliberately insulted feelings of the public by trying to put the statue on sale. “We have filed a complaint against an unidentified person who tried to mislead people by putting a government property on sale,” said Nilesh Kumar Dubey, deputy CEO, SoU. P T Chaudhary, Kevadia police station, “We have screenshots of the online attempt to sell SoU. We will try to track down the person who may have made the post from his mobile or computer.” The 182-metre-tall statue of India’s former union home minister Sardar Patel has caught the fascination of tourists since its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. In November last year, SoU surpassed the USA’s Statue of Liberty in terms of daily footfall. The statue has been closed indefinitely for public due to coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sou-put-up-on-sale-for-rs-30000cr-on-olx/articleshow/74998033.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Indore||Just like Diwali: Residents light diyas, burst crackers||INDORE: Bursting crackers for over half an hour, it was more like a Diwali celebration for residents of Indore on Sunday. Following the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Indoreans lit diyas, candles, lamps, lanterns and flashlights while switching off all the lights at 9 pm. Despite receiving backlash globally for taking out processions while beating utensils on March 22, residents of the city came together in groups in various colonies across the city. “Most of the people in our area came together and chanted Jai Shri Ram for nine minutes to spread positivity,” said Prathmesh Sanora. People in the area continued to burst crackers for nearly an hour, he said. Indoreans gauged the atmosphere of the city at night by standing on their terrace, outside their gates and balconies. Spending several hours indoors, many youngsters had moved out of their homes to chant Jai Shri Ram and even knocked at houses to shut the lights wherein they spotted lights on. Several memes and jokes were doing rounds on various social media urging Indoreans not to light a bonfire or go to Rajwada to see the ‘mood’ of the city. “After becoming a laughing stock before the world, I also ensured sending messages to all in my contact list to stay indoors while lighting candles,” said professional Nidhi Gera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/just-like-diwali-residents-light-diyas-burst-crackers/articleshow/75000052.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vendors depend on buses to reach markets||KOLKATA: Buses plying on six city routes — to cater to personnel serving in essential services — are now doubling up as modes for transporting goods and keeping the crucial supply chain alive. For a lot of vendors trying to reach city markets in absence of goods carrying vehicles, these buses are serving as a lifeline by ensuring last-mile connectivity. A few days into the lockdown, the state chalked out six bus routes to facilitate movement of personnel attached to essential services, including medical and para-medical staff, people working in medicine, grocery or those working with cooking gas dealers, petrol pumps and delivery men. Since these buses are connecting some major markets on the way, a lot of vendors are also travelling on them with their merchandise. “Though these buses are not meant for transporting goods, we end up playing a role in keeping the supply-chain alive,” said an officer of West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). With the city's goods carriage network in a shambles due to the absence of drivers and helpers, WBTC is facilitating the transportation of small items without causing any hassle to commuters. At least three bus routes touch upon Howrah and Burrabazar, and two go via Sealdah. Markets in the extreme north at Barasat and at the extreme south in Kamalgazi and Joka are also connected by buses. “"We are running more than 100 buses so that people working in the essential services don’t get stuck on the roads,” said another officer. This became a boon for shop owners and vendors since the truckers in the state are struggling with only 40% of the 3 lakh-strong fleet being operational at present. The manpower shortage, truckers said, has hampered even the relief distribution work. Prabir Chatterjee, organiszing secretary of the Federation of the West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association, said that most of the truck drivers and helpers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have gone back home after the lockdown. “Almost 20% of the trucks carrying non-essential items are stranded on roads. Another 40% of trucks are lying unused as drivers and helpers have gone back to their villages. A few days back, the state needed some trucks to despatch relief material. We were unable to provide the required number of vehicles due to a shortage of drivers,” he said. Meanwhile, private bus owners have deployed nearly 60 buses across the state to carry medical and emergency staff in districts. “We will be happy to press some more buses in service to facilitate goods carriage if the state asks for it. This is an unusual time and we understand the need of the hour,” said Rahul Chatterjee, general secretary of All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanway Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vendors-depend-on-buses-to-reach-mkts/articleshow/75000389.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 6, 2020||Delhi||Doctors, nurses at NDMC hospital quarantined||NEW DELHI: As many as 30 members of the medical staff, including doctors and nurses, were sent to home quarantine after a sanitation worker employed at New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)’s Charak Palika Hospital tested positive for novel coronavirus. “A 46-year-old contractual sanitation worker employed at Charak Palika Hospital in Moti Bagh has been tested Covid-19 positive. On March 30, the patient attended the hospital with mild symptoms. On high clinical suspicion, she was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital for the test. The positive report of the patient was received on April 4. She is now admitted to RML hospital for further treatment,” said the hospital administration. It added: “Infected person’s family members have been tested as well, and their reports are awaited. For now, the district authorities have placed her family in home quarantine. The entire medical team of 30 personnel, including nursing and paramedical staff, who were involved in the care of the patient, have been asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days (from the date of last contact).” Sources said the infected worker was undergoing treatment at Charak Palika Hospital for over a week. “When her condition didn’t improve, she was referred to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on April 1 where she was tested positive for Covid-19.” “Several staff members working in other departments of the hospital have demanded that they also be sent for home quarantine,” said a source. Meanwhile, the hospital premises was sanitised. “The department is trying to find out who all had come in contact with the worker. If we come across any suspected case, he or she will be referred for tests and treatment immediately,” said an NDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-nurses-at-ndmc-hosp-quarantined/articleshow/75000655.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 6, 2020||Surat||SMIMER gets Rs 1 crore donation for capacity building||SURAT: The Hazira plant of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) contributed Rs 1 crore funds towards the capacity building of medical and healthcare facilities at SMC-run SMIMER Hospital on Thursday. RIL Hazira president Hemant Desai handed over Rs 1 crore cheque to SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani for the capacity building of medical and healthcare facilities for citizens of the diamond city at the SMIMER Hospital to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Desai said: “The city has a sizeable number of migrant population which poses a big challenge. We at the RIL recognise the untiring efforts of the civic body under the leadership of the municipal commissioner. We thank all the unsung heroes including medical, paramedical, health, sanitisation and emergency staff for adopting the motto of ‘service before self’ in a true sense.” Desai added, “The donation of Rs 1 crore is exclusively for the SMIMER Hospital. The RIL has already donated Rs 5 crore to the CM Covid-19 relief fund. That apart, the company donated R 50 lakh to the Surat district collector in the administration’s fight against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smimer-gets-rs-1cr-donation-for-capacity-building/articleshow/74998999.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Calls from mosques convince residents of Takia to cooperate||Nagpur: In the narrow lanes of Mominpura, leading to the house of the latest person who tested Covid-19 positive, stickers like ‘Say No To NRC’ can still be seen on doors.As NMC began a containment drive in the Takia Diwanshah pocket of Mominpura, where the cap seller who had been to Delhi and was found infected stays, residents were initially reluctant to share any information. Locals, already at the receiving end after the Tablighi Jamat incident, were also apprehensive about their details which may be used for NRC.The drive, which began on Sunday, aims to seek information for corona-like symptoms among the 4,000 residents of Takia.During the survey, the NMC school teachers, who were given the job, were bluntly turned away. One of them reported that even the questionnaire was torn.Keeping the sensitivity in mind, the NMC deployed Muslim teachers and health workers for the drive. At around 12, calls were given from mosques by clerics. People were told that the government is doing it for their well-being and that they should cooperate. The calls worked. The NMC workers’ hassles eased and they could collect data.“It’s not that the people are not cooperating. They are scared that the data may be used for NRC. We have heard that someone was asking for Aadhar card too,” said Ateeq Qureshi, a social worker. Later, the officials clarified that documents like Aadhar card were not asked for.Maulana Hafiz Masood of Jamiat-e-Ulema made 2-3 calls from the mosques and people started cooperating with the NMC officials. Soon, youngsters, too, joined the NMC team and started convincing the locals to share information.“It’s not true that people are not cooperating with the authorities. But it’s also not fair to link every man living here with the Tablighi Jamat. The entire community is being ostracized for an isolated incident. I had been to a nearby locality and could hear people blaming us for spreading the infection,” said Hafiz, adding, “We are not barring any one from coming to Mominpura.”Close to the house where the cap seller stayed, Dr Mukhtar Ansari, a local practitioner, was explaining to an acquaintance over the phone that the survey had nothing to do with NRC.“Initially, we faced stiff resistance. Residents thought that it was NRC, but eventually, they softened their stand after appeals were made through the mosques,” said an NMC official.Shagufta Parveen, an NMC school teacher engaged in the survey, said, “We are only seeking information like the number of persons in the family, anyone having diseases like diabetes or hyper tension or symptoms such as cough and cold.”The roads that lead to Takia have lanes that are just three feet wide. NMC officials, who sported masks and gloves, were seen going door-to-door to gather information. At times, they were seen getting too close while seeking information.“The scare is natural, but we are cooperating. I had been to the building along with the police to convince the cap seller to go with the authorities. We had to scale a wall from the back portion of the house to reach him,” said Siraj Ahmed, a former corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/calls-from-mosques-convince-residents-of-takia-to-cooperate/articleshow/75000073.cms||Shishir Arya
April 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Rules eased for residents after 10-day lockdown||Kolhapur: After strict lockdown instructions for the Mangalwar Peth residents over the past 10 days — following emergence of two positive cases in the area — the district administration has now relaxed some of the rules. The area was declared a containment zone, as no one was allowed to enter or exit the locality. A door-to-door survey was done to identify if there are any suspected Covid-19 cases. In total 3,200 people were surveyed here. Accordingly, 60 people were given strict instructions of home quarantine and the health staff regularly monitored them. Six people were taken to institutional quarantine. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that 500m surrounding the area where the positive cases were found were converted into a containment zone. “We have completed the disinfection drive in the area. Many people from the area have been screened. During these days, the locals faced some restrictions on movement. We have now made access to essential goods open to the locals,” he said. The health administration has confirmed that most of the samples have been tested negative. The two positive cases are undergoing treatment. A doctor of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital said that the health of both patients is improving. “They will be tested again in the next two to three days. And again thereafter for last time if required. Only after the swab tests comes out to be negative, the individuals will be discharged and advised home quarantine for few more days,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. Kalshetti said they had urged the co-passengers of the first case to get screened. “Many approached us and we advised them home quarantine. We are in continuous communication with the traced contacts," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rules-eased-for-residents-after-10-day-lockdown/articleshow/75000069.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Immunity-booster ragi is the rage now||Mysuru: Ragi has always been popular in kitchens of South Karnataka and the staple diet in many villages. People draw their sustenance through ragi porridge or mudde (balls). But now, they’re turning to it as a precaution against coronavirus as it helps improve body immunity. There has been increased demand for the ragi flour and grain. Ragi-based dishes are now replacing rice and chapati. According to G Krishna Prasad of Sahaja Samrudha, people are turning to traditional diets which include finger millets and tubers. According to Honnur Prakash, a progressive farmer from Chamarajanagar, the demand for the finger millet has been steadily rising over the past few weeks. According to city residents, ragi dishes, including malt, porridge and mudde, are now part of the daily menu. "People are talking a lot about improving their immunity. Ragi-based dishes are easy to make and enjoy," said Sukanya Rajshekar, a resident from Vivekanandanagar. This mother of two children added: "All these days, it was not part of the regular meals as the kids didn’t like it much. Now, the fear of Covid-19 has made them understand its importance." Ayurvedic doctor Dr Ashok GB has been getting a lot of queries about traditional food over the past fortnight. "I’ve been suggesting they go back to old food items. People are now very conscious about what they eat,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/immunity-booster-ragi-is-the-rage-now/articleshow/74998998.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||India ‘considering’ Trump’s plea on supply of key drug||NEW DELHI: India is considering a request by US President Donald Trump to relax the ban on export of hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malaria drug which, as Trump has claimed in the past, can help treat Covid-19 patients. Mentioning his conversation with PM Narendra Modi on Saturday, Trump had said India was giving “serious consideration" to supply the drug to the US. On Saturday, India had further tightened the ban on export of the anti-malaria drug. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) decided to clamp down on all exports — including those by units in special economic zones and by export-oriented units, those that had used the advance authorisation scheme or had received payment for shipping out the drug. The tightening came within 10 days of the initial ban to ensure that there was no shortage within the country. The DGFT has undertake a series of export curbs, including those on testing kits, ventilators and masks, after the proposal was cleared following inter-ministerial consultations, with the health ministry being an integral part of the talks. Official sources said the US was not the only country which had requested the drug from India, which is among the largest producers of hydroxychloroquine, and that a decision would be taken keeping in mind the country’s requirements. “This is not PPE kit which is in short supply. There are 2-3 important things to keep in mind before a decision is taken. First is India’s hydroxychloroquine production capacity. Second, our estimated requirements in the near future,'' said a source. He said it was equally important to keep in mind the global nature of the fight against coronavirus and India’s commitment to it. India itself is looking to procure PPE and ventilators from abroad. In India, ICMR has repeatedly said that hydroxychloroquine is not to be used by everyone and that it is being given to doctors and contacts of lab confirmed cases. “When their data will be complied, only then a call can be taken whether it should be recommended to everyone (who is at risk),” senior ICMR scientist Raman R Gangakhedkar said last week. "I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquine. India is giving it serious consideration," Trump had said at a White House briefing on Saturday, adding that he would appreciate if India released the amount ordered by the US. Trump also said there were rumours that the antimalarial drug was effective and that “I may take it’’. According to reports from China, hydroxychloroquine has been effective so far only in dealing with mildly ill Covid-19 patients and not those severely affected by the virus. Before it fully banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and its formulations, the government had in an earlier notification said it would make an exception only on certain conditions. One of these was that exports would be allowed to other countries on humanitarian grounds on a case-to-case basis and on the recommendation of the foreign ministry. Modi and Trump had on Saturday discussed the pandemic with the former reiterating India’s solidarity with the US in overcoming this global crisis together. The two leaders agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat Covid-19, the government had said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/india-considering-us-request-for-hydroxychloroquine/articleshow/75000740.cms||Sachin Parashar
April 6, 2020||India||India ‘considering’ Trump’s plea on supply of key drug||NEW DELHI: India is considering a request by US President Donald Trump to relax the ban on export of hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malaria drug which, as Trump has claimed in the past, can help treat Covid-19 patients. Mentioning his conversation with PM Narendra Modi on Saturday, Trump had said India was giving “serious consideration" to supply the drug to the US. On Saturday, India had further tightened the ban on export of the anti-malaria drug. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) decided to clamp down on all exports — including those by units in special economic zones and by export-oriented units, those that had used the advance authorisation scheme or had received payment for shipping out the drug. The tightening came within 10 days of the initial ban to ensure that there was no shortage within the country. The DGFT has undertake a series of export curbs, including those on testing kits, ventilators and masks, after the proposal was cleared following inter-ministerial consultations, with the health ministry being an integral part of the talks. Official sources said the US was not the only country which had requested the drug from India, which is among the largest producers of hydroxychloroquine, and that a decision would be taken keeping in mind the country’s requirements. “This is not PPE kit which is in short supply. There are 2-3 important things to keep in mind before a decision is taken. First is India’s hydroxychloroquine production capacity. Second, our estimated requirements in the near future,'' said a source. He said it was equally important to keep in mind the global nature of the fight against coronavirus and India’s commitment to it. India itself is looking to procure PPE and ventilators from abroad. In India, ICMR has repeatedly said that hydroxychloroquine is not to be used by everyone and that it is being given to doctors and contacts of lab confirmed cases. “When their data will be complied, only then a call can be taken whether it should be recommended to everyone (who is at risk),” senior ICMR scientist Raman R Gangakhedkar said last week. "I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquine. India is giving it serious consideration," Trump had said at a White House briefing on Saturday, adding that he would appreciate if India released the amount ordered by the US. Trump also said there were rumours that the antimalarial drug was effective and that “I may take it’’. According to reports from China, hydroxychloroquine has been effective so far only in dealing with mildly ill Covid-19 patients and not those severely affected by the virus. Before it fully banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and its formulations, the government had in an earlier notification said it would make an exception only on certain conditions. One of these was that exports would be allowed to other countries on humanitarian grounds on a case-to-case basis and on the recommendation of the foreign ministry. Modi and Trump had on Saturday discussed the pandemic with the former reiterating India’s solidarity with the US in overcoming this global crisis together. The two leaders agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat Covid-19, the government had said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-considering-us-request-for-hydroxychloroquine/articleshow/75000736.cms||Sachin Parashar
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Four children, mother stuck in Bidar; father seeks help||HYDERABAD: Four children along with their mother are stuck in Karnataka’s Bidar due to the lockdown. The children’s father has been approaching different authorities to help bring them back to Hyderabad. The mother, Shabana Begum along with their four children — Sumera (10), Afreen (8), Sherin (6) and Mustafa (4) — had gone to attend a marriage function on March 19 and were supposed to return a day after the janata curfew. “The lockdown announcement was unexpected. Since then, my wife and four children have been stuck there. My wife is struggling to manage the kids alone there at her parent’s house. The children have been crying every day asking her when are they coming back home,” said Mohammed Hazi, a resident of Talabkatta in Amannagar. He is currently living with another one of his sons. “They have limited resources there, I am worried about their well being. I just need a few hours of permission, so that I can drive till Bidar and bring them back home,” he added. Hazi has approached child rights NGO Balala Hakkula Sangamam seeking help to bring the family back. “We have written a letter to the human rights commission requesting to instruct the South Zone police to issue permission so that he can bring the family back,” said NGO president Achyuta Rao. Meanwhile, police said that they will look into the issue. “The family is currently staying in a different state. We will look into the matter and accordingly take a decision,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-children-mother-stuck-in-bidar-father-seeks-help/articleshow/75000449.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Not enough masks, protective gear for hosp staff in Hamidia||BHOPAL: The city’s largest tertiary care hospital, Hamidia hospital has N-95 masks that will last no longer than two days while another government hospital has not conducted a ‘mock-drill’ as it does not have the required personal protective equipment (PPE), according to hospital administration. “There are about 13 suppliers of N-95 masks in Bhopal. The supply was from Indore and Delhi. It is halted. We expect to get some transport in the coming week,” said MP chemist association representative, Lalit Jain. Sanitizers and triple-layer masks are in regular supply, he added. “We have sufficient triple-layer masks. N-95 masks are about 700 in quantity. It would not last more than two days when patients start to arrive. We have about 1,500 PPE, but more are awaited,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. Five designated hospitals in Bhopal have 149 ventilators and 168 ICU beds for critical care patients related to COVID. Last week, AIIMS-Bhopal got an additional 500 PPE from the state government. The institute is the main hub for treatment of COVID-19 in the state capital. It is treating patients from all the state. Concerns have been raised with the state government about the availability of PPE, N-95 masks and other supplies. “I do not have the exact number to provide off-hand. However, we have sufficient stock availability,” said JP hospital superintendent and district civil surgeon, Dr Alka Pardhaniya. Most of the stock has been distributed from the hospital campus, which also houses the CMHO’s office. COVID-19 has spurred the demand for masks, including the lightweight ones that people like to wear in the hope of protection against coronavirus as well as the heavy-duty N95 masks used by healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-enough-masks-protective-gear-for-hosp-staff-in-hamidia/articleshow/75000453.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||SGCCI warns of fake email in circulation||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has warned its trade members regarding the fake email account generated in the name of the chamber president on Friday. SGCCI stated that some unscrupulous elements have made the fake id in the name of Ketan P Desai, president of SGCCI and are sending mails to trade and industry members seeking vital information. Talking with TOI, SGCCI president Ketan Desai said, “A fake email has been generated in my name to seek information and other favours from trade and industry. We have alerted our members about the fake email. A process has also been started to lodge a complaint with the cyber cell of the city police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-warns-of-fake-email-in-circulation/articleshow/74999021.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||On state orders, NMC to quarantine 44 who returned from abroad||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Sunday received a new list of 44 people, who have returned from abroad, from the state government. The civic body has been asked to trace, test and quarantine them as preventive measures to control Covid-19. It has reportedly already traced 15 and were trying to trace the others at the time of going to press, reports Anjaya Anparthi.NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that these people are those who landed at various airports in the country between March 17 and 21 and “reached city by train”. However, the NMC is clueless on the motive behind making the list.All would have completed the virus incubation period of 14 days if one takes into account the date of return. Earlier, the civic body had received three lists from the Union home ministry following which 197 persons were traced and quarantined between April 1 and 3. A 137 were digital footprints found in a 3km radius of the Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi where the congregation of Tablighi Jamaats was held in February and March. The remaining 60 persons were Tablighi Jamaats who were non-residents of the city. One of them had tested positive and results of 65 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-state-orders-nmc-to-quarantine-44-who-returned-from-abroad/articleshow/75000082.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||Surat businessman feeds 1,000 poor twice a day||SURAT: Jignesh Gandhi, a 44-year-old businessman from the city, has taken up the cudgels to feed more than 1,000 poor people ever since the lockdown, twice a day. What’s more he even personally visits the localities to provide the food. “I come from a very poor family and have seen struggle in my life. I can feel the pain of being poor,” said Gandhi, a resident of Bhatar area in the city. Their group, called ‘Alliance Club of Surat Hope’ is actively involved in providing education to more than 5,000 underprivileged children in and around Surat. “Since the lockdown happened, we decided to reach out to the poor and the daily wage earners, who are the worst hit in this lockdown and are unable to feed themselves. So, we prepare food for 1000 people twice a day and distribute it to people in different localities in the city,” Gandhi told TOI on Saturday. "A temple in Jahangirpura area has given us their space to cook food for these many people and from there we also distribute the food. There are many daily wagers who have no money at all to buy essentials. We find them out and give them food. We will continue to serve these people till it requires our help,” Gandhi added. Apart from providing cooked food to people, Gandhi’s NGO has also provided grocery kits to more than 4,800 people in the last 10 days. Each kit contains 5kg flour, 3kg rice, 1 litre edible oil, 2kg tur dal and 1kg of moong dal. “We are also going to provide medicines to the people living in old-age home in the city,” Gandhi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/businessman-feeds-1000-poor-twice-a-day/articleshow/74999059.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ajmer||None tests positive in Ajmer for 6 days||AJMER: Good news from Ajmer as Covid-19 reports of 21 attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat meet held at Mewat in Haryana were negative. They all belonged to Roopnagar village of Beawar block. Reports of 10 more Jamaatis who returned recently from New Delhi were also negative. The last positive case in Ajmer was reported on March 31. “All the 21 who returned from Mewat are not infected,” said an official of Beawar block. He added that whole village had been quarantined and people had been asked not to move out. In Ajmer, 275 suspected people had been identified and quarantined. One suspect from Ajay Nagar who was admitted to a hospital on Sunday morning fled. There are five positive cases in Ajmer and all are from the same family in Kharikoi. They are now in Jaipur’s SMS Hospital. Police and health department are still identifying Tablighi attendees who returned to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/none-tests-positive-in-ajmer-for-6-days/articleshow/75000458.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||16 test negative in Goa, 200 home quarantined||PANAJI: In an update on the Covid-19 health situation, the directorate of health services (DHS) said that on Sunday 16 suspects tested negative for the virus while 66 reports were awaited. Twenty-three samples were sent for testing and 200 home quarantined. Goa has seven confirmed Covid-19 cases all under treatment at the ESI hospital at Margao. “All patients have responded well to treatment. Only one required ventilator support,” a health official said. The GMC has 28 suspects under treatment in its isolation ward. It proposes to have two more wards to treat patients suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and who tested negative for coronavirus, the official said. There are 45 persons in the quarantine facility. The official said that among those quarantined on Sunday are some co-passengers of the two men who tested positive during the last two days. The DHS had appealed to the two men’s co-passengers to home quarantine themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/16-test-negative-200-home-quarantined/articleshow/75000459.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown brings down crimes in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The number of crimes—such as rape, murder and theft—recorded in the state has dropped during the nationwide lockdown. On average, at least 50 property offences (burglaries, theft, murder for gain) are registered in a day across the state. This number has dropped drastically to four to six cases a day. At least 50 to 55 bodily offences—such as murder, kidnapping, abductionand the like—were registered almost every day. But the police say they have received only three to five complaints a day in the past two weeks. White collar crimes too have reduced from 25 cases a day to one or two per day. Cyber crimes have reduced to almost zero. The police have not registered any case related to ganja trade in the past two weeks. Speaking to TOI, Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said, “We normally register a good number of property offence cases and other crimes. But in the past two weeks, we have received very few complaints. Cases related to rape, crime against women, property offences and cyber crimes have drastically decreased. We suspect this is due to Covid-19 lockdown. The law and order situation is also good in Vijayawada city. Except cases related to defying the lockdown and traffic violations, registration of other crimes are very low.” “In the past two weeks, only two property offences (burglary in a liquor shop and cash stolen at a transport office) were reported in Vizag city. Those cases too were solved. We strongly believe that the lockdown and coronavirus scare are the reason for this drop in cases. Since majority of the people have been staying home, criminals have found it difficult to commit property offences,” said V Suresh Babu, deputy commissioner of police (crimes).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-brings-down-crimes-in-ap/articleshow/74999029.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Clerics, leaders urge people to fall in line||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) health officials reached out to clerics, elders and intellectuals from the community when they faced resistance from locals in Mominpura’s Takia where corona containment drive started on Sunday morning.Tablighi Jamaat Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel was probably the first to get a call from officials as the seminary office is located in the same area. “I asked imams of a couple of Masjids to appeal to people to cooperate,” he said.Patel said former corporator Siraj Ahmed, Jamiat Ulema Hind president Masood Ahmed, its secretary Javed Akhtar, Bamcef’s Hafiz Ashraf and Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed went around dispelling apprehensions about the drive.“We came to know that rumour mongering videos about the drive had gone viral. We will recommend strict action against people who spread such videos. Now, we are making videos to create awareness about the drive,” Bari said.Bari said fake news about administration will not be tolerated. Dr Ahmed said the residents were misinformed that it was NPR exercise.“Since new people came, they didn’t understand what was going around. These people are not aware how serious the disease is. Our videos will create awareness. We have appealed to them to cooperate,” he said.Dr Ahmed said Muslim elders had been creating awareness among people and asking them to stay indoors. “We were successful in asking people to pray at home and not at masjids. We hope they will understand now too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clerics-leaders-urge-people-to-fall-in-line/articleshow/75000093.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases surge to 266 in Rajasthan, Jaipur reports first death||JAIPUR: The state reported 62 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday with a majority of them coming from Jaipur. The state capital also reported the first death after an 82-year-old resident of Ghat Gate lost his battle against coronavirus in the afternoon. In Pink City, 41 persons were found infected with the virus, while Bikaner had six, Jodhpur three, Dausa two, and Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Pali and Nagaur one each, among others. Five evacuees airlifted from Iran and kept in isolation facilities at the Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer have also tested positive for Covid-19. While the total count of positive persons were 204 on Saturday, according to the health department report, the number of cases have increased to 266 on Sunday. The 82-year-old, who died today in Jaipur while undergoing treatment at Sawai Man Singh Hospital, had no travel history but he came from the area close to Ramganj, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the city. This took the number of deaths to five, so far, in the state. Meanwhile, 36 people have been cured of the disease till date and 25 discharged from hospitals in various districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-cases-surge-to-266-in-raj-city-reports-1st-death/articleshow/75000462.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||City lights diyas of hope against Covid-19 pandemic||Jaipur: The state capital responded overwhelmingly to PM Narendra Modi’s ‘9pm-9 minute’ appeal with almost the entire city switching off lights at 9pm on Sunday in a show of solidarity in the fight against coronavirus pandemic. People lit lamps, torches were switched on and mobile lights were flashed from balconies.However, as the city was busy lighting lamps and bursting crackers, a fire was reported at Vaishali Nagar area. Fire officials said it was in an empty plot and nobody was injured. Two fire tenders were sent to douse the fire. Police said a firecracker caused the fire. For nine minutes, the city seemed like celebrating Diwali as some citizens went a step ahead by bursting crackers and even releasing sky lanterns, throwing social distancing for a toss. In Raja Park and Adarsh Nagar, people were seen huddled together on roads flashing their cellphone lights. At Adarsh Nagar, police used barricades to light candles. “It is like a Diwali feeling. We are doing it in solidarity with doctors and paramedics,” said Rakesh, who lives in Adarsh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-lights-diyas-of-hope-against-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/75000465.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Three Jamaat men, all asymptomatic, test positive for Covid-19 in Kheri||Bareilly: Three members of Tablighi Jamaat, who had taken part in the recent religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Dhaurahra on Saturday night. They were part of a 12-member group from Bihar who were earlier found staying in a mosque in Dhaurahra area of the district. Two of them are aged 19 while the third is 62 years. SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran said that all of them were asymptomatic and 23 teams were formed to trace their contacts. The Jamaat members were actually found on March 31, but they had then claimed that they were migrant workers and were only returning from Delhi for Bihar. They were separately quarantined by SDM at a shelter home after conducting medical check-up. Three days later they admitted to have visited the Jamaat meeting in Delhi. Thereafter, their samples were sent for Covid-19 testing on Friday and reports of three of them were found positive. On Sunday, chief medical officer (CMO) Manoj Agarwal said, “All the three positive cases have been sent to our community health centre in Behjam where they would be kept in isolation. The other nine members of their group will be under observation for the next few days. Some people were home quarantined and their medical examination was also conducted by our team. The locals have been alerted and advised to call us in case anyone develops Covid-19-like symptoms - among them or their family members.” SDM Sudhakaran told TOI, “We have deployed 23 teams comprising of health and administrative officials to trace the people who may have come in contact with these positive cases. The mosque and the area within a radius of one kilometre were sanitised in my presence. Police are putting all efforts to find out whether other Jamaat men are staying elsewhere in the area. Local residents have been advised to immediately share information about those who came here after lockdown was announced. We have also conducted meetings with local religious heads and requested them to cooperate with us.” On Sunday, five more Jamaat men were found staying in a house in Amritaganj village under the limits of Kheri police station. The five men along with the house owner have been quarantined and they will be booked under the relevant sections for violating “quarantine norms”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-jamaat-men-all-asymptomatic-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kheri/articleshow/74997970.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops extend help to patients||HYDERABAD: Despite their hands being tied down with lockdown duties, the Cyberabad police are playing the Good Samaritan role to the hilt by assisting those needing medical help. The Cyberabad police have provided help to two pregnant women, a cancer patient and other citizens in need of medical assistance. Cyberabad Covid-19 control room on Saturday received a call from the family of a pregnant woman belonging to Jagadgirigutta, seeking an ambulance. Following which, the team shifted the woman to a PHC in Balanagar. A similar call was received by the team and another pregnant woman was shifted from Medchal Balanagar division to Niloufer Hospital. On Saturday, a police team also helped a patient who had to return from AIG hospital at Gachibowli to his residence along with his attender. Another elderly dialysis patient from Medchal Balanagar division was shifted to KIMS Hospital in Gajularamaram. VC Sajjanar, Cyberabad commissioner of police, asked people to dial 100 in case of delay in the arrival of ambulances, for medical emergencies like cardiac arrest, dialysis and accident. “The control room will function round the clock throughout the lockdown period,” said Cyberabad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-cops-extend-help-to-patients/articleshow/75000469.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||State will use SC breather on border row to formulate effective response: MP||Mangaluru: A direction from the Supreme Court to the Union health secretary on Friday, to hold consultations with her counterparts in Karnataka and Kerala to find a solution to the deadlock arising from Karnataka’s decision to close its borders and not allow people to enter from Kasaragod, will be heard on April 7, which has given Karnataka a breather for some time. The state will use this time to formulate its response, to negate a direction from the Kerala high court to the Centre in this regard. Asserting there are no issues in this regard till April 7, when the Supreme Court takes up the matter for further hearing, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said, “The status quo will continue till then. Karnataka will file one more affidavit before the apex court on that day, explaining reasons on why the borders between Karnataka and Kerala must remain sealed,” putting in context the record number of Covid-19 cases in that state. The Dakshina Kannada district administration is worried as neighbouring Kasaragod district has almost as many Covid-19 cases as is there in the whole of Karnataka. “We have no issues with Kerala in normal times. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has created an extreme situation, where allowing patients from Kasaragod into the city will put tremendous pressure on the existing health infrastructure, that should cater to the needs of people of the district,” Nalin surmised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/state-will-use-sc-breather-on-border-row-to-formulate-effective-response-mp/articleshow/74999083.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Family of boy found +ve in Korba quarantined at Kamptee||Nagpur: Immediately after 16-year-old boy tested positive in Korba district, Chhattisgarh, on Saturday, the district administration here identified and home quarantined his eight family members in Kamptee. The administration has also traced, examined and quarantined 30 persons from rural parts of the district having Delhi connection as per orders of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).TOI on Sunday had reported the teenager who is a Jamaat member was camping at a mosque in Katghora town, Korba, and tested positive fr Covid-19. At present, he is undergoing treatment at AIIMS Raipur.Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hingne told TOI, “We received information about the positive patient from Chhattisgarh government so quarantined his family members. All eight were asymptomatic. He left from Kamptee on a religious tour on March 1. He first went to Bilaspur and then Korba,” he said.Hingne added the boy was among four-member group and process to identify and trace remaining three was on.Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi said, “44 people were from rural parts of the district as per list received from MHA. 30 have been traced, examined and quarantined. One person was having some symptoms and has been admitted at Mayo Hospital. Remaining 29 are under quarantine at Vanamati. Test reports of all are awaited. Remaining 14 are out of district and state,” he said.Ramtek police on Saturday arrested five persons of whom two were stamped on their hand for home quarantine. PI Dilip Thakur said, “Four from Wadi including two home quarantines and one from a village were roaming in Panchala village under Ramtek police station. Villagers informed us. We arrested all five for violating Section 144 and norms of home quarantine and Disaster Management Act- 2005. One of Wadi residents’ grandmother was in the village so they had come here. They were out to find liquor,” he said.Thakur added they were handed over to their family members after testing and serving notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/family-of-boy-found-ve-in-korba-quarantined-at-kamptee/articleshow/75000095.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 6, 2020||Pune||Slum pockets in Pune fast emerge as Covid-19 hotspots||PUNE: The slums are emerging as the hotspots of the spread of the novel coronavirus in the city. This trend, experts said, could be dangerous to the city’s fight against the contagion. Complete lockdown within the affected slums, along with providing institutional quarantine care to even the lower-risk contacts could rein in the spread, the experts said. Three persons including two slum-dwellers succumbed to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19)-associated complications at different hospitals in the city over the weekend, pushing up the number of casualties from the infection to five. “We have so far reported about 10 positive cases from five slum areas in Pune. Three residents who succumbed to Covid-19 in Pune during the past three days are residents of slumss. In fact, most of the positive cases are now being seen from the low income groups,” a civic health official said. The five slums in Pune that have so far reported Covid-19 positive cases are Kashewadi(Bhawani Peth), Laxminagar (Yerawada), Parvatigaon (above the canal side) in Parvati, Meentai Thakeray (Gultekdi) and Sayyednagar(Hadapsar). The increasing cases of Covid-19 among the slum-dwellers have triggered the fear of a quick spread of the virus in the densely populated pockets and underlined the need for rapid containment measures. Senior public health expert Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to the state government on infectious diseases, has underlined stringent cluster containment measures in the 3km periphery of the affected slums to contain the spread of the infection. “Strict cluster containment measures should be implemented to contain the virus as its spread can be quick like wildfire in densely-populated slums,” Salunke said. Another public health expert underlined the need for institutional quarantine even the lower risk contacts of positive cases. “Currently, only the high-risk contacts — the immediate family members of the positive cases and symptomatic contacts — are put into institutional quarantine at designated isolation facilities and low risk contacts who the infected person has not much mingled are asked to remain home-quarantined for 14 days. But these low risk contacts do not follow the quarantine norms and keep on mingling with others. Hence, these low risk contacts living in slums should also be quarantined for 14 days not in hospitals but in some other dedicated quarantine facilities," the expert said. The city had reported its first Covid-19 death on March 30, when a 52-year-old man from Thane, who was staying at his in-laws’ home in Erandwane, succumbed to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection-associated complications at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. A 50-year-old woman from Raviwar Peth was the city’s second Covid-19 casualty when she died at Sassoon hospital on April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/emerging-hotspots-of-covid-19-spread-are-slums/articleshow/75000472.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Admin clueless how Amt victim contracted virus||Amravati: The district administration here is groping in the dark about the source from where the city’s first novel coronavirus (Covid-19) victim, who died of pneumonia on April 2, had contracted the virus.Acting on a war footing, the health officials on Sunday collected 59 throat swab samples and quarantined 518 persons. The administration is also awaiting test reports of 25 others, including relatives and close contacts of the first victim. In all, 103 test reports are being awaited.Hathipura locality, where the deceased resided, remained sealed for the second successive day on Sunday. Shops did not open and residents too were not allowed to come out of their homes even after municipal squads sanitized the entire locality.Collector Shailesh Naval told TOI, “Though no new cases have been detected after April 3, test reports of the 25 persons close to the deceased and that of 10-12 persons whom the victim had met while in Badnera may throw some light on the source of the infection.” “People and relatives close to the victim are not sharing information,” said Naval.As Amravati victim had no travel history for last six months, his contracting the virus in the city means that the source is here and out of the reach of the health administration.Naval ruled out the possibility of the victim coming in contact with Haiderpura person who tested positive in Meerut. “Both are different cases. Two sons of the Meerut patient have tested negative, which establishes the fact that he contracted the virus during his train journey from here to Meerut,” said the collector.Meanwhile, residents allegedly abused and manhandled cops on Badnera mini-bypass on Sunday morning when they stopped an autorickshaw near Almas gate point in Old City during curfew period. Later, Rapid Action Force personnel undertook a route march. Police have booked auto driver Kallu, his son and some others.In last one week, the administration had screened 1,914 persons and sent 130 samples for testing. Till date, 3,659 persons have been screened and 208 swab samples have been sent for examination. Of these, 93 reports came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-clueless-how-amt-victim-contracted-virus/articleshow/75000100.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Starvation, not corona, will kill us: 80 labourer families||Yavatmal: The ongoing lockdown has pushed over 80 families of migrant labourers, having several kids, to the brink of starvation after the contractor stopped work and their weekly payment.The district administration also failed to provide any relief to the labourers, who are mostly from Nanded, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka.Engaged by a Pune-based private contractor for laying pipeline for underground drainage system, the labourers have been staying in tents at Bodad village, 5km from the city. The contractor used to send Rs1,500 a week for each family. After the lockdown was imposed on March 24, the contractor stopped work and also payment.The labourers claimed they tried to contact the contractor, but there was no response.With no money left, the labourers contacted an NGO which arranged rations for a day. However, nobody turned up thereafter. When they contacted the person who had brought rations to them, he said there would be no more supply.One of the labourers Diwakar Bansal, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, said they were unable to feed even the kids. “Our children are crying for food,” he said with tears in his eyes. “Where shall we go?” he asked adding, “We will die of starvation, not coronavirus.”The resident district collector had asked people who need food to contact any of the five numbers on WhatsApp. However, these numbers are of members of NGOs and not of any government agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/starvation-not-corona-will-kill-us-80-labourer-families/articleshow/75000105.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Two grocery sellers booked for black marketing in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Two grocery shop-owners in Amaria tehsil's Guladia Bhindara town were booked on Sunday for selling foodgrains, pulses and sugar at a higher price than set by the administration. In the first case, trader Siyaram Goel was caught selling pigeon pea (arhar dal) at Rs 100 a kg against Rs 90 set by the administration by marketing inspector of Amaria circle, Harvendra Kumar. Another complaint was filed by supply inspector Ajit Verma against one Palak Mittal for selling sugar and wheat flour at a premium of Rs 2 per kg and lentil at over Rs 10 a kg than the stipulated price. Kheem Singh Jalal, Neuria SHO, said two FIRs were lodged against the accused traders under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). ASP, Rohi Mishra, added that certain sections of the Disaster Management Act and Essential Commodities Act would also be added to the FIRs for which the SHO concerned had been issued directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-grocery-sellers-booked-for-black-marketing-in-pilibhit/articleshow/74997979.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Man beaten up by medical store owners||VADODARA: A resident of New Sama Road and two medical store owners got into a scuffle as the former allegedly refused to stand in a queue. Dineshrao Borse approached Sama police station on Saturday and lodged a complaint of assault and criminal intimidation against Ravi Chauhan and his brother Ajay Chauhan. According to Borse, he went to the medical store near Jadav Park Society on New Sama Road on Friday evening to buy some medicines. But on reaching there, Ravi asked Borse to stand in the queue so that nobody contracts any infection. Borse, however, told Ravi that he will stand in the queue only if they had the medicines which he wants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-beaten-up-by-medical-store-owners/articleshow/74998062.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||Quarantine of corona suspects will be for 28 days||Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday that coronavirus suspects will be quarantined for 28 days instead of 14 in view of the severity of the disease. He said that this has been done on advice of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, and will come into effect immediately. Suspects are quarantined either at home, or in a government facility.  “The WHO too has recommended the quarantine period to be double the incubation period,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarantine-of-suspects-will-be-for-28-days/articleshow/75000454.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa market sprayed with disinfectant||SALIGAO: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), with the assistance of fire services personnel on Sunday carried out a sanitisation drive of the Mapusa market, which wore a deserted look. The fire and emergency services team, led by Bosco Ferraro, sprayed sodium hydrochloride all around the market. The sanitisation drive was monitored by MMC's chief officer Clen Madeira, in the presence of chairperson Ryan Braganza and Mapusa MLA Joshua D’souza.  D'Souza said that sanitisation of the market was carried out as per the directives by the government. The deputy collector's office and the police station will also be disinfected, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-market-sprayed-with-disinfectant/articleshow/75000476.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||Sanitize ATM or face fines: SMC||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked all the banks to ensure that their ATMs are being sanitized as hundreds of people use them to withdraw cash, making them a dangerous zone to spread Covid-19.“We have warned the banks that if they fail to sanitize their ATMS, they can be fined up to Rs 1 lakh under Epidemic Disease Act-1897,” said an SMC official. “ATMs can become carriers for the spread of Covid-19. They have to be kept sanitized at any cost,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sanitize-atm-or-face-fines-smc/articleshow/74999121.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB uses fire engines to spray disinfectants in Secunderabad||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), as a preventive measure to combat Covid-19, had taken up disinfectant spraying in the Cantoment area but because they lacked a large vehicle they had sought the help of the Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department (TSDRFD) to provide them with a fire engine. On Sunday, in a joint effort, the SCB and TSDRFD undertook disinfectant spraying at major junctions in the area. On day one of the operation, the fire engine, which has a capacity of 4,500 litres, sprayed disinfectants at Anna Nagar Crossroad, Tadbund Crossroad and Hanuman Temple at Tadbund. The SCB is the first among 62 Cantonment boards in the country to take up spraying with the use of fire engines. The entire Cantonment will be covered in a phased manner in another week. “We do not have large vehicles to do disinfectant spraying. Hence, the SCB had approached the Fire Department to provide us their fire engines (fire tenders) to undertake spraying activity in public places. Responding to our plea, the Fire Department has provided us with fire tenders,” said M Devener, SCB senior sanitary inspector. Apart from the major junctions, spraying will be done in areas including schools, colleges and government offices - both central and state, said the SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-uses-fire-engines-to-spray-disinfectants/articleshow/75000491.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 6, 2020||Goa||Hurts not to attend Mass, but stay home: Panaji Archbishop||PANAJI: Asking his community to offer their sufferings to God, archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao, on Palm Sunday said it hurts not being able to attend mass, but one must stay at home. While talking about the passion and suffering of Jesus, the archbishop drew parallels with those suffering and have died of coronavirus across the world. On Friday, he had appealed to devotees to extend full support to the authorities and refrain from circulating fake news or videos that can lead to unnecessary law and order problems. Fr Jesus Rodrigues who also celebrated mass at the Archbishop’s House spoke about the importance of duty and urged people to pray during the present time where so many countries are under lockdown and when people are living in fear of death. Special prayers were said for pastors of the Church to be able to guide people during the pandemic, for civic leaders to strive for compassion towards the poor and needy, as well as for world leaders, doctors, nurses, researchers and scientists trying to find a vaccine for the virus. Fr Avin Carvalho who celebrated mass at the Don Bosco Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima in Panaji, remarked that the Lent season, which began around five weeks ago, changed its course midway and turned out to be a season like never before. “This year, we cannot celebrate palm Sunday without being in tough with the reality around. People from all walks of life face and continue to experience much hardships, anxiety, fear and uncertainty. Many others experience hunger, pain, sickness, death and we could go on. Children have suffered and the poor in many situations have gone neglected and suffered the most,” he said while also making mention of those who have gone out of their way at the cost of great sacrifice and risked their lives to reach out to the poor with no ulterior motives. Although palms were not distributed, they are a symbol of triumph in the ancient world, Fr Carvalho said appealing to devotees to make sacrifices during these days by silently enduring discomfort for the good of others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hurts-not-to-attend-mass-but-stay-home-archbishop/articleshow/75000481.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka lockdown: Supply issues hit online delivery services||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has released a list and phone numbers of online delivery agencies, stores and supermarkets willing to do home deliveries in Mangaluru. However, not all of them are able to cater to the increase in demand. Following the government’s announcement of a 21-day lockdown, several e-commerce giants have restricted home deliveries to select pin codes in a few cities. However, local companies have taken up the challenge, despite facing problems. Due to supply issues, customers are forced to wait for almost a week for their orders. Deekshith Shetty, CEO, Chitki Retails Private limited, said, “We are not able to meet 100 % of the demand due to supply issues or decisions taken by the district administration. There was a rise in registrations, and people have placed orders, but unfortunately, we did not have sufficient stock due to a shortage in supply. We were forced to stop taking orders or cancel a few orders, because we are not sure how long this phase will continue,” he said. On the rise in demand, Shetty said that on the first two days of the lockdown, demand for goods went up almost 30 times. However, now, with the government fixing timings for purchase of essential commodities, the process is being streamlined. Supply issues too are being looked into by the district administration. After a meeting with the deputy commissioner, we have listed only essential products on our app and website. “We have obtained passes to make deliveries, but we are not sure about the suppliers and distributors. Panic buying is adding to the woes,” he said. Durgadas Baliga, partner, Baliga Stores, prefers that people walk to stores and make purchases. He said that he will offer home deliveries only if a customer is buying essentials for a month, and lives in the vicinity of the store. On challenges in the current scenario, he said, “In the past, when we placed our orders with the distributor, it used to be delivered to us. Now, distributors are claiming that they do not have truck drivers and labourers. Hence, stores are collecting their orders directly from distributors.” On the current stocks, he said, “We have around 80%-90% stocks, and there is no need for people to panic. In such a crisis, only the traditional system works. Big names in the e-commerce industry have shut down distribution.” If small kirana shops faced problems in getting supplies from the wholesaler, larger hypermarkets with adequate supplies, faced problems due to the callous behaviour of customers. “Some of our customers have left perishable items like milk and vegetables in shopping carts, in their hurry to leave the store. We discovered these carts when we came in the next day,” said the owner of Fieldstar, which is a hypermarket at Ballalbagh. In order to limit such losses, the hypermarket has since decided to reduce its indent for perishable food. “We initially operated in a period of confusion over timings. Technical issues with the refrigeration system compounded our losses,” she said. Meanwhile, the owner of Nagesh Provision Store at Gandhinagar said he was not able to get adequate supplies from the wholesaler in Bunder, while showing his almost bare shelves, that are normally filled with goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/supply-issues-hit-online-delivery-services/articleshow/74999167.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Woman’s death in Laxminagar triggers anxiety||Pune: The death of a 60-year old woman from Laxminagar after testing positive for Covid-19 has triggered a sense of anxiety in the densely populated slum in the Yerawada area. Located in the heart of Yerawada, Laxminagar is surrounded by other slum pockets, such as Ganeshnagar and Subhashnagar. Both the slums are equally dense. The entire area is a part of Yerawada goathan, wherein the civic administration is now planning rapid containment measures. Authorities on Sunday said the containment plan has been in place and the cluster mapping process for the entire area has been initiated. “We will immediately trace all the close contacts of the deceased. These people will undergo institutional quarantine. They will not be allowed to enter the area,” an official from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department said. Local residents from Yerawada said Laxminagar and its surrounding areas were a cluster of slums with a population of over 50,000. Though most residents are workers or daily wagers, some have small-time businesses. The houses are located close to each other with little open spaces. While most houses have only ground floor, some have one or two floors above the ground. Concerned over the death and surfacing of patients with the contagion, the local corporators said they wanted stringent measures to stop the spread of virus in the entire area. They said the administration should give a thought to take help form the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) to ensure the lockdown measures. “Slums pockets are a challenge because of their dense population. The administration can look for assistance from SRPF or other reserved forces,” said Siddharth Dhende, a senior local corporator. Sanjay Bhosale, another corporator from the Yerawada area, said he has urged the authorities to provide additional staffers for detailed health check-up of every person who came in contact with the deceased and those who accompanied her to the hospital. “This is the second case from the area. We are already forcing people to remain at home to curb the virus spread. We are appealing to them to not hide any ailment and share information with the health officers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/womans-death-in-laxminagar-triggers-anxiety/articleshow/75000494.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||2nd batch of 53 Iran evacuees tests negative||Jaisalmer: The second batch of 53 Indians airlifted from Iran has tested negative and preparations have begun to send them home. The Army has requested the district administration to make arrangements to send these people to their houses. The administration will arrange buses in the next 1-2 days and after completion of necessary documentation, they will be sent home, sources said.In the third batch of 195 Indians, three tested positive after which it has been ordered to keep the entire group in 14-day quarantine. Earlier, in the first batch of 236 Indians, 12 were found positive after which they were again quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2nd-batch-of-53-iran-evacuees-tests-negative/articleshow/75000487.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||Home-made palm crosses, online masses and togetherness in Goa||PANAJI: Celebrating Palm Sunday within the confines of their own homes, the faithful took to crafting crosses from palms in their own gardens and placed these on front doors, as well as participated in the holy mass. Churches live-streamed masses throughout the state for the third consecutive Sunday. Ulyana D’Costa and her family in Betalbatim began the day with a wash and early breakfast before they huddled together at the main altar at their home, listening to mass presided over by the Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias. “We held palm leaves in our hands, while Fr Oswald blessed the palms, and my father sprinkled Holy water on us and on the palms. We then proceeded to listen to the mass,” D’Costa said. Her mother folded the palms into a cross which was then placed on a wooden cross and hung at the entrance of their home over which they sprinkled Holy water. Although she misses going to church, D’Costa says the experience of watching masses live-streamed together, has united the family. “Before the lock down we would all wake up when we wanted to and attend different masses. Now, we find it’s a good way of praying together as a family,” she said. The Archdiocese of Goa marked Holy week this year without many of the traditions and ceremonies like distribution of blessed palms on Palm Sunday. In Benaulim, Melanie Vaz put two palm fronds on her door, “as a sign of solidarity with our Christian brethren”. “Yesterday someone generously gave me a scrap of palm leaf which I used to make four simple crosses for myself, and one each for my sons to place at their altars. Later when they dry up we will use them as book-marks for the Bible,” she told TOI. She blessed the palms with Holy water and watched the mass by Redemptorist Fathers online. “We had a simple vegetarian lunch with the family, as it is still Lent. It was a very soul-satisfying day,” she said. In Assolna, Lida Joao and her sister placed a wreath adorned on a leafy candle stand with pink creeper flowers and two varieties of palms on Saturday. On Palm Sunday, at their family chapel altar they recited the novena at 5am to the Holy Helpers, which is invoked during a pandemic. “At 7am we sat with our laptops in front of our Resurrection statue and participated in the mass presided over by Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao,” she said. She went on to put a potted red acorn-shaped flower pot on their front boundary wall which also has the Holy cross. She also placed a green vase with peace lilies. The family commenced the Holy Week with strictly vegetarian food and in the evening recited the rosary and placed lit diyas on their front gallery as well as the boundary wall, obeying the clarion call of the Indian Prime Minister. For Gabriel Pereira, from Mapusa, Palm Sunday was spent making arrangements for groceries to help 28 families in the residential complex where he lives. “I have been celebrating Palm Sunday and the entire Lent this way, as the supermarket in the complex is shut. The owner has supplied us with essentials and committee members have started distributing essentials to the apartments. I prefer living the word of the Church through such work of random acts of kindness,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-made-palm-crosses-online-masses-togetherness/articleshow/75000496.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 6, 2020||Surat||More curbs on all pvt vehicles in Surat||SURAT: Surat city police commissioner, R B Brahmbhatt, issued a notification banning the movement of all types of vehicles on Sunday. People will have to prove they had a dire need to use their vehicles. The notification will come into effect from noon on April 6 and will remain in force till April 14. Exemption has been granted to security vehicles; treasury vehicles; vehicles used for ferrying essential items such as petroleum, CNG, LPG, and PNG; disaster management vehicles; electricity companies’ vehicles, post office vehicles, information department vehicles and emergency vehicles. The notification also grants exemption to medical services vehicles, chemists’ vehicles, fair price shops’ vehicles, vehicles carrying essential food items, fire department vehicles, vehicles used for quarantining, funeral vehicles, vehicles taking patients for treatment and vehicles with passes issued by authority. The notification says violations will attract actions under section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/more-curbs-on-all-pvt-vehicles-in-surat/articleshow/74999189.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jodhpur||90,000 screened in Jodhpur in 2 days||JODHPUR: The hunt to trace the source of contamination to two corona positive cases is on in Jodhpur. In past two days, the medical teams have screened 17,822 houses in high-risk areas covering 89,641 persons. It may be noted that two positive cases, a man from Masuriya and a woman from K K Colony, had no travel or contact history which had baffled the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/90k-screened-in-jodhpur-in-2-days/articleshow/75000492.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrant worker has nervous breakdown in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 45-year-old man started blabbering incessantly and protested violently when anyone tried to get near him – he was afraid that he would contract Covid-19 infection. The man had to be admitted to the Government Hospital for Mental Health (HMH) in Ahmedabad for acute psychotic disorder on Sunday evening. HMH officials said that it was the first case of such a disorder after the lockdown needing medical intervention in a hospital setting. “The man is from Bihar, and he had tried to go back home, but government arranged for his lodging and boarding at a relief camp in Bopal along with several others. His camp companions said that he was constantly glued to either TV or his phone to get latest updates on Covid-19,” said a hospital official. He was showing a disturbed mental state for the past couple of days, but on Sunday, it aggravated along with 100 degrees fever, and authorities called up an ambulance and sent him for treatment. “He is stable now. His primary symptoms were irritability, irrelevant excessive talk, abusive language and violent behaviour. He did not have sleep for two days fearing infection of Covid-19,” said an official. “He has been admitted in a separate ward and is provided mental and physical treatment by experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrant-worker-has-nervous-breakdown/articleshow/75000134.cms||Parth Shastri
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Teen girl, 34-yr-old lover clubbed to death by kin||Lucknow: A 34-year-old man and his 18-year-old lover were beaten to death by the girl’s family when they found them alone in a room in Saadatganj on Sunday morning. The girl’s body could not be taken for burial as all the four male members of her family were arrested for the murder and nobody came forward to complete formalities required for conducting postmortem examination. Her body is still lying in the mortuary. However, the man was buried late on Sunday. “We will wait for the girl’s family members for three days and after that it would be declared as an ‘unclaimed’ body. Then it would be sent for an autopsy and after that be handed over to a voluntary organisation engaged in burial of unclamied bodies,” said Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, Bazaarkhala. Victim, Abdul Malik (34), a dairy owner, was living along with his parents, wife and four kids in Mansoor Nagar. Malik was having an affair with the girl, living about 100 metres away from his house in the same locality, Yadav said adding that the incident occurred around 2am on Sunday when elder brother of the girl Mohammad Danish (22) found the couple in a compromising position in a room of his house. Danish started screaming at them. Hearing the noise, other members of the family, including girl’s father Mohammad Usman (52), uncle Sulemani (55) and cousin Rano (30), rushed to the spot and they all started beating up Malik with canes and bricks. When the girl tried to intervene, they also assaulted her, the ACP added. Malik, somehow, managed to call his friend Wasi who also lives in the neighbourhood. Wasi called the police, but by the time the police could reach the spot, the girl’s father and other family members kept on assaulting her and the man till they fell unconscious. The police immediately rushed profusely bleeding Malik and the girl to King George’s Medical University’s Trauma Centre where doctors declared them brought dead, Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-girl-34-yr-old-lover-clubbed-to-death-by-kin/articleshow/75018544.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||App launched to monitor virus suspects||PANAJI: Continuing to use technology to combat the spread of Covid-19, the state introduced a mobile application to monitor quarantined individuals who could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the mobile app has been launched as a part of the state government’s initiative to ensure that more people do not get infected by the virus that has already killed 77 people and infected 3,374 people in India. “In our initiative, health ministry has collaborated with Bangalore-based Intugine Technologies to launch COVIDLocator, a GPS-based location tracker that will help in tracking suspected and asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19 when they leave their quarantine zone,” he said.  The minister said that if a patient does not download the app, a reminder message will be sent. If the person ignores the reminder, a follow up call will be made by authorities to get the individual to download the app. For now, the app is available for download on the Google Play Store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/app-launched-to-monitor-virus-suspects/articleshow/75000501.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Eight Tanzanians held for violating lockdown orders in Pune||PUNE: The police on Sunday arrested eight Tanzanians for violating lockdown orders and placed them under institutional quarantine. Police said the arrested were found to have visited eight mosques and others places in the city between March 11 and April 3. They were taken into custody from a mosque in Nanapeth. “They are members of the Tablighi Jamaat and came to Pune on March 11. They were not part of the Nizamuddin congregation. They tested negative for Covid-19 on March 24,” police said. “The eight men came to India legally and were supposed to stay in different rooms in a mosque. However, all of them were found living at one place in the mosque and also visited eight mosques and other places in the city,” joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI. Police said the arrested men did not follow social distancing norms and visited mosques at Khadki, Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Mominpura and Ghorpadi, among other places. “We received information about a group of eight foreigners staying together in a mosque. Our police teams searched different mosques in the city and found them in Nana Peth,” said Shisve. A team comprising personnel from the Foreigners Registration Office (FRO) and the Samarth police station rushed to the mosque and arrested them. Later, a case was filed with the Samarth police under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and also the Foreigners Act. After the FIR was registered, they were again taken to the PMC-run Naidu Hospital for a medical test. Police said that these men will be shifted to an institutional quarantine facility and will not be allowed to leave until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-tanzanians-held-for-violating-lockdown-orders/articleshow/75000500.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Govt tracking Raj residents who were in Nizamuddin||Jaipur: Over 200 residents of Rajasthan, who had travelled to Nizamuddin area or were near the area from March 14 to March 16, are being tracked and directed to remain in home quarantine. They are being tracked through their mobile locations. Among those who have been directed is the son of the dargah dewan, Syed Nasirudin Ali Khan, who had visited Delhi on March 16 to meet home minister Amit Shah. This is being done to control the further spread of Covid-19. Hundreds of attendees of Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin have tested positive. “I got to know about a list of names of people who had gone to Delhi recently. I enquired to find that the list doesn’t have my name. Despite that, I went to the hospital with my cousin whose name is listed and told them about my visit. They advised me for 14-day self-isolation which I am abiding by,” said Khan. Divulging the details of the order, KK Soni CMHO Ajmer said, “As per the order, we have to admit the listed people for the Covid-19 test and those who test positive will be sent to Jaipur while those negative still be put under quarantine in state facilities.” The entire exercise is part of the nationwide hunt for Tablighi Jamaatis, who are highly suspected of being infected by coronavirus. Similarly, the police in Alwar received a list of 157 people who were traced, several of them went there for some work or the other, but not for anything related to the markaz. Noor Mohammed, a social activist in Alwar said that some 7-8 Muslims were also taken for quarantine as they had visited the area for their own purpose. “Everybody should support the government in its fight against coronavirus. It is just a matter of 14 days if your report is negative,” said Noor, who helped the local authorities in tracking the listed persons. Luckily, in both Alwar and Ajmer, all listed persons have been found negative for Covid-19. While in the same exercise in Jhunjhunu, Sikar and Churu of the hotbed of Tablighi Jamaati Muslims, the local authorities are still tracking all those who are listed to have visited Nizamuddin area during that period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-tracking-raj-residents-who-were-in-nizamuddin/articleshow/75000495.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||SMS Medical College canteen staff tests +ve||Jaipur: A Ramganj resident, who worked at a canteen of Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. After news spread that he was infected, doctors and medical students who visited the canteen for snacks and tea have become apprehensive. “The person who hails from Ramganj was employed at the canteen. His duty was to wash dishes and there are slight chances that he had come in contact directly with the doctors and medical students who frequented the canteen,” said a SMS Hospital official.As a precautionary measure, the health department sealed the canteen after disinfecting it. To ensure to nobody else is affected, four canteen staff have also been admitted to the isolation ward. “We have admitted the Covid-19 patient to isolation ward for treatment, while we have taken swab samples of the four staff of the canteen,” the official added. Back in Ramganj, there is an eerie silence as curfew continues to be strictly implemented after several cases of the virus was reported from there. In all, 72 people have been found infected with the virus in Ramganj. With cases multiplying in the area, the health department has deployed more teams to screen people. “We have roped in government teachers and brought employees from tehsils to conduct door-to-door survey for screening people,” said a health department official. With more people getting infected, residents of the area are cooperating with the health authorities. They are abiding to the norms of curfew and coming out of their houses only when they are in need of essentials. “Earlier, some of them were not cooperating, but now we have taken help of reputed Muslim personalities such as doctors to persuade them to cooperate with us,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-medical-college-canteen-staff-tests-ve/articleshow/75000497.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Three women among four held for selling illicit liquor||Bareilly: Moradabad police on Sunday claimed to have arrested four people, including three women, for allegedly selling illicit liquor, and seized 563 cartons of Haryana-made liquor, worth around Rs 40 lakh, from a house under Mudhapandey police station limits. According to police, the women were delivering liquor amid the lockdown, while the kingpin used to receive orders over the phone. The accused have been identified as Ajay Pal, his mother and two sisters-in-law. Notably, Ajay’s brother Anuj Rana was arrested in connection with liquor smuggling on March 15. Additional superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said the sale of the seized liquor, the estimated cost of which is around Rs 40 lakh, was restricted to Haryana and Arunachal Pradesh only. “After Rana disclosed the location where the liquor was stored, we raided a house in Mudhapandey area and seized 563 cartons of liquor,” said the ASP. The ASP added that an FIR was registered against the accused who used to supply liquor during the lockdown. One of the accused managed to flee the scene, said police, while four others were sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-women-among-four-held-for-selling-illicit-liquor/articleshow/74998065.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 6, 2020||Pune||Pune division: Railway coaches turn into isolation wards||PUNE: Officials from the Pune rail division have started converting non-air-conditioned coaches into isolation units on Sunday. “A total of 50 coaches will be converted into isolation wards in the division. Each coach can accommodate 16-18 patients. We hope to complete the work in 3-4 days,” Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Sunday. The 50 coaches will be able to accommodate a total of 800-900 patients. The coaches are being transformed at the Ghorpadi railway yard. “Ten coaches will be ready within a day or two, while the rest will be ready in three days,” Mhaisekar said. The coaches will be set up as the government directives, according to Pune rail division’s public relations officer Manoj Jhawar. Across the divisions under Central Railway’s jurisdiction, 482 coaches in total will be converted into isolation wards, Work in this regard is in full swing in Parel, Matunga and other depots. “The middle berths are being removed and all necessary facilities are being put into place to ensure social distancing. Proper washroom and space for medical staff too will be available,” Jhawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rly-coaches-turn-into-isolation-wards/articleshow/75000503.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Ordnance Factory to repair ventilators in Hyderabad hospitals||SECUNDERABAD: The Ordnance Factory Medak (OFMK), which is located at Yeddumailaram, will undertake the repairs of ventilators in various hospitals in the city. According to a release, apart from OFMK, other Ordnance Factory Boards (OFBs) at Vehicle Factory Jabalpur, Metal and Steel Factory Ishapore (West Bengal), Gun and Shell Factory Cossipore (West Bengal), Ammunition Factory Khadki (Maharashtra), Ordnance Factory Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh), Ordnance Factory Khamaria, Heavy Vehicle Factory Avadi (Tamil Nadu), have planned to set up 280 isolation beds in 10 hospitals in these six states. The OFMK works under the control of the Ministry of Defence (MoD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ordnance-factory-to-repair-ventilators-in-hyd-hosps/articleshow/75000506.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP has most Ujjwala beneficiaries: Pradhan||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of 1.47 lakh beneficiaries under Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) to get free refills for three months to help them in the crisis during lockdown, said Union minister for petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan. On directions of prime minister, Ujjwala beneficiaries would continue free refills from April to June, said Pradhan while holding a video conferencing with officials in Lucknow on Saturday. Under Ujjwala Yojana, the poor who did not have LPG connection and still used wood to cook food were given free connections by the central government. Modi government took note of the financial hardships of poor during lockdown and announced that all Ujjwala beneficiaries would get three free refills from April. The money would be deposited in beneficiaries’ account through DBT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-has-most-ujjwala-beneficiaries-pradhan/articleshow/75018550.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||172 complete 28 days quarantine in Udupi||Udupi: The 28-day quarantine period of residents of Udupi, who had returned from abroad, ended on Sunday. As a precautionary measure, their blood samples have been sent for testing, said Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandalaje. “The district has reported three positive cases of Covid-19 thus far, and all their primary contacts have been placed under quarantine. No new Covid-19 cases have been reported,” she said. Noting that the district administration has taken concerted steps to stop its spread, Shobha said steps have been taken to distribute 95 quintals of rice to the poor in the taluks. Steps will be taken to distribute additional rice if the need arises, she said. On the same occasion, the MP initiated a drive to supply 1,001 food kits to the poor in all wards of the Udupi CMC through the Kadiyali Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava Samiti. In a related development, Dr Sudheer Chandra Sooda, district health and family welfare officer, said a case has been registered against a person who returned from Dubai, in Kaup police station, after he violated his home quarantine. Prior to him being admitted to the government quarantine facility, he had violated the home quarantine rules on several occasions, the DHO said, adding that all his primary contacts have also been quarantined. People who have completed their 14-day home quarantine will be kept under a further 14 days of observation. The condition of all three Covid-19 patients in the district is stable, and there is no cause for concern, he said. In all, 1,976 people have been screened for Covid-19 and 172 of them have completed their 28-day quarantine and 1,070 their 14-day quarantine. In all, 717 are still inhome quarantine, 87 in hospital quarantine and 79 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/172-complete-28-days-quarantine-in-udupi/articleshow/74998063.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad not sick of patients from Karnataka||KOZHIKODE: While Karnataka remains adamant that they will not allow entry of patients needing emergency healthcare from Kasaragod to Mangaluru, the Wayanad district administration has taken a humanitarian approach by allowing entry of patients from border area of D B Kuppe in Karnataka to Wayanad for emergency medical treatment. Wayanad district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla said that the people from D B Kuppe border village have for long been depending on hospitals in Mananthavady in Kerala just across the border for treatment and that they will be allowed entry to seek emergency medical care during the Covid-19 lockdown. “We are allowing people from D B Kuppe village to cross the border through the Bavali checkpost to seek treatment in Mananthavady. Patient along with a bystander will be allowed entry,” the collector said. The border checkpost near Tholpetty on the Mananthavady-Kutta-Gonikuppa road has been blocked by the Karnataka authorities, leaving only the Bavali checkpost open for to and fro entry of trucks to Karnataka from Mananthavady. As there is night travel restriction on the forest stretch of the road, the checkpost is only open from 6am to 6pm. While the Mananthavady district hospital has been designated as a Covid Care Centre, the district authorities have made alternative arrangements for treatment of normal ailments in three private hospitals in Mananthavady. “If the cross-border patients need emergency medical care, including hospital admission, they will be admitted to other hospitals in the district,” Adeela added. Meanwhile, the collector has also said that the entry of people from seven districts in Kerala, which have been declared as Covid-19 hotspots, to Wayanad will be strictly regulated. “As Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod have been declared Covid-19 hotspots, the entry of people from these districts to Wayanad will be strictly regulated till further notice,” the order said. The order said that those who have already come to Wayanad from these districts will have to undergo home quarantine for 28 days. Health workers, those dealing with essential services in government, private and semi-government institutions, truck drivers and cleaners and head load workers are exempted from the restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-not-sick-of-patients-from-ktaka/articleshow/74998071.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Conservancy staff receive applause||Pune: Residents of Right Bhusari Colony on Saturday showered flowers on conservancy staff and gave them a standing ovation from the balconies of their homes as a token of appreciation for their hard work towards keeping the city clean during the coronavirus outbreak. Overwhelmed by the gesture, the workers gave an assurance that they would keep the city clean. anitation workers of the Pune Municipal Corporation are counted among essential service providers. Rahul Jadhav, resident of Bhusari Colony and member of Sanyukta Bhusari Colony Mitra Mandal, said, “People are taking utmost care for their own safety. But, since day one of the lockdown, these sanitization workers are working relentlessly for the society.” Sainath Telange, head of the team of sanitization workers, couldn’t hide his smile when he said this was the first time he and his team had experienced such a thing. “It has boosted our morale. We will do everything to keep coronavirus out of the city. For now, people should stop coming out on the roads,” Telange said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conservancy-staff-receive-applause/articleshow/75000507.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pay salaries on time, SEC tells private sector||PANAJI: While cautiously noting that Goa has yet to witness community transmission of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the state executive committee (SEC) asked officials to remain vigilant and ensure that all preventive sanitation and containment measures are followed strictly. The committee, headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, met to take stock of the efforts being made by the state during the lockdown and its fight against the pandemic. “Five of the positive cases have a travel history and one infection happened in Goa, who is the brother of one of the patients who tested positive. The SEC noted with caution that Goa has not yet faced any community transmission since the outbreak of Covid-19,” said a statement issued by the government. The SEC directed all private sector establishments, including shops and traders, to comply with directions issued by the chairman of national executive committee (NEC) and release salaries to their workers on the due date without any deduction for the period under closure because of the lockdown. The committee also directed landlords, wherever workers, including migrants, are living to not demand payment of rent for a period of one month. “Any disregard to the above guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act is a criminal offence and violators shall be prosecuted under the relevant provisions,” the SEC said. Principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel, transport secretary S K Bhandari, revenue secretary and state disaster management authority Sanjay Kumar, health secretary Nila Mohanan, principal chief conservator of forests Subhash Chandra, chief election officer Kunal, secretary fisheries P S Reddy, deputy inspector general of police (DIG)Parmaditya and other officers were present for the SEC meeting. The SEC suggested that labourers who are housed at the various relief camps could be engaged for pre-monsoon works and preventive sanitation measures. The SEC also took stock of the status of forest animals from Principal Chief Conservator of Forest. The committee inquired about the status of veterinary services for domestic and street animals. “Any person violating containment measures or not complying with the above directions shall be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action u/s 188 of the IPC,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-salaries-on-time-sec-tells-private-sector/articleshow/75000505.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||SMC urges travellers to get medical check-up||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities have urged people especially those who have interstate travel history and now grappling with cough, acute respiratory symptoms, fever and diarrhoea to consult doctors immediately. "We request people to see doctors if they have any such symptoms and ensure that their infections do not infect others. We will now start fining people who move around without wearing mask. We urge people to keep their elders in homes to protect them from COVID-19,'' municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. "We have adopted mass quarantined system but if do not follow social distancing norms, we will not achieve the desire results to break the chain of the virus. Therefore, we urge people to maintain social distancing norms in their everyday life,'' Pani added. SMC has sanitized ATMs of the banks across the city. It has asked banks to sanitize their ATMs regularly, failing which a penalty of Rs1 lakh will be levied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-urges-travellers-to-get-medical-check-up/articleshow/74999262.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Just log in to find grocery stores for home delivery||Lucknow: If you want to know which grocery store in your area is offering home delivery, you can now log in to a web portal which the government launched on Sunday. The supplymitra-up.com website has listed names of kirana stores and ration shops, names of proprietors and their contact details, who are carrying out home delivery in each colony across the state. In the coming days, numbers of chemists and other essential services could also be made available on the website. The portal also has details of community kitchens and NGOs supplying cooked food. Alok Sinha, additional chief secretary commercial tax, said it would ensure that people did not go hungry. “The portal has been developed by the IT wing of commercial tax department. We have created two Facebook pages, one dedicated to the kirana stores called Supply Mitra and the other for community kitchens called Annapurna. Lot of food is available in UP but we are now ensuring that people have information about it,” he said. There are 9,451 listings under ration shops and 1,218 under community kitchens and NGOs. Commercial tax commissioner Amrita Soni said this was a dynamic list and names would be added or deleted over the days. “We are inviting people to list on this website. However, in case we see that someone is unable to continue home supply, we will remove their names. Field officers of the department have been collecting details of shops carrying out home delivery while district administration supplied names of community kitchens,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/just-log-in-to-find-grocery-stores-for-home-delivery/articleshow/75018560.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Observe Shab-e-Barat at home, be safe: Clerics||Pilibhit: Senior clerics in Pilibhit have appealed to their brethren not to visit graveyards on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat to offer prayers for their departed family members in order to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. The festival is to be held on April 8. On that day, explained divisional president of Ahle Sunnat Research Centre, Maulana Sajid Hassani Qadari, people visit graveyards, light a lamp, burn incence sticks and offer prayers for the salvation of the departed souls, seek blessings to bestow peace upon them and reserve their place in ‘jannat’ (heaven). Qadari, who is also the Qazi e-Shahrah in Puranpur, said,“This is the occasion when thousands of people assemble at graveyards and spend the whole night of Shab-e-Barat there." In each graveyard in Pilibhit district, some 2,000-3,000 attend. This time to ensure social distancing, people should stay at home, offer prayers and be safe, said Qadari. Meanwhile, ASP Rohit Mishra said Pilibhit's city's cleric, Maulana Jartab Raza Khan, has consented to allow the presence of just one imam and one assistant to perform rituals at the graveyards. Mishra said Khan will be providing police with a list of imams who will visit the graveyards and perform the rituals of Shab-e-Barat. Mishra said there are over 150 graveyards across the district and of these, 13 are in Pilibhit city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/observe-shab-e-barat-at-home-be-safe-clerics/articleshow/74998113.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government orders 1 lakh Covid-19 testing kits||NEW DELHI: To help them during the nationwide lockdown, Delhi government will start distributing free foodgrain from Tuesday to around 10 lakh people who had applied for ration cards but haven’t yet got them. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that the rations will be distributed at 421 government schools. The state government is also likely to procure one lakh Covid-19 testing kits by Friday to substantially enhance testing for the novel coronavirus in the capital. Free rations will be distributed to around six lakh whose approval for ration card applications is pending and four lakh who had recently applied on the state government website for ration facilities. They will be given their allocations at government schools. These numbers are in addition to the 71 lakh beneficiaries under 19 lakh ration cards, who are already getting 7.5kg of free grains from over 2,000 fair price shops in Delhi. The applicants have been issued e-cards indicating the name of the school from where to collect their allotment. “Each individual is entitled to 4 kg wheat and 1 kg rice. We initially arranged rations for around 10 lakh people, but we will procure more from the central government if needed,” the CM said. Kejriwal also updated the infection situation, saying 20 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours and an overall 523 Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Of the new cases, 10 originated in the Tablighi Jamaat meeting. In fact, 330 of the city’s cases were related to the Jamaat, while 61 were of people who had travelled abroad. Seven people have died, one of them in the last 24 hours. There are 25 people in ICU, 8 on ventilators, while the rest are in stable condition. Kejriwal said the reasons behind the sudden rise in corona-positive cases in Delhi could be attributed to the Jamaat conference and to increased testing across the city. “More tests will ensure more infected people are identified, quarantined and treated so that the virus does not get transmitted to other people,” Kejriwal said, adding this would enable the capital to contain the spread of the virus. "Around March 25, our testing capacity was for 125 people daily. It increased to 500 people per day after April 1, and is now capable of 1,000 tests per day. We have given orders for one lakh testing kits, which we expect by Friday,” Kejriwal said. Expecting the distribution of free foodgrains to large numbers to lead to crowding, Kejriwal appealed to MLAs, MPs, and municipal councillors to ensure that the distribution locations did not get crammed and defeated the objective of social distancing. “I also want to request the people to follow social distancing. I assure you Delhi government will provide rations to everyone,” Kejriwal said. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has issued orders bringing ration distribution under the Essential Services Maintenance Act for six months. This means the ration dealers, who have been demanding release of their commission pending for a couple of months, won't be able to go on protest. The state government has also cancelled the weekly day offs of the dealers and asked them to keep their shops open all seven days of the week to facilitate access to food for the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-orders-1-lakh-covid-19-testing-kits/articleshow/75018081.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pathanamthitta inching out of Covid scare, but cautious||Thiruvananthapuram: The first hotspot in the state, Pathanamthitta is gradually coming out of the epidemic scare. On Sunday, results of 90 samples have come as negative, and one sample tested Covid-19 positive. Of the 19 people in hospitals now, only six are Covid-19 positive. At one stage, Pathanamthitta had nine positive cases when the entire state had only 14 positive cases reported. The total number of positive cases reported from the district till date is 14 and so far eight people have been discharged. In the video conference Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba had with the chief secretaries of all states on Sunday, Gauba congratulated the district administration of Pathanamthitta for the efforts taken to check the spreading of the disease and also for the efforts taken in identifying people who had direct contacts with the Covid-19-positive patients. The district was the only hotspot in the state when the Covid-19 made its comeback after the three reported cases of Wuhan returnees in January. The district was under high-risk category when six members of a family tested positive after three of them arrived from Italy. The district administration had the herculean task of tracing direct contacts, and over 6,000 people were put under observation later. “It cannot be said that we can relax now. The latest test results have given us some relief. We still have put people under quarantine and we have to strictly monitor them. More results are to come in the coming days,” says P B Nooh, district collector, who has been monitoring the crisis ever since the first case was reported in the district on March 8. There was an element of concern when it was identified that 16 people had come to the district after attending the meeting at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Even though they were quarantined immediately soon after they were traced, it was an anxious wait for the results. Now, all the 16 have been tested negative. But the health administration in the district is not ready to relax. They have decided to send fresh samples again. “There are reports that some samples have become positive even though the first sample result was negative. Hence, we are not ready to take any risk. We have decided to send their samples for repeated checks,” said Dr Sheeja A L, district medical officer. The district administration has sent 95 more samples for testing and the results are expected in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pathanamthitta-inching-out-of-covid-scare-but-cautious/articleshow/74998131.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: 25 health experts from Thiruvananthapuram leave for Kasaragod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the number of positive cases increasing, a team of 25 experts from Thiruvananthapuram medical college has left for Kasaragod to help the healthcare professionals there. After two weeks, a second batch of experts will leave from MCH here. Earlier, when cases were reported from Pathanamthitta, an expert team from Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam medical college hospitals had taken over the healthcare activities in the district. Health minister K K Shailaja said the expert team comprising 10 doctors, 10 nurses and five paramedical staff would be stationed at Kasaragod medical college hospital which has been fully converted into a Covid-only hospital. The team headed by Dr Santosh Kumar, deputy superintendent of medical college hospital, will be stationed in Kasaragod for two weeks. The bus that was carrying the team from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod faced battery complaint when it reached near Haripad bus station around 11am. The complaint was rectified by the technicians of the Haripad depot and the bus continued its journey by 12 noon. The chief minister has urged to make operational the hospital this week itself. Hence, with the arrival of the expert team it would be helpful for Kasaragod health administration to streamline the healthcare activities, she said. Presently, Kasaragod district has more number of Covid-positive patients in the state. Hospitals in Kasaragod have admitted 123 positive cases, 13 cases admitted in various hospitals on Kannur and one in Kozhikode hospital. Apart from this, 10,555 people are under observation in Kasaragod, of which 195 are in hospitals. “The aim of sending an expert team to Kasaragod is to provide the best possible treatment to those under isolation. We want the maximum number of people to get cured at the earliest. Hence, the expertise of these doctors and nurses will help the healthcare givers of the district strengthen the activities,” said the health minister. The Kozhikode medical college hospital has been equipped with 200 beds and also with isolation rooms. The district health administration is ready to meet any emergency here, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/25-health-experts-from-tvm-leave-for-kasaragod/articleshow/74998116.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Candles, earthen lamps show glimmer of hope and positivity||AHMEDABAD: Responding to the call for switching off the lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday, lakhs of Amdavadis celebrated the occasion as a show of solidarity in the fight against Covid-19 and their faith in overcoming this phase. In Satellite and Anandnagar areas, it was a near-blackout with the twinkling lights of rows of earthen lamps, fairy lights and candles shining bright in the dark, reminiscent of Diwali festivities. Several societies also played patriotic songs and raised slogans. It was an atmosphere of Diwali as firecrackers were also burst in various areas of Ahmedabad. “We are doing our bit to aid the PM in the fight against Covid-19. By lighting diyas (earthen lamps), we have expressed our solidarity with India fighting and overcoming this challenge,” said Pallavi Patel, a resident of Vastrapur. Ahmedabad is one of the hotspots of Covid-19 spread identified by the central government with 53 positive cases and 5 deaths. Several areas are already under quarantine due to high concentration of cases. Dharti Gandhi, a resident of Vejalpur, said that all members of her residential society had decided to switch off lights including central amenities for nine minutes. “I know it’s not about overcoming the pandemic – it’s about a show of solidarity,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/candles-earthen-lamps-show-glimmer-of-hope-and-positivity/articleshow/75000156.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Dental patients grin and bear it||Lucknow: Surendra Singh (60) of Indiranagar had been ignoring toothache for last one week and when pain became unbearable, he looked for dental clinics near him but found them closed due to lockdown. Finally, he visited KGMU dental OPD but was told that only trauma cases were being taken up. Left with no option, Singh took help of a friend and contacted a dental surgeon over the phone who advised him antibiotics and painkillers for relief till lockdown is lifted. Like Singh, there are many in the city who have dental problems and require urgent intervention but are forced to try home remedies or taking to teleconsultancy to manage pain during lockdown. About 15,000 dental patients visit 700-odd private dental clinics, government hospitals and medical education institutes daily during normal days. Dental doctors say not all of them are serious but many suffer from unbearable pain due to various ailments, including cancer, and require urgent intervention. There are cases which require several sittings to complete treatment procedure, which, if stopped midway, has to be repeated all over again, causing financial burden on patients. President of Indian Dental Association (IDA), Lucknow chapter, Dr Ashish Singh said, “Since dental issues are not considered unavoidable medical service or emergency, passes are not issued to our staff. As a result, we are unable to run OPDs.” “There is acute shortage of masks and medical gloves which is mandatory in treatment of oral problems. We have found a way out to manage things till lockdown is over by giving advice through video calls,” he said, adding that in most of the cases, pain killers and medicines to control infections were being prescribed. Chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “We have already issued a circular to doctors to examine patients through teleconsultation. Critical patients can avail emergency services in hospitals.” Emergency services at KGMU, RMLIMS Currently, patients suffering from dental trauma due to an accident or some serious ailment like cancer are being provided help at King George’s Medical University and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. Patients can visit KGMU trauma centre and RMLIMS emergency service for treatment. The KGMU spokesman said about 10-15 trauma cases were treated daily at the trauma centre. RMLIMS also receives two such cases daily. Put dental services in emergency category: Docs Doctors have demanded inclusion of dental services into emergency category so that critical cases can be treated. Dr Sarvajeet Kumar, who runs a clinic in Thakurganj, said: “Patients suffering from serious dental ailments need intervention at the earliest. Painkillers and antibiotics can provide some relief for a few days but oral infection cannot be allowed to persist for long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dental-patients-grin-and-bear-it/articleshow/75018563.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 69-year-old Shimlapuri woman is second casualty from Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: A 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri with no contact history with a Covid-19 patient became the second casualty in Ludhiana on Sunday, a day when the number of confirmed cases in the district rose to six. The woman was admitted to Fortis Hospital here at 10.09pm on March 31 and she breathed her last in its isolation ward at 2.30pm on Sunday. She had tested positive on April 2. She had stayed with her niece in Mohali from March 17 to March 31 and had commuted there by a bus. However, she had started showing symptoms of cough and breathlessness from March 23. Eight days later, she took an ambulance from Mohali all alone and got herself admitted to Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the condition of the woman deteriorated around 2pm. She had a cardiac arrest and passed away at 2.30pm after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Fortis Hospital medical superintendent Dr Shelly Deora told the TOI, “We could not revive her after cardiac arrest.” The woman’s daughter-in-law said, “She was fine when she was admitted on March 31. Then she had diarrhoea, but was having proper meals till April 1. But on April 2, she developed acute respiratory issues and was put on a non-invasive ventilator. However, in the past two days her health deteriorated and she was put on a ventilator.” Ludhiana health authorities have sealed her locality in the densely-populated Shimlapuri. “No one is coming forward to claim her body due to fear psychosis,” said sources in health department.  Dr Shelly said, “I called up the additional deputy commissioner, the sub-divisional magistrate, SHOs and the health department. They said we have to take the body to the cremation ground. It’s been more than three hours that the body has been sanitised and zipped up, but family is not ready to come to the cremation ground.” SDM (west) Amrinder Singh Malhi said, “We are coordinating and have tied up with nodal officer Dr Ramesh Bhagat. Her relatives are in panic and do not want to attend the cremation. We will help the family in cremating the body with the support of police officials.” However, a member of her family said, “We do not know how the body will be taken to the cremation ground.” Later, she was cremated at a ground in Dana Mandi. Earlier, a 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on March 30 and she died the next day. The body was sent to Ludhiana in accordance with health department guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/69-yr-old-shimlapuri-woman-is-second-casualty-from-city/articleshow/74999285.cms||Mehak Jain
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Frontline warriors fight fake news, prejudice||AHMEDABAD: As the Covid-19 graph scales north, municipal doctors and paramedics who are at the forefront of the battle against the virus are now fighting a surge of fake news. One rumour compared health surveys to the National Register of Citizens (NRC) survey. The Covid warriors are also desperately counselling members of residential clusters in lower-middle-class localities and posh areas against the ostracization of those in quarantine. The warriors are also appealing to people to empathize with families detected with Covid-19. TOI talked to a number of doctors and paramedics from the dense clusters of the Walled City and the south zone where the real Covid-19 war is being fought. Dr Chintan Patel of Kalupur UHC had warned health authorities that a family was at risk of contracting Covid-19. Tests turned up positive three days later. “It’s very important to gain trust in such times and persuade families to report illness,” said Dr Patel. “Many localities I visit were infested with fake news that linked our health surveys with the NRC survey. We have to fight these misconceptions and evolve a strategy.” “The attitude of residential society members is surprising,” recalled a senior municipal health officer. “In one case, an old woman was under quarantine at a posh society in Vastrapur and she was ostracized. It was a challenge to fight the stigma.” In another instance, in Bodakdev, the official said police were called in by residents when a person under quarantine had opened the door to pick their food packet. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said, “The battle assumes a new front with cluster quarantine in dense localities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frontline-warriors-fight-fake-news-prejudice/articleshow/75000157.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Rekindling hope on a viral night||VIJAYAWADA: Amid the nationwide lockdown, the city wore a festive look on Sunday night as residents lit candles, earthen lamps and turned on torch lights on their mobile phones as a mark of solidarity in the collective fight against Covid-19. Residents came out onto balconies and terraces at 9 pm and lit candles and lamps for nine minutes, observing the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some also raised slogans of “Go corona Go”. Locals clapped as a symbol of support to medical staff and sanitary workers who have been at the frontline of the ongoing health crisis. A few youth played musical instruments, while others burst firecrackers in spite of orders by the city police. At Tadepalli, chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy lit a lamp at his official residence and thanked the public. Chief secretary Neelam Sawhney was also present. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, along with his family, lit a lamp and hoped that the lights would ring in hope. Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) and his daughter Kesineni Swetha lit lamps at their house at Enikepadu. Nani thanked denizens for making the Prime Minister’s call a success. Police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao along with police personnel also lit candles at Parade Grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rekindling-hope-on-a-viral-night/articleshow/74999331.cms||Venu Lanka
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Sherpur colony residents ‘attack’ health dept team||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Residents of a colony in Sherpur allegedly attacked a health department team when it went there to pick up a Covid-19 suspected case on Sunday afternoon.Sahnewal senior medical officer Dr Poonam Goyal said, “A health department team reached the colony after receiving information that its resident is a coronavirus suspected case and that he had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat attendees. The team comprised two workers of 108 ambulance and three multipurpose health workers.”As soon as the team made the suspected case sit in the ambulance, a locality resident started making a video of it. When the team objected to it, the man began manhandling them. Later, other residents also joined him and attacked the team with sticks. They also tried to block the way of the ambulance, Goyal added.Ambulance driver Dilpreet Singh and health worker Gurdeep Singh have received minor injuries.A compliant has been lodged with Moti Nagar police.Moti Nagar police station additional SHO Surinder Singh said, “On receiving the information, we reached the spot. The team has got their medical examination conducted. An FIR will be lodged after recording their statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sherpur-colony-residents-attack-health-dept-team/articleshow/74999300.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tackling hunger of humans’ best friends||AHMEDABAD: Even as several individuals and organizations have been working tirelessly to feed the poor in times of the lockdown, organizations like the Jivdaya Charitable Trust have been feeding stray dogs wholesome food since the lockdown was imposed. Carrying porridge, bread, milk and paneer, volunteers of the trust visit areas where eateries and offices are located in the city. Although these eateries and offices have been closed for over a week because of the lockdown, there are many stray dogs that still live here and which used to get their food from leftovers of the eateries and other places. “We have been feeding all animals, but dogs are completely dependent on humans for their food. With all offices, `larris’ and restaurants being closed, the dogs need to be fed, as they continue to stay around these places without any food,” said Jolly Patel, a trustee of Jivdaya Charitable Trust. Another trustee Gira Shah said that the trust began by feeding between 350 and 400 roadside dogs everyday. “As days have passed, many animal lovers have now begun feeding street dogs and we are currently feeding about 200 dogs on a daily basis,” Shah said. While the volunteers have been feeding stray dogs primarily, other animals like cows and camels are also fed by the volunteers. “It is really heartening to see many individuals have begun feeding stray dogs in the city. While our trust has been doing its bit, a very large number of people are also pitching in and feeding dogs in their respective areas,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tackling-hunger-of-humans-best-friends/articleshow/75000154.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Up to 5 people can take part in religious rituals||Thiruvananthapuram: State police chief Loknath Behera has issued an order allowing the participation of up to five people in rituals conducted at religious institutions. When the lockdown was imposed, participation of only two persons for conducting rituals was granted. The revised order says that five persons, including the priest, can attend religious rituals at a place of worship. Though public won’t be allowed, the rituals can be webcast for the benefit of believers. The circular instructs that social distancing norms should be strictly adhered to during the conduct of the rituals. It also directs to close the main door of the building before prayer/ritual starts to ensure that public are not attending. Cardinal George Alancherry had spoken to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seeking relaxation of norms as rituals couldn’t be conducted in churches with just two people. The new decision is learned to be based on CM’s directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/up-to-5-people-can-take-part-in-religious-rituals/articleshow/74998157.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||26-year-old tests positive, cops say he is Tablighi attendee||LUDHIANA: A 26-year-old man from Rajgarh village, Payal block, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday evening. “He is one of the 20 people who returned to Ludhiana after attending a religious congregation from March 13 to 15 at Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi,” stated the additional director general of police in a letter to deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and senior superintendent of police (rural) Vivek Sheel Soni on April 1. With this, positive cases in Ludhiana district have reached six. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “On Saturday, 46 samples were sent, one tested positive and the report of another is pending. The source of infection is yet to be traced.” “He had travelled outside Punjab and we are tracking it. We have taken the samples of his family and admitted him to the civil hospital isolation ward late on Saturday night. We will also trace his contacts.” The 26-year-old told the TOI that he visited Guntur district, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, from March 16 to 23 and stayed at an acquaintance’s house there. On March 23, he took a flight from Hyderabad to Delhi and returned to Ludhiana the next day.  He denied attending Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. The deputy commissioner said, “The health department is keeping a check on his family. His locality has been sealed and police force deployed there.” SSP (rural) Harpreet Singh, “His call records show that he was in Ludhiana from March 13 to 15. He had gone to Hyderabad on March 16. He was in Delhi on March 23 and came back to Ludhiana on March 24.” Apart from him, five women have tested positive for Covid-19 till now. They had no foreign travel history. The first was a 55-year-old from Gurdev Nagar who tested positive on March 24 and was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. On Sunday, her throat swab was again sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The second patient is a 72-year-old Jalandhar woman admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. Her condition is stated to be stable. The third patient, a 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla, was referred to Rajindra Hospital on March 30. She died the next day. Her 72-year-old neighbour is the fourth case. The fifth case is a 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri. She too has succumbed to coronavirus. ‘Admitted, tested, discharged, picked up next day again’The 26-year-old said, “The health department picked me up from my house on the evening of April 2 and admitted me to the civil hospital isolation ward. They took my throat swab and didn’t serve me dinner. I was told that my report will be out the next day. When I inquired that day, they said it will come on April 4. On April 4 morning when I asked them, they said I tested negative and I was released at 11.30am.” “I requested the health department to drop me home in an ambulance, as it was difficult to get a transport in the curfew. But they refused. I then walked till Dholewal Chowk, from where my father picked me up,” he added. On April 4 night, health department officials called him up and said they were coming to handover to him his reports. “When they came, they said I had tested positive and that they had come to pick me up. I have no symptoms like cough and fever. I am perfectly fine. I didn’t go out during the lockdown.”  On whether he attended the Islamic congregation in Delhi, he said, “I never went there. On March 16, I had gone to Delhi by Shan-e-Punjab Express. From there the next day, I boarded Vijayawada Express to reach Hyderabad.” He lives with his parents, two sisters, wife and two sons. They have been admitted civil hospital isolation ward. Balbir Singh Sidhu, health and family welfare minister, said, “An inquiry will be marked against those who discharged the patient. Patients will now be told about their report status.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/26-year-old-tests-positive-cops-say-he-is-tablighi-attendee/articleshow/74999337.cms||Mehak Jain
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Each district must have one testing facility: CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy directed officials on Sunday to ramp up testing facilities for Covid-19. In a review meeting with chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP D Gautam Sawang, special chief secretary Jawahar Reddy and other officials from health department, the CM asked them to complete testing of all attendees of the religious congregation in New Delhi and their primary contacts on a war-footing. He said testing of secondary contacts should be taken up next, all the while continuing door-to-door survey to identify potential suspects and foreign returnees. The CM further directed them to conduct random testing in the Red Zones. The officials explained to the CM that they have launched cluster-based random testing at Vizag to assess the spread of the virus. All the Red Zones in Visakhapatnam have been divided into eight clusters and 20 random samples from each cluster are being sent for tests, said the officials, adding that so far all the samples have tested negative. Jaganmohan Reddy told the officials to ensure that isolation wards are set-up in all hospitals, including the private hospitals, across the state and keep them on standby to utilise them whenever the need arises. He said the guidelines that have already been issued in this regard should be complied to by all hospitals and any patient who comes up with Covid-19-like symptoms should be treated in the isolation wards. The chief minister also directed the officials to increase testing facilities so as to conduct rapid tests, adding that each district should have one testing laboratory at least. The officials explained that the testing facilities are now available at seven places and they are working on capacity enhancement at Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/each-district-must-have-one-testing-facility-cm/articleshow/74999357.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||4 Jamaatis test positive, four Old City areas sealed||Lucknow: Hours after four of 50 Tablighi Jamaat members from Jaipur holed up in mosques and a residential house in Old City tested positive for covid-19, four localities were completely sealed on Sunday. At least 700 policemen, including provincial armed constabulary (PAC) personnel were swiftly deployed to enforce sealing and sanitization of these areas — Phoolbagh, Alamnagar, Gulabnagar and Astabal. Astbal in Wazirganj area was sealed as a precautionary measure even though lab reports of 13 Tablighis, who were holed up in Mohammadia mosque are still awaited. All 50 Jamaat members have been quarantined and their presence at the Nizamuddin Markaz is being verified, said police. On April 3, the Sadar area bordering Lucknow Cantonment was sealed after 12 Jamaat members taking shelter in Alijaan mosque in Qasaibada tested positive for the virus. District administration officials said, over 10,000-15,000 people reside in the four sealed localities of Old City and a health team is being set up to launch a survey. Lucknow police commissioner, Sujeet Pandey, said, police and administration are enforcing a complete lockdown and restricting movement of people in these four areas. “Teams of Nagar Nigam and health department have also begun sanitisation drives,” said Pandey. Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) had tipped off police about the presence of 50 Tablighis from Jaipur in mosques in these areas. Assistant commissioner of police, Kaiserbagh, IP Singh said, 200 policemen have been deployed in Phoolbagh area after two of 12 Jamaat members holed up in Rehmaniya mosque tested positive. SHO Talkatora, Dhahanajay Singh said one person of the 12 who stayed at Pir Bakka mosque in Alamnagar area had tested positive. On the other hand, SHO Wazirganj, Deepak Dubey said, medical reports of 13 members from the Jaipur jamaat, who stayed at Mohammadiya mosque in Astbal area. But Astabal was sealed as a precautionary step. At least 100 cops were deployed at 14 entry and exit points in the area. In Saadatganj, nine Jamaat members had come to stay at the Gulabnagar house of a resident. One was found to be positive, said SHO, Saadatganj, MP Singh. He also said 125 cops were pressed into service at 12 points to enforce complete shutdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-jamaatis-test-positive-four-old-city-areas-sealed/articleshow/75018574.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Army deploys its ‘warriors’ to curb virus||SECUNDERABAD: To curb the spread of Covid-19, the Southern Command has created several quarantine facilities. “The Army’s Southern Command has created several quarantine and isolation facilities in the states of Telangana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu, and provided dedicated medical and administrative staff to take care of the patients and quarantined persons,” said a release on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-deploys-its-warriors-to-curb-virus/articleshow/75000520.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal gets 3rd Covid-19 testing facility at BMHRC||Bhopal: The state capital has got its third Covid-19 testing facility — Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre. Director, BMHRC, Dr Prabha Desikan, said the super speciality hospital has started testing for coronavirus. The Indian Council of Medical Research-administrated institute can run 50 tests in a batch with a turnaround capacity of eight hours, Dr Prabha said. The first test batch report for Covid-19 was sent to the MP government here on Saturday. Last week, Bhopal got its second Covid-19 testing facility at Gandhi Medical College (GMC). With the opening of the third testing facility for Covid-19, the state capital has become one of the few cities to have three laboratories for coronavirus testing. The main testing facility, approved by ICMR, continues to be at AIIMS-Bhopal. The facility can conduct up to 200 tests per day. AIIMS-Bhopal is also conducting tests for suspected Covid-19 from across the state. The facility is also imparting training for Covid-19 testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-gets-3rd-covid-19-testing-facility-at-bmhrc/articleshow/75000518.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||City’s feat: After hazmat suits, firm makes low-cost ventilator||Ludhiana: Days after several city firms successfully made high-quality hazmat suits needed urgently for combating Covid-19, another Ludhiana company, Billson Group, has developed a low-cost ventilator, which runs on servomotors. Though it cannot be used in critical cases, it can help where a ventilator is required for stabilising a patient. According to the company owners, if produced in large quantities, the cost can be between Rs 25,000 and Rs 30,000. Sibin C, director of industries and commerce, Punjab, who is overseeing the project of developing low-cost ventilators in the state, said, “The company is at the final stage of developing the prototype with the active involvement of industries departments. We have also sought the help of IIT-Ropar and Invest India to carry forward the project and use it in our healthcare system. Covid-19 has been declared a pandemic by the WHO and a national disaster by the government of India. There is a severe shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE), N95 masks, three-ply masks and ventilators in the country. We are trying our best to get these manufactured in Punjab.” Speaking to the TOI, Vikramjit Singh, managing director of the company, said, “The threat of coronavirus is looming large and it is evident that India will face a huge shortage of ventilators if the number of patients continued to rise. With the support of Sibin C and Mahesh Khanna, general manager of district industries centre (DIC), Ludhiana, an expert team of our engineers, led by Varun Saini, Gurjit Singh and Davinder Singh, developed the design for a prototype of the ventilator that runs on servomotors. We have successfully tested it and now a formal approval from a government-authorised laboratory is awaited, after which we will take the next course of action.”Singh said, “It is an invention that can save the lives of many poor, who cannot afford expensive ventilators and treatments. Though this ventilator is not medical grade one used in intensive care units, it can sufficiently stabilise a patient and save lives of those at non-critical stage. We seek support from medical teams and other experts to conduct trials and accord approvals so that the prototype can be used for mass production.” Mahesh Khanna said, “Work on development of ventilators is being undertaken by two more companies of Ludhiana and our department is keeping a tab on the day-to-day progress. Recently, we successfully got made hazmat suits, which have been tested and approved by the government labs and the manufacturers have already got orders.”Features of low-cost ventilatorHas an emergency switch, pressing which the patient can directly alert and call the doctor and nursing staffIt has a controller for regulating air volume and air frequencyWeighs around 20kg (company is working to reduce it by 50%)Comprises servomotors and AC drivesThe outer body as of now is of sheet metal, which the company proposes to replace with high quality fibre or other suitable material||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citys-feat-after-hazmat-suits-firm-makes-low-cost-ventilator/articleshow/74999347.cms||Mohit Behl
April 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: 118 senior citizens and disabled count on woman’s tiffin service in Peth area||PUNE: Sadashiv Peth resident Rekha Deshpande (55) started out by making 5-10 tiffins for senior citizens and physically disabled people on March 25. But now, the number has reached a staggering triple digit of 118. “I have a small catering business of tiffins. When the lockdown was announced, I realized that there were many senior citizens living nearby, whose children were away. They were totally dependent on their maids and with the lockdown in effect, they had no way of getting food. That is when I started making tiffins for these people,” said Deshpande who caters to people within the Peth area. When Deshpande had thought of helping out senior citizens by providing them with tiffin, she had predicted her client list to end in the single digits. As the numbers increased, to sustain her free tiffin service, Deshpande put into use a portion of the money that she had taken as loan from a bank for her daughter’s wedding on May 18. “I started this on March 25 and within a day or two the requests doubled. News travelled by word of mouth and I was flooded with enquiries. I had some 10-15 tiffins with me. Some started donating unused tiffin boxes,” said Deshpande. But soon the requests increased in and she didn’t have enough money to buy groceries required to make the tiffins which comprised chapatis, dal, rice and a sabji. “I have a helper who makes chapatis. My family members and I cook dal, sabji and rice,” said Deshpande. Help started pouring in from different quarters in terms of money, groceries and vegetables. “Some senior citizens insist on paying. Some people donate groceries. A person from a Jain organization recently visited me, saw my work and donated a substantial chunk of groceries and other materials that I require to keep the tiffin service afloat,” said Deshpande. “My daughter looks after the packaging. Volunteers have pitched in to deliver the prepared food,” she said. On Sunday, even when her elder sister passed away she powered on keeping in mind the number of people who depended on this crucial service of hers. “On any other day, I would have left everything and gone. But today, I know that there are 118 senior citizens and disabled families, who wait for my tiffin everyday so that they can have their medicines in a timely manner and sleep without hunger pangs. All these people are my responsibility. So I arranged for two persons to prepare the food, helped them out for a while before setting out for my sister’s house in Dhankawadi for her last rites,” added Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/118-seniors-disabled-count-on-womans-tiffin-service-in-peth-area/articleshow/75000517.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajkot: Parkinsonism can’t deter him from making, donating masks||AHMEDABAD: Although he suffers from parkinsonism, a disease that affects movement, Dr Prakash Solanki, 66, personally stitches masks every day at his home in Rajkot and distributes them to people nearby. He has been doing this regularly since the state was put in lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. The doctor, who retired as deputy director of Employees State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) four years ago, lives with his wife Reshma. “This activity keeps me busy all day. I stop stitching masks only when the tremors in my body become too strong to continue work,” says Dr Solanki. He manages to stitch between 25 and 30 masks daily at his home in Raghunandan Society, Race Course Ring Road. His wife distributes these to people in and around the society where the Solankis live. “Earlier, we used to give the masks to people who wanted them. By now, the word has spread and people come and collect the masks from our society,” Solanki said. Solanki says that his gesture of stitching and distributing masks is insignificant compared to what many others are doing. “There are many who are risking their own lives to combat the pandemic. Hundreds of other people are doing much more to care for the poor and needy in these times. I am just doing my part in a small way,” Solanki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parkinsonism-cant-deter-him-from-making-donating-masks/articleshow/75000149.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Five localities in Trichy city cordoned off||Trichy: The city corporation has identified five close-packed neighbourhoods in the city as vulnerable zones based on their proximity to localities with people who were tested positive for Covid-19. On Sunday, the pockets were cordoned off by the civic body and police to restrict public movement. The neighbourhoods will be put under close watch for the next 14 days. Woraiyur, Thennur, Palakkarai, Bhima Nagar and Thillai Nagar were identified as the vulnerable pockets in the city, based on the nine Covid-19 positive patients. Apart from cordoning off the street in which the patients reside and adjacent roads, their close contacts and neighbours were also home quarantined. They were told to alert doctors stationed near the containment zones if they develop any illness. “Our workers and the city police personnel are camped in the containment zones to prevent people venturing out even for purchasing essential commodities,“ an official source said. The civic body said that they will mobilise essential products and medicines to the households on demand. “We will daily inquire about the health conditions of home quarantined people in the five containment zones. If any serious symptoms such as breathing difficulty is displayed, we will move them to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital,” city health officer A Jaganathan told TOI. Sanitary workers will periodically disinfect the containment zones, the civic body said. Public address systems are being installed at the containment zones to create awareness among people and caution them not to venture out needlessly. Around 600 corporation officials and workers and 20 medical professionals have been stationed in the five containment zones. The civic body said that the boundaries of the containment zones will be expanded if any new cases are reported in other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-localities-in-trichy-city-cordoned-off/articleshow/75000151.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||How Military averted corona attack on Cantt||Lucknow: The Army’s Central Command headquartered in Lucknow Cantonment was saved in the nick of time from a coronavirus attack after a timely tip-off from Military Intelligence (MI) on 12 Tablighi Jamaat members with symptoms of the deadly virus holed up in Alijaan mosque in Sadar. This swiftly averted what could have been the first coronavirus breach of a cantonment in the country. The MI lead helped police and civil authorities track down Jamaat members, quarantine them, sanitise the mosque and seal the Sadar area, which straddles the Lucknow Cantonment. Soldiers have been strictly told not to visit Sadar Bazaar. Military Intelligence sleuths got a whiff of the matter after they spotted sealed food packets being carried to unknown occupants at Alijaan mosque inside Sadar Bazar since the last week of March. On further investigation, they found that Tablighi Jamat members from outside the city with covid-19 symptoms, holed up in the mosque with support of locals. The information was shared with Lucknow police commissioner and they took prompt action. After police raids on the mosque on April 1, the Jamaat members were found to be natives of Saharanpur. The MI sleuths also tracked down a doctor, residing adjacent to Alijaan mosque, who was aware of the medical situation of the Tablighis in the mosque and was treating them for covid-19 symptoms. “The doctor has also been quarantined in Bakshi Ka Talab,” said, MK Singh, SHO, Cantonment. The mosque is located inside Sadar Bazar, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Cantonment Board and houses shops selling essential commodities and was frequented by service personnel and civilians even after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-military-averted-corona-attack-on-cantt/articleshow/75018588.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Constables test negative for Covid-19||VIJAYAWADA: Guntur police breathed a sigh of relief after four constables tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19). A man, who later tested positive for coronavirus, had lodged a complaint with Nallapadu police that his house was burgled while he was away. The four constables had visited the house as part of the investigation. The complainant had participated in the religious congregation at New Delhi and had subsequently tested positive for coronavirus. The complainant and his family members were shifted to quarantine facility in Guntur. While the complainant is under treatment, the test results of the family members are yet to come. Meanwhile, as a precautionary measure, the officials shifted the four constables to quarantine and sent their samples for testing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/constables-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/74999398.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Crackdown on curfew violators: Ice-cream parlour owner arrested||LUDHIANA: The police have registered 25 FIRs against the curfew violators in the city in the past 24 hours. The owner of New Basant Ice-cream Parlour, Parminderpal Singh of Model Town Extension, and his workers Jagannath and Hazrat Alam were arrested for opening their shop despite the lockdown directives. Model Town police booked fruit vendors Swaran Kumar and Kanik Kumar of Dhuri Line after a rush was found at their vends. Besides, they were not wearing masks. Daresi police booked vegetable vendor Mohammad Shamsher of Tibba Road for selling vegetables in Kirpal Nagar. A case was also registered against Sushil Jain of New Madhopuri for opening his footwear shop. Salem Tabri police lodged an FIR against a liquor vend owner and his three workers for selling alcohol amid lockdown. ASI Janak Raj said, “Shalu of Jassiyan Road owns a liquor vend near a factory. He along with his three workers, Naresh, Venus and Davinder Singh, was selling liquor near its godown.” Division 4 police booked two vendors for selling vegetables to a crowd of residents in Chawani Mohalla and Shivpuri fish market. The duo has been identified as Gagan Kumar of Chawani Mohalla and Lavkesh of Shivpuri. Dugri cops have booked two residents, including a woman, for roaming around in the city. Asha of SBS Nagar and Sahil Bhagat of Jawahar Nagar were roaming around in Guru Ram Das market without a valid reason. PAU police have registered a case against Geetak Sharma of Civil Lines for violating curfew orders. He was roaming near Ram Sharnam. Sarabha Nagar police have booked four persons for stepping out of their houses without a reason. They include Daljeet Singh, Gurnam Singh of BRS Nagar, Rinku and Hosh Ram of Sunet village. Division 5 police have registered two cases against curfew violators. Mohammad Imteaaz of Moti Bagh Colony was crossing by Bharat Nagar Chowk on his bike, but had no reason to go out. In the second case, unidentified residents of Jawahar Nagar and Labour Colony were booked for sitting outside their houses without masks and gloves. Division 8 police have booked Rishav Khullar of Udhan Singh Nagar and his friend Rajan of Chawani Mohalla for gathering people at his house. A resident of Daad village, Ranjit Singh, has been booked for roaming around in his locality. Division 6 police have booked under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, bikers Ankit Bahadur, Shivam, Harpreet Singh and Vinod Kumar for roaming around in the city. Shimlapuri police have booked Sonu Kumar of New Shimlapuri and Davinder Singh of Giaspura village for coming out of their houses without a valid reason. Sanjeev Kumar of Haibowal Kalan, Ajay Kumar and Rama Kumar of Ladhowal and Sukhpreet Singh of Karabara, too, were booked for violating curfew directions. FIRs were also registered against snacks vendor Parshu Ram, grocery store owner Ram Roop of Sherpur Kalan and meat shop owner Nawab Madeep.  Vegetable vendor Akshay Kumar of Bhamiya Kalan and Davinder Kumar and Rakesh Kumar of Captain Colony were booked for roaming around in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/crackdown-on-curfew-violatorsice-cream-parlour-owner-arrested/articleshow/74999388.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard preys on calf in Vadodara||VADODARA: Panic spread among the residents of Thikariya Mubarak village in Padra taluka of Vadodara on Sunday after a leopard killed a calf there. The adult female leopard preyed on the calf that was tied in an open field late on Saturday night. The forest department has set up a cage to trap the leopard. This is the third incident of leopard attack in a village of Padra in a fortnight. “The leopard sneaked in on the calf and killed it. The locals informed us on Sunday following which we kept a trap in a field in the village. We are hoping to trap the leopard soon,” said S S Talpada, regional forest officer (RFO), Padra. “On March 25, a leopard killed a calf in Virpur and a similar incident happened in Kotna on April 2. Two to three leopards are moving around in these villages,” Talpada added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-preys-on-calf-in-vadodara/articleshow/74998564.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||Resentment brews as pvt hosps resort to salary cuts||Kochi: While the state is in the midst of a fight against Covid-19, major private medical colleges and hospitals are looking are cutting the salary of staff by up to 50%, citing fund crunch. While corporate hospitals are taking bank loans to pay staff, others have started resorting to salary cuts with a promise of payment later. The managements have also written to the state and central governments, seeking interest-free loans and at least 50% waiver in electricity and water bills for three months. Almost 75% of the doctors in the state are employed in private hospitals. “Our source of income is from patients and that has stopped. Currently, we can pay just about 50% salary of doctors and other staff,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association (KPHA) president Dr P K Mohamed Rasheed. “We have informed our doctors that we would hold up to 50% of their salaries, while we have paid the nurses. The unpaid amount would be paid in instalments later,” said Fr Paul Karedan, director, Lisie Hospital. While many hospitals have withheld salaries of senior doctors by between 30% and 50%, some have asked doctors and nurses to go on leave without pay for 10 days, leading to resentment. “The doctors are upset and the managements are asking us to tell doctors to adjust. It is a tough situation,” said Dr Abraham Varghese, state president, Indian Medical Association. “Without the support of the government and our doctors and staff, we foresee a bleak future,” said KPHA general secretary Hussain Koya Thangal. Hospitals earning has reduced manifold, with most of them halting OP and elective surgeries. Patient visits have dropped by around 75% and admissions by 65% in major hospitals, leading to huge losses. Manpower takes up around 45% of the expenditure of a well-run hospital. “We always thought that people would always fall sick and would need doctors. But now we have to re-think our strategy,” said VPS Lakeshore hospital chief executive officer S K Abdulla. “We will try to protect the salaries of our frontline workers and those dealing with Covid-19 patients. But we need urgent government intervention to reduce interest rates on bank overdraft as most of us have taken overdraft to pay salaries,” said Dr Harish Pillai, CEO, Aster Hospitals and Clinics, India. The biggest losers are consultants who charge as per the surgeries performed and patients seen. Their income has dropped by almost 75%. Even private medical colleges are in a financial soup. “We have approached banks for loans to pay salaries for March. We have also written to the state and central governments to bail us out with a financial package,” said Dr K M Navas, president, Kerala Private Medical College Management Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/resentment-brews-as-pvt-hosps-resort-to-salary-cuts/articleshow/74998205.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Chastened buyers maintain social distancing norms at Vijayawada's meat shops||VIJAYAWADA: Demand for non-vegetarian food has increased with health authorities recommending lean meat and poultry to boost the immune system. It was hence of little surprise that the city witnessed long queues outside meat and poultry shops on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), which drew flak for failing to implement social distancing at meat and egg shops on March 29, made proper arrangements this week. Health and sanitation wing of VMC directed chicken and red meat shop owners to ensure that their customers stand in a queue and maintain at least a meter gap between one another. Officials drew floor maps at Sunday markets near Chuttugunta, Darsipeta, Durgapuram and other Sunday markets to prevent buyers from jostling. Police, too, were deployed at these stalls to regulate the crowd and stringent action was initiated against shop owners, which ignored the rules. But people too seemed to have been chastened by the rising number of corona postive cases. A majority of the buyers were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distance. “We never witnessed such a change in people. Queues were organised and well-maintained. Stall owners are refusing to sell meat to buyers who are ignoring social distancing,” said Kambala Nagarjuna, a techie who had come to buy chicken. VMC authorities also conducted surprise inspections at a few meat stalls and threatened them with action if they fail to adhere to cleanliness norms. They requested buyers not to buy any non-vegetarian item if the condition of either the product or the shop is unhygienic. On the other side, makeshift vegetable markets at open grounds also witnessed a large number of buyers on Sunday. Officials arranged stalls at containment zones in the city and allowed one person from each family to buy vegetables and other essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chastened-buyers-maintain-social-distancing-norms-at-citys-meat-shops/articleshow/74999506.cms||Venu Lanka
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||CM hails MPs’ role, takes feedback to frame post-lockdown strategy||Lucknow: Hours before people switched off lights on the call of PM Narendra Modi and lighted diyas and lamps to support the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday sought feedback from the MPs across party lines to frame future strategy once the lockdown is lifted on April 15. Speaking to MPs through video conferencing, the CM sought suggestions to ensure enforcement of social distancing after the lockdown is ended. “There is a chance that large scale gathering of people may impact the steps taken by the state government in preventing the spread of virus,” said Yogi. The MPs who attended the video conferencing included BJP’s Mahendra Nath Pandey, Hardeep Puri, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Santosh Gangwar, Smriti Irani, SP MP Reoti Raman Singh and BSP MP Ritesh Pandey. The CM said the suggestions given by the MPs will help the state government in deciding which area and how much relaxation will have to be given after the lockdown is lifted. “We will continue to face the test even after the lockdown is over,” Yogi said, adding that spreading awareness about social distancing, especially in public places, would be the state government’s top priority. Yogi praised the MPs for taking forward the preventive steps taken by the state government to combat the coronavirus. “We all need to bail people out of the crisis over the next few days of the lockdown,” he said. The CM said he was aware of the people’s representatives’ expectation from the state government in dealing with the situation. He specially mentioned the state government decision to appoint senior IAS and IPS as nodal officers for taking care of UP natives stuck in other states. Yogi said he was also in contact with the state governments whereever it was needed. “People of the state are grateful for the efforts taken by the MPs and central ministers in their respective constituencies,” he said. Yogi said that taking appropriate steps not only helped the state government but also improved the image of MPs in the times of crisis. Emphasizing on ‘Gareeb Kalyan’ package announced by PM Modi, Yogi said it is being hailed across various sections of the society. Yogi said that nearly 3.5 lakh labourers, who arrived in UP from other states, do not have either a ration card or a bank account. “We need to identify such people and help them in getting Rs 1,000 each. For this, the help of people’s representatives needs to be imminent,” he said. Meanwhile, briefing newspersons, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the government distributed over 10 lakh food packets to the needy on Saturday which was a record. Awasthi said that nearly 4 lakh people have been been quarantined in the rural areas and about 35,000 in the urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-hails-mps-role-takes-feedback-to-frame-post-lockdown-strategy/articleshow/75018598.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||With three meals a day, homeless enjoy life under Covid lockdown||Trichy: The lockdown has come as a blessing for the homeless people in the city as it has made their lives temporarily better as they are getting food almost three times a day from good Samaritans while people are enquiring on their well-being, something that was rare prior to the lockdown. R Sundar, 55, who lives on the streets in Cantonment, said he is content on getting quality food three times a day. “A lot of people are approaching us during the lockdown, politely enquiring whether we need food. We feel happy that some people are caring for us,” Sundar said. Multiple NGOs and individuals have been feeding at least 500-600 homeless people in the city daily since the lockdown began. Volunteers said homeless people daily return to the same spot where they were given food. “So many groups are now providing food. If the homeless have already been provided with food, we give them water bottles and snacks,” said Arudra Saravanakumar, a volunteer. Organisations involved in providing food to the homeless said the anticipation of homeless people every day keeps them going. Financial support is flowing in from various parts of the state, mostly from the natives in the city. “Strangers approach us and ask whether we had food. Such care was never shown before the lockdown,” said R Ravichandran, a 60-year-old homeless man in Puthur. While the homeless persons are worried what happens after the lockdown is over, voluntary organisations said that they have planned to form locality-wise groups to feed the homeless by mobilising excess food from party halls and major events. “We will continue the service even after the lockdown is lifted. A financial model to feed the homeless in city with decent food every day will be worked out,” said G V Karthik, a Woraiyur based volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/with-three-meals-a-day-homeless-enjoy-life-under-covid-lockdown/articleshow/75000167.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 6, 2020||Trichy||2 kids donate savings to feed underprivileged children||Trichy: In a humanitarian gesture to support the needy, an eight-year-old girl and her four-year-old brother gave away their all piggybank savings to feed the underprivileged children and the homeless in times of Covid-19 outbreak.The siblings handed over Rs 2,054, their three years’savings, to No Food Waste-Trichy chapter, an NGO taking care of the people left without food and fixed abode during lockdown.The children named K Aradhana, a class II student and K Abhimanyu Chathiryan, a kindergarten student of Koothur near Samayapuram, said that made up the mind aftert seeing television visuals about people awaiting food in the lockdown.“For the past three years, my daughter and son were saving a portion of the money given to them by us and our relatives. They said they wanted to donate Rs 2,054 for a good cause. We handed over the sum to feed underprivileged kids,” G Kamalanathan, father of the two said.The kids also encouraged the children to donate whatever money they can towards supporting the helpless in difficult times. Kamalanathan said that he contacted his friend Packirisamy, of No Food Waste, to fulfil the wish of his kids.Authorities of No Food Waste Trichy chapter, which usually mobilises the excess food from wedding halls and hotels to hungery mouths, said that they would use the sum donated by the kids to feed the homeless families in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-kids-donate-savings-to-feed-underprivileged-children/articleshow/75000158.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Raise no. of Covid tests, Akhilesh advises PM||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has requested PM Narendra Modi to increase the Covid-19 testing facility in the country. Urging him to set up more labs for conducing Covid-19 test, he requested the PM to ensure proper supply of safety kits required by doctors and health workers. He also sought speedy distribution of meals among the the poor. In a video-conferencing with the PM, the SP leader drew his attention towards migrant labourers and workers who have turned jobless in the wake of nationwide lockdown. The government should take care of them on priority basis. Akhilesh requested the PM to improve the medical infrastructure of the country. He said that the government should enhance the testing facility. Medical facilities should be extended to smaller centres, he said, adding that he told the PM to get develop some apps for getting a real picture of the pandemic in the country. Later, the SP chief said that symbolisms like beating of thaalis and lighting lamps and torches can be good entertainment, but not a cure. Akhilesh said the PM will have to ensure that people are not going to sleep without food, youth are not left disillusioned and livelihood of a vast population of the nation and state is restored once the lockdown ends. “Samajwadi Party leaders and workers are reaching out to those starving during the lockdown,” Akhilesh said. The SP chief said he wanted to draw the attention of the government towards the possible impact of the pandemic on the economy and seek steps to ensure that people don’t struggle to make two ends meet once the crises ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raise-no-of-covid-tests-akhilesh-advises-pm/articleshow/75018603.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Corporation sets up disinfection tunnel at Madurai college ground||Madurai: Taking a cue from Tirupur district administration which set up a disinfection tunnel for Covid-19 prevention, the Madurai corporation has set up a similar structure at Madurai College ground. One of the temporary markets in the city has been functioning on the ground.Corporation officials said that the tunnel was installed with the help of an NGO Yaavum Inidhe. The tunnel is expected to safeguard hundreds of people thronging the market. Such tunnels will come up at a few more places, where people show up in large numbers. Health officials said that as people pass through the tunnel diluted sodium hypochlorite solution is sprayed through nozzles. People are asked to walk with their hands raised so that the entire body can be covered. “Vendors and people visiting the market are being sensitized to wash their hands frequently. Although, the disinfection tunnel will work to a larger extent, washing of hands is still important,” an official said.Cooperative minister Sellur K Raju visited the market and inspected the tunnel on Sunday in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan and city engineering S Arasu. The minister said that corporation has set up temporary markets at 35 places so far after closing down major markets in order to manage the crowd in a better way. People’s response at all the markets has been good since vegetables are sold at much lower prices in these markets.People have been urged to wear masks, while coming out of their houses. Masks were distributed on Sunday to those who had not worn one. The basic requirements of people are being taken care of by Madurai corporation and officials are prepared to take action if any complaints are raised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corporation-sets-up-disinfection-tunnel-at-madurai-college-ground/articleshow/75000168.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Now, PWD, nirman nigam start community kitchens||Bareilly: The Public Works Department (PWD), Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) and Rajkiya Nirman Nigam have come forward to provide food to the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown. The departments have taken up work of distributing food packets to people to ensure no one starves during the lockdown. Officials at PWD told TOI that direction to the effect were issued by UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for the departments to do their bit in assisting homeless, and poor by providing them food. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, PWD Bareilly executive engineer Harbansh Singh said, “We have set a target to distribute a minimum 100 food packets to the needy daily. The process of distributing food starts in the morning everyday and continues till evening. Cooked food [aalu puri] is being served to people in disposable packets while necessary grocery products such as flour, pulses, rice packets are also being provided to those in need. Each packet contains 2kg flour, 1kg rice and 1kg pulses. Since we do not have enough workers to perform delivery of the food items, BMC and local administration have been roped in to identify and deliver the food to people.” Executive engineer added, “People, such as those taking refuge on streets, shelter homes, public places such as bus stations, railway platforms, beggars and destitute, among others, are being identified and given food. This is being done to assist local administration, including Nagar Nigam, where community kitchens are already working to feed poor as lockdown is being observed.” He further said, “Local residents, willing to contribute by providing grocery items may join in by simply contacting at the details provided by BMC and may also handover the necessary items to delivery workers deputed in fields. We will continue to serve food to people until the lockdown is over.” To avoid gatherings at BMC office and ensure social distancing, BMC earlier this week opened its second community kitchen at the Harunagla shelter home to provide food to the poor. The civic body alone is distributing around 1,000 food packets among poor and destitute in the city on a regular basis. Moreover, for people willing to contribute can contact at 79068-05182, 79065-79840 or 94112-11300 and for those who want to provide monetary support can transfer the amount to Bank of Baroda account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-pwd-nirman-nigam-start-community-kitchens/articleshow/74998196.cms||Maria Khan
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chicken price hits Rs 140/kg, demand continues to rise in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The rise in price of chicken has not made a dent in its demand. Sunday witnessed a kilogram of chicken being sold for Rs 140 to Rs 150 and yet there were long queues outside the meat shops. “Prices of vegetables, mutton and fish have increased considerably. Chicken is cheaper compared with them. Even experts have been saying chicken has no relation with the spread of Covid-19. Under such circumstances chicken is the best option for us, at least on Tuesdays and Sundays,” said P Sandhya, who was spotted at a chicken store at the Kommadi Junction. Only a week back, chicken and egg shop owners were in a very bad state after most restaurants were shut and individual were not keen on buying poultry. Prices had dipped to Rs 80 per kg. Many chicken shops opted to shut down given the dwindling demand. “Last Sunday the sale again went up and this Sunday the price returned to normal. Hopefully, the price won’t cross the Rs 160 mark for sometimes now,” said M Mustaq Ahmad, owner of a chicken stall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chicken-price-hits-rs-140/kg-demand-continues-to-rise/articleshow/75000534.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 cases spike in Kurnool and Chittoor districts||TIRUPATI: Covid positive cases spiked across Kurnool and Chittoor districts on Sunday. According to the official medical bulletin, 49 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported at various parts of Kurnool district on Sunday. While 23 cases were reported across Kurnool district on Sunday morning, 26 more Covid-19 positive cases were reported by evening, taking the overall tally of positive cases in the district to 53. While the total number of Covid cases in the state rose to 252 on Sunday, with 53 positive coronavirus cases, Kurnool has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot. District administration officials said most of the patients who contracted coronavirus were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event at Delhi. District collector G Veerapandian said out of the 99 samples tested at VDRL labs at Tirupati and Anantapur, 76 patients tested negative, while 23 patients tested positive. Samples of 217 more patients have been sent for medical examination. Of this 26 more patients tested positive for the novel coronavirus by Sunday evening. G Veerapandian appealed to the people of the district not to panic and cooperate with the district administration to effectively implement the lockdown measures. Meanwhile, seven fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Chittoor district on Sunday morning, taking the overall number of positive cases in the district to 17. District collector Narayana Bharat Gupta reviewed the situation in the district on Sunday. As per the current townwise break up, Tirupati has five cases, Palamaner three, Srikalahasti three, Renigunta two, Nagari two, Yerpedu one and Nindra one. Bharat Gupta reiterated that all the towns where Covid-19 positive cases were reported have been designated as red zones and all entry and exit to the towns have been sealed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-cases-spike-in-kurnool-and-chittoor-dists/articleshow/74999528.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||CM donates Rs 1cr, his salary to fight corona||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday donated Rs one crore from his MLA Local Area Development and one month’s salary for the newly set up Covid care fund. UP ministers Suresh Rana and Anil Rajbhar, and Apna Dal legislator Ashish Patel also donated donated Rs 1 crore each from their respective Local Area Development fund to Covid Care fund on Sunday. The state government has started this fund to fight against the coronavirus. In a letter sent to UP Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit, Rana said the request may be processed as soon as possible. Last weeks, Dixit had appealed to all MLAs to donate funds to the state government to fight against the nCovid-19. On Saturday, BSP chief Mayawati had asked her party MLAs to donate funds and the CM Yogi Adityanath later called her up to extend his thanks. Earlier, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had donated Rs 1 crore from his local area development funds and two months’ salary each in favour of PM-cares and CM relief fund. He had also donated Rs 25 lakh each for Agra and Rae Bareli, the districts of which he is minister in charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-donates-rs-1cr-his-salary-to-fight-corona/articleshow/75018607.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad businessman ensures migrant labourers are well-fed||HYDERABAD: To ensure that migrant labourers and daily wage workers living in Nallagandla and Gopanapalli area have required rations to survive during the lockdown, K Harish Reddy, a small-scale businessman from the city, has been distributing essentials to the needful. A resident of Vidyanagar Colony in Chandanagar, Reddy started distributing rice, vegetables, and other essentials from April 3. “There are hundreds of daily wage labourers living with their families in the Cyberabad area. Lately, it has become very difficult for them to procure essentials. To do my bit, I have decided to provide them with rice and vegetables,” he said. Reddy, who owns a CCTV sales and services business, said that till now, he has distributed essentials for around 330 people. “I am distributing a couple of kgs of rice, vegetables, and fruits to a family. If there are kids in a family, they are also provided with biscuit packets,” said Reddy. In the coming days, Reddy said that he would be concentrating on other areas in the Cyberabad area. “Until now, I could distribute essentials to labourers living in Nallagandla and Gopanapalli areas. From tomorrow, I want to provide groceries to those living in MIG Colony, Madinaguda, among other areas,” he said. Apart from distributing essentials, Reddy said that he has also been providing monetary support to others who are doing similar kinds of work in other parts of the city. “There are many who are trying to help labourers in the city. Sometimes, they have limited resources. As and when I get to know about such cases, I am transferring money to their accounts so that we can help as many people as possible with a combined effort,” Reddy said. “Likewise, when someone volunteers to join me in helping the needful, I am accepting their offer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/businessman-ensures-migrant-labourers-are-well-fed/articleshow/75000532.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Northern Railway employee builds foot-operated basin to maintain social distancing||Bareilly: They say necessity is the mother of invention. Make that jugaad in India. With the Indian Railways slowly coming back to life after weeks of lockdown, at Moradabad railway station, technical officer B S Bisht has created an unique washbasin in which of railway employees returning to their job can wash hands without touching the tap or soap dispenser. Bisht connected a foot-operated lever with both, which release soap and water, saying this will help employees maintain social distance while washing hands. Elsewhere, pharmacists of Moradabad railway division have produced a hand sanitiser at a low cost of Rs 150 per litre. Northern railway officials said when the entire nation is braving the Covid-19 pandemic, they are trying to do their bit by promoting the government’s appeal to maintain social distance and curb the spread of the incurable disease. According to railways sources, 300-odd employees of the operational and engineering departments are currently attending office every day. “We are maintaining social distance at work in all possible ways. When I saw colleagues touch to use the same tap and soap dispenser for hand wash, I was worried and decided to come up with a solution. That’s when the idea stuck me. Utilising some spare parts lying at the workshop, I manufactured this device,” Bisht said. Senior officials appreciated his invention and asked him to build more units of the same, which can be installed at every department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/northern-railway-employee-builds-foot-operated-basin-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/74998210.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Now, PWD, nirman nigam start community kitchens||Bareilly: The Public Works Department (PWD), Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) and Rajkiya Nirman Nigam have come forward to provide food to the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown. The departments have taken up work of distributing food packets to people to ensure no one starves during the lockdown. Officials at PWD told TOI that direction to the effect were issued by UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for the departments to do their bit in assisting homeless, and poor by providing them food. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, PWD Bareilly executive engineer Harbansh Singh said, “We have set a target to distribute a minimum 100 food packets to the needy daily. The process of distributing food starts in the morning everyday and continues till evening. Cooked food [aalu puri] is being served to people in disposable packets while necessary grocery products such as flour, pulses, rice packets are also being provided to those in need. Each packet contains 2kg flour, 1kg rice and 1kg pulses. Since we do not have enough workers to perform delivery of the food items, BMC and local administration have been roped in to identify and deliver the food to people.” Executive engineer added, “People, such as those taking refuge on streets, shelter homes, public places such as bus stations, railway platforms, beggars and destitute, among others, are being identified and given food. This is being done to assist local administration, including Nagar Nigam, where community kitchens are already working to feed poor as lockdown is being observed.” He further said, “Local residents, willing to contribute by providing grocery items may join in by simply contacting at the details provided by BMC and may also handover the necessary items to delivery workers deputed in fields. We will continue to serve food to people until the lockdown is over.” To avoid gatherings at BMC office and ensure social distancing, BMC earlier this week opened its second community kitchen at the Harunagla shelter home to provide food to the poor. The civic body alone is distributing around 1,000 food packets among poor and destitute in the city on a regular basis. Moreover, for people willing to contribute can contact at 79068-05182, 79065-79840 or 94112-11300 and for those who want to provide monetary support can transfer the amount to Bank of Baroda account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-pwd-nirman-nigam-start-community-kitchens/articleshow/74998224.cms||Maria Khan
April 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Malayali dies of Covid-19 in Riyadh||Malappuram: In a suspected case of Covid-19 death, a 41-year-old man from Chemmad in Malappuram district died at Riyadh in Saudi Arabia on Saturday night. Puthiyakath Safwan, who suffered from fever and sore throat, was admitted to Saudi German Hospital in Riyadh last week and coronavirus infection was confirmed on Friday, his family said. But the government authorities in Riyadh are yet to officially inform this to his wife who is staying at Riyadh. The family members have been told that Safwan died due to cardiac arrest around 9pm on Saturday. Safwan was working as a taxi driver in Riyadh. His wife Khamaruneesa, who arrived in Riyadh on tourist vista on March 8, was staying with Safwan and a three-member Malayali family there. After Safwan tested positive for coronavirus infection, authorities in Saudi collected swab samples from Khamarunneesa and the three-member family, including a two-year-old child. Rafeeque Hassan from Malappuram, a friend of Safwan who is working in Riyadh, said the burial is expected to be held in Riyadh on Monday. “Indian embassy authorities are supporting us to complete the procedures,” he said. Hassan said Safwan, who was suffering from breathing problems, approached two clinics for treatment two weeks ago. But the doctors had failed to identify the viral infection and they prescribed medicines for throat pain and fever. “It was after his health condition deteriorated that he decided to approach Saudi German Hospital where he undergone tests for Covid-19. Some medical staff of the hospital have already informed us that his sample was tested positive for coronavirus infection. But we are yet to receive official documents regarding this,” he said. Nurse dies in IrelandKottayam: A 54-year-old nurse from Kerala died of Covid-19 in Ireland on Sunday. Beena, wife of George Paul, a Kuruppunthara native, was tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. She was a staff nurse at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Drogheda. She was under treatment for cancer for a long time. After her health condition deteriorated, she had gone on leave since last month. The funeral will be held in Ireland as per the Corona protocol, said relatives. Her two daughters are medical students in Bulgaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/malayali-dies-of-covid-19-in-riyadh/articleshow/74998249.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Christians pray indoors on Palm Sunday||Trichy: With the lockdown in force to fight the spread of Covid-19, Christians in the city observed Palm Sunday by praying and watching religious programmes in a Christian TV channel as instructed by their religious heads. All churches which otherwise overflow with people on the occasion were shut informing people to stay indoors and offer prayers. Only the parish priest offered prayer at St Mary’s Cathedral at Mela Pudur. There was no mass or celebrations in other churches under the cathedral. There are 75 main parishes under the Roman Catholic Diocese of Trichy and each manage at least 15 churches. “Due to the lockdown, we had sent a circular to all parishes announcing that there should not be any public celebration,” said T Eugene from Roman Catholic Diocese of Trichy. People were asked to stay at home and watch pre-recorded church mass of previous years re-telecast on TV. The same procedure will be followed on Good Friday and Easter, he said. “D Chandrasekaran, Bishop of Trichy- Thanjavur diocese of the Church of South India (CSI), gave his message through YouTube channel,” said a staff member of the diocese. During his address, he asked people to abide by the rules laid down by the state and Union governments. There are about 18 churches across Trichy under the Trichy diocese of CSI. There are five dioceses under CSI in the state. There is a customary special service in the church on Palm Sunday. There will be a mass gathering of people on the street taking out procession holding tender palm leaves. “We do this in remembrance of a procession that was taken about 2000 years ago in Jerusalem. After the service, the regular mass will be conducted in the church. But this year the mass was conducted online by priests,” said the staffer from CSI All Saints Church, Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/christians-pray-indoors-on-palm-sunday/articleshow/75000176.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Delhi||500 unsung heroes keep Delhi's IGI safe||NEW DELHI: With no domestic or international flight operations due to the 21-day lockdown, the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) is wearing a deserted look, probably for the first time since it has become operational. However, almost 500 personnel are staying on the premises and still on duty every day to sanitise and disinfect each item inside the airport. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which manages the airport, said that though commercial operations had been halted, special flights — ferrying stranded citizens of various countries — were still functioning, making it essential to sanitise every item in the area after each operation. “When almost everyone is in the safe environs of home following the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19, some unsung heroes are working round the clock,” said the DIAL spokesperson. They are in a way leading a “quarantined life as they are not even going back home to meet their families,” he added. The team functioning 24x7 includes staff dealing with trolleys, sanitisation, security, airport rescue and firefighting, airside operations, inline baggage and landside management. DIAL is, meanwhile, also preparing for resumption of commercial operations with social-distancing lines being drawn inside and near counters. “They have been marked with yellow colour,” said an airport official. After international flights were suspended on March 22, domestic operations came to a grinding halt on March 24 at 11:59pm. While more than 10 evacuation flights have been operated during this period by India to ferry its stranded citizens abroad, it also handled 29 flights (between March 25, 2020 and April 2, 2020) in which about 5,751 stranded foreign nationals flew to their country of origin from the IGI airport. The biggest aircraft used was an Airbus 380 by Lufthansa, which flew around 500 Germans to Frankfurt. “Delhi Airport is operational 24x7 despite suspension of commercial operations. At present, it is handling cargo and evacuation flights operated by various countries. We have handled around 30 evacuation flights and helped over 5,700 stranded foreign nationals in reaching their homes in the last 10 days. DIAL employees, along with CISF, ATC and others, are working round-the-clock to keep the airport operational,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO DIAL. Other special operations include an Air India flight from Rome with 263 passengers, a China airlines flight with 35 passengers, a Mahan Air flight with 280 passengers, an Aeroflot flight with 300 passengers, Japan Airlines with 197 passengers and an Air India flight from Tel Aviv with 300 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/500-unsung-heroes-keep-igi-safe/articleshow/75018145.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Price of red meat, fish spirals across Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A kilogram of mutton, which sold for Rs 700 is now Rs 900, across the state. Similarly, the price of freshwater fish has increased by 30%. Supply is not matching up to the ever-increasing demand. With restrictions on the sale of livestock (goat and sheep) across the state in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and the increasing number of positive coronavirus cases, meat businessmen in all major cities and towns are finding it difficult to source livestock. Meanwhile, owners of livestock are unable to transport the animals from rural pockets to urban areas and sell due to the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Sk Hussain, a meat trader, said, “With much difficulty we were able to get only two sheep on Sunday. Earlier, on Sundays, we used to slaughter over eight sheep. But, today we managed with just two due to low availability. We have no other option but to increase the price of meat from Rs 700 to Rs 850.” Meanwhile, with the ban on fishing due to lockdown, prices of freshwater fish have also increased. Varieties such as catla, rohu, mrugala, and roopchand are priced between Rs 160 and Rs 300 for a kilogram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/price-of-red-meat-fish-spirals-across-ap/articleshow/74999542.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai malli gets special nod for inter-district transfer during lockdown||MADURAI: Taking up the cause of jasmine farmers in the district during lockdown, Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay has given special permission for inter-district transfer of flowers. The Madurai flower market was forced to shut down for the first time in 50 years on the day of Janata curfew, and the consequent lockdown has resulted in thousands of tonnes of jasmine flowers, which is the livelihood of the farmers, going waste. Madurai and its surroundings have around 1,500 jasmine farmers, who produce flowers for sale through the year. Jasmine is produced in about 2,000 hectares in the state. On an average, a farmer picks about 300 kg to 500 kg of flowers from February to April, and during the peak season from April to August, they harvest about two to three tonnes of flowers an acre. The lockdown has led to tonnes of flowers going waste and the farmers’ cause was represented by president of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, N Jegatheesan, one of the directors of S Nagarathinam and Sons. Enquiries were made and it was found that a perfume manufacturing company was ready to take 3,000 tonnes of flowers on a daily-basis and after obtaining special permission the first consignment was transported to Coimbatore. The farmers in Ezhiyarpathi have been producing a lot of flowers. Other factories in the region were requested to take flowers and now the collector said that ten tonnes of flowers are sent to factories in Nilakottai and Coimbatore. Periyasamy, a farmer in Thiruparankundram, says that the collector’s move is a boon them in the difficult times. “We would have sold a kilogram of flower for about Rs 200 to Rs 350 or more this season in the market if it was open, but now we are selling it for Rs 80 to Rs 100, which is still manageable,” he said. Jegatheesan said that there had been a request from a Dubai firm for 1,300kg of fresh jasmines, and this first consignment is to be sent in a cargo flight from Chennai soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-malli-gets-special-nod-for-inter-dist-transfer-during-lockdown/articleshow/75000178.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Train bookings post-April 15 see dip amid uncertainty||HYDERABAD: Train ticket booking data from the South Central Railway (SCR) for post-April 15, the day after three weeks of countrywide lockdown ends, indicates a significant drop in reservation of seats. In a shift from the usual trend of wait-lists for trains, tickets are now available in even air-conditioned coaches.  “A fall of over 70% is observed. Despite train reservation having begun for the days after lockdown, people are uncertain about modes of transportation requiring group travel,” an SCR official told TOI. “We are receiving several inquiries about extension of the lockdown and, if train services will continue to run smoothly after April 14. Most enquiries are regarding travel to New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, and Jharkhand,” he added. Apart from the stranded passengers in nearby states, most people were unwilling to travel despite availability of trains. As per data available from the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) portal of Indian Railways, people were booking seats in trains for destinations in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. “I am stuck in Hyderabad currently and I have booked a ticket for April 16 to Mumbai, but I am not sure whether I will be able to return back in time to resume my work because most passenger trains are not available for booking on IRCTC,” tweeted a passenger, tagging the railway authorities. At the same time, a restoration plan has bee made by the Railway Board with a schedule of trains to be run, their frequency and the availability of rakes but no final decision has been taken yet on the restoration of train services post the lockdown. Sources reveal that activity of around 100 trains would be affected and they might not be able to run in the first-week post lockdown due to non-availability of rakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/train-bookings-post-apr-15-see-dip-amid-uncertainty/articleshow/75000315.cms||Arya Sharan
April 6, 2020||Goa||Tablighi clash: Alleged victim of assault arrested in Margoa||MARGAO: The Margao town police on Sunday arrested Fazal Shaikh, a resident of Mariaband, Calconda, Margao, who on Saturday had complained of assault on him by some Tablighi jamaat members, taking the number of those arrested in the group clash on Saturday to seven. The arrest was made on the basis of counter complaints lodged against the assault victim. Two minors have also been apprehended in the case. The case pertains to the video that had gone viral on Saturday in which Fazal had claimed that he was assaulted for having informed the authorities on the Covid-19 helpline 104, about the presence of a few Tablighis in the Mariaband locality where he resides. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had later directed the police to investigate the case. Based on cross complaints received by them, the Margao town police on Saturday had arrested six persons and apprehended two minors, while Fazal was admitted to Hospicio, Margao, for treatment. They were charged for forming unlawful assembly, rioting, assaulting with deadly weapons and criminal intimidation.While Fazal had questioned how his identity was revealed after calling the Covid-19 helpline, police sources revealed that the caller’s identity was not revealed by the helpline team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tablighi-clash-alleged-victim-of-assault-arrested/articleshow/75000705.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||1st low-key foundation day for BJP in 40 years||Lucknow: For the first time since its formation 40 years ago, Bharatiya Janata Party’s foundation day celebrations will be a low-key affair on Monday, in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. BJP was founded in 1980 by leaders of the erstwhile Jana Sangh, which had merged in 1977 with Janata Party. Sources said the party functionaries have been asked to stay in their homes and celebrate the foundation day while taking all precautionary steps against Covid-19 as per the government’s guidelines. Workers would silently carry out a signature campaign to elevate the morale of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. “The workers switched off the lights of their homes for nine minutes on Sunday as asked by the PM and pledged to fight against the corona pandemic,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told TOI. “They have been asked to stay in homes and help the needy as much as they can,” he said. BJP has had a tradition of holding grand foundation day celebrations. It serves as an occasion for party functionaries to reach out to the people across the country to drum up support for BJP. Last year, BJP had chosen the occasion to launch its campaign for the Lok Sabha elections under the guidance of PM Modi and the then BJP chief Amit Shah. Earlier, UP BJP had planned to celebrate the foundation day to highlight the achievements of the Yogi government which completed three years in office on March 19. But the programme was postponed indefinitely owing to coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The door-to-door campaign, planned on the occasion, was also postponed by the party’s state unit. “The foundation day was the perfect day to celebrate the three years’ of the Yogi government in the state. But now due to the lockdown we have changed our strategy,” said a senior BJP functionary. According to sources, the state BJP had planned functions at divisional, district and booth levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1st-low-key-foundation-day-for-bjp-in-40-years/articleshow/75018614.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana calls for increase in procurement limit of Bengal gram||In a bid to help farmers, the state government has requested Centre to increase procurement limit of Bengal gram (senaga pappu) from 47,600 metric tonnes to 75,430 metric tonnes. In a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, state agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said that the state is expecting a 1.89 lakh metric tonne crop of Bengal gram.  “Already the state has procured 19,876 metric tonnes of Bengal gram from 13,000 farmers at a minimum support price of Rs 4,875 per quintal. If the procurement limit of Bengal gram is not increased, farmers will incur huge losses,” Niranjan said. In a separate statement, Reddy said that 1,077 procurement centres are being set up in Telangana to procure 14 lakh metric tonnes of maize at an estimated cost of Rs 3213 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-calls-for-increase-in-procurement-limit-of-bengal-gram/articleshow/75000270.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara city’s positive cases spike to 10||VADODARA: Vadodara recorded its 10th COVID-19 patient with a 54-year-old male from Nagarwada area of the city testing positive for the deadly virus on Sunday morning. The patient was admitted in the isolation ward of state-run SSG Hospital on Saturday. As the report of this patient testing positive arrived, it raised an alarm in the congested, densely populated bylanes of the old city. Parts of Nagarwada and Machhipith were put under mass quarantine in the wake of this first positive case from the area. The area has around 650 houses and a population of 3,200 people. Senior IAS officer Vinod Rao, special secretary for central Gujarat to handle Covid-19 matters, said each and every person in the area will be examined as a part of a mass health surveillance drive. The reason for taking the drastic step was that the man had fever since last four days. During this period and even before that he had come in contact with several persons. It also came to light that the man was involved in social work at SSG Hospital and used to provide food to the needy there. Some persons working in the hospital used to take meals from the same service. Sources, however, said those serving food had not been allowed inside the hospital soon after the first positive case was admitted there. After this, the group used to stand outside the hospital and provide food from there. The patient also suffers from heart-related ailments and hypertension. With the latest case, the city has recorded 10 cases of which one person has died, five have been discharged while four are under treatment. Gotri hospital to act as COVID-19 hospital The GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri will act as COVID-19 hospital. All the COVID-19 positive cases of central Gujarat will be referred to Gotri hospital, chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat said. So far, state-run SSG Hospital was handling maximum COVID-19 suspected and positive cases in the city. “Screening and testing of samples will continue at our hospital. All the positive cases will be treated at Gotri hospital,” said Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, medical superintendent of SSG Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-citys-positive-cases-spike-to-10/articleshow/74999229.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Not the time to give communal colour to virus, says Telangana Congress president||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday appealed to people to not give a communal colour to the spread of coronavirus. Interacting with party workers on a social media platform, Uttam said it was not prudent to blame a particular community for the spread of the virus. “Coronavirus is a pandemic and has been infecting and killing people irrespective of their region, religion, sex, caste or creed. This is a time of crisis and all Indians need to fight against the virus,” he said. He appealed to his party leaders and workers to act like soldiers in preventing the spread of coronavirus and also continue helping the poor and needy. “Cooperate with authorities in relief operations. The control room at Gandhi Bhavan is monitoring relief works carried out by party workers. Control rooms are also being set up in districts. Congress cadre needs to play the role of a constructive opposition and extend all help to needy,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-the-time-to-give-communal-colour-to-virus-says-uttam/articleshow/75000288.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Traditional art forms and peppy folk songs unite to fight coronavirus in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Though the empty streets might make many sad, locals are keeping the spirits high through traditional art forms Oggu Katha and Harikatha and folk songs to fight Covid-19. The ‘village crier’ with his ‘dappu’ is regularly making announcements on every street to spread awareness on social distancing and handwashing. Recorded messages are also being spread through ancient art forms. Oggu Katha is a story-telling art form involving a group of people. Ustad Ravi, who is pursuing a Ph.D course from Telugu University, has recorded an Oggu Katha episode explaining the steps that need to be taken to prevent the ‘dangerous’virus from spreading. Moreover, a few well-known folk artistes in various parts of the state are writing their own scripts and using the language and phrases that are used in those areas to spread the message across. In Rajanna-Sircilla district, an Oggu Katha group led by Diva of Mandepalli village in Thangapalli mandal is educating the people about coronavirus and explaining to them what one needs to do to prevent it from spreading. The group recently received praise from Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy for its efforts. “It is a wonderful effort by Oggu Katha artistes to spread awareness among people,” he said. Similarly, another group, Seenanna, is also making efforts to drive home the message on coronavirus. “Police are doing their job with their lathis to see that people don’t roam around unnecessarily,” the group said. “Eat whatever you have at home and stay home. Wash your hands. Use a mask and a handkerchief. Take precautions during this time,” go the lyrics of their song, which also mentions how it spread from China.  Department of culture director Mamidi Harikrishna, recorded several folk songs on coronavirus sung by folk artistes. Another popular art form, Harikatha, is also being used to drive home the message. Further, a programme has been recorded with artiste Padmalaya Acharya to spread awareness on the virus. Harikrishna, who also began an initiative with poets, said 340 poems were uploaded on Youtube in seven days on the channel ‘Return Gift 2 Corona’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traditional-art-forms-and-peppy-folk-songs-unite-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75000325.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||NIT Warangal announces advanced summer break, closed from today||HYDERABAD: In wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal has decided to make changes to the academic calendar by declaring early summer vacations which are set to commence from Monday. The decision to make changes to the academic calendar was taken during the senate meeting held at the institute recently. During the meeting, it was resolved that students will have summer vacations from April 6 to June 5 and a decision on vacation for faculty will be taken in due course of time after the lockdown concludes. “In the wake of the unfortunate outbreak of novel Covid-19 virus and on the directions and advisory of the Government of India, the institute was constrained to suspend academic activities since March 14, 2020. Students were advised to go home. Since the situation has not improved, it is decided to advance the summer vacation of the institute and reopen the institute tentatively after the vacation on June 7, 2020,” read a letter issued to the students by the director. The institution decided to conduct semester exams in the second or third week of June and declare results by July 12. As per the revised calendar, final year BTech students shall submit a soft copy of the report and PPT on the seminar topic to the respective faculty coordinators online before May 15 for evaluation, which will be completed between July 2-6. “The remaining part of the classwork will be conducted after the vacation followed by the examinations. It is hoped that the situation will return to normalcy and we will be able to commence the next academic year on August 12,” said Ramana Rao, director, NIT, Warangal. It was also decided not to hold any annual functions or sports day this year. While PhD scholars will be allowed to register as per the schedule and complete the presentations by August 31, comprehensive examination of the PhD scholars, who are completing two years by July, has been extended up to August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nit-warangal-announces-advanced-summer-break-closed-from-today/articleshow/75000297.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Chicken lovers flock meat stores||HYDERABAD: With experts making it clear that chicken consumption has nothing to do with the spread of coronavirus, prices have touched Rs 160 per kilogram for skinless while live bird was sold at Rs 80 per kilo. Locals were seen flooding their local chicken stores on Sunday. Compared to last week, the average chicken price was down by Rs 30 per kg. Last Sunday, chicken was sold being sold at Rs 190 per kilo (skinless) in some places. The prices dipped as transportation has been streamlined and poultry feed is reaching the farmers, according to poultry businessmen. However, they said that though the feed is reaching farmers, several chicken stalls in districts are not operational yet. “There are several stores especially in districts which are closed as small vehicles and autos are yet to hit the road. On Sunday, several retail customers came to my farm to purchase chicken as the shops near their homes were still closed,” said Telangana Poultry Federation president, Errabelli Pradeep Kumar Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chicken-lovers-flock-meat-stores/articleshow/75000224.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||Locals assist health workers to trace 17 Jamaat men in Sambhal||BAREILLY: With support of locals, health department managed to locate at least 17 Tablighi Jamaat members in Sambhal district. These men had taken part in the recent religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. Health officials said that samples of all the individuals have been sent to Aligarh lab for testing. Government doctor Neeraj Sharma said that three teams were formed to search the Jamaat men and he was leading one of them. Two other teams were led by Dr M Juhaib and Satish Kumar of the health department. Dr Sharma said that when the three teams reached different parts of Muslim-populated areas to look for the Jamaat men who had taken part in the Markaz gathering, they were first confronted by some agitating locals, but soon they were pacified by the health workers and later the men assisted them in their search. “Locals gathered. They had some reservations. We clarified all their doubts which eventually resulted in full support from them in locating the Jamaat men,” he said. Notably, three Jamaat men were found in Saraitareen, while two others were already found in Miyansarai on Friday. The health workers also found three people of Tamil Nadu who were following “self-quarantine”. Similarly, another team found 11 Jamaat men, also from Tamil Nadu. In Moradabad, reports of 18 Jamaat men were found negative while of two others are being awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/locals-assist-health-workers-to-trace-17-jamaat-men-in-sambhal/articleshow/74998243.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Kazakhstan envoy lauds India’s help in sending nationals home||HYDERABAD: The Honorary Consul General of Kazakhstan in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Nawab Mir Nasir Ali Khan lauded the cooperation of the central and state governments in transporting 120 Kazakhstan nationals safely back to their country. The Kazakhstan nationals, who were stranded across India, were flown home on Friday afternoon. On March 30, following Kazakhstan ambassador to India, Yrkan Alimbayev’s statement expressing that “possibility of a special flight to India was being considered,” Mir Nasir Ali Khan had started making arrangements for their return. Of the 120 nationals, five were in Andhra Pradesh and one was in Bengaluru. They were transported by road to Goa. “We had to avail proper permissions from the ministry of external affairs to transport them, first to Goa and then to their homeland,” Khan said. “I am grateful to the Indian, state governments and the police for extending their full cooperation during the process,” he added. Khan also expressed his gratitude to the Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang for arranging to escort the Kazakhstan nationals till Goa. A chartered flight was arranged for their return by the Kazakhstan government.  Kazakhstan nationals were stranded in different parts of the country such as Vrindavan, Mumbai, Kochi, Dwarka, Sikkim, Thiruvananthapuram among others following the Centre’s call for nationwide lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus. All local and international flights were suspended as a result. The Kazakhstan nationals were in India for business and tourism purposes. “Both India and Kazakhstan share a historic relationship that goes back ages,” Honorary Consul General Nawab Mir Nasir Ali Khan said. On the status on Indians currently in Kazakhstan, Khan said: “Several Indians are stranded in Kazakhstan due to lockdown. They are being offered food and accommodation by the Embassy of India there. They are comfortable and all efforts are being made to ensure their pleasant stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kazakhstan-envoy-lauds-indias-help-in-sending-natls-home/articleshow/75000320.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||6,000 paddy procurement centres to come up in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In a bid to help farmers who are unable to move out of their villages due to lockdown, the government has decided to set up around 6,000 paddy procurement centres across the state. This would be the first time that the state would be having so many centres. The plan is to have one paddy procurement centre for every two villages. Moreover, there is no ceiling on the number of the centres. District collectors are authorised to set up these centres as per the requirement. With farmers being confined to the villages due to the lockdown restrictions, the onus is on the officials to collect paddy. Following directions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the finance department issued a counter-guarantee to the civil supplies corporation to secure Rs 45,000 crore loan for the procurement of 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy. The record production of 1.05 metric tonnes of paddy in the Rabi season has brought with it several challenges like storage and procurement for the state government. The authorities have even decided to store paddy in class rooms of government schools and colleges as government warehouses have run out of space. Another major challenge for the government is to make arrangements for getting the harvesting equipment. “Due to the coronavirus and lockdown, farmers are finding it very difficult to get agriculture labourers to harvest their crops. Even hamalis to load and unload the paddy from vehicles are difficult to come by. To wriggle out of this crisis the agriculture department in coordination with the police and other departments has identified nearly 15,000 harvestor machines and its operating teams in the state,” said an official. These harvesting machines are mounted on the tractors. “The teams comprising its technicians and other skilled labour will be given special passes to move from towns to the rural areas to harvest the crops. While utilising the services of these harvestors, measures would be taken to adhere to social distancing norms. We are expecting to complete the harvesting of entire paddy crop, sown in nearly 40 lakh acres, by mid-May,” said an official. The CM also directed officials to approach companies and retailers who manufacture and sell spare parts for the harvesting equipment, to get the spare parts in case of any breakdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6k-paddy-procurement-centres-to-come-up-in-t/articleshow/75000262.cms||Roushan Ali
April 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Fire service registers drop in calls||KOCHI: March is usually a busy month for the fire and rescue service personnel in Ernakulam as the number of ground-fire and surface-fire cases is normally high due to high atmospheric temperature coupled with human errors like careless burning of waste. But this time, the month has passed without any major incidents, thanks to the lockdown. According to fire force officials, the number of calls received at all 18 fire stations together in the district has come down to 398 in March compared to 575 in February. Of the 575 calls in February, more than 80% of them were fire calls. In March, out of the 398 calls, less than 70% were fire calls. Officials said most ground-fires are man-made and the lockdown has led to a decline in ground-fires. “More than 75% of the calls received by the stations in the district are usually about ground-fires. There is high probability of fire breakouts due to rise in temperature during summer. February, which witnessed an early summer, the number of calls had increased to 575 compared to 535 in January. It was expected to be much higher in March. Before the lockdown started, they were frequent cases, but after the lockdown came into effect, cases declined drastically as most people stayed indoors. Also, the trend of dumping and burning waste from shops and restaurants after they close down at night too had stopped due to the lockdown,” said Jogy J S, district fire officer, Ernakulam. But, officials raised concerns about man-made fires near households even during the lockdown. “Several ground-fire case were reported in Eloor recently. Man-made fire could be avoided if people are careful and the best way is to avoid burning garbage bags. If people set fire to heaps of waste and move away carelessly, fire can easily spread to surroundings as the winds and atmospheric temperature will fuel it up. Even if people burn dry grass in their surroundings, they should make sure that they douse it off completely before they leave and make fire lines,” said a fire and rescue official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fire-service-registers-drop-in-calls/articleshow/74998261.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Govt’s plan to save farmers from lockdown jolt pays off||Lucknow: Farmers of the state are reaping benefits of timely measures adopted by the Yogi Adityanath government for their welfare. The 21-day lockdown declared by the government to check spread of Covid-19 had come as a rude shock for farmers whose rabi crop was ready for harvesting. In western UP, lakhs of cane-growers, who had prepared fields for sowing of saplings, too, were facing an uncertain future as they did not know how to reach their fields as ban was imposed on the people's movement because of the coronavirus pandemic. At this juncture, the CM intervened to extend a helping hand to farmers, especially those who are waiting for harvesting of the rabi crop. Yogi Adityanath’s foresightedness and his agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi's experience in the field as he himself hails from a farmer family came as a blessing in disguise for the farming community. The CM immediately contacted authorities concerned at the Centre and sought their permission for allowing farmers and agri labourers to work in fields. Not only this he also directed seeds, fertilizer and pesticide shops to remain open even during the lockdown. Having over 2.50 crore farmers and over three crore agriculture labourers, Uttar Pradesh is predominantly an agriculture state. It is also the highest producer of foodgrains, milk and vegetables in the country. For the state farmers, who were facing huge financial losses owing to untimely rain and hailstorms in January and February, the lockdown had proved a double whammy. However, the state government ensured that no restriction was imposed on inter-district and intra-district movement of vehicles carrying harvesting machines, said agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi. Talking to TOI, the minister said that farmers were also afraid of catching Covid-19 and they were not going to fields. However, the agriculture department kept on convincing them that by maintaining proper social distance they would not catch any infection. Gradually, they, too, realised the point and now they were busy in the harvesting work, he added. From the day one of the lockdown the Yogi government had directed police not to block the movement of farmers willing to go to their fields. The district administration had made it clear that no passes would be required by farmers and agriculture labourers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-plan-to-save-farmers-from-lockdown-jolt-pays-off/articleshow/75018620.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 6, 2020||Goa||‘Shripad Naik shamed Goa with Prince Charles claim’||PANAJI: Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s “irresponsible” claim that Prince Charles recovered from the novel coronavirus infection after undergoing ayurvedic and homeopathy treatment, has brought shame to Goa, Congress said here on Sunday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Naik’s claims have been rubbished by the office of the British royal. “The false and misleading statement of Shripad Naik on recovery of Prince Charles from Covid-19 by ayurveda is part of agenda of falsehood and ‘jumla’ politics of the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Chodankar said. On April 2, Naik addressed a press conference in Goa and claimed that Prince Charles had been cured of the virus with a medicine formulated by an Ayurveda practitioner based in Bengaluru. The claim was rejected by the office of Prince Charles. “This incident has once again exposed the dirty tricks of PM Narendra Modi and BJP government to fool the people of the country by floating such ideas which have no scientific basis,” Chodankar alleged. “The incident has put Goa to a shame because of irresponsible behaviour of the North Goa MP who tried to toe the line of the Prime Minister.” Interestingly, on April 1, the AYUSH ministry directed all AYUSH regulatory authorities in states and Union Territories to stop giving publicity to AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 treatment and had also warned that action should be taken against persons or agencies making such claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-naik-shamed-goa-with-prince-charles-claim/articleshow/75000707.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||South Goa shelter inmates given bedding, toys||MARGAO: Stepping up its efforts to ensure the welfare of the inmates of the shelter home accommodated at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim, the South Goa district administration on Saturday provided mattresses to the camp. While there are altogether 458 people housed in the shelter home, 220 have been provided with mattresses; the rest will also be covered soon, sources said. The inmates of the shelter homes, who are mostly migrants from neighbouring states, have expressed their gratitude to the district administration. A number of showers for bathing, and additional toilets have already been set up at the facility. Regular medical checkups are also being conducted of the inmates by teams of doctors and those requiring treatment are admitted to hospital. While cooked food is being supplied to them by utilising the services of some self help groups, toiletries, clothes, blankets and other essentials are being donated by generous benefactors. Besides, recreational items are also provided to the inmates to keep their minds engaged and their bodies fit. While the literate ones have been provided with books to read, sports equipment like cricket kits, football sets, tennikoit rings and board games like ludo, as well as toys, have been provided to the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-shelter-inmates-given-bedding-toys/articleshow/75000706.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi meets religious leaders, seeks help in fight against corona||Lucknow: As the number of Covid-19 positive patients having links with Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi continues to spiral, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday interacted with 377 religious leaders, including Muslim clerics, and exhorted them to ask people to take preventive steps to check spread of coronavirus. Yogi also asked religious leaders to inform people about preventive measures they should take before venturing out once the lockdown was lifted. The move comes a day after members of Jamaat allegedly misbehaved with doctors and nurses at Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College in Kanpur while they were being treated for coronavirus infection. “People will have to maintain social distancing. A disease does not see caste or religion,” Yogi asserted, while elaborating on relief measures taken by the Centre and the state government during lockdown. Masood Madani of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind in Saharanpur told the CM that people who were quarantined should not feel as if they have been arrested. “Local religious leaders should also be taken into confidence,” he said. Madani’s views were seconded by mohatamim (vice-chancellor) of Darul Uloom, Deoband, Qasim Nomani. Yogi agreed to the idea but said a person having symptoms of Covid-19 should go into self-quarantine and assured religious leaders that sentiments of people would not be hurt. Sunni cleric Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali said an audio clip exhorting people to maintain social distance should be prepared and played from various mosques at regular intervals. The CM supported the cleric’s idea. Father Noon from Agra also assured Yogi that Christians will refrain from holding assemblies on Good Friday. Yogi also took suggestions from Mahant Narendra Giri from Prayagraj and Sikh religious leader Joginder Singh. He said the government was planning to open a lab to test cases of Covid-19 in every district of UP. Additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said, “This was the first time that a chief minister has interacted with religious heads of all districts in one go. The state government has managed to track nearly 1,499 people linked to Tablighi Jamaat. Of these, 1,205 people have been quarantined, passports of 249 others have been confiscated and 42 FIRs have been lodged.” He said people who attended the event were traced in Meerut (301), Bareilly (281), Varanasi (232) and Gorakhpur (213). “Agra district administration also traced 147 people having links with Jamaat. Under Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar police commissionerates, 24 and 70 people were traced, respectively. Out of total 276 Covid-19 positive cases, 138 patients are connected to Jamaat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-meets-religious-leaders-seeks-help-in-fight-against-corona/articleshow/75018617.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Postal department staffers deliver pension at seniors’ homes in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Motijheel resident Aparna Sarkar was pleasantly surprised when she received her monthly pension at home on Saturday morning. “The man from Motijheel sub-post office came, asked for my thumb impression and gave me the money,” the octogenarian smiled. Sarkar was not the only one. Several elderly citizens in Kolkata and the districts received their pensions and monthly interest payouts (from MIS deposits) at their homes on Saturday. The idea was to minimize chances of the senior citizens coming in contact with outsiders. “Most of my savings and fixed deposits are with the local post-office. When the 21-day lockdown was announced, I borrowed some money from a neighbour. But then my maid needed an advance. Meanwhile, I got a call from Rashbehari post office asking me how much money I wanted to withdraw. Today, a man in mask came to my home and gave me the money,” said Kalighat resident Amar Chatterjee (84). The postal department started planning the hassle-free disbursal for elderly citizens and pensioners ever since the lockdown began. Many retired central government emplyees draw their pension from post offices. “There were no transactions on April 1 and 2 because it was the beginning of the financial year. From yesterday, transactions started. Of course, we took all precautions and maintained the right distances. Post offices have been sanitized, payouts were staggered to avoid congestion. We also went through our records to find out customers aged over 80 years,” Gautam Bhattacharya, chief post-master general, West Bengal circle, told TOI on Saturday. The post offices are also reaching out to the indisposed elderly who can’t walk or travel to the respective branches. “This also prevents queues in the post offices,” Bhattacharya said, adding, “We will try to hand over money to as many elderly persons we can, given the ongoing staff crunch in post offices. Our staff living in the suburbs can’t attend work because of the lockdown.” Bhattacharya said post offices are also delivering parcels containing medicines and medical equipment, in collaboration with cargo flight operators, ferrying them to the destination point by the traditional red mail vans. “In the absence of passenger flights and mail trains, more than 2 tonnes of medicines were transported yesterday from government medical stores of Kolkata to Patna and Varanasi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ajanta-post-office/articleshow/75000181.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Large crowds in Vizag markets as social distancing gets ignored||VISAKHAPATNAM: In blatant violation of social distancing norms, people across the city were seen gathering in large numbers at markets, especially meat and fish, on Sunday. Some parts of the city even witnessed traffic congestions in the morning. When TOI visited departmental stores, rythu bazaars, meat shops and fish markets and saw large crowds gathered to buy their regular stock. Areas such as MVP Colony, Ramnagar, Pandurangapuram, Dandubazaar, PM Palem, and Seethammadhara were crowded with people, most of them not wearing a masks. During the first few days of lockdown, people were being provided with hand sanitisers upon entering markets, but no such arrangements were seen on Sunday. “The rythu bazaar at MVP Colony was crowded and there were hardly any police to control the crowd. The circles drawn for social distancing have also disappeared,” said Srinivas, a local resident. “It was disheartening to see people crowding. I haven’t stepped out of my house for the past 10 days. I was surprised to see people not realising that maintaining social distancing is the need of the hour,” said Ratna Latha, another resident. Speaking to TOI, Visakhapatnam joint collector Siva Sankar Lotheti said, “It has come to our notice that people have not been following social distancing norms in certain areas. We have streamlined the process in rythu bazaars and will look into implementing the same at other stores as well.” “We urge the people to cooperate and play their roles as responsible citizens to ensure the norms are followed for their own safety,” the joint collector added. Meanwhile, city police commissioner RK Meena said, “Police have been deployed in almost the entire city and strict actions are being taken if norms are violated. However, it is difficult for us to be present in every single locality.” “If people cooperate, it will benefit everybody. We have booked cases against those who violated social distancing norms on Sunday morning,” Meena added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/large-crowds-in-markets-as-social-distancing-gets-ignored/articleshow/75000546.cms||Reshma Jain
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Eight more test positive, 4 of them attended Tablighi event||Thiruvananthapuram: The total number of people under observation in the state for suspected Covid-19 has come down to 1,58,617 from 1,71,355 in April 4. The restrictions imposed on as many as 12,738 people who have completed 14 and 28 days of home quarantine have been removed. On Sunday, eight more persons tested positive for coronavirus in the state, taking the total number of cases to 314, out of which, 56 have been discharged and two have died. Among the new cases, five are from Kozhikode and one each from Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Kasaragod.Of the five cases reported from Kozhikode, four people had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, New Delhi. The fifth person had come from Dubai. The person who tested positive for coronavirus in Pathanamthitta had come from New Delhi. The other two in Kannur and Kasaragod tested positive after coming into contact with infected persons. Six people who were tested positive for Covid-19 tested negative and were discharged from hospitals on Sunday. At present, 256 people who tested positive are admitted to various hospitals. Health minister K K Shailaja said samples of 10,221 people who showed symptoms were sent for testing and out of them, 9,300 tested negative for the virus. Kasaragod has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases. As many as 119 who tested positive for the disease have been admitted in hospitals in the district, while 18 others have been admitted to hospitals in Kannur and one in a hospital in Kozhikode. Meanwhile, an official communique from the state government has made it clear that those who have come from abroad and or other states between March 5 and till the lock down period, should go for home quarantine for 14 days. However, those who have been declared under high risk category should continue in isolation for 28 days. Those who have come into direct contact with infected persons should also continue in isolation for 14 days. The people who had initially tested positive and then tested negative later should also continue to be in isolation for 14 days, said the official statement. Of the 172 samples taken from Pothencode for rapid tests, 71 tested negative. The remaining results are expected late in the night or by Monday. Rapid test was conducted in the area as the authorities have not yet tracked down the primary contact of the person who tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/eight-more-test-positive-4-of-them-attended-tablighi-event/articleshow/74998275.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Delhi-bound flight takes off from Kolkata with 89 US citizens||KOLKATA: An Air India flight took off from Kolkata airport for Delhi at 8.28pm on Sunday with 89 American citizens, green card holders and US visa holders. On arrival in Delhi, the passengers were transferred to a United Airlines flight to San Francisco. The flight has been organised by the US embassy in India to repatriate its citizens stranded in different cities across India that went into lockdown on March 25 and all flight operations — both international and domestic — were suspended along with buses and trains. Since then, only evacuation flights have been permitted. From Kolkata, Armenians and European Union citizens were evacuated last weekend. A US state department communique urged its citizens on short-term visits to India to board one of the flights to return at the earliest. “We do not know for how long these flights will continue. The US citizens who wish to return to their home country should consider that these flights may be their best option for returning,” said the communique. Though there were more applicants, only 89 passengers, including four infants, were allowed to board the 180-seater AI Airbus A320 aircraft to ensure that distancing norms are followed during the flight. Sources said the passengers had to sign an evacuation loan repayment agreement as there was no payment upfront since the flight cost had not yet been computed. Each passenger was allowed with only one checked luggage and one carry-on bag. Meanwhile, spotting the desperation of foreigners who are keen to return, scammers are on the prowl. The US state department has issued a warning to be vigilant in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/delhi-bound-flight-takes-off-from-city-with-89-us-citizens/articleshow/75000190.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag doc’s tailor-made solution for PPE shortage||Bengaluru: Owing to acute shortage of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) in the country’s hospitals, a Gadag-based doctor is producing PPEs with the help of local tailors. Dr Pavan Patil from Gadag, a member of Karnataka Medical Council, says his PPEs are made with local material but meet prescribed international standards. The equipment is made of non-woven material, polypropylene and polyester. “The material used is of the thickness 60 gsm (grams per square metre), which I procure from Hubballi in bulk. The PPE specifications are such that it shouldn’t absorb anything falling on it. No liquid should seep through the material, including fluids. That’s exactly what we have experimented with. We sprayed a syringe of blood, urine and serum on the PPEs stitched by our team and they didn’t get wet at all,” said Dr Pavan. The work began six days ago. The PPEs are stitched in such a way that none of the body parts is exposed. From head to toes, they provide complete protection to the health workers wearing them. For the shoe cover, the team has used thick plastic material used in packaging. The leg cover has elastic finishing at its mouth as it helps in tightening,” he said. For the hood, Dr Pavan has used a transparent OHP sheet in front. The PPE comes with slightly broader goggles. “These are wider than regular ones and are used by patients after cataract surgery to prevent infection,” said Dr Pavan. Dr Pavan said he first spoke to a tailor who stitched school uniforms and briefed him about the requirements of any PPE. “They have done a great job. Amid the lockdown, local police gave them the required permission to work,” he added. PPEs must be scientifically disposed of using an incinerator after single use. While one currently costs anywhere between Rs 900 and Rs 2,500, Dr Pavan said his PPE costs Rs 600, emphasising that he would supply them for free to hospitals in the region. Currently, six tailors are stitching 300 PPEs a day at a factory. Bhawar Oswal, 63, a school uniform entrepreneur from Gadag, is spearheading the stitching team. “Each PPE weighs about 800-900 grams. Compared to regular clothes, it's tough to stitch as the material is thick. But we have experienced tailors who are helping me out. We collected PPE samples from hospitals and replicated the same. We included certain modifications such as covering the neck loop, chain, elastic and zip, wherever needed,” Oswal said. However, Dr Pavan’s PPE requires the final ISO certification from an institution in Tamil Nadu, and some North Karnataka leaders are assisting the team in getting it. He’s in the process of applying for the certification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-docs-tailor-made-solution-for-ppe-shortage/articleshow/74998266.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 6, 2020||Goa||KTC buses ferry 2,500 workers to shelter homes||PANAJI: Migrants and homeless people across the state are being shifted to shelter homes identified by the government amid lockdown to contain coronavirus. The government has roped in buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC), which so far shifted 2,500 such people to shelter homes since March 26, 2020.“Our buses are being used for shifting of migrants from their work place to shelter homes. A major chunk of the work force constitutes people from neighbouring states who had come to Goa. They were facing difficulties in finding food after they were out of work due to lockdown,” said KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate. On Sunday, 40 people were transported in KTC buses. At a time, only twelve persons are being carried in a bus due to social distancing norm. These labourers have been identified by government machinery to be shifted to the shelter homes, he said. “About 300 of them were found at Chorla ghat attempting to go to their respective hometown in Karnataka. They were picked up and brought to the shelters. They are asked to observe social distancing and practice basic hygiene,” Ghate said. In addition to this, migrant labourers that have a home in Goa and cannot move out due to the lockdown especially in industrial estates are being supplied with food. Six of KTC’s buses are engaged in supplying them with food. Another six buses that’ve been modified to carry groceries are enrolled in the civil supplies department’s ‘grocery-on-wheels’ initiative, he said. “We also operate 24 buses on a daily basis to transport doctors and staff to government hospitals Hospicio, Asilio, IPHB and the GMC. These buses operate from Pernem, Valpoi, Ponda, Canacona and Sanvordem,” Ghate said. The corporation has been sanitising its vehicles and depots daily, by spraying sodium hydrochloride usinga pressure gun, and bleach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-ferry-2500-workers-to-shelter-homes/articleshow/75000709.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Fire in children’s hospital triggers panic in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: A fire caused by an electric short circuit at the children’s ward in McGann Hospital in Shivamogga created tension on Sunday evening. There were 33 babies and their attendants in the hospital when the incident took place. The staff acted fast and shifted them to Sarji Hospital, a private hospital in the city. The fire brigade rushed the spot and doused the fire but the smoke covered the whole building. Minister KS Eshwarappa, deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar, member of parliament BY Raghavendar and senior surgeons visited Sarji Hospital and checked children’s health conditions. Speaking to mediapersons Eshwarappa said all the children are safe. He thanked the doctors and staff of both hospitals for their timely action. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said the fire was caused by an electric short circuit after a thunderstorm. Founder of Sarji Hospital Dr Dananjaya Sarji said of the 33 babies, 25 are are one month old. Three children are on ventilator but their condition is stable now, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fire-in-childrens-hospital-triggers-panic/articleshow/74999580.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ENC trains non-medics to assist doctors, paramedics||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) is training non-medical naval personnel as BattleField Nursing Assistants (BFNAs) to assist doctors and paramedics in treating Covid-19 patients in quarantine and isolation facilities. Over 350 personnel, including officers, have already been trained in the last six days. A statement by the Indian Navy said the decision to train non-medical personnel was taken to cater to patients requiring medical and emotional support during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The training commenced at all stations under the ENC from March 30, in batches of six each. A total of 313 personnel, including 37 officers, have been trained at naval units at Visakhapatnam, Chennai and Kolkata till April 4. The training aims to cover at least 75 per cent of non-medical personnel. Officers, sailors and defence civilian personnel were trained in the prevention and management of the virus, self-protection through use of personal protection equipment (PPE) and methods of disinfection. The training also emphasised the importance of PPE for health professionals and social distancing for all personnel. The Command also plans to set up facilities at the naval hospital of ENC INHS Kalyani, in addition to a wellness centre with a quarantine facility for 185 personnel at Visakhapatnam. The Naval Science and Technological Lab (NSTL), Visakhapatnam handed over 200 bottles of sanitizers to the admiral superintendent of ENC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/enc-trains-non-medics-to-assist-docs-paramedics/articleshow/75000549.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi airport is most active on social media||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s IGI Airport has been making the most of social media to update passengers about constant travel changes in the corona-ravaged world. According to social media tool Konnect Insights, Delhi airport carried out over 3.5 lakh social media engagements during the lockdown, followed by Singapore Changi at over 84,000. Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) says its round-the-clock command centre is live on all days “to meet passenger queries during Covid-19 lockdown.” DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said: “While the whole country is in a state of lockdown, our social media 24x7 command centre remains fully functional just like any other essential service at the airport. The cutting-edge cloud-based technology deployed by us ensures that the team can operate remotely from their home and adhere to the 21-day lockdown. We continue to respond almost real-time to the passengers’ queries and engage with them proactively through advisories and updates. It has also helped us in gathering insight of the situation on ground through online conversations.” India’s 21-day lockdown started on March 25. As a result, all domestic and international flights (except evacuation and essential cargo flight movements) were suspended. “Air traffic witnessed a significant decline between March 15 and 31. It also resulted in higher anxiety levels in passengers… Passengers were left with only one reliable choice for their inquiries, social media, especially at a time when call centre operations too have been affected,” DIAL said in a statement. “Delhi Airport did 99 proactive posts on FB, Twitter and Instagram, which is maximum by any global airport. Second highest was Bangalore with 80 proactive posts followed by Los Angeles (LAX) and London Heathrow with 74 and 68 proactive posts,” DIAL said. Passengers used IGI airport’s social media handles for information such as flight status, availability of transport , status of lockdown, critical travel-related information and advisories issued by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-airport-is-most-active-on-social-media/articleshow/75018161.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘No proof of community transmission of Covid-19 in Odisha’||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Sunday ruled out the fear of community transmission of the novel coronavirus or Covid-19 in the state after tracing the travel history of the 21 who have tested positive for the virus here. “There was apprehension of community transmission of Covid-19 as the sources of infection of the positive cases from Surya Nagar and Bomikhal areas could not be detected. Through door-to-door surveillance in the containment zones and meticulously planned tracking of contacts of the persons who have tested positive for the virus, it was established that the infection of Covid-19 was sourced from outside the state,” chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy said. He added, “There has been no evidence of any community transmission of the disease in the state so far. Since the travel history of the fifth Covid-19 positive patient was not known initially, we were fearing that the number of persons found positive owing to community transmission had increased. But we later concluded that the fear was unfounded.” After the Surya Nagar and Bomikhal cases, the state government was apprehending that these were instances of community transmission and had declared the two areas as containment zones. Consequently, the government had ordered a 48-hour shutdown of the entire city till 8pm on Sunday. The chief secretary said, “A family member of the 60-year-old patient of Surya Nagar had visited Kolkata and stayed there for four days. Later, she was also found positive with six others. Similarly, the three Covid-19 positive brothers of Bomikhal area might have contracted the infection from their father staying in Bhopal currently.” The motive behind the 48-hour shutdown was to investigate whether the outbreak of the virus in the city was owing to community transmission. “During investigation, it was found that there was no community transmission in the city as the two cases had links to other states. While the Surya Nagar case was linked to Kolkata, the Bomikhal case was linked to Bhopal. This was the major advantage the state government had during the shutdown,” Tripathy pointed out. He maintained that the government had authorised the district and municipal administrations to identify Covid-19 hots pots that will be declared as containment zones and restrictions will be imposed on the movement of public as per the WHO and ministry of health guidelines. The standard operating procedures have been prepared and sent to the district authorities to be followed strictly in the containment zones. “The government will identify the containment zones in the localities from where the positive cases were detected. These limited areas will be contained and restrictions will be imposed on the households in these areas. The door-to-door enquiry, surveillance and contact tracing will be conducted in these areas. All symptomatic people in the locality will be tested later. Random samples will also be collected,” Tripathy said. However, doctors in community medicine said there are some grey areas in declaring the stage of transmission. “There is no clear-cut guideline for a shift from stage-II to stage-III of the transmission of the disease. A number of precautions have to be taken before announcing community transmission. The shutdown approach taken up by the government is called cluster approach by WHO and may be helpful in containing the spread of the virus,” Dr E Venkata Rao of the community medicine department, IMS and SUM Hospital, Bhubaneswar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-proof-of-community-transmission-of-covid-19-in-odisha/articleshow/74998284.cms||Minati Singha
April 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP youth shares ‘derogatory’ WhatsApp message against PM & US Prez, booked for sedition||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Sunday slapped the IPC’s stringent sedition section on a youth after he allegedly shared a picture and an audio clip on WhatsApp containing “derogatory remarks” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump. Mohammad Farmaan was booked in Shahjahanpur’s Sindhauli area. Police have invoked section 66 of IT Act (pertains to punishment for sending offensive messages through a computer or any other communication device like a mobile phone), along with IPC sections of 124-A (sedition), 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a government servant) and provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He was arrested, produced before a court and sent to jail. Meanwhile, police in Bareilly and Lakhimpur districts have booked five more persons for sharing “misleading and derogatory” WhatsApp posts related to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. But, they were booked under milder sections of IPC, IT and Disaster Acts. “We are normally asking users to remove the misleading posts. But, if there is a written complaint, we have to take action as per law. Most of the messages suggest that they started from a same source, and it could be an attempt to disrupt peace. We are conducting meetings with religious leaders and requesting them to tell people to ignore such messages and cooperate with the government, “said a senior cop. SSP of Bareilly Shailesh Pandey, told TOI, “Action will be taken against people for sharing misleading and inflammatory messages on social media which may disrupt peace in the society.” While in Rampur, three persons have been booked and arrested for allegedly uploading objectionable posts on social networking sites on Sunday. Speaking with TOI, station house officer (SHO) of Tanda Kotwali, Durga Singh, said, “The three arrested men are residents of Tanda tehsil. They were identified as Khursheed, Anas and Mohammad Faheem . They had uploaded objectionable and threatening posts on WhatsApp group related to Tablighi Jamaat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-youth-shares-derogatory-whatsapp-message-against-pm-us-prez-booked-for-sedition/articleshow/74998278.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops place social distance onus on shopkeepers, will lodge case against defaulters||Bhubaneswar: The commissionerate police here have decided to register criminal cases against shopkeepers selling essential commodities if they are found to be flouting social distancing norms during the lockdown. Police said they would also ask the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) to cancel the trade licences of the defaulters. “We will act tough against vendors from Monday if they fail to adhere to the social distancing norms. It is the responsibility of the shopkeepers to ensure compliance with social distancing outside their shops. We will immediately seal the shops that violate the rules and ask the BMC to reject their trade licences,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said. ACP Anup Kumar Sahoo said the violators would be booked under sections 188 (disobedience of government order), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease and dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the IPC. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said people should take advantage of the home delivery and mobile vending facilities offered by different grocery and vegetable stores in the city. “We have been noticing that some people are not maintaining social distance during the lockdown. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, shopkeepers have to lead from the front and insist that their customers obey the norms. Every shop should have circles with minimum 2-metre gap for customers to stand in queue,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-place-social-distance-onus-on-shopkeepers-will-lodge-case-against-defaulters/articleshow/74998277.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 6, 2020||Surat||This Alauddin has a magic pot||SURAT: Chowk Bazar has its own version of Aladdin, who unlike his namesake in the West Asian folklore, has a cauldron of compassion, which he ensures never runs dry for the poor. Meet Allauddin Patel, a 46-year-old businessman who has taken it upon himself to keep his ‘chirag’ bright with service to humanity. Patel and close associates have been working tirelessly to ensure that not only beggars, jobless people including daily wage earner get two meals a day. "We prepare food for around 1,200 people in walled city area and afterwards we distribute the food in different localities in nearby areas. We did a survey in our area about the needy and ensured that they don't sleep hungry. We provide food at doorstep. We understand the dignity of the humans as people don’t want to avail free food, but are option-less now with no work to sustain themselves,” says Patel, who is in the construction business. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/this-alauddin-has-a-magic-pot/articleshow/74999653.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: MLA alleges police brutality, calls for action||PANAJI: Alleging police brutality, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte complained that the BJP was using Goa police personnel stationed at Porvorim police station to settle personal and political scores. He alleged that four youth were illegally arrested and assaulted by police at the behest of a local BJP party worker. Khaunte has complained to North Goa superintendent of police (SP) and has demanded strict action. Khaunte said that BJP ZP candidate for Penha de Franca Radhika Sawant’s husband Gopal Sawant filed a complaint at 7am alleging that four youth damaged their vehicle. According to Khaunte, the family of the youth has a long-running feud with the Sawant family. “I am not protecting anybody. During the lockdown and when police patrolling is on at night, how do you pick up the boys from their residences without any inquiry?”, he asked, referring to the cops as ‘goondas’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mla-alleges-police-brutality-calls-for-action/articleshow/75000710.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Goa||UK organises rescue flights to Goa, but steep fare shocks Britons||PANAJI: The UK government has organised three special flights to rescue its citizens stranded in Goa with the first scheduled for April 8, the British high commission announced on Sunday. Along with these flights, four others have been arranged by the British government from Delhi and Mumbai. While the flights did bring to an end the uncertainty about their return home, British citizens were unhappy with the steep fares. Many Britons had expected the fares to be capped at £500, but found themselves paying close to £700 for a seat. The steep fares did prompt some British nationals to consider staying on in India to wait till the lockdown is lifted. “My friend paid just under £2,000 for him, his wife and son and he said there was no option to pay later. I thought the government said the flights would be £250-500 and you would have the option the pay in 6 months. Anyway I’m not going as I don’t have the money. I will try and reschedule my Air India flight once they reopen,” Annie Stuart, who is stuck at Palolem, said. “Just had to pay £2,050 for flights from Goa for my wife, three-year-old daughter and myself. No option to pay when we get back, no £500 cap. Can’t afford the flights, but had space on a credit card for now. Lots of other people I know won’t be able to do that. Not the level of help was hoping for,” Birmingham resident Jit Coulter-Patel said. There were close to 1,500 British citizens stranded in Goa when the state was put under lockdown and all international flights cancelled. However, several of them managed to fly out on repatriation flights organised by European Union nations such as Germany, France, Italy and Poland. “These flights are for those who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependents. We at the high commission will handle the necessary permissions from the Government of India. Flights will run next week from Goa to London Stansted Airport on April 8, 10 and 12, from Mumbai to Heathrow Airport on April 9 and 11, and from Delhi to London Heathrow Airport on April 9 and 11,” acting British high commissioner Jan Thompson said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant also confirmed that UK had finalised relief flights to evacuate its citizens stranded in Goa. The high commission has already issued authorisation letters for UK citizens so that they are not blocked at check points when they make their way to the airport. The state executive committee has asked the nodal officer for foreigners Amit Satija to resolve any problems faced by foreigner regarding their evacuation and movement back by special flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uk-organises-rescue-flights-to-goa-but-steep-fare-shocks-britons/articleshow/75000711.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 6, 2020||Trichy||11 more +ve cases take count to 71 in central region||Trichy: On Sunday, 11 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the central region taking the tally to 71. Among them, six patients are from Nagapattinam, four from Thanjavur and one in Karur districts. According to the state Health and Family Welfare Department, all the 10 infected from Nagapattinam and Thanjavur have a travel history to Delhi. As part of decongesting the isolation wards at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital, 71 suspected cases were shifted to the Jamal Mohammed Arts and Science College in the city. All the 71 had returned from Delhi. “To decongest the isolation ward at the MGM, we have shifted 71 people who have tested negative to Jamal Mohammed college”, district collector S Sivarasu told TOI. According to hospital sources in Thanjavur, among the four patients, three are from Kumbakonam and one from Mela Thirupoonthuruthi. “The condition of all the 10 patients tested positive on Sunday was stable. Health officials have taken efforts to contain the area where all the 10 people are residing,” sources said. The patient reported from Karur is a native of Theni district who had visited his relative in Pallapatti near Aravakuruchi in Karur. He is being treated at the Karur Medical College Hospital, official sources said. Among central district, Pudukottai and Ariyalur have not registered any positive cases so far. However, 10 patients with common cold and fever were put in observation at the Government Medical College Hospital in the district. Of them 8 were discharged, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11-more-ve-cases-take-count-to-71-in-central-region/articleshow/75000192.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Rs 1K aid for workers from seven dists||Trichy: To facilitate distribution of Rs 1,000 from the Covid-19 relief fund to auto rickshaw drivers and construction labourers, the labour department has asked the beneficiaries to provide required information along with bank account details to the respective offices. The amount would be directly transferred into the account of the beneficiaries, hailing from Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai. “The money would be credited by the respective assistant commissioner of the department and they have commenced the process,” a statement from the regional joint commissioner of labour department said.  The beneficiaries should share their name, mobile number, photocopy of the first page of bank account passbook and association registration number to the WhatsApp numbers given below. Beneficiaries from Trichy should send their details on WhatsApp to 9445398756, Thanjavur - 9791601396, Tiruvarur - 97504 25344, Nagapattinam - 6369384512, Pudukottai- 9600266778, Ariyalur 95006-09574 and Perambalur 9443128070, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-1k-aid-for-workers-from-seven-dists/articleshow/75000197.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sambalpur starts doorstep delivery of vegetables||Sambalpur: The Odisha Rural Development and Marketing Society (ORMAS) and Odisha Livelihood Mission (OLM) jointly launched ‘Farm to Kitchen vegetable on wheel’ programme here on Sunday so that people get vegetables at their doorsteps during the lockdown period. The vegetables will be brought to people within three hours of being plucked from the farm. Nine SHGs have been roped in for proper implementation of the programme. Deputy chief executive officer of ORMAS Srimanta Hota said five SHGs from the rural areas and four SHGs from the city area have been roped in for the work. While SHGs from rural areas will procure the vegetables from the farms, the SHGs in urban areas have been entrusted with the task of supplying vegetables to the housing societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sambalpur-starts-doorstep-delivery-of-vegetables/articleshow/74998299.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Ray of hope: 6 beat Corona and back in comfort of home||Bhopal/Jabalpur: There is hope amid the despair over Coronavirus spread in the state as among the sudden spike in number of positive cases on Sunday, six patients— three in Jabalpur and one in Gwalior and two in Indore— recovered fully and were discharged on Sunday.The first COVID19 positive cases were reported from Jabalpur in the state on March 20, when four patients were tested positive. These four included a jeweller from the city, his wife and daughter, all three had returned from Dubai and a student who studied in Germany and had returned recently. Of the four, the second test reports of the three – jeweller, his wife and the student who had returned from Germany— tested negative and they were discharged on Friday.Dr Deepak Barkede, nodal officer for COVID19 in Netaji Subhash Medical College, Jabalpur said, “The second tests of three patients were negative and all the three were discharged. The report of the one patient is still positive, her samples would again be sent for tests. Besides, the hospital isolation of two more patients is over, their samples would also be sent for tests on Monday. If found negative, the samples would again be sent for second test and depending on the report they too would be discharged from the hospital.”Sources said apart from these there are two other patients and their condition is also stable and they are recovering fast.District collector Jabalpur, Bharat Yadav said, “The patients who were discharged on Sunday have been put under home quarantine for another 14 days.”Similarly, a 36-year old youth who tested positive for COVID19 in Gwalior was also discharged from hospital after his second report was negative. He had a travel history to Khajurhao and had returned to Gwalior on March 13. On March 20, he was put in hospital isolation and on March 24, he was tested positive, however people who were in primary contact of this patient did not test positive, said sources.Late evening a health sposkesperson said two people were discharged from Indore after they showed signs of complete recovery and tested negetive in two samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ray-of-hope-6-beat-corona-and-back-in-comfort-of-home/articleshow/75000204.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||Dearth of workers likely to continue in Kerala post lockdown||KOCHI: The construction sector in the city is not hopeful about picking up momentum even if the lockdown gets lifted by mid-April. Construction activities in the city are largely dependent on the guest labour force and since the lockdow,n most labourers are either confined to their camps or continue to remain blocked at the borders of various states. Officials with Kochi Metro said it would take considerable time for the stalled works to resume. “Once the lockdown gets lifted their priority will be to head to their native lands rather than getting back to work sites. At some sites of Kochi Metro, it will able to complete works with a skeletal labour force. Resumption of such works will largely depend on the availability of local labour force,” said a Kochi Metro official. He also said mobilization of labour force will be the responsibility of the contractors entrusted with the works. A study released by Anarock Property Consultants on the impact on Covid-19 on real estate sector across the county points out since most workers are immigrants, labour shortage could emerge as a major challenge for the sector post lockdown. Several workers who were forcefully trying to migrate to their hometown were stopped by the authorities and quarantined at the state borders. While a few are likely to return to their villages, others may come back to the project sites sooner. As a result, construction activities are set to be delayed with many developers and contractors facing labour shortage and a more pronounced liquidity crisis. The study stated that while many developers were overleveraged, the outbreak has made the situation grim in sustaining employment levels. It is anticipated that in the short-to-medium term, employment levels are likely to be affected significantly. Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, says the nationwide lockdown has completely halted construction activity and project delays could run into several months for well-funded projects, and a couple of years for others. “Nearly 4.66 lakh units across the top seven cities (in the country) earlier slated for completion in 2020 now face a high risk of delays,” he said. Many agencies supplying labour force to the various construction sites in the city said guest workers who continue to live in the camps and at other places in the city were unable to leave for their native places in North and North-Eastern regions of India as transportation systems have been halted. “There will be an exodus when the lockdown is lifted,” said Armjith Khan, a supplier of labour force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dearth-of-workers-likely-to-continue-post-lockdown/articleshow/74998305.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Japan-returnee urges villagers to follow lockdown||KOLKATA: The Diamond Harbour sub-divisional administration in South 24 Parganas district has roped in Swarup Chapadar, who was among 138 Indians stranded in Oklahoma, Japan on board cruise liner Diamond Princess after several crew members had tested positive for Covid-19, to spread awareness in villages about the importance to remain indoors during the lockdown. Chapadar was among 119 Indians - 113 crew members and six passengers - who had reached New Delhi from Tokyo by an Air India flight on March 13. All of them were taken to the Indian Army's camp in Gurgaon. They underwent regular check-ups and tests for Covid-19. Chapadar, however,had tested negative for the virus. But he remained quarantined at the camp with other Indians on board the cruise liner. After the mandatory two-week quarantine, Chapadar reached home on March 27. Now, he responded to the Diamond Harbour sub-divisional administration’s plea to campaign in villages to spread awareness on abiding by the lockdown to keep the Covid-19 threat at bay. He is going around the villages with a microphone, asking people to wear masks and gloves whenever they need to step out of home to buy essentials. Besides, he is also telling everyone why they should remain indoors. Diamond Harbour SDO, Sukanto Saha, said, “Apartment from this awareness campaign, he will also conduct another campaign for those who have returned from other states and advised to remain in isolation at home.” Chapadar said, “This is my social responsibility. I have to explain to people how important it is to remain indoors for protection from this virus.” The luxury cruise ship docked off at Yokohama in Japan had 138 Indians on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/japan-returnee-urges-villagers-to-follow-lockdown/articleshow/75000196.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
April 6, 2020||Goa||After TOI spotlight, Goa government rushes to aid of senior citizen||PANAJI: Hours after TOI front-paged a report on how the state government abandoned many of its elderly citizens, the administration responded to a case highlighted by the article. Julia, a 75-year-old who had to depend on the goodness of neighbours and friends to get through the initial days of the lockdown, on Sunday received a package of assorted essential commodities. TOI’s article, headlined ‘For seniors, angels walked in where government failed to tread’, prompted the South Goa collector’s office to tweet thus: “The inconvenience caused is highly regretted and the same is noted by the district administration. Taluka mamlatdar in-charge has been directed to look into the matter. May please contact 9921670761. Also, (if) Julia or her neighbour’s contact may be shared for necessary assistance.” Soon, Julia, who lives with her disabled daughter, opened their front door to find 10 packets of noodles, 8kg of rice and 7 packets of toor dal. “I only had rice left for two more days. I’m grateful for this,” Julia told TOI on Sunday. Unable to walk out of her house, Julia has been depending on her neighbours and good samaritans.  Despite never missing an election, not even a municipal one, and hiring a rickshaw at her own expense to take her daughter to the polling booth to vote at each election, no government representative had ever offered her any assistance or even made a courtesy call to find out how she was surviving. That changed on Sunday. “I received such wonderful things. I’m thankful that God helped me through these people. At least I have something in my house now. I don’t have to worry,” she told TOI. TOI had reported how the mother-daughter duo who lived on their own and couldn’t get out of their houses were struggling with food and medicines especially after not receiving the Rs 2,000 under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme for February, which was supposed to be credited to her bank account in March. She relies on this money for groceries and medication for her and her daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-toi-spotlight-govt-rushes-to-aid-of-senior-citizen/articleshow/75000712.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Collateral damage: With kin far away, funerals in Kendrapada go online||KENDRAPADA: Rabindra Rout (57), an engineer with a private company in Bengaluru, had to live-stream his 84-year-old mother’s funeral, held in his native village of Indupur in Kendrapada district on Saturday. With the country, indeed the world, having come to a standstill thanks to Covid-19, Rout could not make the journey to Kendrapada at this critical time and had little choice but to watch his mother’s rituals online. “I got permission from the authorities to travel by a car from Bengaluru to my village but most of my relatives advised me to stay put,” Rout told TOI over the phone. The same was the case with the two sons of 62-year-old Alekha Chandra Swain of Gupti village under Rajnagar block, who died of a heart attack on Friday night. Both of Swain’s sons work in a plywood factory in Ernakulam district of Kerala and have been unable to visit their native village to light the funeral pyre. On Saturday, they witnessed the funeral on a video call. Similarly, when Sanatan Patra (80) of Lalitagiri village died of advanced age on Friday, his only son, Ashok, who works in a private company in Kolkata, failed to attend the last rites. This it to Patra’s 20-year-old grandson Priyabrata to light the pyre, while Ashok watched it on his mobile phone. Coronavirus has left families devastated even in places where it has not directly infected anyone. “The virus has wreaked havoc on us. Both my sons could not attend the funeral of their mother,” grieved Mahendra Basanti, husband of Pramila (49), an Asha worker of Balijhari village under Pattamundai block who died of a heart attack on Friday. Her sons, Diptiranjan and Radhakanta, are both stuck in Mumbai where they work in a factory. They, too, saw the proceedings on a video call. But some like Tapan Pradhan managed to bid their loved ones goodbye in person. Tapan’s mother Sujata Pradhan (64) of Badamarichipali village died on Thursday. He reached his village from New Delhi in a car to attend the funeral on Friday night. “I hired a taxi to attend the funeral of my mother after obtaining permission from the authorities in New Delhi. My family delayed the funeral for a day for me,” said Tapan, who works as plumber in the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/collateral-damage-with-kin-far-away-funerals-in-kendrapada-go-online/articleshow/74998310.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Fifth patient discharged||VADODARA: A 32-year-old male was discharged from the government hospital on Sunday after retest of his samples tested negative. The Nizampura resident is son of the 52-year-old male who passed away on Thursday becoming the first COVID-19 victim of Vadodara. Earlier, this week, other members of the family including the deceased’s wife, daughter and daughter-in-law were discharged from the hospital. Five members of the same family were being treated at the isolation ward of SSG Hospital. While the deceased and his wife had travelled to Sri Lanka, other members of the family had got infected through local transmission. SSG Hospital now has only a 62-year-old woman from Tandalja Road, whose condition is critical and she is on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fifth-patient-discharged/articleshow/74999277.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Cordite factory to soon make hand sanitizer for Ooty||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Cordite factory in Aruvankadu in the Nilgiris has stepped up manufacturing of hand sanitizers to address its huge demand in the country in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. It had on Saturday evening delivered a batch of 3,564 litres hand sanitizer to Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL) in Trivandrum. This was in addition to the first batch of 1,500 litres that was dispatched to HLL on March 31. T L V S Sankar, public relation officer, Cordite factory, said, “We started hand sanitizer production on March 27. We stick to WHO-recommended handrub formulation.” HLL, which has been nominated as the nodal agency for hand sanitizer supply throughout the country, had placed an order with the Ordnance Factories Board for 13,000 litres. “While we will take care of 8,000 litres, other ordnance factories in the country will produce the remaining quantity,” Sankar said. He said hand sanitizers that contain ethanol could only be processed in a cool environment with proper ventilation and safety measures. “Once our commitment of 8,000 litres hand sanitizer to HLL is over, we will cater to the requirements of the defence establishment, health and police departments in the Nilgiris,” Sankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cordite-factory-to-soon-make-hand-sanitizer-for-ooty/articleshow/75000205.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||State lights candles, power usage dips||Kochi: Kerala responded positively to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to light candles in a gesture of unity on Sunday. With the state switching off lights for 9 minutes, the Kerala State Electricity Board recorded a dip of 400MW in power consumption between 9pm and 9.12pm. The normal power consumption in state at 9 pm on Sundays has been 3,400MW. Due to rains that lashed many parts of the state, the consumption had decreased to around 2,600 MW before 8.45pm, KSEB sources said. “People started switching off the lights from 8.55pm and most of them switched the lights back on by 9.12pm. The total consumption went down to 2,200 MW,” sources said. “Our officials coordinated via videoconferencing. Once the consumption decreased to around 400MW, we reduced the total generation at Idukki to 80 MW and that of Sabarigiri to 150 MW,” sources added.  At Idukki, three turbines generate 130 MW of power each, but the normal production there is around 360MW. The cumulative production at Sabarigiri is 340MW.  KSEB had prepared plans for reducing the generation at Idukki and Sabarigiri depending on the situation. The utility had prepared multiple plans in case the domestic consumption dipped to various levels such as 50%, 70% and so on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-lights-candles-power-usage-dips/articleshow/74998337.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||There’s no community spread in MP so far, assures AIIMS Bhopal director||BHOPAL: Situation in Madhya Pradesh was under control and there was no community transmission, informed AIIMS Bhopal director Sarman Singh to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Sunday. The AIIMS head met the chief minister amidst speculatuions over community transmission of the diseases as the number of Covid-19 positive cases had risen to 185. Chouhan also discussed medical preparations and ways to check the spread of COVID-19 with AIIMS head of Medicine department, Rajneesh Joshi and COVID-19 state technical adviser, Lokendra Dave. "Condition of COVID-19 patients in MP is good and they are recovering fast. As of now, there is no situation of community transmission in the state," AIIMS Bhopal director, Sarman Singh is learnt to have told chief minister Chouhan during discussions on COVID-19 situation in the state. "I am satisfied that situation in Bhopal is under control and corona positive patients are speedily recovering. We will fight the battle and emerge victorious to place an example before the entire world," said Chouhan. AIIMS director Singh further informed that for coronavirus treatment hospitals of the capital like Chirayu, Hamidia, JK Hospital, AIIMS and JP hospitals were being pooled region-wise, so that patients of one region get the medical facility close their home. Arrangements were also being made to provide ICU facility to the patients in the same hospital they were undergoing treatment for the disease, he said. Expressing satisfaction, the chief minister directed the medical teams to keep track of all the samples of Corona being collected across the state. He said that special care should be taken of all the patients including the two patients admitted to AIIMS, including a policeman. "We need to ensure speedy recovery of the patients. Also, we need to take care of corona warriors, who are engaged in the service of saving lives of several people day and night. We have to defeat corona at all costs," said Chouhan. The chief minister also instructed that persons kept in quarantine should be taken well care of. Head of Medicine department Joshi told that paracetamol, citrizine, vitamin C, hydroxy chloroquine are some of the medicines that could be given on the advice of a registered physician, if there is mild fever or the initial symptoms to a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/theres-no-community-spread-in-mp-so-far-assures-aiims-director/articleshow/75000217.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Kalaburagi’ Covid-19 case may be Karnataka’s first known asymptomatic transmission||KALABURAGI: Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendee’s 60-year-old spouse contacting Covid-19 despite her husband’s test results showing no signs of infection could be Karnataka’ first case of asymptomatic transmission. The woman’s throat swab and blood samples confirmed presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus on Thursday. Her husband had been to Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi along with 25 others. Epidemiologists suggest that this a classic case of asymptomatic transmission of the virus as defined by the World Health Organisation. Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, PHFI, said, “WHO recently pointed that there is every possibility of a person showing no symptoms capable of transmitting the virus to another.” He said the same might have happened in Kalaburagi case. The man may have been infected but asymptomatic. “If the viral load is very low, its presence will not be shown in the test,” he opined. However, Dr Prakash Kumar BG, joint director, communicable diseases, health and family welfare, said his department has not come up with any conclusion on this case as yet. Dr Ramesh, another epidemiologist said the person who returned from Nizamuddin was asymptomatic but has transmitted virus. On asking why was he tested negative, the doctor said his viral load may be less or the test may not be accurate. Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, a medical practitioner said this case can be singled out for further study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kalaburagi-covid-case-may-be-states-first-known-asymptomatic-transmission/articleshow/74998327.cms||Shreyas HS
April 6, 2020||Surat||IMA calls upon doctors to come forward to fight Covid-19||SURAT: The Indian Medical Association (IMA)'s Surat branch has called upon medical practitioners to come forward to fight against COVID-19. The association has also advised private nursing homes to continue their services with half the staff and call their employees by rotation. "We have issued a guideline to 3,400 IMA members in Surat and ask them to come forward to help government hospitals whenever needed. Over 50 doctors readily agreed to provide their services to government,'' Dr. Parul Vadgama, president, IMA'S Surat chapter, told TOI. IMA has also asked its doctors to have dialogue with patients. "This is our responsibility and according to hippocratic oath we can not run away from our responsibilities knowingly or unknowingly. We will make special request to police commissioner and collector to allow our staff, chemists, paramedics and doctors to go if they have a letterhead certifying that they are working at our hospitals or have ID Cards. Unnecessarily they won’t not be harassed,'' said an IMA office bearer. IMA has prepared a list of doctors who will be working in civil hospital on rotation basis for few hours at corona ward when the civil staff will be completely utilized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ima-calls-upon-doctors-to-come-forward-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/74999668.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Need clarity on Canada govt plans about int’l students||Just a 10-minute walk from my residence in Edmonton lies Whyte Avenue, a popular shopping and entertainment street. It is usually bustling with activity on weekends with pavements busy and a colourful mix of restaurants, bars, cafes and shops. However, today it sits empty with an eerie silence owing to the impact of a global Covid-19 pandemic. Canada confirmed its first case of Covid-19 on January 25. In just two months, the number of positive cases has grown to more than 5,600 with 59 deaths till March 28. The country has adopted a slew of measures to delay the spread of the virus.  For many international students, reduced flights and closed borders have dashed hopes of returning to their home country. Most of us are now confined to our rooms doing online classes or texting back home to our parents and friends. Cancellation of in-person classes at universities here, limited contact with local friends and thought of uncertainties about employment opportunities in the months to come are leading to stress and anxiety. However, there are also positives to observe in the predicament. The Canadian healthcare infrastructure is highly lauded as per global standards and healthcare officials have been aggressively attempting to ensure that the system does not get overwhelmed to tackle the situation. While there are some exceptions, by and large there is high public awareness about the importance of social distancing and good civic sense amongst the people. On a personal level, I have been concerned that efforts by the government to ease the financial and day-to-day stress of living through a global pandemic would exclude international students who do not fall under the protective category of being a Canadian citizen or permanent resident. However, while there needs to be more clarity on where international students feature in various government plans and funds, the commitment from various leaders to not leave anybody behind has given us hope. (The writer is a post graduate student with the political science department at University of Alberta, Canada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/need-clarity-on-canada-govt-plans-about-intl-students/articleshow/75000212.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||10 +ve cases in Marathwada linked to Tablighi event||Aurangabad: Eight confirmed Covid-19 patients from the Latur district as well as one case each from Osmanabad and Hingoli districts in Marathwada are linked to the Tablighi Jammat meet at New Delhi’s Nizamuddin West, an official release said on Sunday.As per the release issued by the Aurangabad divisional commissionerate, 170 individuals from eight districts of Marathwada who attended the meet have been identified for necessary health monitoring. Also, the Marathwada region is currently housing 77 persons who had participated in Tablighi Jamaat meet — 20 of them are from other districts in Maharashtra and 57 are from other states. Ten from Marathwada, who are believed to have a connection with the Tablighi meet, are yet to be traced, the release said.Aurangabad deputy divisional commissioner Varsha Thakur on Sunday said that 170 persons who took part in the meet have been identified based on inputs from the Centre. “Of the 170 persons, throat swab samples of 90 have been taken and 10 have been identified as confirmed Covid-19 patients. Moreover, 34 people tested negative while reports of 46 individuals are awaited. Other persons are either under institutional or home quarantine depending on their symptoms,” she said.The individuals from Tablighi Jamaat who are from other districts or states are being monitored and their details have been shared with respective district administrations or state governments, the officials said.As per the official data, Aurangabad district has 90 residents who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet, followed by Parbhani (16), Nanded (15), Latur and Osmanabad (both 14), Beed (13), Jalna (6) and Hingoli (2).A total of 31 participants of Tablighi Jammat meet from Marathwada have been kept in isolation wards, while another 111 are in institutional quarantine at different places, and 28 have been asked to remain under home quarantine, official records show.A total of 57 individuals from Tablighi Jamaat, who are housed in Marathwada currently, are from different states of India such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Telangana, Jharkhand and Haryana along with Delhi, officials said.Talking about the 10 persons from Marathwada, who are believed to have a connection with the Tablighi meet but are yet to be traced, authorities said a search of their whereabouts is on. “We appeal to the public at large to not panic or spread rumours about Covid-19 and Tablighi Jamaat individuals. It is time that we all, as a community, wage a battle against the pandemic,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/10-ve-cases-in-marathwada-linked-to-tablighi-event/articleshow/74998347.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 6, 2020||Goa||Jetties shut, but no shortage of fish in Goa illegal markets||MARGAO: Notwithstanding the closure of fish markets and the shutting down of all fishing jetties, fish is definitely not in short supply in the state. Sensing the demand for fish, fly-by-night fish vendors have illegally converted open spaces into fish markets in Margao and many towns of South Goa. As people rush to buy fish which is sold at a premium, social distancing is not observed. The refuse lying at the makeshift fish markets attracts flies and strays thereby posing a health hazard. “This is of course disastrous for public health, besides being a possible source of spread of coronavirus. The unregulated sale of fish at unauthorised places should be immediately banned as the source of fish is suspect. Have we forgotten about the formalin scare already?” Dr Venkatesh Hegde, city-based medical practitioner said. Director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro said that no permission has been granted for retail sale of anywhere. “If anybody is selling fish illegally, the police should take action,” she told TOI. Some citizens have questioned the source of the fish supply when the jetties are closed and trawlers can’t unload fish at the jetties. “Most of the vessels have unloaded during the lockdown period and have stored their catch in the cold storage/processing plants in the state. Therefore, society may contact the processing units in the state and work out (a mechanism) for sale of fish in various panchayats and municipal areas through insulated trucks or mobile vans,” fisheries secretary P S Reddy stated in a letter to the trawler owners association and fishermen’s societies. Sale of fish through home delivery has also been offered as an option . Cutbona Boat Owners Union president Savio D’Silva alleged that fish is furtively unloaded from trawlers at private jetties during the night with the police turning a blind eye. “While traditional fishermen are asked to contact processing units for sale of fish in panchayats, politicians have already booked supplies from these few processing units thereby giving these units an unfair advantage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jetties-shut-but-no-shortage-of-fish-in-illegal-markets/articleshow/75000713.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||US poet Antony Duddy cremated in Kochi as per his wish||KOCHI: Thomas Antony Duddy, a US national and poet, who had been living in Kochi for the past one-and-a-half decades, died in a private hospital here due to old age aliments on Tuesday. On Friday, body of Duddy (88) was cremated at the crematorium at Pachalam as he had wished, and Manzoor, his friend and caretaker for the past few years, will immerse the ashes in the Arabian Sea at Fort Kochi. A retired English professor of Brooklyn College, New York, Duddy had published many poems and reviews of modern American poems. According to Manzoor, Duddy was working on a poem based on Chinese fishing net when he died. “After superannuation from Brooklyn College, he started globe-trotting, He had told me that he visited 32 countries in Europe. He had gone to Kolkata, Delhi, Goa, etc. before settling in Kochi. It has been almost 15 years since he settled in Kochi,” said Manzoor. “He had told me that he byhearted around 52 works of litterateurs, including Shakespeare. Literature and music were his hobbies. He was not married and Rick, his friend back home, was his closet person,” Manzoor said. “He had told me that he should be cremated. He had conveyed the wish to his friend Rick as well,” Manzoor said. “Duddy had been working on his masterpiece, ‘Wedding Song’ — a poem he started to write after getting inspired from his parents’ wedding photo. But he couldn’t complete the work,” said one of his friends. Besides Manzoor and another friend Aneesh, E G Tomy, owner of the house where Duddy had been staying for the past four years, also took care of him at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/us-poet-antony-duddy-cremated-as-per-his-wish/articleshow/74998336.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK man held for disrupting flu screening||Coimbatore: A DMK functionary was arrested for not allowing a team of anganwadi staff and village health nurses to screen people for cold and flu cases at Saramedu here on Sunday. The Podanur police identified the accused as A Ismail, 52, of Saramedu. He is the deputy organizer of the DMK trade union. Pointing out that public health department has been screening people for cold and flu in areas from where many have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, a police officer said the team was deployed to cover Karumbukadai area. “They started door-to-door survey to identify the people with flu symptoms and quarantine them. When they went the DMK functionary’s house at Saramedu, he refused to cooperate with them and abused them. He also dissuaded his neighbours from participating in the survey,” the officer said. R Jayanthi, 40 of Saramedu, who was part of the team, lodged a complaint with the Podanur police, who booked Ismail under Sections 269, 294 (b), 341, 353, 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and arrested him. He was later lodged at Avinashi sub jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-man-held-for-disrupting-flu-screening/articleshow/75000215.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||People living near thermal power plants will be hit harder by Covid-19: study||Nagpur: People residing near coal-fired power plants are more prone to respiratory illnesses and diseases like coronavirus than others, reveals latest scientific study done by Chhattisgarh State Health Resource Centre (SHRC). The cross-sectional study establishes that people living near thermal power plants have greater exposure to particulate matter. It compares samples from exposed population living within a 10 km radius of the power plants in Korba, which has the world’s second largest open cast mines and 10 power plants in its vicinity producing 6000MW of electricity. The second group of samples is taken from Katghora, a village 20 kms from Korba. The findings show significantly elevated prevalence of respiratory diseases like asthma and bronchitis, which were 11.79% and 2.96% among the exposed group respectively. Both diseases were at 5.46% and 0.99% in the unexposed group, thereby establishing the higher disease burden in communities residing around the thermal power plants. The air sampling was carried out in nine locations in Korba. The results indicated that five of them had PM2.5 levels above the permissible limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) as prescribed by the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Levels of manganese exceeded in six out of seven samples by 2.2 to 6.03 times the safe limit while the levels of lead in one location (Kharmora) was found to be 1.02 times above the safe levels. Apart from this, the levels of arsenic in two samples (Dari Nagoikhar and Kharmora) exceed the government standards by 1.01 and 1.51 times respectively and levels of nickel in five samples were 2.05 to 3.0 times above the permissible limit. Based on the findings, experts have warned that Covid-19 is likely to hit harder in air pollution impacted communities. “It is because exposure to air pollution in long-term reduces the capacity of organs to function fully and makes it more vulnerable to infections and diseases. In the context of the current pandemic, such individuals are likely to face higher complications, including serious ones," said Dr Yogesh Jain from Jan Swasthya Sahyog, Bilaspur. Stating that the findings corroborate serious impacts on public health due to pollution from thermal power plants, Korba-based environmental activist Laxmi Chauhan said, “We have been complaining about health problems, severe air pollution, contamination of groundwater and soil in the region for several years now. We welcome the findings of the report and now urge the state administration to ensure these recommendations are implemented in a time-bound manner.” In its report, SHRC Chhattisgarh has recommended setting up a specialized healthcare infrastructure operated by the state health departments at polluters’ cost, under the ‘polluter pays’ principle. It further suggests the state government to conduct a cumulative health impact study of various industries on the health of residents in the area to formulate a mitigation plan. Dr Prabir Chatterjee, executive director of SHRC, said, “This study is important as it documents the health burden of the population due to the operations of the power plants. Studies like this help us identify clusters of vulnerable populations and design services that are most needed for them. Not just during normal circumstances but also during pandemics like Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/people-living-near-thermal-power-plants-will-be-hit-harder-by-covid-19-study/articleshow/75000232.cms||Manka Behl
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati: TTD sanctions Rs 19 crore for Covid-19 relief||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has allocated Rs 19 crore to its super-specialty hospital, Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences, for purchasing ventilators and other medical equipment in the fight against Covid-19. TTD executive officer (EO) Anil Kumar Singhal said, “We have already disbursed Rs 8 crore towards the purchase of medical equipment and the remaining funds will also be disbursed next week.” The VDRL unit at the TTD-run SVIMS hospital has been carrying out Covid-19 tests on samples sent from across the state. The TTD has also marked out the Sri Padmavathi Nilayam at Tiruchanoor for conversion into a quarantine facility. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-sanctions-rs-19cr-for-covid-19-relief/articleshow/74999678.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH resident docs strike to protest against lack of PPE||Aurangabad: Members of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) working at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) went on a strike for a couple of hours on Sunday to protest against the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and masks at the state-run tertiary care hospital. Being the only state-run tertiary care facility in Aurangabad, the GMCH has prepared a 80-bed Covid-19 management facility. The resident doctors working at the hospital are required to collect throat swab samples of the suspected patients, work in the isolation ward amid suspected patients and also cater to those who test positive to the contagion. According to representatives of the association, the hospital has failed to arrange for adequate N-95 masks and PPE kits thereby violating the Covid-19 protocol laid out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The GMCH has deputed doctors and medical staff at the isolation ward and Covid-19 ward on a seven-day rotational basis. Three to four resident doctors have been assigned duties at the cardiovascular thoracic surgery (CVTS) building dedicated for isolation and management of Covid-19 patients. Atleast two nurses and two Class IV staff are also working at the facility in three shifts. Apart from this, two doctors and a social workers have been deputed at the Covid-19 helpdesk in the ground floor of the CVTS building. President of Mard at GMCH, Amir Khan said that the hospital did not provide N-95 masks even to the health workers working in the isolation ward and quarantine ward. The doctors and medical staff working at the wards had asked for the masks two to three days ago but what they were provided with was not sufficient enough. “N-95 masks can be worn for only eight hours. The hospital administration provided five masks per day for nine resident doctors. When N-95 masks are not available, we use the triple-layer masks which is not recommended by the ICMR,” said Khan. The resident doctors claimed that the administration has told them that PPE kits would be provided only when a doctor or a medical staff was attending to a positive patient. “This way, they are waiting for a doctor to get infected. When two positive cases were reported on Saturday night, we decided to halt work for two to three hours on Sunday and discuss what should be done about the lack of protective gears,” said Khan. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar came out with a release on Sunday evening stating that the resident doctors have been assured that they would be provided with adequate PPE kits and N-95 masks. “When the doctors need PPE kits and N-95 masks, they can ask for it from the sister in charge or the on-duty nurse,” said Yelikar. The resident doctors resumed duties soon after the meeting with the hospital administration and stated that they would wait till Monday to see if the assurance is fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-resident-docs-strike-to-protest-against-lack-of-ppe/articleshow/74998358.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid testing soon at Manjeri MCH||Malappuram: A Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) test laboratory to conduct Coronavirus tests will start functioning in the government medical college at Manjeri this week. Currently the swab samples of suspected Coronavirus cases from Malappuram district are tested at the National Institute of Virology lab in Alappuzha and it causes delay in receiving tests results of the persons from the district. Dr M P Shashi, principal of the medical college said that the laboratory would start functioning this week, immediately after receiving permission from the part of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On Saturday, higher education minister K T Jaleel, who attended a Covid-19 review meeting at Malappuram had said that the lab would be functional by April 8. Principal said that two RTPCR machines would be arranged in the laboratory and the installation works of the machines are in the final stage. “With the opening of the laboratory the we can avoid the delay in the receiving the results of swab samples,” he said adding that the opening of the lab in Manjeri would also resolve the issues related to the transportation of samples for testing. Meanwhile, 48 more persons from the district tested negative for the Coronavirus infection on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-testing-soon-at-manjeri-mch/articleshow/74998363.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||NCC cadets return from overseas deployment||KOCHI: INS Tir, a cadet training ship of the Indian Navy under the Southern Naval Command with 14 Naval Wing NCC cadets from different parts of the country on board, returned to Kochi on completion of Overseas Deployment of its ‘First Training Squadron’ (1TS) on Saturday. The overseas deployment of all 1TS ships was curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ships returned to harbour on Saturday after completing a 14-day quarantine period at sea. Due to the impracticality of social distancing onboard, the whole ship with its personnel was treated as a cohort and quarantined as a whole. The crew and NCC cadets are presently undergoing additional 14-day quarantine day period in harbour as a precautionary measure. The NCC cadets who had embarked INS Tir on February 29 were given maximum exposure on various facets of life at sea through a structured training programme, with special emphasis on the role of the Indian Navy. During the ship’s community outreach programme at an old-age home in Port Louis, Mauritius, the NCC cadets had won the admiration of the inmates by their sprightly enthusiasm and caring touch. The interactions at port though were restricted due to the developing Covid-19 situation. The cadets also held regular interaction with the foreign sea-riders and trainees from Maldives, Seychelles, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Myanmar who were also embarked onboard the ship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ncc-cadets-return-from-overseas-deployment/articleshow/74998360.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Protocol lapses haunt containment areas||BHOPAL: Every time an area is declared a “containment area” by the district collector on detection of a coronavirus-positive person, he also declares the protocol applicable in the area after it is put in isolation from the rest of the city. “The place is declared “containment area” to ensure that the infection does not spread among people living in the vicinity of “epicenter” (the place, where coronavirus patient lives). The area is sanitized and people living in the area are asked to take precautions like wearing mask or hand washing, they are screened for Covid-19. If anyone is found with symptoms of coronavirus, he/she is tested for it. Barricading or “coercive” action to stop people from going out or coming into the “containment area” is done to keep the place isolated. If people isolate themselves voluntarily, it won’t be required at all,” said a retired government doctor, on the condition of anonymity. However, talking to people in 10 areas which have been declared “containment area” so far, it appears that the police and administration “barricaded” the area, but other vital functions prescribed in the protocol for the area and its residents were not attended to properly. “I feel the place was declared “containment area” for the sake of it. The most important thing to me in this situation was the presence of health workers, who screen the people who go out or come into the restricted area, but it didn’t happen. I never found a health worker at the entry or the exit point. Police were also “liberal” in allowing people to go out, people were not coming in because of fear in any case. Besides, the area was not fumigated regularly as the protocol recommends. Some portion of the “containment area” near the “epicenter” was sanitized on March 22, soon after the first coronavirus-positive patient was detected in our colony in Bhopal. Later on, I had to make calls to get the area around my house fumigated,” said a person, who lives 150-200 metres away from the “epicenter”. The claim that all essential goods would be provided at home was also belied by the administration and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). “We are not getting milk even now 15 days after Professors’ Colony was declared a “containment area”, he said. Prof Zamiruddin, who also lives in the same colony, said that more than fumigation, announcements on coronavirus are heard in the colony. No health worker or doctor came to his house for scanning or survey, the retired professor of English literature said. As far as the supply of essential commodities is concerned, the prof said: “Milk is not being sold. Probably, people themselves are not buying it, but vegetable vendors come into the colony in plenty”. Jauhar Chauhan, a resident of Semra, which was the second “containment area”, said, “Health scanning of people in the area took place or not, I am not sure, but sanitization was carried out once after the coronavirus patient was found in Durga Nagar”. In Fortune Pride Colony, which was declared a “containment area” after an IAS officer tested positive, both the entry and exit gates were locked to stop people from going out or coming in, but there is no one to fetch the residents essential goods like vegetables and medicines. “We didn’t get even milk. Some of us also needed vegetables, but there is no one to help us out. And, they are not allowing anyone from outside to come in or us to go out. Scanning of residents has also not taken place,” said a resident over the phone. Spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, however, said that if anything provided in the protocol for the “containment area” is not done, a complaint can be lodged at helpline no. 104 or 181. An official, who was part of a rapid action team formed for one of the “containment areas” said on the condition of anonymity, “The problem is lack of coordination among people engaged to care of different tasks. Health officials, police, administration, BMC, they are all working ‘independent’ of each other and not in tandem with each other, therefore the mismanagement and confusion”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/protocol-lapses-haunt-containment-areas/articleshow/75000228.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Worried kin urged me to come back from Italy||Nobody saw it coming. As we said goodbye before leaving work on February 21, we were aware of only three positive Covid–19 cases in a town that was 20km away from where we lived. Overnight, several municipalities in the Lombardy region, which included the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, were placed under a temporary lockdown. The next morning when I went to the supermarket, all the hand sanitizers and protective masks were already sold out. Immediately, I checked at least four other pharmacies, but sanitizers were not available there either. Over the next weekend, the number of positive cases exceeded 100. We received an email from the university, informing us that the it would remain closed for the next three days. By February 26, the numberof positive cases exceeded 450. At that point, the university decided to switch all teaching activities online and only administrative workers were asked to report on campus. We started working from home and maintained communication through Skype meetings. The cafés remained closed between 6pm and 6am, and non-essential shops were closed on weekends. We were still free to walk around the town. Restaurants were still full of customers and people went ahead with business as if nothing happened. In the second week, we were notified that a professor of our department had tested positive for Covid-19 and we were asked to monitor our health for the next 14 days. My family in India became extremely worried and constantly urged me to come back home. There were stories about Indian students in Italy not receiving salaries on local newspapers in India. Fortunately, the situation was very different in Piacenza. My salary was deposited on time while my local supermarket was still fully stocked. Our region was placed under lockdown on March 8, followed by a country-wide lockdown on March 9 until April 3. The government finally imposed stricter regulations on movements. Now we can only go out to buy groceries or medical supplies . (Chakrabarti, a post-doctoral research fellow at Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Piacenza, Italy, spoke to Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/worried-kin-urged-me-to-come-back-from-italy/articleshow/75000225.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kochi||Devotees observe Palm Sunday from their homes due to lockdown||KOCHI: Churches in Kochi on Sunday remained shut on Palm Sunday even as vicars and bishops conducted the rituals relating to the first day of the Holy Week without public participation. As decided, there was no procession by churchgoers either as Church heads have given directions to not to violate lockdown. Ceremonies were live streamed through the internet for devotees to observe and attend from home. Also, many parishes collaborated with channels of local cable networks for the devotees to attend from home. Cardinal George Alencherry of the Syro-Malabar church was the main celebrant at the ceremony held at Ernakulam St Mary’s Basilica which was live telecast through YouTube channel of the Church. “Holy Week observance is beginning at a time when we are going through a time of agony. Even as we are far apart, our hearts are close and god is bringing us together through his love,” Cardinal Alencherry said in his Palm Sunday message. On Maundy Thursday, there will be no ‘washing of the feet’ ceremonies in churches. There would be no penance procession on Good Friday either. Syro Malabar church has directed priests that they can avoid the night mass on Easter Sunday and observe a morning mass instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devotees-observe-palm-sunday-from-their-homes/articleshow/74998372.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 lockdown dampens prospects for mango farmers in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The nationwide lockdown has hurt the mango trade this year with a fall in prices and farmers hesitating to harvest the crop due to lack of transport facilities. Mango is cultivated across a large stretch in the Nuzvid region in Krishna district. Varieties such as Banginapalli, Chinna Rasalu, Pedda Rasalu, Neelalu, Jalalu and Collector are especially popular in markets in northern states while Asia’s largest mango market at Nunna draws exporters from across the country in the first week of May. This year, the lockdown has farmers in the district worried. No buyers have come forward as there is no scope to transport the crop to the markets. “Sooty mold and other infections had hurt the crop in the last five years. We have overcome it and received good flowering this year. The expected early crop is ready for the harvest but no exporter is coming forward to buy fruits from us. They are highly perishable and we need the support of the government,” said K Chenna Reddy, a farmer from Idara village. “We are even ready to sell our crop directly to the consumers through mobile rythu bazaars and makeshift markets arranged in Vijayawada, Guntur, Eluru and nearby cities and towns,” Chenna Reddy said. MVS Nagi Reddy, vice-chairman of Andhra Pradesh state agriculture mission told TOI that the government will extend help to mango farmers. “Poor transport has had a severe impact on the export of mangoes to other states. The agriculture marketing department will facilitate the farmers in selling their products through markets across the state. The local sale will help them in this tough time,” he said. Nagi Reddy also urged farmers to focus on selling their crop in local markets instead of transporting it to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-lockdown-dampens-prospects-for-mango-farmers/articleshow/74999692.cms||Venu Lanka
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City police follow Varkala model, adopt Road Vigil app||Thiruvananthapuram: The city police have adopted a hi-tech way to nab motorists roaming in the city unnecessarily during the lockdown period. On Saturday onwards the city police started using a mobile phone app to track the movements of the vehicles roaming on city roads. The app, called Road Vigil, was first put to use by Varkala police and following its success, the city police decided to use it too. “We have instructed maximum number of cops on roads to download the app on their phones. The results will start to show within a day,” said city police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay. The city have police check points at as many as 32 major locations, including 16 entry/exit points in the outskirts and 16 inner points. Besides this, small groups of officers are conducting random checks on roads. All of them have installed the app, he said. The concept of the app was put forward by Varkala Janamaithri beat officer ASI Jayaprasad. He encouraged his neighbour Shibin A S, managing director of startup firm Catchacloud Technologies Private Limited, to come up with an app that helps track motorists. Shibin joined hands with associate developer Abhinanth S to develop the app within three days. When a motorist is checked by cops at a checking point, they would enter the registration number of the vehicle and the purpose of the trip in the app in their phone. The same information will be immediately synced to the mobile phone devices of cops on duty at other checking points. If the motorist roams around unnecessarily and is caught by the cops at any other location, he/she cannot use the same excuse they used earlier as the police already have the information of their trip. The Varkala police had started using the app officially from Tuesday onwards. The commissioner on Sunday afternoon spoke with the representatives of around 100 residents’ associations in the city and gave them directions regarding the things to be followed during the lockdown through video conferencing.  The video conference was held through a mobile phone app at 12.30pm. He spoke with the residents for 30 minutes and even cleared doubts raised by the latter. The commissioner has said that he will continue to reach out to more residents through this technology in the coming days. On Sunday, the police booked as many as 98 persons for breaching lockdown rules. Out of this, 92 were booked under the State Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-police-follow-varkala-model-adopt-road-vigil-app/articleshow/74998382.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||1,700 fishermen return to native in south Gujarat||SURAT: At least 1,700 fishermen in 23 boats have arrived at the Umargaon fishing port in Valsad over the past couple of days. These fishermen who had gone to work along the Saurashtra coast arrived via sea route as they had no other means of transport. Sources said that more fishermen of different villages in south Gujarat were on their way to Valsad. They, however, faced opposition from local villagers, who objected to their landing in fearing that they might bring coronavirus infection to their villages. Valsad district has so far remain COVID-19 free. After intervention of local fishermen and political leaders, the fishermen were allowed to go to their native villages. They were screened by the local health department teams at the port itself. One of the fishermen who had cough and fever was referred to civil hospital in Valsad town while others have been asked to observe 14 days home quarantine,” said a senior government official. Every year, hundreds of fishermen from villages of south Gujarat go Saurasthtra coast and work as fishermen before returning after the fishing season is over. Earlier TOI had reported that nearly 25,000 fishermen were stranded in the port areas of Porbandar, Veraval and Mangrol due to the lockdown. While fishing activity had stopped, these fishermen were not allowed to leave the port and it was becoming difficult for the boat owners and the fishermen association to provide the fishermen with food and shelter. The fishermen community has been the worst hit due to lockdown as 70% of the annual catch of the season is done between March and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1700-fishermen-return-to-native-in-south-gujarat/articleshow/74999712.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||30 booked for gathering in Kadapa district||TIRUPATI: Jammalamadugu police booked a case and arrested thirty people for defying the nationwide lockdown and congregating for Sunday mass at the CSI Church in the heart of Jammalamadugu town. In view of the spurt in the number of cases in the district, the police department has been watchful of unlawful congregations. Acting on a tip off about the parishioners’ plan to meet early on Sunday, the police lay in wait and swooped down on thirty members, including their leader Jayaraj. “We have taken a serious view of the unlawful congregation of public, unmindful of the growing number of cases,” deputy superintendent of police N. Nagaraju said.  The arrested were later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-booked-for-gathering-in-kadapa-district/articleshow/74999695.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||After March loss, responsible tourism eyes quick revival||Thiruvananthapuram: The huge impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the tourism industry in Kerala, where the sector has come to a standstill like anywhere else in the world, has reflected in the state’s revenue from responsible tourism (RT) in March 2020. It was just Rs 67.96 lakh against around Rs 2 crore each generated during the previous months of 2019-20. Total revenue earned by the local communities through RT units through the RT Mission across the state in 2019-20 is Rs 23.07 crore and the expenditure for RT activities is Rs 2.17 crore. This sustainable mode of tourism is likely to play a major role in reviving the sector post the Covid-19 disaster. The RT Mission had set a target revenue of Rs 15 crore in 2019-20. “The total revenue earned by RT units from 2008 (since the launch of RT) to June 2017 was Rs 12 crore. The revenue was Rs 4.51 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 4.98 crore in 2018-19. But the revenue rose to Rs 23.07 crore in 2019-20,” said RT Mission state coordinator K Rupesh Kumar. The state has been spending between Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore for RT initiatives every year from 2008 to 2016.Also, 2019-20 registered a significant footfall, with 32,433 foreign and 16,584 domestic tourists availing RT packages during this financial year. The RT Mission has chalked out a long-term action plan to revive the business, and it has been submitted to the tourism department for approval. “The immediate focus will be on packages which could lure domestic tourists, considering the time required to restore the inflow of foreign tourists,” Kumar said. With all the accommodation units now remaining closed, only a few manufacturing units mainly into production of cloth bags — numbering around 10 in the state — are now active in producing masks to fight the virus infection. Currently, the state has 17,600 RT units which are involved in manufacturing, farming or other varied activities offering support to the tourism industry by supplying eco-friendly products and services. The number of direct or indirect beneficiaries stands at 92,637 (52,784 indirect and 39,853 direct beneficiaries).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-march-loss-responsible-tourism-eyes-quick-revival/articleshow/74998386.cms||Salim Joseph
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Discoms in Andhra Pradesh look at ways to increase revenue||VIJAYAWADA: With revenue plummetting by around 60% in March compared to the same period last year due to drop in electricity consumption, power utilities across AP are now looking at other ways to make up for the losses in the next six months. The daily average electricity consumption, which was be around 190.5 MU till March 21, came down to 174.5 MU the next day and to 154.5 MU by March 26. As a result, revenue dropped to Rs 158.6 crore, which is just 40% of what was collected in March last year. This has put the discoms in a fix as they cannot make payments to power generators as well as clear debts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discoms-look-at-ways-to-increase-revenue/articleshow/74999706.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Voluntary check-ups down but no decline in maternal healthcare||Madurai: Even as voluntary maternal health check-ups by pregnant women at hospitals and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) have declined because of the lockdown and Covid-19 scare, there is no decline in proving maternal healthcare for urgent cases, said doctors and health officials. The frequency of pregnant women attending routine maternal health check-ups have declined in PHCs, government and private hospitals ever since the outbreak. “We are mainly following up with pregnant mothers over phone because it is advisable to avoid coming out unless it is an emergency. We, however, have exclusive vehicles for pick up and drop. Also, for deliveries, we are asking pregnant mothers to get admitted to the nearest PHC or hospital earlier,” said Dr P Priya Raj, deputy director of health services, Madurai. In the district, health officials are also providing free face masks for all pregnant mothers as a preventive measure for Covid-19. At the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, one of the state’s largest tertiary healthcare centres, around 50-60 deliveries are being taking place with around 80 admissions a day during lockdown. “This number is actually more than usual. We are getting many cases from the periphery. Expectant mothers, if they are experiencing any pain or are near the due date, are all getting themselves admitted early either on their own or by referral,” said Dr N Sumathi, head, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, GRH. Meanwhile, private hospitals are seeing only few pregnant mothers coming in for routine check-ups and scans though such check-ups cannot be denied to patients. “There is a fear among pregnant mothers that they might get infected if they visit hospitals. So, we ourselves have asked our patients to come for routine check-up only after two weeks unless it is an emergency. We are following up cases over phone and experts are available over phone to clear any doubts for patients,” said Dr S Nischintha, gynaecologist, Holistic Care for Women. Doctors from private hospitals also added that all elective caesareans, deliveries or OG surgeries have been postponed and only emergency cases are being attended to. Many hospitals are also providing general OG consultations through tele-consultations or video-consultations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voluntary-check-ups-down-but-no-decline-in-maternal-healthcare/articleshow/75000242.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||ENT surgeon booked for communal post||Aurangabad: A city-based ENT surgeon has been booked for allegedly posting an objectionable religious post on his social media handle on Sunday. An offence has been registered against the doctor by the Pundaliknagar police station. According to the complaint registered by police inspector Prabhakar Sonawane, the doctor, who resides at Mayanagar, N-2 Cidco, had put up a post blaming a religious leader for spreading Covid-19 in India. The complaint further stated that the 38-year old doctor had also posted a picture of the religious leader. Pundalikanagr police station in-charge Ghanshyam Sonawne told TOI, “There are standing orders to deal strictly with anyone who is trying to disrupt communal harmony or pose a threat to overall peace and harmony during the current crisis.” The officer said that the police would readily register offences against anyone found misusing their social media handles. “The suspect has been booked under section 505 of IPC for making public statements conducing to public mischief,” said Sonawane. Sources in the police station said that the offence is bailable in nature and usually, a preventive action is followed by a registration of such an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ent-surgeon-booked-for-communal-post/articleshow/74998388.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Lake restoration project shelved due to lake of tech expertise||Coimbatore: The city corporation has decided to shelve the lake beautification and restoration project under the smart cities mission at Narasampathy lake.The civic body took the decision after it failed to find a suitable contractor to implement the project despite floating tenders five times in the last nine months. Along with seven lakes in the city, the corporation had proposed to beautify and restore Narasampathy lake a year ago. It had even got approval from the state-level high-powered steering committee for smart cities mission to implement the project at a cost of Rs 12.92 crore.Shortly after getting the approval, the civic body floated the first tender in last July, a corporation official said. “But we received no response. Two bidders expressed interest in the fourth attempt, but we had to reject them as they were not qualified. A bidder who participated when we launched the last tender was rejected due to lack of technical expertise,” he said.This prompted the corporation to shelve the project for the time being and concentrate on the remaining projects.As lake beautification projects are implemented for the first time in the state, companies are reluctant to come forward as they don’t have prior experience.Meanwhile, the corporation will focus on its primary duties and disinfecting the city until the Covid-19 scare is over, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lake-restoration-project-shelved-due-to-lake-of-tech-expertise/articleshow/75000241.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||City lights up on Modi’s call for solidarity||Nagpur: When the clock struck nine, a wave of unity and solidarity swept through the city as citizens stood together in balconies and doors with lighted candles, mobile flashlights, or put up earthen lamps to fight corona negativity. The entire city dazzled as people showed their resolve by dimming home lights and lighting up exteriors. Many also burst crackers in their enthusiasm. Surely diwali came early. PM Narendra Modi had urged the people to switch off lights of their homes and light up the lamps, or mobile flashlights to display the nation’s collective spirit. Citizens in different localities participated and shared their experience. The historical Poddareshwar Ram Mandir on Central Avenue Road lit up 500 diyas. It dazzled in the dark night. Sandeep Shirkhedkar from Subhash Nagar not only lit diyas and candles but also chanted Gayatri Mantra and Mrutyunjay jap to pray for the well-being of people fighting the pandemic, “I urged everyone in my apartment to do the same. We stand together with the nation during this tough time. I held torch in one hand and candle or diya in another. The entire locality participated willingly,” he said. Ankita Thakre from Kamptee felt it was like Diwali. “People were bursting crackers, shouting Go Corona Go and there was not a single house which looked dark as everyone participated by holding a lit candle and diya. Streetlights were also off which added to the feel,” she said. Mahal area saw the 9pm-9minutes initiative coming early as people were seen preparing their earthen lamps with oil and lighting candles since 8pm itself. “Residents of Mahal are always excited to celebrate anything. Hence the gullies and squares were calm and dark. People stood with their candles and placed earthen lamps in balconies. We are only three members in our family and we all participated with excitement,” said Pranita Mishra, student. Residents of Manewada, Jaripatka and many such areas also burst crackers, while children and adults were seen chanting, ‘Go Corona Go’. People also posted pictures and snaps of their homes and view from the locality on social media with hashtag 9pm9minutes. Tushar Mahajan, freelance writer and resident of Shri Nagar, said, “People understood the importance of integrity and humanity. It was amazing to see so many people coming together with families. We too lit candles and earthen diyas and prayed for everyone’s safety.” Shiny Phillip from Manish Nagar said, “It was a beautiful sight as people stood out and there was peace everywhere. I do not appreciate people bursting crackers. But all houses in my area were beautifully lit.” Big residential buildings, complexes were looking breathtaking as each balcony had a series of lamps and candles. Some were seen singing songs in groups, while senior citizens were seen chanting prayers. Anand Ambekar, a digital media consultant, said, “We appreciate this wonderful idea by PM Modi which brought the entire nation together as everyone stood hoping and praying for safety and peace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-lights-up-on-modis-call-for-solidarity/articleshow/75000264.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||Santrampur man dies of Covid-19 in Kuwait||VADODARA: A man from Santrampur town of Mahisagar district died in Kuwait after getting infected with novel coronavirus. The victim Vinay Chauhan and his brother Rajesh had gone for employment to Kuwait a few years back. Family sources said that they used to work there as tailors. The family lives in Patel Falia locality in Santrampur. Vinay had taken ill about a week back and had even seen a doctor. When his condition did not improve despite medication, a test to ascertain if he was suffering from COVID-19 was conducted. “He tested positive and admitted in a hospital. Rajesh also tested, but his reports were negative and he was discharged from the hospital,” said Kanchan Chauhan, Vinay and Rajesh’s sister. Kanchan, who also stays in Santrampur, said that the family was informed about Vinay’s death at around 1.30am on Saturday. She said that Vinay’s last rites will be performed in Kuwait itself. Rajesh too will not be able to return home to be with the grieving family due to the lockdown and suspension of flights. Vinay is survived by his wife and two children who live in Santrampur with his parents. His father Devchand is in shock after learning about the death and was advised rest. Kuwait has reported nearly 479 cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/santrampur-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-kuwait/articleshow/74999291.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||‘Home test kit’ sold online, regulator says not approved||The Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) told TOI on Sunday that no home test kits for Covid-19 have been approved. The regulator also issued a public notice clarifying that it had not licensed a home test kit being sold online by Bione Ventures Pvt Ltd. The notice followed a complaint by All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN) about online marketing of Covid-19 rapid antibody test kits for home use and false marketing of products claiming to be Covid-19 related. AIDAN, a public health advocacy group, had pointed out in its complaint that there was no way to check the claims of Bione Ventures Pvt Ltd that it had the required approvals for its home test kit because the CDSCO was yet to make public the list of test kits approved for sale in India. The lack of such information in the public domain is “aiding such exploitation and profiteering during the public health crisis” stated the AIDAN complaint. However, by Sunday evening, the lists of kits for PCR tests and rapid tests that have been approved by the CDSCO were up on the website. Bione Ventures Pvt Ltd was not in the list of companies approved. Bione's COVID-19 rapid antibody test is being marketed as a “simple point-of-care home screening kit” and being sold directly to consumers through its website. In a press release issued on April 3, the company claimed that its test kits have received approval from the “requisite regulatory authorities”. The press release added that its “products have been sourced from our worldwide CE and FDA approved partners.” No details are available on the company website regarding the foreign manufacturer of the kits, approvals in India, or the test kit's performance. The kit is being sold online at a price of Rs 2,499 without the need for a physician's prescription. “The first batch has been sold out according to the company website and it is impossible to know about the genuineness of the test kit,” stated AIDAN “The company's strategy is clearly to exploit public anxiety around the pandemic in order to make a killing. It is selling kits to the general public even before official directions regarding the use of rapid antibody tests have been issued, and even the interim advisory of 2 April 2020 for use of antibody tests in hotspots does not support indiscriminate self-testing by the public,” pointed out the AIDAN letter. AIDAN has asked for an investigation into the claims being made by the company for their various tests related to Covid-19 and for greater transparency regarding names of companies that have got approval, the basis for approval and the information submitted by the applicant about the test kit's performance and pricing. Dr Surendra K Chikara, CEO, Bione's statement Bione issued a statement that it has a wholesale license from the drug control department in Bangalore issued by March 30 and that the kits "would be sourced from ICMR approved vendors". "Bione is studying the latest regulations in the ever-changing regulatory environment and is in the process of complying with all of them," it stated adding that it was restudying the latest directive of the ICMR released on April 4 regarding the use of rapid screening kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/home-test-kit-sold-online-regulator-says-not-approved/articleshow/75000750.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Go away Covid: Churches stream online messages on Palm Sunday||KOLKATA: Both the Church of North India (CNI) and the Roman Catholic Church sent out Covid-19-related messages on the occasion of the Palm Sunday. While Bishop Paritosh Canning asked parishioners to light the lamp among chanting of the Biblical Hosanna (help), Archbishop Thomas D Souza stressed on the importance of helping the poor and the vulnerable during these difficult times. Both the services were streamed online and had nearly one and a half lakh Christians of the city and many abroad watching it live. Palm Sunday signifies the return of Jesus to Jerusalem, where he is welcomed as the king who would overthrow the Romans. He was welcomed with palm leaves. The day signifies the beginning of the Holy Week for the Christians all over the world. The Corona scare has locked down all parish churches and the two heads of the diocese and archdiocese of Kolkata have been holding online mass in order to connect with church-goers. Lauding Prime Minister Modi’s initiative of bringing people of the country together through the act of lamp lighting, Bishop Canning said that it was God who was guiding the PM. “I urge you to chant Hosanna while lighting the candle. It means, ‘help us…save us, God’ and I am sure Jesus will hear. Like he said, ‘Go away Satan!’, he will also say, ‘Go away, Corona! We will soon find ourselves rid of the virus…” he said in his online mass from Bishop’s House. The Palm Sunday mass started at 8am at the Archbishop House as archbishop Thomas D Souza spoke to parishioners about the significance of Palm Sunday. “While we need to be careful about washing our hands and social distancing, we have to remember the plight of the poor and we need to stand by them now…” he advised. Those watching the mass online saw the archbishop flanked by two of his clergy, maintaining the distancing norm. “We have laid out plans for similar online services for Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter,” said vicar general, Dominic Gomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/go-away-covid-churches-stream-online-messages-on-palm-sunday/articleshow/75000244.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Disinfectant tunnel to check spread of virus in Gauribidanur||GAURIBIDANUR (CHIKKABALLAPUR): A locally built ‘disinfectant tunnel’ is coming in handy for the administration in Gauribidanur town of Chikkaballapur district to ward off the Covid-19 infection threat even as the townsfolk go about their daily purchase of essentials. The tunnel, measuring 8 feet tall, 6 feet wide and 20 feet long and prepared in two days at a cost of Rs 20,000, was launched on Sunday for public use in Gauribidanur’s Main Bazaar Road leading to the town’s wholesale market. About 500 residents heading to the market walked through the tunnel where a bio-organic disinfectant was sprayed on them using locally available sprayers. The tunnel is the result of an initiative taken up by KAS officer Varaprasad Reddy, who was appointed as the nodal officer for preventing the spread of Covid-19 after Gauribidanur reported three positive cases in the last few days. Reddy said the disinfectant is totally organic and is made of citric derivatives such as lemon, orange and other fruits and vegetables. The disinfectant is eco-friendly and people friendly and will not cause any side effects, he said. The officer said the tunnel was built using locally available material including polythene sheets. The technical knowhow and organic disinfectants were provided by a Bengaluru NGO. Reddy said depending on the response from people, similar tunnels would be built elsewhere in the district. Chikkaballapur deputy commissioner R Latha told TOI that preliminary tests had proved that the of tunnel was totally safe and would be effective in preventing the spread of the virus. She said the district administration has been successful in preventing the spread of the disease beyond Gauribidanur taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/disinfectant-tunnel-to-check-spread-of-virus-in-gauribidanur/articleshow/75000088.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Amidst lockdown, KWA takes up leak rectification works||Thiruvananthapuram: Amidst lockdown, the Kerala water authority (KWA) has been successfully taking up leak rectification works in the district. An average of 25 leak rectification works are being carried out in the district everyday. On Saturday, KWA had successfully rectified hidden leaks on a pipe, which was the major reason for the water shortage at Pattom. Though KWA is considered as an essential service, emergency maintenance works are tedious at the time of lockdown. The residents of NSP Nagar have been complaining about water shortage for the past few days. When KWA began checking manholes in the area, an increased flow was noticed in one of them, hinting presence of leak. Following this, workers began inspecting the links for leaks. They noticed two hidden leaks in the 90 mm PVC distribution line. The leak was rectified on Saturday and distribution was normalised in the area. KWA officials said though the workers are given pass, it was difficult to carry out the works at the time of lockdown. “It is especially difficult to get the spare parts. Now, we exchange necessary parts with other KWA offices,” said an official. Superintending engineer Suresh Chandran said it was also difficult to arrange food for workers. “When we informed, the Sasthamangalam councilor arranged food from community kitchen for the workers,” he said, adding that KWA was working in a systematic way to ensure that the spreading of the Covid 19 would not affect the essential service. “We have maintained only a skeletal staff at Aruvikkara. The entire staff has been divided into three groups. One group will be active and two others will be kept as reserved,” he said. “As public health is a concern, we have ensured that sewerage system is unaffected,” he Chandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amidst-lockdown-kwa-takes-up-leak-rectification-works/articleshow/74998390.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||MP: Create repository for guest workers to provide them aid||Coimbatore: With scores of stranded guest workers taking to the streets seeking food and essential commodities due to the 21-day lockdown, several politicians and trade union leaders have called for a repository for such workers to enable seamless distribution of essential commodities.Over the past 10 days of the 21-day lockdown, workers mainly from the construction sector and eateries in the district have been left in the lurch by contractors or employers and have no means to sustain themselves.On seeing their plight, some local NGOs, the civic body and trade unions across the district are helping them get access to food and shelter.Political leaders and trade unionists have said these workers have been staying in the city for years but it is only when they come out on the streets that they are recognised.R Natarajan, member of parliament from Coimbatore, told TOI that in the past few days, several MPs from other states had contacted him to offer help to guest workers from their states staying in Coimbatore. “MPs from West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar and from the Congress headquarters have asked me to look into the situation of guest workers here and help them. These workers are from Perianaickenpalayam, Vatamalaipalayam, Ganapathi, Kurichi and Palladam,” he said.Natarajan said a there is an urgent need to create a repository of these guest workers. “The firms which employ them or contractors who bring them here should submit details of these workers to the state government, which should create a repository. The state should ensure that basic facilities are provided to them,” he said.Representatives of a few trade unions here said that assistance to guest workers should be streamlined. Representatives of the district branch of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) have petitioned district collector K Rajamani for giving financial assistance to unorganised guest workers. They said that there were more than 35,000 guest workers in the district from northern states and they are facing humongous hardships as they have no work and no income amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mp-create-repository-for-guest-workers-to-provide-them-aid/articleshow/75000249.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Surat||Surat APMC to stay shut till April 14||SURAT: With the district administration shutting down the Agriculture Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) Sardar Market yard at Sahara Darwaja till April 14, essential supplies of vegetables in the city is likely to get affected. The decision to keep the market shut was taken at a joint meeting held on Sunday between the police commissioner, district collector and municipal commissioner to prevent large gathering of vendors at the market and prevent spread of Covid-19. The administration is, however, yet to issue clear guidelines on the distribution of vegetables from the market. Social distancing went for a toss when hundreds of vegetable vendors thronged the yard on Saturday evening after APMC announced distribution of passes for smooth operation at the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-apmc-to-stay-shut-till-april-14/articleshow/74999739.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More samples test negative, source remains a mystery||Thiruvananthapuram: The source of infection that led to the death of Abdul Azeez of Pothencode continues to puzzle the health team as 19 samples collected with rapid test kits tested negative on Sunday. Earlier, 97 samples were collected by the health wing and all of the samples had turned negative. The results of close family members of the deceased had also turned negative. Of all the cases reported in the capital so far, this has remained an unlinked case as officials have been hitting on one stumbling block after another.  The team had hoped for a link from the public gatherings he had attended; funeral, wedding and prayer. However, so far they couldn’t gain any headway. The district administration and health team will now decide whether to continue the probe or to list the case as unlinked for the time being. Till now, the district has dealt with sporadic cases alone; one or more cases imported or locally acquired (as per WHO guidelines). However, the officials couldn't categorise the case at Pothencode because source of infection remains unknown.  The officials were looking for a cluster of cases which means most cases of local transmission linked by chains of transmission. The health team has almost ruled out chances of community spread in the area. However, without being able to establish an epidemiological link, the team can’t reach a conclusion. Minister Kadakampally Surendran has repeated that all contacts have been traced and everybody has been quarantined and that there were no signs of community spread at Pothencode. The route map mentioned about funeral, wedding, prayer and visit to sub-treasury office. However, local bodies had to chip in with additional data that the person had attended PTA general body meeting at Government LPS, Thachappaly, on March 5 and visited KSEB office on March 10.  Initially, the health team had acted upon assumptions that foreign-returned persons had attended prayer meetings, marriage and funerals and any one of them might have been the source of infection. The officials have also learnt that Azeez did not show any symptoms during his two visits to a nearby primary health centre and following which the medical staff did not feel the need to refer him to Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, 212 samples were sent for testing on Sunday. Till now, 2,207 samples have been sent and 1,783 samples were received. As many as 647 persons are being housed in Covid care homes in the district at present. As many as 16,999 persons are currently under home quarantine and 18 persons were admitted to district hospitals with disease symptoms and 17 were discharged on Sunday. As many as 361 persons were brought under surveillance on Sunday and 56 persons completed 28-day quarantine in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-samples-test-negative-source-remains-a-mystery/articleshow/74998400.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Pvt firm gives out free clothes to newborns||Kozhikode: In a unique CSR initiative to address the need for newborn clothing during Covid-19 lockdown, a Malappuram-based baby clothes manufacturer has supplied baby wear to the tune of Rs 90 lakhs to all the newborns at government hospitals in the state. Popees Baby Care Products has supplied 30,000 packets of newborn wear, containing three dresses each, free of cost, to government hospitals in all 14 districts, and has agreed to meet any further requirements. Shaju Thomas, chairman and managing director (CMD) of Popees, had offered his willingness, to provide free clothes to newborns, through an email to the chief minister, which was readily accepted and the first phase of distribution was completed on Saturday. Shaju said that the clothes, manufactured using organic material, were UV sterilized before they were provided to hospitals. “We rolled out the initiative after finding that many people were finding it difficult to purchase clothes for newborns during the lockdown,” said Shaju Thomas. “Also, newborn wears available in the market were mostly sold in giftpacks, which had an assortment of baby care products as well. Though pharmacies are open near hospitals, many people who depended on government hospitals we're finding it difficult to purchase newborn wear from there,” he added. While the firm directly handed over the dress packets to hospitals in the Malabar region, the distribution to other districts were done through the offices of the district medical officers. “We have asked the hospitals to inform us if they need more clothes and we would continue to meet the requirements till the situation normalizes,” he added. Popees had also supplied around 13 lakh masks free of cost to hospitals and government departments in Malappuram. The masks were made at the factory at Thiruvali in Malappuram under special permission from the district collector, with regular screening of workers conducted by health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pvt-firm-gives-out-free-clothes-to-newborns/articleshow/74998448.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Six arrested for attacking health official||Madurai: The Kayathar police on Sunday arrested six people who attacked a health inspector while he was relocating family members of a covid-19 positive person on Saturday. In all, 12 people were booked under various sections of IPC including 332- voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty and 353- assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty based on the complaint from injured health inspector of Vellankottai Kaliraj. They were identified as N Shahul Hameed, S Anish, I Mydeen, P Thameem Ansari, S Ashith, N Kamaal, S Karun Ashith, P Mohammed Yusuf, S Navas Khan, A Mohammed Rafik, R Jalal and S Ismail. A police team arrested Anish, Mydeen, Mohammed Yusuf, Ashith, Jalal and Navas Khan on Sunday and a search was underway for the remaining six. Police said that a 49-year-old man from Ayyanarvuthu village tested positive for covid-19. Following test report, a team of health officials including doctors were shifting his family members to hospital. On Sunday, two of his family members too tested positive for covid-19. The accused had man handled, beat him up and damaged his bike after picking a quarrel with him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-arrested-for-attacking-health-official/articleshow/75000253.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Lockdown affects development projects worth over Rs 1,000 crore||NASHIK: The 21-day lockdown owing to the Covid-19 outbreak has not only affected the lives of the citizens, but also impacted various developmental works (worth over Rs 1,000 crore) that were started by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation (NMSCDCL). An official, who is part of both NMC and the smart city body, said these works include projects worth Rs 525 crore and Rs 475 initiated by the civic body and NMSCDCL, respectively. “The projects that were started by the civic body include Rs 350 crore works of the public works department (PWD), Rs 115 crore of the sewage department, Rs 50 crore of the water supply department and Rs 10 crore works of the garden department. All these projects have been stopped due to the lockdown,” the official said. “As part of the smart city project, the development of internal roads in gaothan areas of the city under Area Based Development (ABD), costing around Rs 201 crore, has been affected. Godavari beautification and river desilting projects costing around Rs 70 crore and Rs 11 crore, respectively, have also been affected due to lockdown,” he added. The smart city body had also started installation of 800 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras at select locations across the city. The Rs 167-crore project has also come to a standstill. Other smart city projects affected due to the lockdown include setting up of mechanical gate under Holkar bridge in Godavari river (Rs 26 crore) and renovation of Pandit Paluskar auditorium (Rs 3 crore).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-affects-devpt-projects-worth-over-rs1000-cr/articleshow/74998409.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 6, 2020||Madurai||9 more cases take covid +ve to 160 in south TN||Madurai: With nine new cases being reported, the total number of Covid-19 positive patients in the southern districts went up to 160 on Sunday. One of them, a 55-year-old man from Mathoor near Kallandari in Madurai East, is in ICU at GRH with respiratory problems and diabetes. Besides him, Madurai reported another case of a 34-year-old man from Mehaboobpalayam in corporation limits. District collector Dr T G Vinay said the young man was asymptomatic and was also admitted to the isolation ward at GRH. Containment plans were in place in the area surrounding their residences and people living in a 5 kilometre radius were being screened. Among the nine new cases were two females, one from Kanyakumari and another from Tuticorin who had both been in contact with infected people. The others included males, two each from Madurai and Dindigul, one each from Theni and Tirunelveli and all had a travel history to Delhi to participate in the Tablighi meet. A man and woman from Tuticorin also tested positive, following contact with a positive person.The nine southern districts now have a total of 160 cases, Madurai - 19, Dindigul - 45, Theni 23, Tuticorin - 11, Kanyakumari - 6, Tirunelveli 38, Virudhunagar - 11, Sivaganga - 5 and Ramanathapuram - 2. Meanwhile, containment plans were implemented at Keezhakarai in Ramanathapuram on Sunday, where the body of the 71-year-old man who had died at Stanley Medical College hospital was buried on Thursday. His test results received on Saturday showed that he had tested positive for Covid-19. Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao oversaw the disinfection process in the municipality. He said that 41 people from the district had participated in the Tablighi conference and 25 of them had returned. Two of them had tested positive and the other 23 negative. So far, 34 people had been screened for Covid-19 in the district out of which 32 had tested negative. Among those who returned from abroad, 4,777 people had been quarantined and 2,711 who completed their 28-day quarantine allowed to come out. As many as 2,066 people were in home quarantine in the district at present. The eleven family members of the man who died in Stanley hospital had been asked to self-quarantine. As it was found that over 50 people had attended his funeral, they too have been asked to self-isolate and quarantine, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-more-cases-take-covid-ve-to-160-in-south-tn/articleshow/75000256.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A summer campwith a vision for thevisually-challenged||Thiruvananthapuram: Chakshumathi, a city-based centre that provide assistive technology and empowerment for the print disabled and visually challenged students, has announced its 8th annual ‘eyes free science’ summer camp. This year, however, the camp will be held online. Visually-challenged school students from all over the country can register for this camp which would be held from April 16 to 25 in two phases using cloud platforms. BookShare International, Daisy Forum of India (DFI), Raised Line Foundation of IIT Delhi, and Google will support Chakshumathi in this initiative. “Even if the lockdown ends by April 14, it is best to maintain social distancing and avoid travelling, especially for the visually-challenged because touching and hearing is the way their of communication and we do not want to expose any of our participants to potential threat of infections. This is the prime reason to keep this year’s camp online and I could very well conform that all the participants are tech savvy and much better than their sighted peer when it comes to online platforms,” said Ram Kamal, the camp director. “With the advent of accessibility in using computers, information technology, data analytics etc., we find that innovations can help visually-challenged to be at par or even above those who are sighted. Giving the right guidance and creating avenues for grabbing the technology environment and opportunities are what educators and support organizations can do in this respect. There is an increased demand for trained visually-impaired youth especially in areas such as research, data science, software development and quality testing areas. ‘Why not, science for the visually challenged’ is the slogan we raised way back in 2012, and past eight years of hand-holding such students have helped several of them to come out with flying colours with engineering degrees and get acceptance in the highly-paid job market. This year’s camp is an expression of elevated efforts by our scientific community to make available meaningful inclusive education for the learning disabled,” said V K Damodaran, chairman of Chakshumathi. The first phase (April 16 to 20) will help visually impaired youth to be independent with the required technological skills to use computer effectively for regular classwork, homework and examinations. The second phase (April 21 to 25) is meant to develop ‘scientific temper’ among children who would love learning of science and technology related topics and books. Students from Class VII and above can apply before April 12. Contact 98214 52692 for details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-summer-campwith-a-vision-for-thevisually-challenged/articleshow/74998416.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Cases booked against lockdown violators in Anantapur||TIRUPATI: In a bid to send a stern warning to people violating lockdown norms, the Anantapur district police have registered 21 cases against people violating lockdown norms. Moreover, 2,490 cases have been registered under the Motor Vehicles Act and fines worth Rs 12.16 lakh have been imposed. The district police have also registered nearly 70 cases against traders for violation of lockdown norms. Anantapur SP B Satya Yesu Babu appealed to people to act responsibly and adhere to lockdown norms. “The police will act tough and not spare anyone who disregards the guidelines,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cases-booked-against-lockdown-violators/articleshow/74999757.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Ex-deans of medical colleges roped in for Covid taskforce||Madurai/Trichy: With incidences of Covid-19 touching a new high, the health department has roped in former deans of government medical college hospitals to chip in with their experience to combat the viral disease.In an order dated April 4, director of medical education (DME) Dr R Narayanababu has appointed retired deans as special officers in seven districts : Dr Maruthupandi – Madurai, Dr Lalitha – Tuticorin, Dr Kannan – Tirunelveli, Dr Isaac Moses – Erode, Dr Srinivasaraju – Dharmapuri, Dr Radhakrishnan – Kanyakumari and Dr Anitha – Trichy.The DME asked the special officers to report to the deans of the medical colleges concerned and coordinate and monitor the management of Covid-19 patients in the isolation wards of MCHs. They have to provide feedbacks and report the status to the mission director and DME on a daily basis. The appointment is on contract for three months from the date of appointment and or till the control of Covid-19 in the districts allotted.In another development, the dean of Theni Medical College, Dr K Rajendran, who was given a two month’s extension after his retirement on March 31, was allowed to retire hours after the death of a woman in Theni, who tested positive for Covid-19. Twenty persons from various parts of Theni district who had attended the Tablighi conference in New Delhi had tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. The district administration swung into action and containment plans were put in place in all the areas from where the cases were reported.Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam has been foreseeing the various operations including implementation of the contingency plans. However, the death of the 53-year old woman from Theni caused concern among the public and the authorities. The GO says that Dr M Illangovan, medical superintendent of Theni Medical College, would hold full additional charge as the dean of the hospital, following the superannuation of Dr Rajendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ex-deans-of-medical-colleges-roped-in-for-covid-taskforce/articleshow/75000259.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||29 more positive cases in dist||Coimbatore/Nilgiris: Twenty-nine more people from Coimbatore have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of virus affected people in the district to 58.All the 29 who were declared positive for Covid-19 on Sunday had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Health authorities said that the 29 are undergoing treatment at ESIC Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and government hospitals in Annur and Pollachi. “Their health condition is stable,” said a doctor from ESIC hospital. As many as 22 of them are from the corporation limit, five from Annur and one each from Pollachi and Madukkarai. The district health authorities are awaiting the results of 25 more people from Coimbatore whose samples have been sent for lab test. Besides those from Coimbatore, patients from Nilgiris, Salem and Namakkal districts too added to the count of people affected by the virus in the western region on Sunday. In Nilgiris, four people were declared Covid-19 positive by the state health officials, while three were declared positive in Salem and one in Namakkal. Health authorities in the Nilgiris said that the four who tested positive in the district were also attendees of Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meet in New Delhi. The authorities had identified eight people who attended the meet and had sent the samples for testing. District collector J Innocent Divya said, “Four of them have been tested positive for coronavirus and the remaining, negative. Those tested negative would, however, continue to remain in hospital until they complete 14 days of isolation. After that, their throat swabs and blood samples would be sent for another test.” Coimbatore health authorities said that 90 people from the district had attended the meeting in New Delhi and of which, 87 people were traced and isolated by the district administration. Among the 87 people, 56 have tested positive while the remaining turned negative. “Efforts are on to locate the three who have not been found,’’ the official said. A health officer said that almost all the patients who tested positive on Sunday were asymptomatic and do not have any comorbid condition. “We are not sure whether they would develop symptoms as time passes or their immunity level is so high. It is yet to be identified,” he saidOnly three persons – the 25-year-old student who returned from Spain, the Erode-based doctor and 48-year-old from Udumalpet – have symptoms and that also falls under the mild category, the doctor added. The four who tested positive in Nilgiris were also shifted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore from the Ooty government headquarters hospital, where they had been kept under observation for the past six days. This was despite the government identifying three private hospitals in the Nilgiris for handling Covid-19 cases. As on Sunday, 63 patients including four patients from Erode and one from Tirupur are undergoing treatment at the government hospitals in the district and 110 were tested negative for the virus, said an official from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/29-more-positive-cases-in-dist/articleshow/75000258.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Rural cops make health declaration every day||Aurangabad: Superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil has designated certain rural police officers to collect data on their subordinates’ health on a daily basis — this is because these cops are working on the frontline. Police personnel with any cold, cough or fever symptoms are being sent for an advanced screening at the government hospitals everyday. Senior officers have welcomed the move and said that this protocol should be followed to keep a track of the staff’s health. Aurangabad rural police have 23 police stations, where the officers in-charge have been asked to get the health forms (spreadsheet) filled up by the personnel and submit the same to the SP’s office, highlighting any deviation of health parameters of any of the personnel, every day. In the online spreadsheet, each officer heading the police station has to put names of each of his subordinates along with the options comprising if he/she is suffering from moderate to severe cough, dry cough, sore throat, loss-of-smell or reduction in senses, breathing difficulty, chest pain, weakness, diarrhoea, fever. In addition to this, there are four other options for mentioning any other symptoms. Patil told TOI, “This spreadsheet is extremely easy to fill, analyse and simple to supervise. We are vigilant of our force’s health. Tracking of general health symptoms age-wise will facilitate timely intervention and managing strategically.” Authorities informed that the move by the police authorities has addressed the anxiety amongst police personnel. “If our personnel are mentally strong, we will be able to perform our duties with the best of our abilities,” said a deputy superintendent of police. Police personnel have been asked to voluntarily come forward during the daily roll call and disclose their health conditions. “The latest move by the rural SP has sent a positive message to the police personnel, as it has addressed serving police personnel and their | families’ concerns and fears,” said inspector Mahesh Andhale of Chikalthana police station. Sources informed that based during the daily analysis on Saturday, 10 policemen from across the district had reported mild fever and cold, following which they were immediately referred to the Government Hospital. The doctors concluded it to be common cold. In one of the cases, as a precautionary measure, a police constable has been advised for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rural-cops-make-health-declaration-every-day/articleshow/74998445.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Cops told to book curfew violators, avoid using force||Madurai: The Madurai city police officials have instructed police officers, assigned to each ward in the corporation, not to use force against the public under any circumstance. They have been told to not lose their temper nor use harsh words, but talk in a language understood by the public while enforcing restrictions. Each of the 100 wards in the district has been assigned an officer at the rank of sub inspector to deal with issues and to promote harmony among public since 2018. In an advisory, officials have instructed them to take only legal course of action. If someone does not abide by the law, they should be taken to the police station and left after registering a case against them. They have also been asked sensitize the public about Covid-19 using public address system as there is still a section of people who have not extended their cooperation in implementing curfew restrictions, despite spreading awareness through media and social media, officials pointed. They have been asked to ensure that shops selling essentials items strictly adhere to the timings fixed apart from making sure no tea shop is open and people do not crowd in front of their houses to chatter. Vehicles carrying essentials should be left alone, as there is no separate pass required for them. They also have been asked to create a group consisting NGO’s, social workers, school teachers, bank employees, NCC and NSS students to work with them. Under no circumstances, people associated with political parties, community or religious groups should be included in such groups. People, who have been quarantined should be monitored using the group. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-told-to-book-curfew-violators-avoid-using-force/articleshow/75000260.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Fishers oppose advancing of uniform fishing ban period||Nagapattinam: The National Fish Workers’ Federation has demanded the state fisheries to withdraw its plan to enforce the uniform fishing ban between March 23 and May 23, instead of April 15 to June 15. Fishers fear that the change would affect the livelihood of traditional fishers on a large scale. “Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the livelihood of marine fishers and their allied workers has been affected. The federation had already raised concerns on the Centre’s Covid-19 relief package which should be revised. At this juncture, it came to light that chief secretaries of fisheries in different states had proposed the union government to advance the uniform fishing ban period between March 23 and May 23,” vice-president of the association RV Kumaravelu said.“We are grateful to the state fisheries secretaries’ for their concerns towards the welfare of fishers. However, their humanitarian concerns will dissolve our rights to well-being. If the ban is advanced, the rejuvenation of marine eco-system may not happen. Without announcing any relief package, they are trying to link this with the ban period relief. The disaster relief should be separate and should not be linked with any other existing relief packages,” he added.“Our concerns towards mechanised boat owners is that Covid-19 lockdown scenario had inflated price hike even for basic essential commodities. Hence, mechanized boat owners will face difficulty in repairing their boats. This will also impact the fish workers and allied sectors”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishers-oppose-advancing-of-uniform-fishing-ban-period/articleshow/75000269.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 6, 2020||Madurai||Vaccinations can be deferred for a few weeks: Docs||Madurai: Even as only institutional vaccinations are currently being done for children, paediatricians have urged parents to defer vaccinations for their children by two or three weeks but at the same time not to completely stop vaccinations. The state health department has suspended the government-run outreach vaccination since lockdown. But, health officials said that they have been following up with parents over phone about their child’s immunization schedule. According to paediatricians, while all hospitals mandatorily carry out vaccination for new-borns immediately after delivery, all other vaccinations given in the later stages can be postponed for few weeks. “Vaccinations are required but at the same time, there is no harm at all in postponing vaccinations for children. It is not advisable for healthy children to visit hospitals at this time and be exposed to infections. We have asked all our patients to defer vaccinations,” said Dr B Kannan, paediatrician, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. Doctors also added that children also tend to show side-effects such as fever or diarrhoea for few days after vaccination. “The symptoms of the child in such a case may appear to be like a viral infection and one cannot be sure if it is because of the vaccine or some other cause. So, in a pandemic, vaccinations are best avoided until the situation resolves,” said Dr B Kannan. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), the number of people availing vaccinations has reduced, according to doctors from the department of paediatrics. They added that mobility during lockdown has been an issue and vaccination is not an emergency service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vaccinations-can-be-deferred-for-a-few-weeks-docs/articleshow/75000265.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Churches to live stream Passion Week services||Bengaluru: Passion Week (April 5 to 11) services in churches will go online, thanks to the lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19. This is probably the first time in recent years Christians are preparing for Holy Week without church congregations. Many churches in the city live streamed Palm Sunday (April 5) services and many of those who followed the services used last year’s palms leaves. Holy Thursday (April 9), Good Friday (April 10), Easter Vigil (April 11) and Easter Sunday services and masses will also be webcast and parishioners have been informed about the timings. Many churches in Bengaluru are already streaming worship services through YouTube and Facebook Live.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/churches-to-live-stream-passion-week-services/articleshow/75000097.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||File e-returns for Q-4 by April 30: Skill devpt office||Nashik: The state government’s skill development, employment and entrepreneurship department has set April 30 as the deadline for public sector and private establishments to file their e-returns for the Jan-March quarter of the last financial year. It is mandatory for these establishments to file quarterly e-returns within a month after the end of every quarter. Moreover, they have to file their returns on the skill development department’s website: https://rojgar.mahaswayam.gov.in. As per Compulsory Notification of Vacancy Act 1959 and Rules 1960, it is mandatory for all employers or establishments having over 25 employees to get registered. These establishments have to inform the department about the vacancies available and interview opportunities for unemployed youths. According to an official from the state skill development, employment and entrepreneurship department, there around 3,800 establishments are registered with them across the district. “Notices will be sent to those who fail to file returns within the deadline,” the official said, adding that the procedure for filing returns is very simple and is done online. “The establishments just need to submit information regarding number of total employees working with them along with their gender, how many new recruitments have been made, how many employees quit the job and number of vacant posts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/file-e-returns-for-q-4-by-april-30-skill-devpt-office/articleshow/74998423.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Hydro, gas go offline to handle 3,200MW fall in demand||Nagpur: The electricity grid safely sustained the change in demand as millions switched off their lights in response to Prime Minister Modi’s call. The grid frequency did not rise anywhere near the upper limit of 51.5 Hz. The frequency, which was 49.806 Hz at 8.40pm, rose to maximum 50.25 Hz at 9.08pm and then went down. It continued to remain above 50 Hz, the ideal frequency, for several minutes. Grid frequency increases when supply is more than demand. After fears expressed by state energy minister Nitin Raut about a grid collapse, his predecessor Chandrashekhar Bawankule had claimed reduction in demand due to switching off lights would be easily managed by reducing hydroelectric generation. A senior MSEDCL official said on condition of anonymity that the demand had reduced by approximately 3,200MW around 9pm, from the demand of 13,100MW just before it. The fall in demand was managed by stopping generation at the Koyna hydroelectric plant, reducing supply by 2,350MW. The Uran gas power plant and Tata’s hydel power plant also stopped producing 500MW and 400MW respectively. Moreover, even during the blackout MSEDCL continued to overdraw from the Central share, the overdrawal being to the tune of 456MW. Bawankule slammed Raut for fear mongering and said he would have realized how wrong he was. “If a Congress prime minister had issued such an appeal and I was the energy minister of the state, I would have held a meeting of Maharashtra State Load Despatch Centre (MSLDC) and instructed them to manage the situation. Unfortunately, Raut didn’t do that,” he told TOI. Bawankule further said PM Narendra Modi was cooperating with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray keeping party differences aside, but Raut did not do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hydro-gas-go-offline-to-handle-3200mw-fall-in-demand/articleshow/75000281.cms||Ashish Roy
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Small businesses keep guest workers in pink of health amid lockdown blues||Coimbatore: While bearing the brunt of the lockdown, owners of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are doing their best to look after the guest workers stranded here. But the small industrialists are facing severe fund crunch. Some of them had to take loans to pay the workers an advance, which is around 30%-40% of their pay. District president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) J James says only around 25% of the micro job-work units have been able to pay the guest workers. “Other have given them an advance. Unit owners buy flour, vegetables and oil for the workers. As a result, many unit owners are feeling financial crunch,” he told TOI. President of the Coimbatore Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association C Sivakumar says the workers were paid last week. “We already cover their food expenses. With small units facing fund crunch, we are mulling to give the workers half the pay for the next 15 days.” The Centre should provide a reimbursement package for MSMEs to take care of the guest workers, representatives of the Joint Council of Industrial Associations from Coimbatore say. “Industries are retaining some of the guest workers on their premises and other places and taking good care of them. Most of them are contract workers. MSMEs incur lot of expenses on this account. We request the government to devise a package for MSMEs. It should consist of an incentive component to bring back guest workers who have already left for their native places,” a communication says. According to the industrialists, the only way to tide over the crisis is for the banks to give them interest-free loans of up to 25%-30% of their working capital or their current account status. “For these loans, we also need a moratorium of six months to one year after which we can pay interest-free EMIs,” James says. The joint council, comprising the Confederation of Indian Industry, the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association and the Indian Chamber of Commerce Industry among others, sought a waiver of interest on all loans and cash credits for MSMEs for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-businesses-keep-guest-workers-in-pink-of-health-amid-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75000272.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Vadodara||One tests positive in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: Tribal-dominated Chhota Udepur district registered first novel coronavirus case on Sunday as a 60-year-old man from Bodeli town tested positive. The man had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi and had been under home quarantine since returning on March 23. According to district officials, samples of three persons from the district, who had attended the congregation, had been collected for tests. While the two others, who live in Pavi Jetpur, tested negative, the 60-year-old man was found infected.The patient has been referred to GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri for treatment. His family members have already been shifted to government quarantine facility. Local sources said that the trio was brought to the isolation ward of the hospital on Friday. “Although the samples of two other persons have turned out to be negative their home quarantine period will continue,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. With first case of coronavirus being reported, the administration has got into action to make sure that the cases do not multiply in the district. “We have cluster quarantined the entire area and procedure is being worked out with police and mamlatdar so that the families get their essential items at home itself,” Mayatra added. There are around 95 buildings in the area which will come under the cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-tests-positive-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/74999314.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Delhi||SDMC goes beyond corona hotspots||NEW DELHI: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Sunday surveyed 868 houses in the second round of the door-to-door check in Nizamuddin, which has become a Covid-19 hotspot following the Tablighi Jamaat congregations. On Saturday, 77 houses were covered. Thirteen teams of SDMC nurses and NGO volunteers, along with CRPF jawans and Delhi Police personnel, went to 361 houses in Nizam Nagar, 228 in Dildar Nagar and 279 in Khushroo Nagar and didn’t find any symptom in anybody, said an official. However, 43 families refused to share information while 21 houses were found locked, he added. While a large chunk of civic resources are focused on containing the spread of the novel coronavirus infection in Delhi’s two hotspots, Nizamuddin and Dishad Garden, the municipal corporations are also running a sustained disinfection and awareness campaign in vulnerable areas, especially JJ clusters with very high density of population. An SDMC official said that a list of vulnerable spots had been prepared in all four zones. “These are the areas where we may face extreme difficulty if the infection spreads. Hence, we are carrying out intensive disinfection drives using tankers and hand-held pumps,” he added. With two sanitation workers having been detected with the infection, SDMC on Sunday deployed a drone to spray slum areas in Paschimpuri, Laxmi Jhuggi Camp, Punjabi Bagh Extension and Janakpuri. “The lanes are narrow so we preferred a drone over manual staff. It sprayed 25kg disinfectant solution in 10 rounds, each lasting 30 minutes,” an official said. This minimised chances of sanitation staff catching infection and also saved time, he added. Only main roads are now covered manually. Even fire tenders are being deployed at places like Shankar Garden, Vikaspuri, Lado Sarai Village, Sarita Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Govindpuri Extension. Tankers have been deployed in Kasturba Niketan, Lajpat Nagar, Bakkarwala quarantine centre, Kapashera Extension and Kalkaji, said a spokesperson. “Regular action plans have been chalked out for densely populated areas, especially JJ clusters,” he added. The spots include Mahavir Enclave, Matiala, Dwarka, Mahipalpur and Kapashera in the Najafgarh zone; and Punjabi Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Khayala and Hastsal in the west zone. The focus is also on public offices, milk booths, grocery stores, common toilets and lanes where people had been asked to home-quarantine. Till Sunday, SDMC has sanitised 200 localities and 60,000 houses. At least 750 nurses and 1,100 domestic breeding checkers have surveyed 3,500 quarantined houses and are reporting daily to Delhi government’s nodal officers. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation is focusing on Dilshad Garden and the neghbouring Dilshad Colony and New Seemapuri. “Three tanker sprinklers, each with 9,000 litre disinfectant, are covering food distribution points, shelters for migrants and colonies with 22 positive cases,” said spokesperson Arun Kumar. More than 1,000 people in these areas have been home-quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-goes-beyond-corona-hotspots/articleshow/75000274.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Odd-even formula for essential supplies||Aurangabad: The Beed district administration has announced odd-even formula for people going out to buy essentials in order to ensure minimum movement during the ongoing lockdown period. The establishments supplying essential goods can keep their shops open for four hours only, as per an official release, quoting Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar. District headquarters Beed, Ambejogai, Parli and Majalgaon, which are considered major towns in the district, can get their supply of essentials only on April 7, April 9, April 11 and April 13. The establishments will be open from only 11am to 3pm at these places. The remaining towns and places in the district can get the essentials on April 8, April 10, April 12 and April 14. The establishments supplying essential items at these places will operate from 11am to 2pm. Rekhawar said that three districts neighbouring of Beed have already reported Covid-19 confirmed cases and, therefore, the district administration has decided not to take any chances. “It has been observed that the concept of lockdown is not followed in letter and spirit at some places. Some people are moving around in the name of buying essentials. As we head towards the crucial stage of lockdown, the movement of people has to be restricted at any cost in order to put a check on the spread of the virus,” he said. He said that the establishments supplying essentials will not witness crowding of people due to the odd-even formula and limited working hours. “The district administration has already prepared a special video for observing social distancing at establishments, including those supplying essentials. The owners of these establishments and the citizens are asked to obey the necessary rules,” Rekhawar said. As a precautionary measure, Beed district administration has already decentralised the main vegetable markets and ensured stringent check on the movement of outsiders with the help of digital techniques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/odd-even-formula-for-essential-supplies/articleshow/74998518.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Revenue dept exceeds collection, stands at 119%||Nashik: The district administration has collected Rs 203 crore revenue as against the target of Rs 171 crore. Though the administration faced all odds, including heavy rain, Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections as well as the coronavirus outbreak, it has insured 119% recovery of its annual target. The administration lost vital time in fighting all the odds, but still ensured that it kept its focus on revenue collection and put up an impressive performance. The Nashik division has also achieved in its target collection. It has collected Rs 540.18 crore as against the target of Rs 588.55 crore set by the state government. Nashik district tops revenue collection in the division as it has exceeded the target by 19%. Last year, the district witnessed incessant rainfall that resulted in loss of of crops across 6.36 lakh hectare of land. About 60% of the kharif plantation was affected due to rain, thus contributing to the revenue loss of the district. Similar performance was witnessed in other districts of Nashik division, including Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar. Dhule administration collected Rs 55.19 crore as against the target of Rs 52.91 crore (104.31%,), Nandurbar collected Rs 41 crore as against the target of Rs 38 crore (108 percent), Jalgaon collected Rs 141 crore as against target of Rs 140.65 (100%) and Ahmednagar collected Rs 146 crore as against the target of Rs 137 crore. The division has totally recorded 108% collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/revenue-dept-exceeds-collection-stands-at-119/articleshow/74998481.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Doorstep delivery of meds for sr citizens and PWDs||Nashik: The district administration and civil hospital have joined hands with Saifee Ambulance Corps and Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat (Nashik) for providing doorstep delivery of medicines to senior citizens and people with disabilities after seeking their requirement on WhatsApp. The arrangement aims at helping those who are unable to step out of their house for buying medicines due to the lockdown. The service will also be offered if any medicine is not available at the local pharmacy store. Those using this service, however, will have to make an online payment or cash on delivery for the medicine. “Due to the lockdown and absence of any public transport there are chances that the senior citizens and people with disabilities are unable to go out and buy medicines. In order to ensure that all such people get their medicines, the NGOs have decided to arrange transportation for the same,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. According to Dr Mustafa Bohra, one of the members of the group, there were instances wherein people were unable to buy medicines in their areas as they are related to a specific doctor or medical shop. “We request to the people to send the medicine prescription on our WhatsApp number 9700009753 one day prior to their requirement so that the medicines can be bought and delivered in the morning hours on the next day,” Dr Bohra said. “The team will also deliver the medicines to all the people who may not have money to buy the same but their relatives can send the money even on the basis of online money transfer,” Bohra added. The Saifee Ambulance Corps and Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat have kept three ambulances with 36 paramedics ready for meeting any emergency during the lock down. The services are only for the needy and not for those who are agile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doorstep-delivery-of-meds-for-sr-citizens-and-pwds/articleshow/74998469.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors in Hyderabad advise balanced diet and exercise||HYDERABAD: As the numbers of Covid-19 cases have seen a significant rise in the state in the last few days, health department officials and infectious disease control experts say that people must keep their movement outside the house minimal and use at least a simple mask while venturing out. “Going out for any purpose is risky, so it is better to stay home. People who are habituated to go for a walk, jog or gym should exercise at home ,” said Dr Shiva Raju, a senior consultant physician and diabetologist at Kims hospitals. He also stressed on the importance of balanced and nutritious diet, and adequate hydration. “Avoid refrigerated food items or beverages. Eat fresh and hot food,” he added. Taking adequate precautions at all times is essential. “If you are sick, you should wear a mask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a room or vehicle) and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office. If you cannot wear a mask (because it causes breathing difficulty), then you should do your best to cover your coughs and sneezes. People taking care of you should wear a facemask when they are around you,” stressed Dr Ravindra Nallagonda, senior consultant – pulmonology and consultant critical care medicine. Doctors also say that random testing in community should be taken up at this juncture. “This is the best time to test as many people as possible, which will enable us to quarantine infected people and prevent community transmission. There may be clusters of infected people who go undetected and act as a source of infection, resulting in sudden surge in positive cases once lockdown is lifted. This can defeat the very purpose of the lockdown,” said Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu, a consultant general physician at Yashoda hospitals. He also pointed out the need of more research to predict the spread in our country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-advise-balanced-diet-and-exercise/articleshow/75000282.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Workers shifted to corpn school||Coimbatore: Forty-nine guest workers from different parts of the state and Kerala who were temporarily staying in a community hall near the Thandu Mariamman temple in the city have been shifted to a corporation school in Varadarajapuram on Sunday.The move comes after the guest workers had gathered at the collectorate on Saturday night seeking proper facilities. The workers are being taken care of by a volunteer group that sources food and other essential items for them.Vivek, a volunteer, said they were moved to the school around 10.30am on Sunday. “We, along with officials, had been looking for a place for them for the past three days as we thought the local residents near the temple might oppose if the workers stayed in the community hall any longer,” he said.Of the total 50 workers who were stranded, one person was unwell and had been taken to the ESIC Hospital, said Vivek. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/workers-shifted-to-corpn-school/articleshow/75000283.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Agra||Windfall for potters as people heed to PM’s call to light candle, earthen lamp||Agra: For 50-year-old Noor Begum, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent call to the nation to light a candle or a diya (earthen lamp) at 9 pm on Sunday has come as a huge blessing. And Noor is not alone. The PM’s call has opened a window of opportunity for some of western UP’s potters even as the nation is passing through a difficult phase of the Covid-19 outbreak and 21 days of complete lockdown. For some, it was like a “Diwali sale”. Noor makes earthen lamps in her house in Hathras. She has been out of work since the nationwide lockdown from March 25. She, however, earned Rs 600 on Sunday, as customers queued to buy diyas for a symbolic victory over darkness in these times of despair. “I am really thankful to Modi ji, who has urged all citizens to light diyas in their houses,” said Noor, adding that she doesn’t know what the final outcome of the fight against Covid-19 would be. However, she is happy for earning Rs 1,300 in the past two days. Noor, who is a widow, lives with her three little granddaughters. She was worried more for the girls than herself. “After their parents’ death, they live with me and my savings are hardly there.” Following the PM’s address, several customers came to her to buy diyas - 100 pieces for Rs 20. Asifa Khan’s emotions are no different. Asifa makes diyas in Mathura. She never thought that suddenly so many people would line up to buy diyas, especially during the lockdown. “It is a kind of Diwali sale for us. People here buy diyas in large quantity on Ram Navami, too, but that did not happen this year due to closure of all temples,” she said. Expressing similar views, Kailash Gola, who sells diyas along with piggy banks, jugs and pots, told TOI on Sunday that though he sells diyas the entire year for devotees, there was no sale in the past few days as everything, including temples are shut. On Sunday, he earned Rs 250 in two hours. Balram Dixit, a customer who came to buy 100 such diyas, said, “I am just following PM Modi’s directions. Instead of lighting up only one diya, I will decorate the entire house.” Another customer, Manoj Sharma, who wasn’t sure whether diyas would be available during the lockdown said, “I have bought some too, and we will win over this darkness with the light of hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/windfall-for-potters-as-people-heed-to-pms-call-to-light-candle-earthen-lamp/articleshow/74998514.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||62 samples sent to AIIMS test negative on Sunday||Nagpur: The newly started laboratory at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur tested 62 swab samples for coronavirus on Sunday and all of them were turned out negative. These include eight family-members and seven close contacts of Mominpura resident who had tested positive on Saturday. The samples also include two of the eight Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendees from Nagpur and 12 samples of close contacts of a patient from Washim. The NMC traced, tested and quarantined 197 persons between April 1 and 3 as per directives of Ministry of Home Affairs. On April 3, Mayo Hospital lab released reports of 33 and all were negative. On April 4, AIIMS Nagpur tested 45 samples and one of them tested positive who happens to be a cap seller from Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. This means, in last three days, reports of 140 samples came of which only one was positive. Reports of 65 from NMC’s 197 are still awaited of which many are TJ related. AIIMS Nagpur is likely to release reports of remaining on Monday. Many samples from Nagpur, Yavatmal, Amravati, Buldhana, Chandrapur and Washim will also be tested on Monday. Of these, most samples are either of the TJ attendees or their close contacts. Officials from Washim confirmed that 12 close contacts of the positive patient had tested negative. “Two samples are yet to be tested. We are now concentrating on the low risk contacts and active surveillance of Mendshi village where the patient resides,” said civil surgeon Dr Ambadas Sontakke. In Yavatmal, suspected cases admitted in the isolation wards of GMCH, Yavatmal, rose to 51 on Sunday. Total 44 of the 51 are either Nizamuddin returnees or their contacts. District Administration informed swab reports from Nagpur were awaited since four days. According to the district collector M D Singh, there were 87 home quarantines in the district. He reiterated that the health of those in isolation wards was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/62-samples-sent-to-aiims-test-negative-on-sunday/articleshow/75000299.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured elephant rescued, sent for further treament||Krishnagiri: A 15-year-old elephant which suffered a severe injury in its legs was shifted on Sunday to a forest area near Dhenkanikottai in Krishnagiri for further treatment. The elephant had moved away from its herd near Melumalai and entered Karimangalam in Dharmapuri districit ten days ago. Walking in an unknown terrain, it fell into a well and injured its legs.The elephant was rescued from the well by forest officials and was released into a forest near Krishnagiri. However, villagers informed officials that the elephant was spotted near a mango orchard near Thudukanahalli and was struggling to walk. Forest staff with veterinary doctors administered medicines to it.On Saturday, forest staff translocated the elephant to a forest near Dhenkanikottai, where it will be treated further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-elephant-rescued-sent-for-further-treament/articleshow/75000290.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn cooks up plan to beat hunger pangs in city||Coimbatore: The helpline of the Emergency Food Response Team (EFRT) of the city corporation rang early on Sunday afternoon. Moments after the brief call informing about a group of people stranded without food at Malumichampatti ended, the volunteers sprung into action. Within two hours, a van carrying packets of food rushed to Malumichampatti, where several people waited for their first meal of the day. EFRT, a joint effort of the city corporation and a dozen organisations including No Food Waste, Coimbatore for Tamil Nadu (C4TN) and the District Catering Association, has been feeding 15,000 people every day since the lockdown. It has identified 50 hunger spots in the city, where street dwellers, guest workers and destitutes are concentrated. While some the hunger spots are static, some change from day to day. Though other civic bodies in the state have also come up with similar distress mitigation efforts along with NGOs, EFRT has a more structured model in feeding the needy during the lockdown. While the city corporation’s role is coordinating, helping them with logistics and facilitating flow of fund and provisions, about 40 volunteers attend distress calls, verify them and assessing the need, reach out to patrons to rope in professional cooks and also ensure quality of food. The menu includes variety rice, dosa and chapati. They also serve coffee, tea and snacks. EFRT uses nine vehicles and 18 people for food distribution. It provides one-time meal for 12,000 people and twice for 3,000 people. The team members say they have served 1.12 lakh plates of food to the people till Sunday since the lockdown. On average, the team has been serving about 15,000 plates every day and on Sunday, the numbers spiked to 21,990 plates. “Roping in professionals, we have been cooking meals for over 5,000 people every day at two centralized community kitchens at Town Hall and Singanallur. We also receive food from our supporting kitchens,” says founder of No Food Waste Padmanaban Gopal, who is coordinating the project. Several trusts, associations and companies have extended support either by setting up support kitchens or by making donations in the form of money and products. “When the community kitchens were set up 10 days ago, we received over 700 calls per day. After we promised to provide food on a daily basis, the numbers came down to 250 – 300. More than 50% of the calls are from daily wage labourers in slum areas in the city and 30% of them are senior citizens,” says Bala, a volunteer. The team has also been distributing grocery kits consisting of 14 products including rice, oil, dal, potatoes and tomatoes to the economically weaker sections of the society. They have identified over 1,000 such families in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-cooks-up-plan-to-beat-hunger-pangs-in-city/articleshow/75000294.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Man held for uploading provocative message on WhatsApp||NASHIK: A 31-year-old man was arrested on Saturday by Jalna police for uploading a provocative message targeting a certain community in a WhatsApp group. According to police, the man, through his provocative message, had requested people in the group to refrain from buying vegetable from people belonging to a certain community as it would be like buying one’s own death. Police inspector Ravikant Sonawane of Jalgaon taluka police station said the man was arrested under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-uploading-provocative-message-on-whatsapp/articleshow/74998498.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 16 more Markaz men identified, total now 126, says DGP||AHMEDABAD: DGP Shivanand Jha told reporters on Sunday that 16 more persons who had gone from Gujarat to attend the congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi have been identified. Of these 16, two were from the city, 11 from Junagadh and three were from Chhota Udepur. All of them have been medically checked and sent to home quarantine. With identification of 16 more persons, the total number of persons who had gone to the Markaz from the state now stand at 126. “The search for such people will continue,” added Jha. Jha said they are concerned about rumours regarding Covid-19 and spreading of hatred among communities. “We have begun strong technical surveillance on social media and registered 14 cases of such nature on Saturday and arrested 46 people in Surat and Ahmedabad,” Jha said. While reiterating that nobody will be spared for violating Section 144 and lockdown norms, Jha said authorities have deployed 178 drones across the state to keep watch on the ground. “On Saturday, based on drone footages, 342 cases were registered in the state with the total going up to 1,083 and 3,601 people have been arrested in these cases,” Jha said. Twenty-four cases were registered based on CCTV footages on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-16-more-markaz-men-identified-total-now-126/articleshow/74999905.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop’s song goes viral, spreads awareness on coronavirus||Coimbatore: A song penned and sung by a constable of the Tamil Nadu Special Police based at Kovaipudur has become popular on social media for helping spread awareness on Covid-19.The song was created by V Pushbaraj, 35, a grade II constable hailing from Kotagiri in Nilgiris district, and received widespread appreciation after it was uploaded on the Smule app, a video production tool.“When I was in school, I used to sing during our annual day function or on important festivals. Later, I began singing during my friends’ wedding. After joining the police force in 2016, I used to sing during my spare time,” said Pushbaraj.The brainwave for the song, Pushbaraj said, was the persistent requests his colleagues and seniors in the police were making for people to stay indoors to contain the novel coronavirus. “Under the present circumstances, Section 144 is in force throughout the country. Even then, a lot of people can be found loitering outside their houses… My song was a means to request people to stay indoors,” he said.Pushbaraj had recorded the song and shared it with a head constable, who was impressed and in turn shared it with his seniors. After seeing the video, senior police officials appreciated his efforts in helping create awareness on the life-threatening pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-song-goes-viral-spreads-awareness-on-coronavirus/articleshow/75000296.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Patients not happy with Chest hospital diet plan||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 patients admitted at Government General and Chest Hospital have said that they are not being provided with adequate and nutritious food. According to a patient, only rice, dal, curry and curd is being served to them and a lack of fruits, eggs as well as dry fruits has turned them malnourished in 14 days. “We understand that the state is trying to provide us with best possible treatment, but it is equally important to provide patients with nutritious food ,” said a patient. “With family members quarantined and the lockdown in place, it is extremely difficult to get supplies,” another patient added. Many also said that patients with diabetes are more vulnerable. “ Mahboob Khan, superintendent of Chest Hospital, said that they are waiting for instructions to provide a special diet to Covid-19 patients. “We should be able to arrange a special diet for Covid-19 patients in the next two to three days,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patients-not-happy-with-chest-hosp-diet-plan/articleshow/75000306.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi toll 7, cases cross 500 mark||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi has reached seven with the state health authorities confirming one more casualty due to the novel coronavirus infection on Sunday. A 52-year-old man, who was admitted to Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh for a neurological condition, died two days ago and tests have confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive. The hospital authorities told TOI that two doctors, two nurses and another staffer had also tested positive. “The whole hospital has been affected. We have at least 130 staff, including doctors and nurses, who have been put under quarantine,” said a senior official. The count of affected medical staff at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, a 180-bedded hospital in east Delhi, also went up to eight on Sunday. The hospital, which had to be shut down recently when one of its doctor and three nurses tested positive, now has four more confirmed cases in another doctor and three more nurses. Over 20 healthcare staff have so far tested positive in in the city. A Delhi government official said the death count might increase as some of the patients admitted in hospitals were in critical condition. “In all, 19 Covid-19 patients are in ICU. Of them, four are on ventilator support. Thirteen others are requiring oxygen support,” he said. Overall, Delhi has recorded 503 cases of Covid-19, including 58 new cases on Sunday. A majority of the total cases is related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation hosted in March at its headquarters in Nizamuddin. Foreigners from many affected countries attended the annual event held at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. While in 80% cases, Covid-19 causes mild symptoms such as fever and cough, 20% of the patients also develop breathing difficulty. If breathing difficulty worsens, due to lung damage caused by the viral infection, the patient may require mechanical ventilation. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that most Covid-19 deaths in Delhi had involved people above 60 years of age with co-morbidities. “One person had liver disease, one diabetes, while two had a respiratory condition and one person had heart disease,” he said, urging all senior citizens to be cautious and stay indoor. “The senior citizens are very precious to us and I do not want any of them to suffer. I will also request the people who have serious diseases to be very cautious because novel coronavirus can be lethal for them.” Delhi government is facing an acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the current stock would last only two to three days and they had demanded 50,000 PPE kits urgently from the Centre. Each PPE kit, an essential preventive healthcare utility, includes a surgeon gown, face mask, gloves, preventive eye wear, hood cap and shoe covers. It helps reduce the risk of infection to healthcare workers attending to the infected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-toll-7-cases-cross-500-mark/articleshow/75000304.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 6, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR produces 2,672 litre of sanitiser & 17,800 masks||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has distributed over 17,800 masks and 2,672 litre of hand sanitiser to its working staff in the entire zone. The sanitisers are not only given to the regular employees but also to the contract workers. “Indian Railways is making all efforts to support the healthcare initiatives of the Government of India. In this direction, Indian Railways is producing masks and sanitiser in all its zonal railways, Production Units and PSUs,” said chief public relations officer of SCR, Ch Rakesh said. Among the six different divisions of the zone, the Nanded division has manufactured 14 litre of sanitiser and 3,000 masks, SCR authorities said. The Indian Railways, as a whole, has produced 2,87,704 masks and 25,806 litre of sanitiser till April 1. The SCR has provided soap, water, and washing facilities at all workplaces across the region. “Since freight operations of Indian Railways are running 24x7 to maintain essentials and goods supplies, operation and maintenance staff are working round the clock all sanitation equipments are provided to them,” said Rakesh The SCR has also provided 18 telephone lines in the six divisions under the numbers of 138 and 182 to answer any queries of the common public with respect to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-produces-2672-litre-of-sanitiser-17800-masks/articleshow/74998531.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Salem||10 meat shops defy curfew rules, sealed||Salem: At least 10 meat shops were sealed in Salem for functioning in the city limits on Sunday, despite a prohibitory order by the authorities. Since large number of people were crowding meat shops on weekends, officials had ordered to shift all the shops to the city outskirts from April 4. They had also identified a vast area on Omalur Road to relocate the shops temporarily. The officials had also formed 10 teams to ensure compliance with the curfew rules. The teams, led by assistant corporation commissioners, found that 10 meat shops – three each in Asthampatti zone and Kondalampati zone, and four in Ammapettai zone - were functioning from the existing places, drawing a large crowd. The officials seized the meat kept for sales and sealed the shops. Salem corporation commissioner R Sadheesh said their licences were also cancelled and further legal action would be taken on them for violating CrPC Section 144.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/10-meat-shops-defy-curfew-rules-sealed/articleshow/75000303.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem, Erode set up disinfectant tunnels||Salem: Taken up the huge response that the disinfectant tunnel in Tirupur evoked from different quarters, similar tunnels have been set up in Erode and Salem. While Erode collector C Kathiravan and corporation commissioner M Elangovan unveiled one such tunnel at the bus stand that was recently converted into temporary vegetable market on Saturday, a similar one was inaugurated in Salem on Sunday by district collector S A Raman and corporation commissioner R Sadheesh. The disinfectant tunnel in Salem has also been kept at the bus stand, which too has been converted into a temporary vegetable market to ensure people don’t crowd the existing market. The Salem corporation commissioner said there was a good response to the tunnel and the public were making use of the same. The tunnel, like the one kept in Tirupur, sprays a solution of sodium hypochlorite on the public, disinfecting them. Officials said they are planning to install more such disinfectant tunnels in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-erode-set-up-disinfectant-tunnels/articleshow/75000301.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Coimbatore||10 meat shops defy curfew rules, sealed||Salem: At least 10 meat shops were sealed in Salem for functioning in the city limits on Sunday, despite a prohibitory order by the authorities. Since large number of people were crowding meat shops on weekends, officials had ordered to shift all the shops to the city outskirts from April 4. They had also identified a vast area on Omalur Road to relocate the shops temporarily. The officials had also formed 10 teams to ensure compliance with the curfew rules. The teams, led by assistant corporation commissioners, found that 10 meat shops – three each in Asthampatti zone and Kondalampati zone, and four in Ammapettai zone - were functioning from the existing places, drawing a large crowd. The officials seized the meat kept for sales and sealed the shops. Salem corporation commissioner R Sadheesh said their licences were also cancelled and further legal action would be taken on them for violating CrPC Section 144.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-meat-shops-defy-curfew-rules-sealed/articleshow/75000305.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh draws up Plan-B as coronavirus stings health top guns||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh is the only state where a string top bureaucrats, leading the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, are in the grip of the virus. While seven senior health officials, including two IAS officers, have tested positive in just 48 hours, as many as 14 senior IAS officers spearheading the mission are in quarantine or home isolation. Sources say the administration is putting a plan B in place in case the need arises. The officials either hospitalized with Covid-19 or in quarantine as possibly infected have rich experience in the health sector – one of them is an MD and another principal secretary of health – and the expertise needed to handle such a crisis. Samples of 120 officials had been sent for tests after the first IAS officer tested positive on April 3. With so many of them confined indoors, the administration has to act fast to ensure the battlelines against Covid-19 don’t falter. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan praised health and police officials, who caught the infection in the line of duty. “The government has prepared a second line of action in case any official gets infected,” he said. Sources told TOI that a second line of senior bureaucrats has been drawn up to step into the battleground in case a backup plan needs to be put in operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-draws-up-plan-b-as-virus-stings-health-top-guns/articleshow/75000597.cms||Ankur Sirothia
April 6, 2020||Trichy||NCC cadets to help police enforce social distancing at public places||Trichy: About 60 NCC cadets from city colleges will work alongside police and medical staff in their fight against Covid-19 from Tuesday. The cadets were brought to Campion Anglo Indian Higher secondary school on Sunday for basic medical check-up and orientation. They will be engaging with the police under the supervision of NCC instructors to effectively implement social distancing in markets and other places. NCC director general, New Delhi, had extended the services of NCC cadets in the fight against the pandemic.Under ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’ programme, he urged the senior division NCC cadets aged above 18 to volunteer. “We received about 1,000 calls from cadets in and around Trichy who expressed willingness to volunteer for the cause,” said Colonel C Elavarasan, NCC group commander, Trichy.“While parent’s consent is a must, we have called in about 59 cadets in the first phase and gave them training on Sunday,” he said. Nodal officers from NCC have been appointed to facilitate the cadets in effectively carrying out the work in coordination with the police department.“As per the guidelines laid down by the DG NCC, cadets will be given secondary task such as relief material distribution, data management. They will not be allowed to handle law and order situation and taken to the hotspots,” said the colonel.While 13 ex-cadets have also come forward to volunteer, they will work from 9am to 6 pm in two shifts. He promised safety for cadets and asked Trichy collector to include them in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana so they get insurance of Rs 50 lakh, he said.For ex-cadets like S M Blesslin Bala, it was a golden opportunity to give back to the society. TBlesslin Bala, who is aspiring to become officer in the Armed forces, said that NCC officers offering to volunteer and the announcement from DG NCC are timely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ncc-cadets-to-help-police-enforce-social-distancing-at-public-places/articleshow/75000317.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad locals light crackers, bonfires during PM’s ‘9 PM, 9 min’ call||HYDERABAD: Residents of the city answered Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to show solidarity with the nation’s fight against coronavirus by bursting crackers and lighting huge bonfires. Some people even took out mashaal juloos (flambeau) in their colonies, defying social distancing and lockdown norms. Even before the clock struck 9 pm, people had started lighting diyas, lamps, and torches along with crackers. Although the call was made for nine minutes, many continued their activities for over 30 minutes. “It seems as if the message among people went askew as they lit fire crackers and set up bornfires. Such activities must have added to the pollution levels, which were otherwise low post lockdown,” said Krishna Venu, a senior citizen in Sainikpuri. The atmosphere seemed to be like mini Diwali, as people emerged from their houses and stood in balconies and terraces, as requested by the Prime Minister. Many people also raised slogans of ‘go corona go’, ‘Jai Hind’ and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ as they released sky lanterns. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao lit a candle at Pragathi Bhavan to support the united fight put up by the entire country against the spread of coronavirus. Hyderabad traffic cops also flashed their mobile lights at KBR junction during duty hours. Many residents took precautions amid concerns over grid failure due to sudden reduction in power consumption. The CM congratulated Tranco Genco Discom officials for maintaining the electricity grid during the call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-light-crackers-bonfires-during-pms-9-pm-9-min-call/articleshow/75000329.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Prisoner attacks cop, bolts with pistol from Nizamabad hospital||HYDERABAD: A remand prisoner, who was undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Nizamabad, assaulted a head constable, snatched his pistol and fled from the location on Saturday night. Police have launched a manhunt to nab him. Nizamabad police said R Prakash,33, who was arrested for his alleged role in three burglary cases, has been in judicial remand since January 20. On Saturday morning, Prakash complained of ill-health in jail as he had consumed several tablets. Prakash was shifted to a local government hospital by jail staff, where he underwent treatment. Meanwhile, two Armed Reserve policemen — a head constable and a constable — were sent to the hospital to guard Prakash. Around 9.30pm on Saturday, the constable went to have dinner, while the head constable was guarding the prisoner. Taking advantage of the situation, Prakash jumped on the head constable, snatched his pistol and attacked the latter with the pistol’s butt on his hand before fleeing from the hospital. “There was dereliction of duty on the part of the head constable. As of now, Prakash is missing. He is in possession of a police pistol. We formed teams to search for Prakash,’’ Nizamabad police said. In 2015, Prakash was allegedly involved in a murder case too. After coming out on bail, he was reportedly involved in three burglaries and was subsequently arrested. “The constable suffered a minor injury on his hand,” police said. Police have registered a case against Prakash under the Arms Act besides slapping charges for escaping from judicial custody and assaulting a policeman on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prisoner-attacks-cop-bolts-with-pistol-from-nzb-hosp/articleshow/75000611.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Tapper fined Rs 1,500 for selling toddy||JANGAON: Raghunathpally gram panchayat fined a toddy tapper Rs 1,500. Pagidipally Ilaiah, a resident of Bhanjipet village, sold toddy to neighbouring villagers on Saturday. The gram panchayat staff fined him and stated the reason on receipt as violating the village terms and conditions during the lockdown period. However, Illaiah appealed the gram panchayat staff to exclude him from the fine because he would be unable to meet daily needs without selling toddy. Knowing this, toddy tappers demanded the district authorities to take action against the gram panchayat staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tapper-fined-rs-1500-for-selling-toddy/articleshow/75000312.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Western Railway sends relief train to Chennai||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad division of the Western Railway has sent a train to Chennai and Korukkupet loaded with milk, Amul Milk products, grass, and masks. The train departed from the Kankaria yard on Sunday. The city has so far sent relief trains to places such as Haryana and West Bengal. The special train that left on Sunday will reach Chennai Central on April 7. According to railway officials, seven rakes were loaded with milk, two with Amul Milk products, one with general goods including edible oil and groceries, two with dry grass, and four with supplies such as masks and gloves. The officials said that from March 22 to April 2, 587 rakes have supplied essential commodities amounting to 1.22 million tonnes. The Western Railway Women’s Welfare Organization, Rajkot, distributed packets containing 2 cloth masks, a sanitizer, a soap bar, and a thermometer to 100 families of Group D employees in Kothi Compound Colony of Rajkot. The Bhavnagar unit of the organization distributed 150 food packets and ration kits to the poor. In all, 247 food packets received from commercial staff and NGOs were distributed at Botad, Navgharh, Veraval, and Mahuva stations. Also 2,060 food packets were distributed to labourers at Nadiad goods shed by the Vadodara division. The Ahmedabad division gave away 2,915 food packets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wr-sends-relief-train-to-chennai/articleshow/74999903.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Amaravati||Rapid surge in Covid-19 cases stuns Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday reported 62 new cases of coronavirus cases, taking the Covid-19 count to 334, even as authorities grappled to stop the spread of the virus across the state. The health department appealed to the people who had gone to the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi or their close contacts to come forward for tests as sources said most of the new cases were patients, who had gone for the congregation in mid-March. While there was no deaths or discharges, the focus shifted to Warangal urban, which has so far reported 23 cases. “There were plenty of marriages held, where even 1500 people were in attendance when Hyderabad has already reported the first case. We are trying to bring things under control there and other districts,” an official said. Hyderabad has however, the the highest number of active cases at 139, a bulk of them happens to be patients who went to the Delhi meet. Nizamabad at 19, again mostly people who went to the meet, followed by Mahbubabad, Peddapalle, Nirmal and Sangareddy. The bulletin released by the health department said that 10 persons were released from Hyderabad. Sources said that by afternoon, the state had 30 cases which reached 62 by late evening. More than one lakh houses have been surveyed. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday held a conference with all high-level authorities. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar conducted a video conference with the district collectors. It was also decided to spend the donations received CMRF to curb coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/t-reports-62-new-covid-19-cases-in-1-day/articleshow/75002125.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four held for playing carrom on terrace in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Saturday booked four persons for defying lockdown as they were caught playing carrom on the terrace of their flat in the Vastrapur area of the city. According to an FIR filed with Vastrapur police, a team of cops was patrolling to ensure lockdown. The cops were using a drone camera to scan each nook and corner of the Vastrapur area. When it was flying above Swagat Apartment, the police saw some activity on the terrace. When they zoomed the camera over the terrace, the cops found that four persons were playing carrom there. The cops clicked their images and booked them for disobedience of the lockdown notification. This is the second case where four persons were booked for playing game. A cop said that the four should have remained indoor and played the game. Besides, the four persons did not maintain social distancing which was against the notification. This may spread the novel coronavirus. Last week, four persons were booked for playing volleyball in common plot of their apartments in Bodakdev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-held-for-playing-carrom-on-terrace/articleshow/74999897.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Business||E-tailers look at navigating hotspots and group buying||Bengaluru: Amid discussions of a staggered easing of restrictions at the end of the 21-day lockdown on April 14, e-tailers, delivering essentials, are devising strategies to operate amid new Covid-19 clusters and emerging hotspots across the country. E-commerce majors, like Amazon India, are considering to deliver only on certain days of a week in select areas that have seen higher numbers of positive cases. To manage the rising volume of orders, e-grocer Bigbasket is already encouraging consumers to merge their orders with their neighbours so that more goods can be delivered in the same slot for one location. Meanwhile, Amazon has extended its work from home policy for 65,000 employees in India to April 24, in line with the global policy. “This is being considered for states, like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, with high number of cases. They (delivery partners) would have to take long detours to reach the surrounding areas, meaning more time for deliveries. So doing these areas only on select days might be better,” a person in the know of the developments said. Government officials, including home secretary, are scheduled to meet on Monday to discuss an exit strategy from the lockdown. E-commerce executives, in charge of essential deliveries are expected to be part of the meeting as well, sources said. While e-tailers are steadily increasing the volume of deliveries, curfew passes, being non-transferable, have emerged as an issue for scaling up operations. Flipkart is managing about 20,000 deliveries a day, while Bigbasket is operating at about 60% of its capacity. As of Sunday evening, Amazon was delivering in select pincodes in 40 cities. E-tailers are awaiting Monday’s meeting as the outcome might affect their logistics and supply chain networks. Emails sent to Amazon and Flipkart did not elicit any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-look-at-navigating-hotspots-and-group-buying/articleshow/74999859.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana doctor who went to Delhi under scanner||HYDERABAD: A senior doctor, who is part of the Telangana government’s Covid-19 committee to fight against the outbreak, is giving sleepless nights to the health department. Authorities said that an ophthalmologist of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad district who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in mid-March, flouted quarantine rules. He resumed work after returning to the institute and even carried out surgeries. “Despite being on the Covid-19 committee, the doctor had ignored the basic precautionary measure of 14 days self-quarantine after returning from Delhi,” said a senior health department official. The doctor was traced by police, while looking for people who attended the congregation in Delhi recently. The doctor, who is also a senior functionary of the Tablighi Jamaat in Adilabad, had attended the meeting in mid-March and after returning from Delhi, attended regular outpatient (OP) services, besides carrying out a few surgeries, said sources at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. While his test result is awaited, the fact that he ignored the basic precautions and had met hundreds of patients and many colleagues has angered the health department. The doctor is now in a quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-doc-who-went-to-delhi-under-scanner/articleshow/75000613.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Rapid surge in Covid-19 cases stuns Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday reported 62 new cases of coronavirus cases, taking the Covid-19 count to 334, even as authorities grappled to stop the spread of the virus across the state. The health department appealed to the people who had gone to the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi or their close contacts to come forward for tests as sources said most of the new cases were patients, who had gone for the congregation in mid-March. While there was no deaths or discharges, the focus shifted to Warangal urban, which has so far reported 23 cases. “There were plenty of marriages held, where even 1500 people were in attendance when Hyderabad has already reported the first case. We are trying to bring things under control there and other districts,” an official said. Hyderabad has however, the the highest number of active cases at 139, a bulk of them happens to be patients who went to the Delhi meet. Nizamabad at 19, again mostly people who went to the meet, followed by Mahbubabad, Peddapalle, Nirmal and Sangareddy. The bulletin released by the health department said that 10 persons were released from Hyderabad. Sources said that by afternoon, the state had 30 cases which reached 62 by late evening. More than one lakh houses have been surveyed. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday held a conference with all high-level authorities. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar conducted a video conference with the district collectors. It was also decided to spend the donations received CMRF to curb coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-62-new-covid-19-cases-in-1-day/articleshow/75000327.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Meerut||In UP’s Meerut, a para-athlete who makes diyas for living, distributes them for free after PM’s appeal||Meerut: At 27, Ravi Kumar has seen it all. From laurels at international para-athlete events to the rants of impolite locals purchasing earthen pots from his makeshift shop at a Meerut street. “Laurels don’t bring food,” he says. The laurels could not help Ravi make a decent living.He makes and sells earthen pots and diyas to support his family at a small shop in Meerut’s Ganga Nagar. But, on Saturday, when Ravi saw locals thronging his shop for diyas months ahead of Diwali, he could not stop asking the reason. When told about Prime Minister’s appeal to light diyas and candles on Sunday night amid the ongoing Covid-19 scare, Ravi took a call. He stopped charging money and gave hundreds of earthen lamps for free to contribute his part.“Diyas sell only during Diwali. People do not purchase them rest of the year. But, when locals started coming to purchase them for the Sunday night’s event, I decided to give them for free. How could I ask for money for this,” said Ravi, whose stock vanished by Sunday evening.“It is my little contribution to the country during this tough time,” he said.Ranveer Singh, Ravi’s father, said: “The monthly income of our family is about Rs 8,000. There is little we can do in this. Ravi’s younger siblings, a sister and a brother, are still in school. We have to look after their studies also.”Earlier, the family was involved in embroidery business. But, with the entry of modern and cheap clothes, their business ran into loss. It was then that they switched to making earthen pots, diyas, statues of god and goddesses.Ravi’s left side was paralyzed at the time of his birth.Pronounced 50% disabled, Ravi continued to work hard and won several district and state-level medals. He also went on to win three medals in the 18th National Para Athletic Championship, 2018. Recently, he represented India in World Para Athletics Paris Grand Prix-- officially known as Handisport Open Paris in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-ups-meerut-a-para-athlete-who-makes-diyas-for-living-distributes-them-for-free-after-pms-appeal/articleshow/74999868.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Lack of protective gear raises scare for workers in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Lack of proper masks, gowns and eye gear is creating safety scare for health workers in sensitive areas of the city. These workers are performing their duties in many Coivd-19 hotspots of city. While, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has announced to purchase 300 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), the number is far too less. The officials claim the kit will be provided to workers who are being deployed in Ramganj which is declared as hotspot of the city. However, providing PPE to all would remain a challenge. Sanitation workers alleged no kit has been provided to the workers till date. They are collecting garbage from the houses, hospitals and market areas where possibilities of infection prevail. Geeta Devi, who has been deployed in Galta Gate area, said, “Our area is adjoined to the Walled City. There are narrow lanes and people remain off roads most of the time. Before the curfew, many people from this area had travelled to areas in Walled City. The government should provide PPE as it is risky for us to work in such conditions,” she said. Another sanitation worker Mukesh Bapulal said, “No proper protection equipment could be one of the reasons for infection among workers. The government should consider this request seriously,” he said. A JMC official said the workers were provided Rs 1,000 to buy gloves, mask, sanitizers after the urban development and housing (UDH) department directed the local bodies. “The PPE kit is an essential preventive healthcare utility and each kit includes a surgeon gown, a face mask, gloves, a preventive eye wear, a hood cap and a shoe cover. It helps reduce the risk of infection to workers attending to the infected persons. Providing PPE to all the workers could take time as there is acute shortage,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-protective-gear-raises-scare-for-workers/articleshow/75000322.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||Spotted deer rescued from well in Perambalur||Trichy: A one-year-old male spotted deer that fell into a 50-feet-deep open well was rescued by forest department and fire and rescue service personnel, near Esanai village in Perambalur district. The incident happened on Saturday evening when local farmers found the deer in the open well and the informed forest department. Forest range officer M Madheswaran informed Perambalur fire and rescue service. Eight fire and rescue service personnel rescued the spotted deer in an hour long operation. Perambalur district fire officer Damodaran said two fire fighters entered the well with the help of ropes and handed the deer over to the forest department. “In most cases, spotted deer die from shock during such a rescue operation as they are very timid. But in this case, the deer was doing well and could be rescued unhurt. It was later released in the Annamangalam forest,” said Madheswaran. Forest officials said that the deer could have come in search of water and could have accidentally fallen into the fell after being chased away by stray dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spotted-deer-rescued-from-well-in-perambalur/articleshow/75000332.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Civic hosp isolation ward gets new security after patient escapes||Nashik: The city police on Sunday deployed two home guards outside the isolation ward of the Nashik Civil Hospital after a youth escaped from the ward even before being discharged. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said that two home guards would keep a check on the isolation ward around the clock to ensure that such incident is not repeated again. He said that the hospital premises already has a police chowky. But as the isolation ward is on the rear side of the hospital, the guards have been assigned to keep a strict vigil on the concerned ward. Hemant Somavanshi, senior PI of Sarkarwada police station, said that the 19-year-old youth has been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). He was nabbed by the police on Saturday evening. Resident medical officer Anant Pawar of Nashik civil hospital said that the youth continues to be admitted in the hospital. He said that although the youth is tested negative there are few tests pending on him for his other ailments. Many people, who had a travel history from Covid-19 affected counties, have been admitted and discharged from Nashik civil hospital According to senior officials of the hospital, the institution has its own security arrangement in place. However, the security guards are utilised in the main building, entrance, OPD Section and parking lots of the hospital. After Saturday’s incident, the civil hospital had requested for immediate security of the isolation ward, following which the home guards were sanctioned to the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-hosp-isolation-ward-gets-new-security-after-patient-escapes/articleshow/74998591.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two home guards hit by auto||AHMEDABAD: An autorickshaw driver was held on Saturday evening after his vehicle hit the motorcycle of two home guard jawans, Prakash and Vasant Patni, after they tried to stop the rickshaw near Hardasnagar Crossroads. Askash Patni, 19, has been arrested. Prakash tried to stop the auto. The passenger took control of the auto and sped away. Prakash and and Vasant gave chase on their motorcycle. When the auto reached Machani Masjid, the driver deliberately rammed his auto into the bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-home-guards-hit-by-auto/articleshow/74999893.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nashik||Police seize 46 vehicles in Satpur on Saturday||Nashik: As many as 46 vehicles were seized by police from people who were found roaming unnecessarily during the lockdown in Satpur area of the city on Saturday. A senior police officer said they would ensure the errant motorists do not get their vehicles back soon. “Several checkpoints are in place to keep a check on people not moving out without any valid reasons and ensure the lockdown is a success. However, many people are not following the norm, forcing us to take strict action,” he said. In Satpur area, it was found that people are moving freely between the checkpoints in the interiors of the city. Mangalsingh Suryawanshi, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of the city traffic branch, said, “The drive was carried out in Satpur area on Saturday evening. We managed to seize vehicles of around 46 motorists flouting the lockdown norm.” “We had already issued strict instructions to the citizens that if they were found moving on the streets unnecessarily, their vehicles would be seized and would not be returned soon,” he added.  The traffic branch ACP also said that similar drives would be taken up in different parts of the city given that a large number of vehicles were found moving around in the city. “We are also spreading awareness among people asking them not to venture out of their homes unnecessarily. However, after the initial lockdown period, people have started coming out of their homes and are avoiding the checkpoints to move from one area of the city to another,” he said. “But most of the people are staying home. Thus, the traffic branch personnel were maintaining a watch on erring motorists and took action against them under Section 188 of the IPC,” he added. The officer said that they would also start booking the motorists concerned under the Motor vehicle Act (MVA) if they were found travelling without the necessary documents of the vehicle like driving license, registration certificate, insurance papers, pollution under control (PUC) certificate, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-seize-46-vehicles-in-satpur-on-saturday/articleshow/74998573.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Nabard sees 82% rise in loans to Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) said on Sunday that there had been an 82% increase in its loan disbursals to various schemes of the Andhra Pradesh government in 2019-20. “During the year loans disbursed by the AP regional office to the government of AP and various state government-owned corporations reached an all-time high of Rs 6,060 crore, from the Rs 3,331 crore in the previous year, a growth of 82%,” S Selvaraj, Nabard’s chief general manager, said in a press release said. Nabard had released Rs 1,850 crore as the central government’s share for the Polavaram irrigation project. It said that under its Rural Infrastructure Development Fund, Nabard had a loan of Rs 1,931 crore to the Chintalapudi lift irrigation project in West Godavari and Krishna district, including a loan of Rs 819 crore to the AP Water Resources Development Corp to set up a drinking water scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nabard-sees-82-rise-in-loans-to-ap/articleshow/75000615.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: GSPC begins process to sell stake in 7 onshore blocks||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat State Petroleum Corp (GSPC) has finalized four private firms, including one foreign entity, for offloading its stake in seven oil and gas blocks. The selected companies include billionaire Dilip Shanghvi backed Sun Petro, Kiri and Company Logistics Pvt Ltd, Gujarat Natural Resources Ltd (GNRL) and Singapore based TH Investments Pte Ltd. Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute, GSPC’s energy research arm, had on March 1 floated a tender to farm out two operating and 10 non-operating exploration and production fields. The deadline for the bid submission was delayed multiple times after some central PSUs demanded the same. Of the 12 fields, GSPC is the operator in two of them, Unawa and Miroli, while it is non-operating partner in the rest. Of these 10 blocks, five are operated by ONGC, three by GNRL and one each by Sun Petro and Australian oil explorer Oilex. While GNRL successfully won the three blocks where it was the operator, the fourth block that it won eventually earlier saw Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd emerging as the highest bidder. “GNRL being a partner in the fourth block exercised its right of first refusal and bid higher to bag the block. In all, GNRL has won four of the 12 blocks,” said a senior government official in the know of the matter. An official of GNRL said that since they were already an existing partner in the block and were aware of its hydrocarbon potential, it made good business sense to own it completely. Rajasthan based Kiri and Company Logistics Pvt Ltd, which has been associated in the oil field services for over a decade, was the highest bidder for the Bhandut block, said sources. GSPC’s hopes of selling its stake to a central PSU were dashed after ONGC, which is an operating partner in five out of the 12 blocks that were on sale, did not participate in the bidding process. All these five blocks remain unsold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gspc-begins-process-to-sell-stake-in-7-onshore-blocks/articleshow/74999891.cms||Maulik Pathak
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Bundi tribal community flouts lockdown, holds holy procession||KOTA: Despite Section 144 and lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic, hundreds of people of Kanjar tribal community of Ramnagar village of Bundi district on Friday assembled in the village and participated in Neja procession, a community custom. At least five persons were on Sunday sent to jail under judicial custody for violation of Section 144 and lockdown by inviting congregation of hundreds of people and holding community event called Neja a day after Ram Navami on Friday in Ramnagar village under Bundi Sadar police station of Bundi district. One person involved in the matter is yet to be nabbed. Meanwhile, action against the three officials concerned and two police personnel of the area was initiated and notices were served to them for negligence of duty by not reporting of the event to the administration. In Kanjar tribal community customs, procession of Neja with community oracles is taken out every year to mark conclusion of the nine days of Navratras either on the day of Ram Navami or a day after. Around 1,200-1,500 people of Kanjar tribal community of Ramnagar village on Friday, a day after Ram Navami, assembled to watch and offer prayers to the Neja procession being taken out through the main areas of the village, Bundi SP Shivraj Meena told TOI. On receiving the report of the event, police rushed to the spot and dispersed the people. However, noticing the police, most of them had fled away from the spot, he said adding that six persons, who had allegedly organized the event, were booked under relevant sections and five of them have been arrested. Disciplinary action against two police personnel, posted at Ramnagar police check posts has also been initiated for negligence on duty and notices have been served to them, the SP said. The event was organized by the locals and no outsider had reached there to participate in the event, the SP claimed. “No permission was sought for the event in Ramnagar village on Friday. However, the gathering was dispersed within 20-25 minutes and the police have initiated action in the matter,” Bundi collector Antar Singh Nehra said. Six persons, who allegedly organized the event and were identified as Himmat, Ranjeet, Netram, Hukumchand, Ramkishore and Bakishan, were booked in the matter under relevant sections and five of them were arrested on Saturday evening while Hukumchand is absconding and he is yet to be arrested, circle in charge (CI), Bundi Sadar police station Mukesh Kumar Meena said. The five arrested accused were on Sunday produced before the court that ordered to send them to jail under custody till April 13, he said adding further investigation into the matter is underway. Panchayat Elementary Education Officer (PEEO) of the gram panchayat, village development officer and patwari of the area were on duty on the day of the event in Ramnagar on Friday but the three officials concerned did not inform of the event either to him or to the district control room, sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Bundi Kamal Kumar Meena said. Disciplinary action against the three officials has been initiated and chargesheet has been handed over to the patwari, while senior officials concerned have written for the same to PEEO and development officer, the SDM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bundi-tribal-community-flouts-lockdown-holds-holy-procession/articleshow/75000330.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Showers likely today in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Citizens are in for a summer treat with the city likely to witness light to moderate rain over the next few days as the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, has issued a thunderstorm warning between April 6 and 8. The sky has been overcast for the past two days, resulting in drop in mercury levels. The maximum temperature was six degree below normal at 31.2 degree Celsius on Saturday, making it a pleasant weekend for Hyderabadis. However, the minimum temperature remained at normal level, 23.1 degree Celsius. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society, the maximum temperature was below 30 degree Celsius in areas such as Golconda, Khairatabad, Jubilee Hills, Lingampally, Neredmet among others. The highest maximum temperature of 33.0 degree Celsius was recorded at Pedda Amberpet and lowest, 18.9 degree Celsius, was at Rajendranagar. According to the IMD, Hyderabad, the weather might become cooler as thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (30-40 knots) are likely at isolated places over Telangana for the next three days. “Reason for the thunderstorm activity is an upper air trough running from south Kerala to north Madhya Maharashtra across north interior Karnataka,” IMD meteorologist Raja Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/showers-likely-today-in-hyd/articleshow/75000618.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Meerut||Cradle of Tablighi Jamaat, divided Kandhla in UP scrambles for answers||Meerut: Some 80 km north of Delhi, Kandhla, a small town in UP which till now has escaped the novel coronavirus, is now in the sudden glare that the Islamic “reformist” movement born on its soil has brought. In Shamli district, with just over 50,000 residents, Kandhla is looking for answers ever since followers of the Tablighi Jamaat congregated in large numbers in Delhi sometime in mid-March amid the national lockdown. Many, in muted voices, blame Jamaat chief Muhammad Saad, who has had several run-ins with Darul Uloom Deoband, the country’s largest Islamic seminary and the parent organisation of the Tablighis, for bringing a "bad name" to Kandhla. In 2017, the face-off reached a point where the seminary disowned the organisation and asked all clerics to snap the ties with it. “It happened because of Maulana Saad’s interpretation of the holy book,” a cleric told TOI on Saturday. Sources said the Jamaat's ties with Deoband gradually soured "irrevocably". Even those who supported the functioning of the Jamaat say the gathering in Delhi should not have been held. “Saad should have called off the events and evacuated all the people from Nizamuddin’s Markaz. A similar event which was to take place in Pakistan during the same period was cancelled by Jamaat. Then why didn’t they do it in Delhi?” asked Mohammad Saleem, assistant professor at King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and an expert in Islamic studies. He has ties in Kandhla. There were some, though, who said the issue was being "communalised" and Jamaat vilified. “Several religious gatherings were going on in the country at the same time. Even Parliament session was on till March 23. Some people are trying to discredit an organisation that has been there for the last 90 years and never ever violated any law,” said a cleric associated with the Jamaat. People in Kandhla described Saad as a man of few words. According to Kandhla-based cleric Maulana Rashid, “The first ever Tablighi Jamaat was held in Kandhla in 1927 by a local resident Muhammad Ilyas al-Kandhlawi. He was the great grandfather of the current head Maulana Saad and started a reformatory movement that focused on ensuring the return of Muslims to practise Islam identical in the way it was observed at the time of Prophet Muhammad. Kandhla is actually the cradle of Tablighi Jamaat. Later, the movement spread far and wide, to 200 countries.” Rashid added, “Maulana Saad doesn't speak much. He comes to his ancestral home only once in two years. And his visit is not publicised as he avoids meeting people except during Jamaat events.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cradle-of-tablighi-jamaat-divided-kandhla-in-up-scrambles-for-answers/articleshow/74999915.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Crowds at Sunday markets across Chennai butcher rules||CHENNAI: All well-laid plans of the corporation to set up markets in open grounds to ensure social distancing failed on Sunday. At most of the new ‘markets’, buyers stood in the marked spots until police remained and crowded vendors when the men and women in khakhi left. A hard-pressed Greater Chennai Corporation closed down a temporary market at a playground on Venkatanarayana Road in T Nagar, while 52 meat shops, most of them found selling meat without the stamp of the designated slaughterhouse, will remain shut for three months. In an open school ground near the Saidapet metro rail station, a market for vegetables and fruits and another for meat and fish, set up by relocating vendors from Jeenis Road market, were as crowded as the old places. A visit to the place showed that desperate buyers, throwing all caution to the winds, were shopping in large groups, haggling with vendors for the right price and with each other for prime space. Many were keen on finishing their business and leaving before police arrived. Elango, a Saidapet resident who came to buy vegetables, said, “There was absolutely no compliance, though I saw a few people asking others to stick to social distancing norms.” At the fish and meat market, there were huge crowds in front of chicken shops. Devika, a fish trader, said 10 people were roped in, on daily wages, to regulate the crowd but seemed overwhelmed. “But, the problem is only with a section of meat traders.” The market draws around 500 customers daily. Like most newly launched schemes, residents in the area said, all rules were followed when the market was set up five days ago. “Police used to drop in regularly,” said Ganesh, an employee of a private company, said. Then things reverted to normal and piles of indiscriminately dumped thermocol boxes, used to pack fish or meat, are creating additional hassles. On Saturday, the corporation commissioner asked zonal officers and veterinary officers to keep close watch over meat stalls in all the 15 zones and to check if meat was being sold without the animal being butchered at corporation slaughterhouses. “We were told to be ruthless and seal shops violating norms,” an official said. Ten stalls were shut in Alandur, the most, followed by eight in Adyar. On Monday, due to Mahavir Jayanthi, all meat and fish stalls will be shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crowds-at-sunday-markets-across-city-butcher-rules/articleshow/75000632.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||3rd time lucky: Woman travels 20km on her bike to tie the knot||Yavatmal: It was a classic case of third time lucky. After two postponements, a determined woman didn’t let hurdles like the imposition of section 144 followed by the 21-day coronavirus lockdown deter her from getting married. She went all the way and all by herself and on her two-wheeler to the wedding venue, nearly 20 kilometres from her residence, where her hubby-to-be was waiting with the vows of love to say ‘I do’ and ‘till death do us part’. Sukeshni Krushnarao Dandaje, a resident of Sankatmochen, was engaged to Pravin Bhanarkar of village Anthargaon in Babhulgaon. The marriage was fixed for March 9. The invitation cards, too, were printed, but the ceremony could not take place, ‘courtesy’, the outbreak of the coronavirus. It was then postponed to March 31. On both the occasions, families of both bride and groom applied for permissions, but they were rejected on the grounds of the nationwide lockdown. With uncertainty looming, Sukeshni, who lost a father a few years ago, decided to take matters into her own hands. The ITI-educated woman, didn’t even feel the need to take her homemaker mother into confidence because she had an ace up her sleeve. After having a lengthy and meaningful conversation with her fiance, who runs a welding workshop, the duo decided to get married as soon as possible. On April 2, Sukeshni started her two-wheeler, covered a distance of 20 kms and reached Babhulgaon, where the groom had made all the arrangements for the wedding. She didn’t even take her mother along because she felt that it would be a risky thing to do. Finally, in the presence of a few relatives and friends, Pravin tied the knot with Sukeshni in an atmosphere where the silence of the lockdown was broken with claps, cheers and congratulations. In no time, the wedding became the talk of the town in the village and rightly so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3rd-time-lucky-woman-travels-20km-on-her-bike-to-tie-the-knot/articleshow/75000343.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Trichy||City residents light lamps of solidarity||Trichy: In response to the nine-minute lights-out call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many people came out of their houses switching off lights and lighting lamps at 9 pm on Sunday. He had asked people to observe 9-minutes light-out as an act of solidarity in the fight against Covid-19 on the eleventh day of the 21-day long lockdown. In some places such as Kallukuzhi, Cantonment and KK Nagar, people came out bursting crackers. Children in some places came out of their homes and raised “Go-back Corona’ slogans. “I don’t know if this gesture would help fight Covid-19 or not,” says S Ashok Kumar from Ramakrishna Nagar. It was good to see people in our neighbourhood coming out of their homes to light lamps by maintaining social distance,” he said. However, there were also many exceptions where people were unmoved by the PM’s call and chose to remain indoors keeping lights on. S Mathiazhagan from KK Nagar found the gesture irrelevant, especially at this point, and thought that it is high time that the government machinery focused on strengthening our resolve to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-residents-light-lamps-of-solidarity/articleshow/75000337.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||34 quarantined following Chegur death; test results of four Bihar youth awaited||HYDERABAD: Authorities are awaiting test results of four migrant workers from Bihar, tenants of a 55-year-old grocery store owner from Chegur who died of Covid-19 at Osmania General Hospital on April 1. On March 8, the four construction workers in their mid twenties, went to Uttarakhand and returned to Hyderabad on March 19. On March 18, they had boarded Sampark Kranti train in Nizamuddin (Delhi) and reached Kachiguda on March 19. “As per our information, some people who attended Nizamuddin Markaz had also travelled by the same train. We suspect that the workers might have been infected during the journey and through them coronavirus could have spread to the grocer,” police said. The woman, who runs the grocery store in Chegur village with 675 households and 2,500 population, fell ill and she was treated at private hospitals in Shadnagar and subsequently in Mahbubnagar on March 31. On April 1, while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital (OGH), she succumbed. After the death, she tested positive for Covid-19. On April 2, her body was cremated and authorities shortlisted 34 persons, including her husband, four children, seven close relatives who were part of the funeral procession. Also, two villagers, two registered medical practitioners (RMPs) from Chegur and Shadnagar, the four tenants and two other men from Chegur who picked up the four migrant workers from Kachiguda railway station and brought them to Chegur in a car were also shortlisted. “We have sent the samples of the four migrants for testing. Results are awaited,” Rangareddy collector Amoy Kumar said. All the 34 members, who were direct contacts of the woman, have been placed under institutional quarantine. “We have cordoned off Chegur village as a precautionary measure,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34-quarantined-following-chegur-death-test-results-of-four-bihar-youth-awaited/articleshow/75000338.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Fair price shop dealer in Jaisalmer booked for cheating||JAISALMER: Misusing the provision of giving ration items without biometric verification during the lockdown, a fair price shop dealer in Jaisalmer district has misappropriated 325kg wheat by making false entries in the name of 12 consumers of Sura and Methada villages of Barmer district. Taking serious note of the complaint, Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta has been apprised to take action. After this, the authority letter of the accused fair price shopkeeper was suspended and a case has been lodged against him. Barmer district collector Vishram Meena said the state government had made the provision to distribute ration without biometric verification to the eligible families under the National Food Security Scheme during the lockdown. Taking undue advantage of this, ration dealer Bhagwan Singh of Tejrava in Fatehgarh tehsil of Jaisalmer district lifted wheat for 12 consumers of Sura and Methada villages in Barmer district through POS machine. He said DSO Ashwini Gurjar got the complaint from local ration dealers about this, on which he informed the Jaisalmer district collector. While investigating the incident, enforcement inspector Sawai Ram found that Bhagwan Singh made a transaction for 325kg wheat, but did not make it available to the consumers. Bhagwan Singh has said that the transaction was done by his son. During further probe, 13,232 kg wheat, 848kg sugar and 211.90 litre kerosene were also found less in the stock at the ration shop. The stocks and price were not displayed at the shop as per the conditions of authority letter. Also, the stock registers were not maintained. District collector Meena said that as per the report of the enforcement inspector, the dealer did not distribute the concerned items to the consumers and has forged entries in the register, which comes in category of embezzlement. Bhagwan Singh has clearly violated condition number 11, 14, 15, 17 and 18 of the authority letter issued under Rajasthan Food Grains and Other Essential Commodities (Regulation of Distribution) Act, 1976. Collector Meena said that Jaisalmer DSO has suspended the authority letter of the ration dealer Bhagwan Singh. Enforcement inspector has lodged an FIR against the dealer at Jhinjhinyali police station. Police will investigate the case further. DSO Gurjar has directed all the ration shopkeepers in Barmer district that if any fair price shopkeeper tries to embezzle ration item or deprive eligible consumers, then strict action will follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fair-price-shop-dealer-booked-for-fraud-transaction/articleshow/75000344.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patients’ residences cordoned off in Parigi town||HYDERABAD: Police have cordoned off four localities in Parigi town and started shifting direct contacts of a madrassa teacher, who tested positive for Covid-19. The person had participated in a religious meet at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March. Ín the city, police have cordoned off three areas in Alwal after three persons tested positive for Covid-19. The 48-year-old madrasa teacher went to Nizamuddin Markaz from Parigi in the second week of March and returned to the town on March 17 night, Parigi police said. On Sunday, Vikarabad district police barricaded Ram Nagar, Market Gunj, Bus Stand and Baharpet areas of Parigi, where the patient frequently moved after returning from Nizamuddin. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patients-residences-cordoned-off/articleshow/75000353.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man in Gadwal booked for tiff with Asha workers||HYDERABAD: A case was registered against a local of Gadwal district after he obstructed Asha workers while they were on duty in light of Covid-19. According to a police officer, on Saturday, while Asha workers were conducting a survey to trace suspected Covid-19 cases in the area, the tiff broke out between them and the local. “So far, there has been only one positive case in the district. The Asha workers are on duty to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the patient,” said DSP Gadwal district. “A local resident picked up an argument with them, obstructing them from doing their work,” he added. Following this, a case was registered under relevant sections of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act against the local. “On Sunday, another tiff occurred when the person asked the Asha worker to withdraw the case. Police intervened and the issue was resolved,” said a police officer from Gadwal police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-tiff-with-asha-workers/articleshow/75000341.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||Doctor spreads corona information online||RAJKOT: Rajkot-based doctor has put coronavirus-related information on his kidney education portal in 12 languages. Titled ‘know corona, defeat corona’, the information is multilingual including some foreign languages like Arabic, French, Vietnamese, Persian, and Serbian.Dr Sanjay Pandya a kidney specialist and founder of kidney education foundation has taken this task of providing all vital information that one needs to know to fight Coronavirus including necessary information why it is dreaded, how it spreads, and what are the precautions to be taken for prevention, especially kidney patients who should take extra precautions for their protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doc-spreads-corona-information-online/articleshow/74998688.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||TN CM hails Yavatmal SP who acted on TOI report||Yavatmal: The story highlighting the plight of over 400 youths hailing from southern states living in inhumane conditions in hostels at Pusad, published by TOI on March 31, moved not just the bureaucrats, but also Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami who sent an e-mail to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray expressing gratitude for extending help to them. Palaniswami praised the efforts of Yavatmal SP M Rajkumar who acted quickly and arranged all essentials for the boys, hailing from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, stranded in the three hostels of Pusad. Soon after TOI had published the story, M Rajkumar had visited the hostels and ordered Vasant Nagar PSO Pradeepsingh Pardeshi to take food grains and other essentials to the hostels and also deputed a cook for preparing meals for the boys. He had also arranged a medical team which examined the youths and provided with medicines to the needy. The SP also held a meeting with SDO Dr Vyankat Rathod, BDO Shivaji Gawai, PI Pramesh Atram and PI Pradeepsingh Pardeshi and instructed them to ensure the inmates get basic amenities at the hostels. A Delhi-based private company -- Glaze Trading India Company Private Limited -- having its headquarters at Janakpuri of New Delhi, had recruited over 1600 youths, mostly in the age group of 20-30, for marketing its products by luring them with a promise of Rs8,000 to Rs30,000 per month pay and incentives. These youths were sent to Pusad for ‘training’ for the last 10-18 months. None of them was paid any salary despite the promise at the time of their online recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tn-cm-hails-yavatmal-sp-who-acted-on-toi-report/articleshow/75000378.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Soon, doctors on Covid-19 battle to be put up at hotels in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Doctors treating coronavirus patients may soon get relief as the state government is contemplating providing them accommodation in nearby hotels on the lines of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s move. The Delhi administration has been putting up doctors fighting the Covid-19 in hotels to overcome travel issues and maintain social distancing norms. Telangana heath department has announced that all doctors working in hospitals where Covid-19 positive patients were being treated or isolation facilites would have to be in five-day home quarantine after an equal number of days of work. Many doctors, including residents, were facing difficulties and expressed concerns that if they go home after treating the patients, their families might be at risk of infection. Many medical staff were also under pressure from house owners. “In view of all these issues, the government has in principle decided that doctors will be given hotel accommodation, for self quarantine,” a source said. A high-level committee has even been constituted to work out the modalities involved. The government is also working on providing doctors and support staff with transport facilities. An application would be created to identify their pick-up location and they will be dropped at their respective health facilities in vehicles arranged by the government. The state government has already announced incentives for the medical staff and also full salary. Currently, nearly 1,000 medical staff are working in the state-run health facilities in the city. Personnel from general medicine and pulmonology specialities are working full steam as they were involved 24X7 in the fight against Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-doctors-on-covid-19-battle-to-be-put-up-at-hotels/articleshow/75000369.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 6, 2020||Pune||Five of Guruwar Peth family among 16 more positive Covid-19 cases in Pune region||PUNE: A total of 16 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection in Pune on Sunday, pushing the tally in Pune Metropolitan Region to 107 so far. On Sunday, Pune recorded three more Covid-19 casualties, taking the number of Covid-19 casualties to five in the city. Of the 16 people fresh cases, 11 are undergoing treatment at Naidu hospital and five are the admitted patients of Sassoon hospital. None of the 16 have any history of international travel or any traceable source of the infection. "Of the 11, five are family members of a patient who earlier tested positive for Covid-19. The family resides in Guruwar Peth," a civic health official said. A 58-year-old man, a resident of Raviwar Peth and another 44-year-old man who also stays in Raviwar Peth tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. A 24-year-old man (Hadapsar), a 29-year-old man (Mangalwar Peth), a 50-year-old woman (Gultekdi) and a 29-year-old man (Kondhwa) are the remaining four who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. When contacted Sassoon hospital's dean Ajay Chandanwale said, "Five more admitted patients at our hospital have tested positive for Covid-19. The condition of one is critical."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-of-guruwar-peth-family-among-16-more-positive-covid-19-cases-in-pune-region/articleshow/75000357.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop on duty misses mom’s funeral in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: A police constanble could not attend his mother’s funeral in Andhra Pradesh as he was working a 12-hour shift amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Gouri Naidu, 31, a constable with Medipally police station, could only console his elder brother and father over phone calls. The officer’s parents and elder brother reside in Vizianagaram district. “She was paralysed and almost bedridden for the past six years. Almost a week ago, my father informed that her health deteriorated suddenly,” said Naidu. The constable was tending to general duty, starting from 9 am to 9 pm. However, his working hours could even stretch to 24 hours if an emergency was to arise, said sources. It was at 2 pm on Saturday when Naidu found out about his mother’s death. “I couldn’t see her during her last few days. But what can I do, the situation across the country is grim. It was not possible for me to travel to Andhra Pradesh during the lockdown,” he added.“My sister, who stays in West Godavari in AP is also very disturbed because she also couldn’t travel home even though she stays in the same state,” he said . The last rites were performed by Naidu’s father and brother. “It makes me sad that my sister and I did not attend the funeral. But safety comes first. Our village, Mettapalli in Cheepurupalli Mandal of Vizianagaram, has zero positive cases ,” the constable, who is staying with his wife and two daughters ,said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-on-duty-misses-moms-funeral-in-ap/articleshow/75000358.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||Retired servicemen grab second chance to serve the nation||RAJKOT: Had it not been for the helpline number run by ex-servicemen, Pramodbhai Trivedi’s wife, a diabetes patient, would have to go with out her life saving medicines during the lockdown. However, the retired teacher who lives in Digvijay plot area of Jamnagar called up on the number seeking help for his wife, who had gone to stay with their son in Vadodara, to help her with the necessary medicine. True to their words, the medicine was delivered at her doorstep in Vadodara and that’s not all — it was given free of cost! “I am grateful to them for providing my wife with her medicine free of charge. This is a very noble and appreciable work done for the senior citizens in these critical times. I cannot express my gratitude as it was a request not for Jamnagar, but Vadodara and they provided it at her doorstep within eight hours of my request,” said Pramodbhai, his voice breaking with emotion. This is not the only example of beneficiaries of the voluntarily service by ex servicemen which started from March 30. These retired servicemen from the three forces – Army, Airforce and Navy – have joined hands to help senior citizens living alone. The service was launched in Jamnagar, but has now expanded to seven districts of Saurashtra. The group approached Jamnagar district collector Ravi Shankar expressing their willingness to serve the the country in such times of crisis, especially to those people who cannot help themselves. Coordinator of the group, retired Nay commander Sandip Jaishwal said: “We have created a team of volunteers of ex-servicemen who are not engaged elsewhere and are free during this lockdown period. Whenever we get a phone call asking for help, we assign the job to the nearest person, who provides medicine and essential commodities to the senior citizen seeking help.” “This is the second chance to serve our nation after retirement,” said Jaishwal, with pride ringing in his voice, while talking to TOI. He said that the team of 200 volunteers now serve people in seven districts of Saurashtra and in Jamnagar they have served 31 people in the last few days. They have extended their service to Devbhumi Dwarka, Porbandar, Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts in past five days. A resident of Patel colony area in Jamnagar, Vijay Khakharia said that medicines are his lifeline. “When I had no choice I called on the number given in the local newspaper. A person approached me, took my prescription and delivered me medicine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/retired-servicemen-grab-second-chance-to-serve-the-nation/articleshow/74998726.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 6, 2020||Goa||Fewer than 600 beds, government wants to bring home over 8,000 Goans||PANAJI: Even as chief minister Pramod Sawant recently said that he wants to evacuate 8,000 Goans working abroad, questions are being raised if the state is equipped to quarantine so many people. Although the government has requisitioned hotels and residencies of the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), the total number of beds or rooms don’t cross 600. In private hospitals in the state, including the MPT hospital, the number of quarantine beds is 81. The evacuation process may be subject to approval by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), but a senior official said that the state wouldn’t be in a position to quarantine thousands of people unless the government really steps up its requisitioning of hotels. Last week, health minister Vishwajit Rane moved a proposal to take over some hotels and major private hospitals. A senior health official said that as of Saturday, not much progress was made on this front. “Let’s see if anything happens this week,” he said. Rane did not respond to queries about the state’s preparedness to quarantine thousands of Goans after their evacuation. “The proposition is fraught with great risk,” a senior official said. “The government must find out how many of them are stranded or stuck. Contracts of sailors with their companies may have been over, but cruise companies (employers) are duty-bound to look after their well-being till they are on board.” Whether or not the MHA will permit the evacuation is a different matter, he said, but if any sailor has contracted the virus, there is a chance he may spread the infection to others while being flown to Goa. “Has the government thought about this?” he asked. “There will be about 300-350 travellers in a plane,” he said. “Even if there is one positive case (who may appear asymptomatic at the time), there is a chance of fellow passengers contracting the disease.” He also said there have been complaints about quarantine facilities, particularly at GTDC residencies. “When people are made to spend 14 to 28 days in quarantine, proper service has to be provided to them,” he said. “Sitting in a room day in and day out can be daunting for any person. They also need to be counselled.” The health official said that if the government brings back all Goans working abroad, they will need to be quarantined for 21 days. “Strictly quarantine them, and permit home quarantine if anti-body tests are negative for SARS-CoV-2,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fewer-than-600-beds-govt-wants-to-bring-home-over-8000-goans/articleshow/75000376.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Come forward by April 6 or face action: DGP to Jamaatis||Dehradun: The state director general of police (DGP) Anil Raturi on Sunday appealed to Tablighi Jamaat members to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid-19 by April 6. In a video message released by police headquarters, DGP Anil Raturi asked those Jamaat members, who attended any religious congregation recently and have not got themselves tested as yet, to show up before the authorities by April 6 or be ready to face strict action. “If a Jamaat member infects someone with the deadly virus resulting in his/her death, police would book that member under section 302 (murder) of the IPC,” Raturi said. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former CM Harish Rawat also urged the members of Tablighi Jamaat to come forward for Covid-19 screening willingly while asking people to not link the virus with a community. In a tweet, he said, “It’s not necessary that every person who attended Markaz at Nizamuddin is a coronavirus positive but I urge all the members of Tablighi Jamaat to report to administration and get themselves tested. I also urge people to not hate but extend their support to people who are found coronavirus positive. The infected patients must not feel as if they have committed a crime,” he added. Rawat also shared a video with his tweet to express his solidarity with people in this tough time and said that people must intake fruits and supplements of Vitamin C and Vitamin E which improve immunity. In yet another post uploaded on Facebook, Rawat questioned the BJP governments (at both Centre and state) about the steps that are being taken to address the short supply of masks and sanitisers. “I am also worried if the government is even thinking of farmers and labourers who are forced to die in the absence of work, money, and help,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/come-forward-by-april-6-or-face-action-dgp-to-jamaatis/articleshow/74998721.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man in Hyderabad shares fake video, booked||HYDERABAD: Keesara police on Saturday, registered a case against a man who had allegedly forwarded an unverified video in a WhatsApp group. Several fake videos misleading people about coronavirus are in circulation . According to Keesara inspector Narender Goud,a case was booked against P Venkatesh under Sections 188 and 505 of IPC after they received a complaint from a member of a WhatsApp group. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-shares-fake-video-booked/articleshow/75000377.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tourism minister slams hospital staff over Bharatpur incident||JAIPUR: In a statement released by Rajasthan tourism minister Vishwendra Singh about an incident in Bharatpur where a woman was allegedly denied treatment, he said the mistreatment of a woman of a particular religion by a doctor at Bharatpur Zanana Hospital and her resultant loss of motherhood is a matter of great concern for the society. “A person who has nothing to do with the Congress party nor does he have faith in the secular principles of the party has attempted to suppress the incident with support from the district administration, which is truly shameful. This incident has also received the shameful support of some of the CMO’s officials. The principles of secularism were established by Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi and offered as a gift to the entire nation. The nature of secularism is the communal character of Congress,” said the minister. Pointing out various anomalies in the way the matter was dealt with, the minister said there was no stamp on the referral paper from the District Hospital to Jaipur. He further added that in the document obtained from Sikri Health Centre, it is clearly mentioned that the woman was 8-month pregnant. However, in Bharatpur, these people said her pregnancy for only 6-month. He also pointed out other issues as well. He also said that this issue is not about any religion, this is an issue of humanity. It is the issue of social values for which great people of this country have fought to establish and make India a democratic and secular country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-minister-expresses-concern-over-bharatpur-incident/articleshow/75000365.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Police crackdown on Sunday prayers at church in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh police cracked down on a Palm Sunday gathering at a church at Rayavaram in East Godavari district. The pastor was taken into custody for allowing 150 people to gather for the Holy Week prayers. The worshippers at the church were also found consuming water from the same utensil. Rayavaram sub inspector of police, L Srinu Nayak said that a case has been booked against the church pastor N Vijay Ratnam for violation of lockdown, social distancing orders, and unlawful assembly.The devotees, who hailed from villages of Madnapet mandal, were sent home. “None of the prayer attendees were wearing masks. Devotees partaking in Holy Communion were drinking from the same jar,” said a witness. Vijay said that as it had been a month since they had a meeting, they decided to gather for prayers. Despite the Federation of Telugu Churches assured both chief ministers, K Chandrashekar Rao and YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, of keeping all prayers on hold, some independent churches were found to be holding meetings. On Saturday, Light-Life Ministries Church at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari conducted a meeting with 48 pastors. A case was registered and they released after counselling. M Jayababu, the pastor, was identified as the organizer of the meet. On March 29, Samuel, a pastor from Neredmet was also detained for violating lockdown orders. He was released later. Federation of Telugu Churches executive secretary Dr Fr Anthonyraj Thumma wrote to both states saying that church services are shut and that priests are conducting virtual mass .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-crackdown-on-sunday-prayers-at-church-in-andhra/articleshow/75000381.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM asks Narendra Modi for bags to store bumper crop||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and briefed him about the measures taken up by the state government to prevent spread of coronavirus. He told the PM special teams are reaching out to every person who attended the meeting in Nizamuddin, Delhi, and their subsequent contact persons here. The CM spoke to PM Modi over phone and urged him to arrange for special trains to transport gunny bags to Telangana and other states to store paddy. Telangana state is expecting a super bumper paddy crop of 1.05 crore metric tonnes. It requires 20 crore gunny bags, which are in severe short supply. KCR told Modi that all manufacturing units of gunny bags in West Bengal are closed due to lockdown. He urged Modi to ensure workshops are opened and gunny bags are supplied to Telangana and other states through special trains. Officials in the chief minister’s office said the prime minister responded positively to KCR’s request and will take up the matter with the departments and ministries concerned. The chief minister, who held a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Sunday on the status of operations to combat coronavirus, appealed to the farmers not to panic as the state government will procure every grain and seed of agriculture produce. He said the state will also deposit the money directly into their bank accounts. The chief minister directed the police department and other officials to give permission and passes to harvester technicians and the equipment required to mount on tractors for harvesting of paddy crop. Even the shops and companies that manufacture and supply harvesting machines spare parts should be allowed to function, he said. The chief minister appealed to the farmers to come to the procurement centres as per the time slot given to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-asks-modi-for-bags-to-store-bumper-crop/articleshow/75000380.cms||Roushan Ali
April 6, 2020||Dehradun||Over 500 stuck in Dehradun given shelter at 24 relief camps||DEHRADUN: The district administration on Sunday said that over 500 people stranded in Dehradun have been provided food and shelter in 24 relief camps. Officials said that a total of 536 people are in these camps and the administration is still in the process of identifying more people who need a place to stay. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “We have conducted inspections at various relief camps to ensure availability of basic amenities. All these efforts will help maintain the norms of lockdown and social distancing.” To ensure regular food supplies at these camps, city-based businessmen have also come forward to help. Sunil Mason, president of Sarafa Mandal, said that they have offered to supply dry ration to the relief camps situated at Jain Dharamshala, Agarwal Dharamshala, Mandi Samiti Kesharvala in Raipur, Nagar Nigam renbasera, Raja Ram Mohan academy, Maya farm, Patel Nagar and Anand Bhawan in Karanpur. The district administration has also ordered an additional deployment of 150 home guards in the city for maintaining law and order. Officials said that over 26,904 people in the city have been kept under surveillance by teams from health department, district administration and police. These people are being monitored every day, an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-500-stuck-in-doon-given-shelter-at-24-relief-camps/articleshow/74998735.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Rajkot||14-month-old boy tests positive in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: Gujarat recorded its youngest coronavirus patient with a 14-month-old boy in Jamnagar testing positive on Sunday. The baby’s parents are labourers living in Dared area on the Jamnagar city’s outskirts and they are asymptomatic. This has made it difficult for the health officers to find the source of baby’s infection. This is the first case of corona positive case in Jamnagar district. There are four other people tested positive in Saurashtra out of that two are from Bhavnagar and one each from Kutch and Morbi. The parents had brought the boy to GG Hospital in Jamnagar on April 4 morning, but he was discharged after preliminary treatment. They again brought him to the hospital in the evening and the boy was in a critical condition. Paediatric doctors could not ascertain the exact cause of his illness and recommended Covid-19 test. The boy has been put on ventilator and his condition is critical. Jamnagar district collector Ravi Shankar said, “The parents are labourers and it’s difficult to find the source of transmission. It is suspected that the child may have been taken to some religious place to cure his illness in the last few days and he got infected. We are trying to verify all the possible sources of transmission.” Entire Dared village has been quarantined to contain the spread of virus. Meanwhile, Morbi also recorded its first Covid-19 case with a 52-year-old man testing positive on Sunday. The district officials said he got infected with local transmission, but his domestic travel history is yet to be verified. A 62-year-old man from Madhapar village in Kutch also tested positive and he too got infected from local transmission. Talking to reporters, border range IG Subhash Trivedi said, “We have quarantined the area and if required we will shift some of the persons in government isolation facility.” In Bhavnagar city, the number of positive cases spiked to 13 with four more testing positive on Sunday A 36-year-old woman and 26-year-old man testing positive, b both are residents of Karachliyapara, the area which has been put under cluster quarantine since Saturday. According to district administration, the woman is a family member of the 70-year-old man who died of coronavirus March 26 after he had returned from Tabhligi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi. The man is his servant. A 48-year-old and a 90-year-old from from Kaziwad and Vadva respective also tested positive on Sunday. RL Sinha, district medical officer, told TOI, “We suspect that the 48-year-old man came in contact with some attendee of the Delhi congregation while the old man got infected through local transmission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/14-month-old-boy-tests-positive-in-jamnagar/articleshow/74998745.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Jaipur||Pali self-reliant in PPE kits for doctors & paramedics||JAIPUR: The Pali administration is now self-sufficient in providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kit to its health workers especially doctors, para medical staff, Asha Sehyogini workers and others. The kit is being manufactured by the Pali administration with the help of local textile units. The kit was approved by the head of biochemistry department and head of medicine department. Now, other districts like Ajmer and Jalore are also demanding such kits from Pali administration. The district administration was already getting PPE kit from the health department for staff working at the Intensive Care Units (ICUs) of government hospitals. However, in order to ensure the safety of quick response teams (QRTs) involved in bringing the Covid-19 suspects to the hospital, Pali collector Dharam Chand Jain had a meeting with local textile units. “For the doctors and para medical staff, we are already getting PPE kit from the health department. However, we thought that our para medical staff and doctors who are engaged in screening at public places and also in door-to-door screening should also be given proper safety. I shared the idea and ask if we can manufacture it locally when Anil Gulecha a local industrialist came for help. Also, we thought our getting ready for handling growing number of patients,” said Jain while talking to TOI on Sunday. The PPE kit designed and manufactured by district administration with the help of local textile industry includes full body suit, apron, shoe cover and face shield. “There could be mild to severe outbreak of Covid-19 so we have to be fully prepared. Now I am glad that every para medical staff and doctor in our district is equipped with PPE kit. Those working and are in direct touch of Covid-19 patients are using the kit sent by the medical and health department while those who are into screening are using our own kit,” he added. Also, the PPE kit manufactured by textile unit at Phalna in Pali can be disinfected and decontaminated using sodium hypochlorite solution hence it is reusable. “This is approved by various experts including Head of department of medicines and biochemistry. Also this is made up of nylon polyester,” he added. This kit is also in demand by neighbouring districts. “We have given 200 to Jalore district and sending 100 kits to Beawar (Ajmer),” said Rohitash Tomar, sub-divisional magistrate, Pali. It may be recalled that district administration Pali was first in creating and releasing caricature series to spread awareness on Covid-19 and precautions required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pali-self-reliant-in-ppe-kits-for-health-workers/articleshow/75000385.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 6, 2020||Business||Cops rope in drone enthusiasts, photographers for surveillance||Bengaluru: If you are loitering around your neighbourhood with friends during the lockdown, don’t be surprised to discover a drone hovering over you and asking you to go back home. Police across states like Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Karnataka are roping in wedding photographers and hobbyists to assign drones for tasks like surveillance, announcements and spraying disinfectants to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Trials for the same have already been conducted in some densely-populated areas like Dharavi in Mumbai, with the feed being directly sent to the police control rooms. While in some states like Karnataka, usage of drones is still at a pilot stage, it is expected to pick up in the coming week in containment zones as industry associations finalise tie-ups with local police, which will be the key. “Our surveillance squads go with police to specific areas. We have regional leaders who take up the operations,” said Smit Shah, director of partnerships at industry body Drone Federation of India, adding that 40-50 drones are being used by state governments right now. Some state government is also looking to purchase drones, but Shah said their recommendations are to use existing drones as training period could take long and it may turn out to be an expensive proposition. “Instead state governments can pay drone pilots some of whom are not working right now,” said Shah. Now there are also platforms that are coming up to mobilise drone pilots, who can volunteer their services across India. Startup executives have set up Droneman.in to register those interested. Earlier this year Indian government said that about 20,531 drones of different sizes have been registered by both individuals and corporates, though industry estimates peg the total number in the country at 50,000-60,000. Major commercial use case of drones in India till now has been in wedding photography. In China, where drone usage is much more advanced, besides surveillance, the government used them to transport medical test samples and even for e-commerce deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cops-rope-in-drone-enthusiasts-photographers-for-surveillance/articleshow/74999946.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 fear may affect bat population in Hyderabad, say biologists||HYDERABAD: The misconceptions about bats spreading novel coronavirus may adversely affect the population of the nocturnal animal in the city, said experts. From excessive usage of disinfectants to curb Covid-19 to habitat loss, wildlife conservationists and bat biologists are speculating various reasons that can be a threat to the bat species. Although no official data on the total population of bats across the city is available, experts say 16 species of bats exist in the city currently. They reside in buildings, caves, hollow trees and even barks of the trees. Pradeep Nair, founder of Animal Warriors Conservation Society said, “After a video of a bat rescue that we did went viral on social media last week, we received nearly six to seven calls from people asking us for suggestions on how to get rid of bats and their roosting sites in different areas of the city. People have developed an unnecessary fear of bats due to rumours and misconceptions about them being a source of Covid-19.” Further stressing on the fact that bats are not proven to be the source of Covid-19, experts said that it is an accusation that is putting the flying mammals at risk. Speaking to TOI, Rahul Prabhukhanolkar, a research associate at Indian Bat Conservation and Research Unit said, “While one of the reasons for decline in bat population in urban areas is habitat loss, heavy use of insecticide or pesticides creates a problem for them to find food and survive..” Biologists stress that bats are a boon to the ecosystem and do not contain strains of Covid-19. “There is no proven fact that bats are carrying strains of Covid-19. This unnecessary anxiety that people are having about bats is baseless,” said C Srinivasulu, a city-based bat biologist and conservation zoologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-fear-may-affect-bat-population-say-biologists/articleshow/75000386.cms||Moulika.KV
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Meat shops will not be allowed to open till April 14, says Rameshwar Oraon||RANCHI: Non-vegetarians in Ranchi on Sunday purchased meat and broiler chicken at inflated rates clandestinely as meat and fish markets of the city remained closed to comply with lockdown orders for the 14th consecutive day. With Navratra over, the demand for broiler chicken and mutton soared. Although the shops were shut, sellers did brisk business from the confines of their homes, godowns and narrow alleys. Rafiq (name changed on request), runs a mutton shop near Kokar on Old Hazaribag Road. On Sunday morning, he stood a few yards away from his shop. As his regular customers spotted him, Rafiq took their orders, telephoned his accomplice to bring the consignments in neatly packed plastic bags from his godown in Dangratoli. “There is a long queue of customers outside my godown,” Rafiq said. “Since the demand has risen and there is risk involved, I am selling a kilogram of mutton at Rs 700. For my regular customers, it is Rs 600,” he added. Before lockdown came into force, a kilogram of mutton was priced at Rs 550 in Ranchi. The poultry sector in Jharkhand took a hit before the lockdown as consumers gave chicken a miss fearing contamination of Covid-19. Days before the lockdown was enforced, chicken prices slumped to Rs 60/kg in the city. But on Sunday, it was a jackpot for the sellers as they charged between Rs 180-200 for a kilogram. “Most of our supply comes from Khunti and Gumla. But the police are not allowing the trucks to come in. We slashed our prices and sold at Rs 80/kg before Navratri. However, some stock was left,” Pawan Munda, a poultry seller near Maa Rampyari Ortho Hospital and Research Center in Ahirtoli, said. Pranav Jha, a resident of Bariatu, said, “If the government is apprehending a gathering, why doesn’t it allow the meat shops to remain open throughout the day? After all, it is a food item.” State food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “We are aware that sellers are doing business from their homes. But the shops will not be allowed to open till April 14 because there will be gatherings. I urge people to consume milk and milk-based products and have more vegetables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/meat-shops-will-not-be-allowed-to-open-till-april-14-says-rameshwar-oraon/articleshow/74998356.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Most parts of Jharkhand to see rain between Tuesday and Friday: Met||RANCHI: The Met department has predicted that most parts of Jharkhand will experience rain and thunderstorm between Tuesday and Friday. In its weather bulletin on Sunday, the department said that western parts of the state like Palamu may receive light rainfall and thunderstorm on Tuesday, while the rain-causing clouds would gradually cover the south-central, central and north-western parts of the state — including Ranchi, Ramgarh, parts of Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan — the following day. The north-eastern part of the state — Deoghar and Dumka — may receive showers on Thursday and Friday. Talking to TOI, the director of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Ranchi, S D Kotal said, “There is a circulation over eastern parts of Chhattisgarh and it is moving towards Jharkhand. This would result in a rainy spell.” The weather department has also issued a ‘yellow alert’ as thunderstorms accompanied with wind speed of 30-40 kmph may hit parts of the state on Tuesday and Wednesday. Kotal added that the maximum temperature during day time in Ranchi will continue to be around 35 degree Celsius and may rise again after the rainy spell. While the minimum temperature would hover between 20-22 degree Celsius. The Met department had already predicted a warmer summer this year. Kotal had earlier said that the average maximum temperature may witness a rise of 1-1.5 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/most-parts-of-jharkhand-to-see-rain-between-tuesday-and-friday-met/articleshow/74998267.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Palm Sunday services held without faithful, go live||RANCHI: Owing to the ongoing lockdown to combat the deadly coronavirus pandemic, Ranchi archbishop Felix Toppo accompanied by four priests held the Palm Sunday mass behind closed doors at the St Mary’s Cathedral here. The proceedings were live streamed from 9am on Sunday as the common people were not allowed inside the premises this year. Even the more than a dozen men and women, sisters and priests from various congregations who, usually comprise the morning choir were missing on Sunday. Their places replaced by two priests of the Ranchi diocese, who sang the hymns during the nearly one-and-half hour of church service. “As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire world is being held to ransom. Normal lives all over have been completely disrupted. We pray to God that He may deliver us and all mankind from this deadly virus,” Felix Toppo said in his homily, after blessing a handful of palm leaves. More than a thousand faithful from all over the state, watched the live streaming of the Palm Sunday mass. Although some viewers, initially complained of network issues and audio problems, most faithful said that they enjoyed the live streaming of the church services. “I had never before watched a live streaming of the mass. This was a novel experience for me. Every year, I used to attend the Palm Sunday mass at St Mary’s Cathedral, Ranchi, along with my family. Although I sat at home, I felt closer to God,” Andreas Tirkey from Ranchi’s Pathalkudwa said. Anamika Minj, a resident of Purulia Road, too, stressed that it was nice attending the mass from home. “Praise the Lord,” Ajay Tirkey of Kanke Road, Ranchi, exclaimed. Church services will also be streamed live from St Mary’s Cathedral on Maundy Thursday on April 9 from 6pm onwards, Good Friday mass from 5pm on April 10 and Easter Vigil Mass from 9pm on April 11. The Church has taken special permission and help from the state government to live stream the services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palm-sunday-services-held-without-faithful-go-live/articleshow/74998239.cms||Tapas Biswas
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Rims director says patient suspected of being Covid-19 positive died due to negligence||RANCHI: A day after a dead patient’s kin alleged negligence by the doctors at Rims, the director of the hospital, Dr D K Singh, conceded that the incident happened because of the lack of coordination between the Covid-19 task force and the on-duty doctors in various blocks. Further, the son of the deceased patient, Raj Kumar Sahu, was reportedly told that his father’s body will be handed over to him on Sunday after the test results for Covid-19 arrive. However, even after lying in the mortuary for nearly 40 hours till the time of filing this report, the body was yet to be released. On the delay, Singh said, “The samples were sent for testing on Friday and the results should have arrived by Saturday, but it got delayed due to lack of coordination among the task force and the microbiology department.” He added, “The samples have been sent for testing as we speak and after we get the results, appropriate steps will be taken.” Asked about the allegations levelled by the patient’s son that the hospital staff misled him about the whereabouts of his father, Singh said, “It has come to my notice that the hospital staff had shifted the patient from the isolation to the emergency ward without informing the patient’s kin and did not even inform the hospital administration. I have demanded an explanation from the doctor concerned and appropriate action will be taken.” As the patient died at the emergency ward during treatment on Saturday morning around 5am, TOI spoke to the emergency in-charge and assistant professor of the surgery department Dr Nishith Ekka and enquired why was the hospital administration not apprised about the development. Ekka said, “I look after the logistics and supplies at the emergency ward and patient care is completely handled by the unit charge under which a patient is admitted.” Taking cognizance, Singh divided the teams into various committees who will take care of both clinical as well as non-clinical works during Covid-19 so that such an incident is not repeated in the future. Singh added, “I had called an urgent meeting to address the issue wherein members of the Covid-19 task force as well as senior doctors from the medicine and other departments were called in to discuss the lapses. After finding out that there was a lack of coordination and a communication gap among doctors, I appointed two senior professors Dr R K Pandey and Dr D K Sinha to co-ordinate the work of the task force so that such incidents can be avoided in the future.” Meanwhile Raj continued to wait near Rims’ trauma centre on Sunday to receive his father’s body. “After spending six hours searching for my father in the entire hospital, I found out his body has been kept in the mortuary. The authorities have assured me that I will get my father’s body today (Sunday), but I am yet to receive it,” Raj said, who was seen waiting since morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-director-says-patient-suspected-of-being-covid-19-ve-died-due-to-negligence/articleshow/74998296.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Immunity-booster ragi is the rage now||Mysuru: Ragi has always been popular in kitchens of South Karnataka and the staple diet in many villages. People draw their sustenance through ragi porridge or mudde (balls). But now, they’re turning to it as a precaution against coronavirus as it helps improve body immunity. There has been increased demand for the ragi flour and grain. Ragi-based dishes are now replacing rice and chapati. According to G Krishna Prasad of Sahaja Samrudha, people are turning to traditional diets which include finger millets and tubers. According to Honnur Prakash, a progressive farmer from Chamarajanagar, the demand for the finger millet has been steadily rising over the past few weeks. According to city residents, ragi dishes, including malt, porridge and mudde, are now part of the daily menu. "People are talking a lot about improving their immunity. Ragi-based dishes are easy to make and enjoy," said Sukanya Rajshekar, a resident from Vivekanandanagar. This mother of two children added: "All these days, it was not part of the regular meals as the kids didn’t like it much. Now, the fear of Covid-19 has made them understand its importance." Ayurvedic doctor Dr Ashok GB has been getting a lot of queries about traditional food over the past fortnight. "I’ve been suggesting they go back to old food items. People are now very conscious about what they eat,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/immunity-booster-ragi-is-the-rage-now/articleshow/74999304.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Holy Week services in Mangaluru go online||Mangaluru: Most Rev Peter Paul Saldanha, bishop of Mangalore diocese, delivered the Eucharist of Palm Sunday online, from Rosario Cathedral, his temporary base, a place from where he will operate till the mass on Easter Sunday, that will be held at the chapel in Bishop’s House. Fr Vijay Victor Lobo, public relations officer of the diocese, said that the parish priest and his assistant were on hand to assist the bishop, as he addressed the laity in a live telecast of the Palm Sunday mass through Divine TV and other web portals, and live streamed it using social media. This will also be the case on other important occasions during the Holy Week, including Maundy Thursday, Easter Vigil and Easter Sunday, Fr Lobo explained Due to the naionwide lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the ritual of washing feet, which is done by the bishop, will not be held this year, Fr Lobo said. Christians will observe the Way of the Cross in their homes on Good Friday, with the bishop leading the same from the Cathedral at 11am. The bishop, in a ceremony later that evening, will conduct the Good Friday liturgy from the cathedral, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/holy-week-services-in-mangaluru-go-online/articleshow/74997887.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 situation worsening in India, need to take precautions: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday warned that the Covid-19 situation is worsening across the country with sudden spike in positive cases. The city MP was speaking at a review meeting convened by him after being appointed as an observer by the Centre for Maharashtra to review situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak. It was the first time since the first Covid-19 positive patient was detected in the city that Gadkari had convened such a meeting. Barring leader of opposition in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Tanaji Wanve, none of the Congress leaders attended the meeting. Even guardian minister Nitin Raut was conspicuous by his absence along with animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar. The Union minister directed all three hospitals GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS to prepare for the worst. He said developed countries like the United States, Spain, Italy, Britain, Germany, and others are not being able to control the epidemic which has infected over 13 lakh people globally and killed over 72,000 so far. The city MP expressed concern over shortage of crucial equipment like ventilators and oxygen cylinders at GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. The minister directed deans and directors of all three institutes to improve stock of these essential equipment. He also asked them ensure that they have ample stock of testing kits of Covid-19 with them. Mayor Sandip Joshi, MP Vikas Mahatme, BJP legislators Vikas Kumbhare, Krishna Khopde, BJP corporator Pravin Datke, collector Ravindra Thakre, additional divisional commissioner Abhijit Bangar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra among others were attended the meeting. Gadkari also expressed anguish over edible oil being sold higher than its retail price. He directed the district collector to take strict action against such shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-situation-worsening-in-india-need-to-take-precautions-gadkari/articleshow/75025265.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 survivors urge people cooped up at home to be positive||VIJAYAWADA: While the number of Covid-19 positive cases continues to rise in the state, the cure and discharge of five patients over the last few days has raised hopes among those battling the disease. All five are the first five cases of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh and the first cases in their respective districts—Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam and East Godavari. The first Covid-19 case in the state, a foreign returnee in Nellore, was reported on March 12 but the patient has recovered since. A 65-year-old male from Visakhapatnam, reportedly with other comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, is the oldest among the five to beat the disease. The 24-year-old male from Vijayawada, who had a travel history to Paris and was discharged on Saturday, said that complete compliance with the treatment and medical advice is key to complete recovery. “There is no reason to panic over the pandemic. If anyone develops any symptoms similar to Covid-19, they should immediately seek medical intervention. The medical authorities discharged me after my two consecutive samples tested negative for the disease,” said the youth. The 22-year-old youth from Rajahmundry, who was discharged on this Friday, said he volunteered to undergo the Covid-19 test after a fellow passenger on a flight contracted the disease. The youth told TOI that doctors at the Government General Hospital, Kakinada took x-rays everyday and carried out other medical tests. “It is better to self-isolate in the best interest of the person in particular, and society at large,” said the youth. Another youth who was discharged on Friday in Ongole expressed similar opinions . Speaking to TOI from the hospital, a 49-year-old female Covid-19 patient from Visakhapatnam, who acquired the disease after her 65-year-old husband tested positive following his arrival in the city from Saudi Arabia, said her relatives and doctors are motivating her to stay strong. “Citing the example of my husband, who was completely cured even after having several comorbidities, the doctors said that I will be completely free of the virus and will be sent home soon,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-survivors-urge-people-cooped-up-at-home-to-be-positive/articleshow/74999563.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: 33-year-old infected patient in Dharwad recovers, discharged||DHARWAD: A 33-year-old man who returned to Dharwad from Australia, and had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Sunday after the doctors confirmed that he had recovered fully. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Sunday confirmed the development to TOI. The infected man had returned from Perth in Australia on March 12, travelling by air via Dubai, Muscat and Goa. He was admitted to a private hospital in Dharwad on March 17 after he took ill. He was subsequently referred to KIMS, from whence samples of his blood and throat swab were sent for examination to a laboratory in Shivamogga. “He was being treated at KIMS, and the doctors sent his samples for examination again on March 31 and on Friday when they found that he was recovering. The results of the tests were found to be negative on both occasions, and consequently, he was discharged on Sunday,” Deepa added. The patient was the 21st to test positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka. Health department personnel managed to trace his primary contacts, all of whom were examined for the infection. None of them tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/33-year-old-infected-patient-in-dharwad-recovers-discharged/articleshow/74999377.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Chambers steps up to provide PPE||VISAKHAPATNAM: Members of AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (APCCIF) and employees of the steel plant have come together to help provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to frontline medical professionals to aid them in the fight against Covid-19. Sudhir Mulagada, chairman of APCCIF, Visakhapatnam zone said, “An appeal reached APCCIF that doctors and medical staff urgently need PPE. Hence we have donated Rs 2.4 lakh through the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to provide doctors with PPE. “We have given around 150 PPE sets to doctors at the Chest Hospital and GIMSAR Hospital on Sunday. Moreover, we have also earmarked another Rs 50,000 for PPE,” Mulagada said. Dr Ramani, president of IMA Vizag said that PPE is a necessity for medical staff. “We have requested a few people to help us procure PPE. Since the number of cases is rising, there is need to provide doctors with PPE,” Ramani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-chambers-steps-up-to-provide-ppe/articleshow/74999572.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tribals of Visakhapatnam more adept at social distancing||VISAKHAPATNAM: While urban parts of the country are still struggling to come to terms with social distancing norms, tribals of Visakhapatnam Agency seem to have got it right. Social distancing is obviously quite hard to practice in urban areas, where people are forced to be in close proximity owing to a shortage of space. However, in the tribal belt, social distancing comes almost naturally. According to tribal leader G Rama Gopal, tribals have always practiced social distancing and it is not new to them. “Most tribes try to be as self-sufficient as possible. Usually, people of one tribe live in a particular group of hamlets. One doesn’t find different groups of tribals living together in one village,” he said. Gopal added that is because each tribe has its own customs and traditions and “they have a strong live and let live policy”. He further said that many tribal hamlets usually consist of just one family while sub-units of the family live in their own houses, next to each other. According to Gopal, the tribal ethic is dictated by communal need and they have a strong sense of personal space and hence automatically practice social distancing. A section of government officials agree that tribals practice social distancing strictly. Sources in the Vizianagaram forest department said that in some border mandals of the district, entire hamlets are being fenced off. Officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) are quite happy with the response from tribals so far. DK Balaji, project officer of ITDA said, “By nature, tribals are very compliant. If you tell them that something is for their own good, they will follow it to the T.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribals-more-adept-at-social-distancing/articleshow/74999578.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Man held for smuggling in liquor from Telangana||VIJAYAWADA: A person was arrested for smuggling liquor in milk containers at Pidugurralla station in Guntur district on Sunday. Officials of the prohibition and excise department arrested the person while he was trying to smuggle liquor from Telangana into Guntur. Officials said that the accused was posing as a milk supplier and was carrying 2,370 liquor bottles in nine milk containers in his vehicle. The vehicle was coming from Govindapuram village of Telangana district to Andhra Pradesh via the Krishna river bank. The accused reportedly procured the liquor from Mattampalli village of Nalgonda district in Telangana. Excise officials received a tip-off and intercepted the vehicle. Subsequently, the officials seized the liquor bottles, one motorcycle and the mini-truck being used to transport the liquor. Pidugurralla excise department has registered a case. Investigation is on to find five others who are accused to have been involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-smuggling-in-liquor-from-t/articleshow/74999600.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Farmers go organic in north coastal Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: For the first time, summer orchards of North-Coastal AP are free of pesticides. For decades, in the name of modern farming, traders have used excessive pesticides and fertilisers to increase yields. However, over the last 10 years or so, yields have been very erratic and experts have attributed it to excessive use of chemical sprays and over tilling. Majority of mango traders are chiefly from the Godavari and Krishna deltas and have applied the same cultivation logic used in intensive agriculture cultivation in delta areas, to orchards as well. This has resulted in excessive usage of groundwater, excessive tilling, resulting in reduced nitrogen trapping and more methane release, apart from of course the liberal use of chemical fertilisers. “Over the last ten years, the usage of chemical pesticides and fertilisers has increased manifold, so much so that pest-control using chemical pesticides is being taken up on an industrial scale with mini-tankers being used for spraying. This year, thankfully, there has been no such activity, giving the orchards the much needed healthy breathing space,” said K Suryanarayana, a soil conservationist and horticulturist. Sources in the horticulture department pointed out that most traders used excessive doses of pesticides to boost their profits temporarily, resulting in a lot of damage to mango and chickoo (sapota) orchards. They further added that excessive tilling also disturbed pollination activity. K Sailaja, AD, horticulture said, “Shrub growth in orchards enables soil conservation, distribution of pests, and indirectly helps flowering through pollination spread. Excessive tilling combined with overuse of pesticides disturbs the natural cycle and kills friendly insects, resulting in reduced pollination, thereby affecting flowering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-go-organic-in-north-coastal-ap/articleshow/74999639.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No positive cases, Srikakulam has escaped Covid-19 wrath so far||SRIKAKULAM: While 11 of 13 districts in the state have recorded Covid-19 positive cases, Srikakulam has luckily managed to stay out of the list till date. Not a single Covid-19 positive case has been reported from the district till date. Srikakulam district has a population of 27.03 lakh. When the search for foreign returnees began, only 1,445 foreign returnees were found in the district. Most of them are migrant workers. Of these, less than 10 per cent were from developed countries like UK or USA which have been massively affected by the pandemic, according to the anti-Covid team. Of the 1,445 foreign returnees, 1,347 people were asked to undergo the 14-day self-quarantine. All these people completed their self-quarantine period on Sunday. The district administration tested 135 people. Of this, 102 people have already tested negative till 08:30pm on Sunday and the 33 other reports are expected to arrive soon, said Srikakulam DSP RN Ammi Reddy. Speaking to TOI, the DSP said that since the outbreak, the police and associated stakeholders have taken utmost care to combat the virus. “Toll free numbers 104 and 1902 were introduced and popularised among the masses so that the police and other departments can respond quickly,” Ammi Reddy said. The Srikakulam police have registered a total of 1,776 cases for the total 2,179 lockdown violations. The police have seized 1,253 vehicles and raided 208 shops for violating lockdown orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-positive-cases-skulam-has-escaped-covid-19-wrath-so-far/articleshow/74999656.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to bring out harvest calendar: Agriculture minister||KAKINADA: The state government will procure paddy and other agricultural produce at village level and ensure minimum support price (MSP) to all farmers besides bringing out a harvest calendar. Speaking to the media here on Sunday, minister for agriculture K Kannabbau said that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has given orders that all farmers should get MSP and paddy should be procured along with other crops as well. Farmers who are willing to sell their paddy or other produce should contact agriculture assistant at village secretariat who will register farmers’ names and the paddy would be purchased by the government ensuring MSP. Paddy will be procured through PPCs while maize would be procured by Markfed. Perishable goods will be purchased and distributed through rythu bazaars. Banana and mango farmers should also be covered and horticulture department has been directed to do the needy, he said. “We have started procurement of banana and have procured 57,000 tonnes. A harvest calendar will be brought out to standardize the process up to procurement. The calendar would give district-wise details of crops and the harvest season,” said the minister. The state has procured 6 lakh quintals of seeds of the required 8 lakh quintals. We have listed 25 essential commodities including milk powder and will ensure that they are available,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-to-bring-out-harvest-calendar-agri-minister/articleshow/74999663.cms||Samson Raj
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Three deaths in Pune; record 113 new cases in Maharashtra in a single day||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 113 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, its highest surge in a single day, taking the state's overall tally to 748. Two slum-dwellers were among three people who succumbed to Covid-19-associated complications in Pune over the weekend, pushing up the number of casualties in the city to five. With 13 more deaths, the toll in the state has touched 45, which includes 30 from Mumbai city and six from adjoining areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In terms of spread, Maharashtra is ahead of Tamil Nadu, which has 571 cases. With 81 cases reported on Sunday, Mumbai accounts for 60% or 458 of the state's overall count. The three Pune casualties were a 60-year-old woman, resident of the Laxminagar slum in Yerawada; a 52-year-old man from the Kasewadi slum in Bhavani Peth; and, a 69-year-old woman from Gultekdi. None of the three who died in Pune had any recent history of international travel or traceable source of infection. Two of them had some underlying medical conditions. Record 113 new cases in Maharashtra in a day; three deaths in cityThe Yerawada woman reported to Naidu hospital for flu-like symptoms on April 1. She was discharged the next day as her throat swab sample tested negative. On April 4, she slipped into acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and was taken to Sassoon hospital. But she was declared dead on arrival. Her throat swab tested positive. The Bhavani Peth man was undergoing treatment for viral pneumonia and breathlessness. He had co-morbid conditions including hypertension and diabetes, Wavare said. The Gultekdi woman, also from the lower income group, had undergone a gall bladder surgery five days ago at a private hospital in Salisbury Park. Postsurgery, she developed flu-like symptoms. She developed breathlessness and died at the state-run Civil hospital in Aundh on Sunday. “All three had developed breathlessness and pneumonia. Cluster containment is already under way in four city’s slums where cases were recorded in the past few days,” said public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A58-year-old man who tested positive died while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad on Sunday. Two suspected Covid-19 patients died in Jalgaon but their swab reports are still awaited. In Ahmednagar, four persons tested positive at Booth Hospital on Sunday. These four had come in contact with those who tested positive after participating in the Tablighi Jamaat event. A 54-year-old man from Satara tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-deaths-in-pune-record-113-new-cases-in-maharashtra-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75000825.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Pune||Three deaths in Pune; record 113 new cases in Maharashtra in a single day||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 113 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, its highest surge in a single day, taking the state's overall tally to 748. Two slum-dwellers were among three people who succumbed to Covid-19-associated complications in Pune over the weekend, pushing up the number of casualties in the city to five. With 13 more deaths, the toll in the state has touched 45, which includes 30 from Mumbai city and six from adjoining areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In terms of spread, Maharashtra is ahead of Tamil Nadu, which has 571 cases. With 81 cases reported on Sunday, Mumbai accounts for 60% or 458 of the state's overall count. The three Pune casualties were a 60-year-old woman, resident of the Laxminagar slum in Yerawada; a 52-year-old man from the Kasewadi slum in Bhavani Peth; and, a 69-year-old woman from Gultekdi. None of the three who died in Pune had any recent history of international travel or traceable source of infection. Two of them had some underlying medical conditions. Record 113 new cases in Maharashtra in a day; three deaths in cityThe Yerawada woman reported to Naidu hospital for flu-like symptoms on April 1. She was discharged the next day as her throat swab sample tested negative. On April 4, she slipped into acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and was taken to Sassoon hospital. But she was declared dead on arrival. Her throat swab tested positive. The Bhavani Peth man was undergoing treatment for viral pneumonia and breathlessness. He had co-morbid conditions including hypertension and diabetes, Wavare said. The Gultekdi woman, also from the lower income group, had undergone a gall bladder surgery five days ago at a private hospital in Salisbury Park. Postsurgery, she developed flu-like symptoms. She developed breathlessness and died at the state-run Civil hospital in Aundh on Sunday. “All three had developed breathlessness and pneumonia. Cluster containment is already under way in four city’s slums where cases were recorded in the past few days,” said public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A58-year-old man who tested positive died while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad on Sunday. Two suspected Covid-19 patients died in Jalgaon but their swab reports are still awaited. In Ahmednagar, four persons tested positive at Booth Hospital on Sunday. These four had come in contact with those who tested positive after participating in the Tablighi Jamaat event. A 54-year-old man from Satara tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-deaths-in-pune-record-113-new-cases-in-maharashtra-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75000819.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||‘Tablighi chief ignored advice of clerics on cancelling meet’||AYODHYA: Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Muhammad Saad Kandhlawi reportedly didn’t listen to advice and requests from several senior clerics, Muslim intellectuals and his own aides to cancel the March 2020 Nizamuddin meet soon after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. His stubborn attitude has not only jeopardised lives of hundreds of his own followers, who were taught to repose blind faith in him, but also tarnished the images of Muslims, say many community members. Many of those who attended the markaz have tested positive for the virus and have been quarantined, while Saad remains in hiding with a handful of his musheers (advisors). Join TOI initiative to help keep you and the nation safeWhile 30% of all corona cases in the country are linked to the Jamaat, in UP this count goes up to almost 50%. While the other other faction of Tablighi Jamaat — Shura-e-Jamaat — which has its headquarters at Turkman Gate, Delhi, cancelled all it events immediately after the coronavirus outbreak, an unfazed Maulana Saad insisted on continuing with his scheduled programme and preached about the “best death in mosque” as heard in one of his viral audio tapes. A Tablighi Jamaat veteran Mohammad Aalam, said, “Saad was aware of everything, but his stubborn attitude pushed innocent Tablighis into the jaws of a pandemic.” “How can the man, who claims to be the Ameer of Muslims of the world and terms the Tablighi Markaz as the most sacred place after Mecca and Madina, be so ignorant about the coronavirus pandemic,” he asked. Another old Tablighi member, Liyaqat Ali Khan of Mau, said, “Why did Maulana Saad junk advice of responsible Muslims intellectuals? And why is he hiding and not getting himself checked for the virus.” A close confidant of Maulana Saad told TOI on condition of anonymity that repeated requests to cancel the event fell on deaf ears. “Now, he has pushed his own followers to the brink,” he said. Congress leader Meem Afzal and another Muslim leader Zafar Sareshwala have revealed to the media about several advices sent to Maulana Saad to cancel the meet, but he remained intransigent. However, Maulana Haaris, another aide of Saad, defended his leader by saying that “when our jamaats came from foreign countries, the Indian government allowed them to enter. How is it our fault?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tablighi-chief-ignored-advice-of-clerics-on-cancelling-meet/articleshow/75000760.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
April 6, 2020||Pune||40 Pune doctors in quarantine after Tablighi Jamaat meet attendee tests positive||PUNE: About 40 surgeons and resident doctors of a prominent medical college in Pimpri were quarantined after a trauma patient they performed an emergency surgery upon turned positive for the novel coronavirus infection (Covid-19) on Saturday night. The patient had hidden his travel history at the time of admission. It was later learnt that he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Nizamuddin, New Delhi. “We have shifted the patient to YCM hospital in Pimpri after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night. We have also sent the throat swab samples of the 40 surgeons and resident doctors who had come in contact with him to the National Institute of Virology (NIV). They have been quarantined in separate rooms in one of the hospital’s floors,” a senior official of the medical college-cum-hospital said. The patient, an autorickshaw driver from Khadki, was taken to the hospital on March 31 after he had met with an accident and sustained internal bleeding. It was when he developed fever two days later that the doctors questioned his mother, who revealed that he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. 40 doctors in quarantine after TJ meet attendee tests +veA hospital official said, “We had asked him and his family members about his recent travel history, but they said he had none. A team of doctors, assisted by nurses, performed an emergency surgery involving resection of a part of his damaged intestine.” When the patient developed fever two days later, the hospital staff became suspicious and questioned his mother. “She then revealed that he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. We sent his throat swab sample on Friday and it turned positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night,” the official said.In addition to the 40 surgeons and resident doctors, about 30 other hospital employees, including nurses, attendants and cleaning staff who were exposed to the patient, have also been quarantined. Their samples have also been sent for testing. Wockhardt declared containment zoneBMC declared Wockhardt Hospital a containment zone after 26 nurses and 3 doctors tested positive for Covid-19 over a week. Nobody can enter or leave the Mumbai Central hospital till everyone tests negative twice consecutively, a BMC official said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said a team was set up under executive health officer to probe how infection spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-pune-doctors-in-quarantine-after-tablighi-jamaat-meet-attendee-tests-positive/articleshow/75000842.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Taloja jail says it cannot take more inmates||MUMBAI: Fearing community spread of Covid-19 among inmates in the crowded Taloja jail, authorities here wrote to various district courts, including sessions courts in Mumbai, requesting them not to send new inmates. The letter said Taloja has a capacity of 2,124 but as Arthur Road and Thane jails have stopped taking new prisoners, the number in Taloja has crossed 3,000. Jail doctors have advised authorities that Covid-19 is nearing 'community spread' status and hence it could be dangerous to accommodate more. "Even if one or two suspected cases come, it could easily spread among inmates who share toilets, eatery and assemble for prayers,'' said the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-taloja-jail-says-it-cannot-take-more-inmates/articleshow/75000855.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||Wedlockdown: Girl in Delhi, boy in Mumbai tie the knot||MUMBAI: For 29-year-old Mumbai-based merchant navy officer, Preet Singh, and Delhi girl, Neet Kaur, April 4 was supposed to mark the end of a year-long, long-distance relationship and the start of an exciting new life together. Not allowing the lockdown to play spoilsport, the couple stuck to the date. In a unique ceremony performed over a video calling app, they accepted each other as life partners with the blessings of both families and friends who had logged in from as far as Dubai, Canada and Australia. Dressed in wedding finery, their families even broke into a dance at the end of the ceremony and congratulatory speeches that lasted two hours. Preet’s sister and brother-in-law and little nephew tuned in from Canada and joined in the celebrations. “We were heartbroken because we had been planning the wedding for six months. But every cloud has a silver lining and we found ours too. We got to have a unique wedding,” said Preet, adding Neet will move in with him when the lockdown ends. “Since we believe the wedding is incomplete without the blessings of waheguruji, we will head to a gurudwara at the earliest opportunity to conduct the wedding ceremony as per Sikh tradition,” he added. The couple met online a year ago and started dating soon after. Preet said they decided to get married within six months. Neet and her family were scheduled to fly down to Mumbai on April 1. Preet said he came up with the idea of going ahead with the wedding and it was not difficult to convince their families to come on board. “Since it will not be safe to have a large gathering even after the lockdown is lifted, we decided to go ahead with the wedding,” Preet said. His bachelor party in Goa was already cancelled and the honeymoon in Sri Lanka also had to be postponed. The couple picked 11.30 am as it was convenient for everyone who attended from across the globe. “Our original guest list of around 150 had to be trimmed down to 50,” he said. Preet says Neet had mehendi on her hands and the date 4.4.20 etched. Once they were “virtually wedded”, guests helped themselves to chocolates they had kept ready. This was followed by a dance session. “The hardest part is not seeing each other after the ceremony, but the fact that we are married is good enough for me,” says Preet with a twinge of sadness, hoping they can have a bigger celebration once things normalize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wedlockdown-girl-in-delhi-boy-in-mumbai-tie-the-knot/articleshow/75000861.cms||Rebecca Samervel
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram patient booked for hiding he was at Tablighi meet, 5 more cases reported||GURUGRAM: A 38-year-old man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in March and tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago was booked on Sunday for concealing details about his participation in the event. The FIR against the man has been registered at the Sector 9A police station under IPC sections 188, 269 and 270 for unlawful or negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life. The punishment may be up to six months or a fine, or both. The FIR states that the man, who was in Nizamuddin on March 28, knew that members from Tablighi Jamaat had contracted the disease. “The accused hid the information from the government on purpose, thereby putting others at risk,” said an officer at the Sector 9A police station, adding that action will be initiated against the patient after he has recovered. On Sunday, five more cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat were reported — four Sri Lankan nationals in Mewat and an Indian in Gurugram. The city patient is an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. The health department has collected samples of five people who came in direct contact with him. The four patients have been admitted to the Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, which has now been declared a Covid-exclusive facility. Their samples were sent to PGI Rohtak after they showed symptoms over the weekend. “After they tested positive, we moved them to the Mewat Medical College. They have been put in isolation and are receiving treatment,” Virender Singh, chief medical officer (CMO), Mewat, told TOI. “We are aiming to complete testing for all those who had been a part of the Tablighi Jamaat by Sunday. In all, there are around 300 such people in the district,” he added. On Saturday, said the CMO, another 111 samples were shared with PGI Rohtak for testing. “The total number of samples sent is 230 whereas the total number of samples that tested positive is eight,” confirmed a government official. Official figures cite that a total of 1,193 persons have been put under surveillance in Mewat. Gurugram count up by one According to the health department, the latest Gurugram patient is a 27-year-old man, resident of ward no. 14, Pataudi, who was present at the religious meeting on March 18. He tested positive on Saturday. The district health department has collected samples of his four family members and is assembling data on persons who had met with him after he returned from Delhi. J S Puniya, the district’s chief medical officer, revealed that strict surveillance will be carried out in an effort to avoid community transmission. “We collected 90 samples today and we have increased the number of sample collection in the district to identify people with the virus and to curb the spread,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department said that the 25 suspected cases which it had received from Pataudi and Nuh earlier this week have returned negative. All 25 had been present in Nizamuddin. At present, Mewat has eight positive cases, seven of them with links to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Of these seven, four are Sri Lankan and three are from Kerala. The eighth is a local truck driver. The total number of active coronavirus cases in Gurugram now stands at 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/patient-booked-for-hiding-he-was-at-tablighi-meet-5-more-cases-reported/articleshow/75000350.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 6, 2020||Thane||Lockdown violation: Thane cops seize more than 1,000 private vehicles||THANE: More than 1,000 private vehicles have been seized by the police in Thane. Also, the district administration has barred movement of all private, commercial passenger vehicles in Kalwa, Mumbra and Diva from Sunday till further notice as preventive action to rein in transmission of coronavirus after the zone recorded highest number of positive cases. Several parts of the district have already witnessed private vehicles moving around despite a clampdown. Thane police chief Vivek Phansalkar has already got of nearly 1,070 vehicles seized for flouting guidelines. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar issued a directive on Sunday afternoon, barring movement of private vehicles. Vehicle owners can collect their vehicles after the lockdown is lifted, said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/lockdown-violation-thane-cops-seize-more-than-1000-private-vehicles/articleshow/75000878.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand tested only 911 samples so far||RANCHI: Jharkhand has, so far, detected only two Covid-19 patients — a Malaysian woman, who came to the city after taking part in the Tablighi Jamaat conclave in New Delhi, and a man from Hazaribag who returned from Asansol in West Bengal. However, the total number of tests for the virus till Saturday evening remained as low as 911, of which 181 results are pending; 727 have been declared negative while three are positive. According to reports, nearly 1.5 lakh migrant workers have returned to the state just before and after the lockdown starting from March 25. Experts said though the fewer number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state is certainly a breather, the danger of several undetected and asymptomatic cases hiding among the state residents loom large. Principal secretary (health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni said they were expecting more cases. “Earlier, we were testing 20 to 25 samples every day, but now, we are testing around 70-80 samples daily at the two authorised testing centres — Rims in Ranchi and MGM medical college in Jamshedpur — but still most of them are negative,” he said, adding, “We are not going by any hypothesis related to demography and environmental conditions, but trying to test as much samples as possible.” According to the latest figures released by Union ministry of health and family welfare, Jharkhand is placed alongside Manipur with two positive cases, whereas only two other states – Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram — have reported one each. Meghalaya is the only state in the country which has no Covid-19 case, so far. Commenting on the low numbers, Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, head of trauma, emergency and critical care at Rims, said geographically and demographically, Jharkhand is closer to Chhattisgarh than the northeastern states. “We cannot link either geography or demography with the spread of virus, but there is no doubt about the fact that we are testing very few samples,” he said. Earlier, tests were being carried out only at MGM as the machine required for testing samples was not available at Rims then. “We are less connected to foreign countries as the number of people coming to Jharkhand from other nations is far less than metropolitan cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. Moreover, many people from states like Kerala and Karnataka work in the Gulf countries, making them more exposed to the virus in comparison to Jharkhand,” he said. Dr Bhattacharya pointed out that Jharkhand is a malaria endemic zone and many people in the state have been administered chloroquine as treatment. “This aspect of whether chloroquine act as a protection against Covid-19 is just a hypothesis now, even though frontline workers have started using it under strict guidelines. The medical fraternity should establish this hypothesis once the pandemic phase is over.” ENT superspecialist with expertise in skull base, head and neck surgery, Dr Abhishek Kumar Ramadhin, also admitted that Jharkhand is an endemic zone for tuberculosis, malaria and dengue. “The virus responsible for dengue and Covid-19 are both RNA viruses and there is a bleak possibility that the person inflicted with RNA virus earlier might have developed some immunity to Covid-19 virus as well,” he said. Ramadhin, however, raised questions about the less number of tests conducted in state. “Around 1.5 lakh labourers from different parts of the country entered Jharkhand just before and after lockdown and they were not tested. Till date, we have conducted less than 1,000 tests, which indicates that there could be several hundred carriers of the virus who are asymptomatic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-tested-only-911-samples-so-far/articleshow/74998981.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Malda hosp ransacked over quarantine centre dispute||Malda/Suri: A private hospital in Malda’s Chanchal that has been designated as a quarantine centre for Covid-19 suspects was ransacked on Sunday. This incident comes a day after Birbhum witnessed violence over the same issue, resulting in a death. Dr S N Sharma, owner of Chanchal Dishari Nursing Home, said: “When the administration decided on our 30-bed hospital as the quarantine centre, we had no objections. But a few locals misunderstood the government action and unleashed their fury on us.” Trouble began in the morning, when residents of neighbouring Raipara gathered before the nursing home and raised slogans against the quarantine centre. They alleged that residents of the area, lying 40 metres from the hospital, might get infected. While staff locked themselves in, the mob attacked the gate, dumped the furniture on the road and set fire to it, bringing police to the spot. SDPO Sajal Biswas said: “We are trying to control the mob.” District health officials called the incident “most unfortunate”. Police patrolling is still on. Meanwhile, seven persons have been detained over Saturday’s incident at Birbhum’s Talibpur, where one Sk Saifuddin died of bomb injuries. It is learnt that a minority girls’ hostel at Talibpur was identified as a quarantine centre, which angered locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malda-hosp-ransacked-over-quarantine-centre-dispute/articleshow/75000634.cms||Subhro Maitra
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Four patients in West Bengal ‘die of co-morbidities’||KOLKATA: Four persons — all of them Covid-19-positive — succumbed to various “co-morbid conditions” at hospitals across Bengal on Saturday night and Sunday morning. The state has announced a five-member expert committee for “conducting audits of suspected deaths due to Covid-19”. It will be the task of the committee — which is to begin functioning immediately — to study treatment histories, laboratory investigation reports, death certificates and other documents as it may deem fit, and decide whether the death of a Covid-19-positive patient can be ruled “due to Covid-19”, according to an order issued by the state health department. The state health bulletin, last released at 6pm on Saturday, mentions the “active Covid-19 cases” in Bengal at 49. No bulletin was issued on Sunday. The Union health ministry bulletin, on Sunday, says Bengal has recorded 80 Covid-19 positive cases till now, of whom 10 are discharged and three dead. A 35-year-old man from Maheshtala, who had been admitted to the isolation ward of NRS Hospital, died on Saturday night, hours before his swab sample tested positive for Covid-19. A 49-year-old woman from Amherst Street in north Kolkata died at Peerless Hospital on Saturday night. Her test report, confirming Covid-19, too, was received on Sunday. While a 56-year-old railway technician — who was admitted in the same ward as the 44-year-old Kalimpong woman who died of Covid-19 at North Bengal Medical College Hospital last week — died at the same hospital on Sunday, a 52-year-old Sheoraphuli resident, who had been infected, died at AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, on Sunday. The Sheoraphuli patient, who had been admitted to AMRI on March 28 with severe co-morbidities — including diabetes and hypertension — died of a “heart attack”, according to a hospital statement, which mentioned that he “had tested positive for Covid-19”. His house had been sealed and six members of his family, including his son and brother, were quarantined at Serampore Walsh Hospital. The Sheoraphuli patient’s son and brother later tested positive and were admitted to the Beliaghata ID Hospital. They are yet to be released. Railway technician Arun Lohar, a resident of Pradhan Nagar in Siliguri, had been admitted to the New Jalpaiguri Railway Hospital, and later shifted to a private hospital on March 25. A diabetic, Lohar was suffering from respiratory problems and heart diseases. He was also running a temperature, and doctors at the private nursing home referred him to North Bengal Medical College, where he was admitted to the respiratory ICU on March 26. The Maheshtala woman who died at NRS on Saturday and the woman who passed away at Peerless Hospital had co-morbidities, too. Peerless Hospital, however, refused to confirm the cause of the woman’s death. “We have sent all reports to the health department,” said a hospital spokesperson. A 64-year-old Trinamool Congress councillor who is also a member, chairman-in council of Madhyamgram Municipality, has been admitted to the Beliaghata ID Hospital with Covid-19. Rathin Ghosh, the chairman of Madhyamgram Municipality, confirmed that his colleague had tested positive. Since Thursday, the councillor was treated at a hospital on EM Bypass with symptoms of fever and cough. But he was sent back and was admitted to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. A swab sample was collected on Friday and the report confirmed Covid-19 on Saturday. He was shifted to the ID Hospital soon after. A senior official said his condition was critical and he was on life support. Six members of his family are in home quarantine. The state expert committee will include B R Satpathy, adviser to the health and family welfare department; Plaban Mukherjee, professor and head of the cardiothoracic and vascular surgery department, SSKM; Ashutosh Ghosh, professor and head of the department of critical care at IPGMER; Jyotirmoy Pal, department of medicine, RG Kar Medical College; and Debashish Bhattacharya, director of medical education. Bhattacjarya is the convener of the committee. Members of the committee will meet periodically, “as and when required”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-patients-in-bengal-die-of-co-morbidities/articleshow/75000614.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Use of arrow bombs by Maoists worry security forces||RANCHI: The recovery of arrow bombs from the possession of the three women Moaist cadres, who were killed in a encounter in East Singhbhum district on Saturday, has sent Jharkhand Police and CRPF into a tizzy. Widely used in Chhattisgarh, Left-wing extremists in Jharkhand have recently started using arrow bombs here. With a small amount of explosive mounted on an arrow, these bombs have splinters and can cause severe damage after they explode on contact. CRPF IG Raj Kumar said, “Arrow bombs are used in Chattisgarh. Its adoption by extremists here is certainly a cause of worry. The recovery of a large amount of explosives from extremists also indicate that they have received supplies from somewhere recently. They were in dearth of fire power till the recent past.” IG (Operation) Saket Kumar Singh opined arrow bombs cab easily be made as it is a traditional weapon in the state. He added that the explosive used in the weapon is also available in the market. Singh said, “The weapon has the potential to injure three to four jawans after exploding. The weapon can target security personnel from a distance of around 100m. While using villagers as the first line of defence, extremists can also force the latter to use this weapon against the security personnel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/use-of-arrow-bombs-by-maoists-worry-security-forces/articleshow/74998940.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||MoS refuses ‘home quarantined’ label on Raiganj house, claims defame plot||Malda: Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri sparked controversy when she refused to be notified as ‘home-quarantined’, saying the move was ‘politically motivated’ to ‘defame’ her. Two days back, she had taken to the streets to distribute masks and sanitizers, drawing criticism. Congress MLA Mohit Sengupta and TMC-run Raiganj Municipality chairman Sand-ip Biswas claimed she violated the 14-day quarantine. The district administration then sent a team of health workers to the Raiganj MP’s home on Saturday morning but were spurned. When block medical officer (health) Sandip Bag and IC Suraj Thapa called on her at night, she said she  wanted to see an official order, but they failed to show any. They left after a heated argument. Chaudhuri later said: “My home quarantine period ends on April 6. I am maintaining all norms. Still, the local administration is after me. I came back from Delhi on March 23 on a flight along with TMC MPs such as Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Sougata Roy. Is such a notice displayed on their homes? It is a sheer politically motivated step to defame me. Such a notice would only trigger panic among neighbours.” The administration refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mos-refuses-home-quarantined-label-on-raiganj-house-claims-defame-plot/articleshow/75000590.cms||Subhro Maitra
April 6, 2020||Ranchi||Government freezes withdrawal of funds from Jharkhand coffers||RANCHI: Except for a few emergency services notified by the state finance department, the Jharkhand government on Saturday imposed a moratorium on withdrawal of funds from the state treasury. The move, second since the formation of the Hemant Soren government last December, is in view of the nationwide lockdown due to novel coronavirus which has lead to a loss of revenue generation. Additional chief secretary of the state finance department K K Khandelwal said a complete freeze has been imposed on payments for all public infrastructure projects till further orders. He said, “The order is for the month of April following shortfall in state revenues in view of the lockdown and the national economic slowdown. The freeze will be enforced till further notice.” As per the notification undersigned by Khandelwal, withdrawal of funds from the treasury will be allowed for about a dozen key purposes. They include midday meals for schools, PDS distribution, pension and welfare schemes by state women, child and social welfare department, salary to staff for March, distribution of retirement benefits and pension, expenditures incurred against tackling Covid-19 and payments for infrastructural upgrade/civil works of the state health department. Khandelwal said, “If any department or districts requiring funds, a proposal should be sent to the government for its consent. All stakeholders have been asked to follow strict financial discipline.” In January, the finance department headed by Congress minister Rameshwar Oraon had put a freeze on the withdrawal for about a month citing that they had inherited empty coffers from the Raghubar Das regime. Oraon said, “It is difficult to balance things in view of the uncertainties and falling revenues. Since we took charge, we were trying to put things back in order, but the efforts nosedived due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-freezes-withdrawal-of-funds-from-state-coffers/articleshow/74999101.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||PM dons mundu & gamosa, shines light on integration||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi took part in the ‘diya jalao’ event on Sunday night as a show of the nation’s resolve to fight the coronavirus with his attire sending out a subtle message of national integration — a combination of ‘mundu’ from the South and an Assamese ‘gamosa’ from the northeast. The PM joined millions of Indians as they lit up ‘diyas’ and candles at their doorstep and balconies to express solidarity in the fight against Covid-19 spread. In a video message on Friday, Modi had urged people to light up diyas, candles, mobile flashlights etc to show national solidarity, especially with the poor, in fighting the pandemic. Just like the previous occasion when people came out clanging ‘thalis’ and clapping on Modi’s call to express gratitude to the medical personnel and other ‘corona warriors’, the ‘diya jalo’ call too received an overwhelming response in the midst of the 21-day nationwide lockdown. शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ https://t.co/4DeiMsCN11— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1586102646000Modi shared four pictures of him lighting up a diya while wearing mundu and draped with an Assamese ‘gamosa’, a message that the whole nation is together in the fight against Covid-19. With the post, Modi shared a Sanskrit Shloka — “Shudha Karoti Kalyanmarogyam Dhansampada, Shatrubuddhi Vinashay Deepjyotirnmastute” (lighting up a lamp leads to prosperity, welfare and defeat of the enemy’s ploy). Top functionaries of BJP followed suit by lighting up diyas at 9pm. Home Minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and most of the Union ministers and other senior members shared their pictures of lighting lamp on their social media handles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-dons-mundu-gamosa-shines-light-on-integration/articleshow/75000848.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu toll hits 5, positive count 571 with 76 new cases||CHENNAI: A 60-year-old man who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month died on Sunday taking Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 toll to five, while the count of those testing positive touched 571 with 76 more cases reported. The Tablighi Jamaat cluster's count went up by 75 to 522. The 60-year-old man was admitted to Stanley Medical College Hospital on Wednesday with fever, cough and chest congestion. He later tested positive for the viral infection. "He was initially stable. He had diabetes and hypertension both of which are risk factors ," said a doctor attending on him. On Saturday, he developed respiratory distress and was connected to the ventilator at 7pm. "Despite resuscitative measures he could not be revived. He died of cardio-respiratory arrest at 1.45am on Sunday," the doctor said. His family members have been isolated and their samples have been taken for test. Former minister and Ramanathapuram MLA M Manikandan of the AIADMK and 49 others, who attended the funeral of a 71-year-old man with travel history to Dubai and whose samples came positive for Covid-19, have been home quarantined. The man had died at hospital on April 2, but his test results came only on Saturday. The man's body was taken to Keezhakarai in Ramanathapuram district where the last rites were conducted on Friday. Health dept revises protocol for deathsPublic health officials tracked the family members who travelled with the body and all others who took part in the last rites. On Saturday night, the directorate of public health issued revised protocols making it mandatory for all deaths following severe acute respiratory infection to be considered Covid-19 until tests show otherwise. Ruling out community transmission, health secretary Beela Rajesh said, “We are also testing people hospitalised with severe acute respiratory syndrome.” So far, the state has screened more than 650 such cases, of which four were positive. “All four had travel or contact history. This indicates we do not have community transmission,” she said. Seven patients are showing symptoms such as cough and respiratory problems but none are critical or on ventilator support, she said. “We, however, have been seeing quick deterioration and death in some patients,” she added. For instance, the patient who died on Sunday morning was doing well until last evening. He was put on ventilator but could not be revived, said Beela Rajesh. She appealed to people to take the Covid warning signs seriously and seek medical help immediately. Expressing concern that those under home quarantine were not adhering to the rules, she said the government did not want to encourage testing at home. “Many people do not follow quarantine norms,” she said. “In hospitals too, we want patients to complete the quarantine period even if they test negative. In some cases, people showed symptoms and later tested positive,” she said. The focus of the government, she said, was to aggressively contain the virus spread. The state has screened more than 38 lakh people in 9.2 lakh houses across the state. People with fever, cough and respiratory disorders are being isolated and tested. The state has tested more than 4,600 samples. “The turnaround time is at least six hours. In some places, samples have to be moved to another district for testing, adding to the delay. We have fewer cases than Maharashtra but have done more tests,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-toll-hits-5-positive-count-571-with-76-new-cases/articleshow/75000896.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Fewer breach home quarantine in Thane, thanks to e-surveillance||THANE: The e-surveillance system set up by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to keep tabs on those under quarantine seems to be paying off as the initial analysis presented on Thursday showed a lesser number of residents breaching restrictions. A civic official revealed that barely eight of the around 550 people were seen breaching the limits set by the administration on Wednesday. Officials said this was encouraging and that the digital surveillance was probably having an effect, especially after the reports of home-quarantined people stepping outside in the past few days. It may be noted the mobile app 'Coviguard' was flagged off in the city this week to keep a tab on those in home-quarantine. Officials also said that the system had limitations and may not give accurate information if the gadget is left at home while the person moves outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-fewer-breach-home-quarantine-in-thane-thanks-to-e-surveillance/articleshow/75000898.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 6, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Toll surges past 100 with 27 deaths reported in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: India’s death toll from the Covid-19 outbreak surged past 100 with 27 patients succumbing to the infection in the past 24 hours or so, the highest number of casualties reported in a day so far, with Maharashtra alone reporting 13 deaths on Sunday. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe number of coronavirus cases also went past 4,000 as states reported 541 fresh cases on Sunday, the fourth straight day of 500-plus infections in the country. The number of cases has doubled in the past four days, going from a little over 2,000 on April 1 to more than 4,200 till the time of going to press on Sunday. Make your own mask: Join TOI initiative to help keep you and the nation safeMeanwhile, the Centre released data that showed how the recent surge in cases are significantly linked to the infections spread through the Tablighi Jamaat congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Minus the cases linked to the event, India’s Covid-19 cases would have doubled in 7.4 days, whereas it is doubling in 4.1 days at present because several infected members of the Jamaat dispersed across the country to spread the virus multiple times. “The doubling rate, which means in how many days the number of Covid-19 cases double, at present is 4.1 days. But if cases reported due to the Tablighi Jamaat event, had not come, then the doubling rate would have been 7.4 days,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. According to the health ministry, a total of 3,374 positive cases and 79 deaths were reported from across the country till Sunday. Of this, at least 472 new cases and 11 deaths were reported in last 24 hours, according to health ministry data. The ministry’s numbers are likely to be at variance with those reported by the state governments due to a time lag in collating and cross-checking data. On Saturday, the ministry had said 30% of the total cases reported in the country so far were linked to Tablighi Jamaat. Around 274 districts across the country have reported Covid-19 cases so far. With increasing transmission of the disease to wider geographies, the Cabinet secretary had asked district magistrates and collectors of different districts with larger number of cases to share their experience with other districts. In a meeting on Sunday, district administrations from such districts including Bhilwara, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, East Delhi and Mumbai shared their observations. “The two key observations about strategies that worked were – one, proactive and ruthless implementation of containment measures at field level, and preparedness to the extent of being over-prepared,” Agarwal said. Besides, the government has decided to have a crisis management plan for Covid-19 in every district. The government also allayed concerns over the spread of the virus through air, clarifying that the infection only transmits via droplets released due to coughing, sneezing and from the breath of a Covid-19 patient. “The coronavirus infection is not airborne but a droplet infection. Had it been an airborne infection, every person in a family of an infected person would have caught the virus because they all would be breathing the air infected by the family member. The same would apply for other patients in a hospital. In some cases, scientists have found it in some settings,” said Dr R R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toll-crosses-100-tablighi-jamaat-members-account-for-30-of-all-cases/articleshow/75000552.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||10 of family in Andheri test positive, split in two private hospitals||MUMBAI: Ten members of an Andheri family who tested positive for coronavirus over two days struggled to find beds in a single private hospital, indicative of what many could face as cases continue to rise in the city. After making dozens of calls to private hospitals across the city, the family managed to find beds in different hospitals. Half of them are now admitted to SevenHills, Marol, while the others to Nanavati Hospital at Vile Parle. The city on Sunday recorded 103 new cases, one of the highest single-day spikes. Till April 2 when the city had a little over 238 cases, around 42% of the city's 310 private beds were occupied. Civic officials insisted that there was no shortage as nearly 62% of BMC's public isolation beds were available until two days ago. Overall, the civic body claims 50% of the isolation beds are available, though doctors say they are fast filling up. Between Friday and Sunday, the city has added 200 cases to its tally. Speaking to TOI, the 21-year-old Andheri resident recalled their ordeal. "SevenHills didn't have enough to accommodate all of us, though they did admit six of our family members," she said, adding among those positive are three of her grandparents. "After the reports came late at night, the BMC told us to evacuate the housing society. Since we didn't want to go to a public hospital, we started calling private ones," she said. "We called all major private hospitals, including the ones in south Mumbai. Everybody said they didn't have beds to accommodate an entire family," she said, adding the BMC officials also did their best to help them locate beds. The family had attended a wedding in Surat and that could have been the likely source of the infection. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said many isolation beds were available in the public sector and more are likely to be opened up. Meanwhile, in a video message released on Sunday, MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh has alleged owing to lack of coordination between the state government and BMC authorities, the exact number of Covid-19 patients is not being reported. "A 52-year-old has died at Sankli Street in my ward. The local ward office had no record that it was a Covid-19 case till I intervened by talking to the health authorities in the state government who confirmed it was a Covid-19 death. In another case, 10 persons from the same family at a chawl in Morland Road have tested positive for coronavirus. Yet, the family has not been placed under isolation and neither have their contacts been traced," said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-of-family-in-andheri-test-positive-split-in-two-private-hospitals/articleshow/75000918.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 6, 2020||Noida||Eight-year-old raped, smothered to death by cousin in Noida||NOIDA: An 8-year-old girl was allegedly raped and smothered to death by her 19-year-old cousin in Noida’s Salarpur on Saturday night. The accused choked the girl with a blanket inside a vacant shanty a few metres from where she lived with her parents. Police said the girl had seen her cousin steal some scrap from her father’s storehouse and threatened to reveal it to everybody. The accused allegedly offered her Rs 100 and took her to a nearby tenement, where he allegedly raped and murdered her when she tried to raise an alarm. The girl’s parents said they had last seen her outside their shanty around 7pm on Saturday. When she did not return home, they started looking for her. After around half an hour, the girl’s body was found in the vacant shanty around 100 metres from her home. “My elder brother had seen her going outside their shanty in the evening. A few minutes later, she was nowhere to be seen. We started searching for her in the neighbourhood. After around 30 minutes, her mother found her partially-clothed body inside the shanty. It was covered with the blanket with which she was probably killed,” a relative said. The girl’s cousin had even helped neighbours carry her to the hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. He was caught by the villagers when he returned to collect his phone at the shanty. “One of us had seen a phone lying near the body. We did not remove it thinking it was evidence. A little later, the accused went inside and picked up the phone, saying it was his. This raised our suspicion and we handed him over to the cops,” the relative said. “After sustained questioning, he broke down and admitted that he had raped the girl and smothered her to death with a blanket,” he added. The girl’s father, a scrap dealer in the area, said the accused youth had stolen about 20kg of material from near his hutment and sold it for Rs 300. “He told the cops that my daughter had seen him steal the scrap and threatened to reveal it to everyone. He offered her Rs 100 and took her to a nearby shanty. He raped her there. When my daughter tried to raise an alarm, he killed her with a blanket,” the father sobbed. Though the alleged rape and murder was discovered around 7pm on Saturday, an autopsy could be done only after 24 hours. Police waited for doctors, who were busy attending to Covid-19 patients. Dharmendra Sharma, the Sector 49 station officer, said, “A panel was formed to conduct the autopsy but the doctors were busy with emergency cases at the district hospital. A few doctors were also stuck at the quarantine facility set up in Sector 39.” The girl’s cousin was arrested formurder and rape. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/8-year-old-raped-smothered-to-death-by-cousin/articleshow/75000234.cms||Shikha Salaria
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai residents light lamps to display 'collective resolve'||CHENNAI: Responding to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call, scores of residents lit lamps, candles and flashed torch lights from their balconies, terraces and on streets at 9pm on Sunday. Many people burst crackers across the city. And in the moment of celebration, many a few forgot about need for social distancing too. Chief minister Edapadi Palaniswami, governor Banwarilal Purohit, actor Rajinikanth came out of their houses and held up lit candles for nine minutes. On Friday, the Prime Minister urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday to display the country's "collective resolve" to defeat coronavirus. Some areas including T Nagar, Kolathur, Ramapuram, Choolaimedu, Ashok Nagar, Saidapet, Nanganallur plunged into darkness as residents switched off lights. However, street lights were on. In areas of Triplicane and Royapettah, many people did not switch off their lights but came out and lit candles and waved flashlights on their mobile phones from their terrace and on the streets. The TN Electricity Board said that demand for power dipped below 1000MW between 9pm to 9.09pm across the state. Saravanan from Ramapuram said most of his neighbours had switched off their lights and lit agal vilaku (diya) and torch lights. In T Nagar, people switched off all lights, lit candles and diyas and waved torches from their balconies and terraces. One family even lit a bonfire on their terrace while a few others burst crackers and screamed, "Go corona, go!" In Saidapet, residents moved to their terraces with phones and waved for nine minutes. Though on Twitter #Vilakkuetramattom (we will not light candles) was trending at the national level, many residents in the city enthusiastically participated. Later, #9MinutesForIndia hashtag was trending. Soon after, police jeeps roamed the streets to make sure people were not swarming the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-residents-light-lamps-to-display-collective-resolve/articleshow/75000936.cms||---
April 6, 2020||India||PM holds talks with former Presidents, ex-PMs, party heads||NEW DELHI: Hours before people across the country came to their doorstep and balcony for the ‘light-a-diya’ event as a show of their resolve to unitedly fight the coronavirus, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday reached out to prominent politicians, including former Presidents, PMs and heads of some parties, to discuss the current situation arising out of the pandemic. Modi called former Presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil to discuss Covid-19 related issues. He also called two former PMs Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda to discuss the situation in the country. Besides, the PM called up Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and its national president Akhilesh Yadav, TMC chief and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao, DMK chief Stalin and Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal. Sources said Modi’s call to the top politicians and state chief ministers was to discuss about modalities to restore normal life in the country once the 21-day lockdown period is over. In a recent interaction with the chief ministers through video conferencing, Modi had urged them to think about a staggered approach to restore normal life after the lockdown ends. As the 21-day lockdown period, which started on March 25, is half way through, the government is contemplating ways to ease out restrictions in phases and Modi’s call to politicians was also to seek ideas on how to go about it. The PM will also interact with floor leaders of various political parties via video call on Wednesday. He has already held interactions with sportspersons and journalists besides two rounds of interaction with chief ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-holds-talks-with-former-presidents-ex-pms-party-heads/articleshow/75000908.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Will assess situation on April 14, says Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday again urged people to strictly follow lockdown norms to ensure the spread of the novel coronavirus is contained. Raising concerns over the steady rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, especially in the districts of Bidar, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburgi – all hotposts –the chief minister reiterated that relaxation of lockdown measures post April 14 will depends on how strictly people follow norms. “We will assess the situation on April 14 on whether to extend the lockdown or not. Until then, successful implementation of measures is in your hands,” Yediyurappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/will-assess-situation-on-april-14-says-karnataka-cm/articleshow/75000990.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Hubballi||Will assess situation on April 14, says Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday again urged people to strictly follow lockdown norms to ensure the spread of the novel coronavirus is contained. Raising concerns over the steady rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, especially in the districts of Bidar, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburgi – all hotposts –the chief minister reiterated that relaxation of lockdown measures post April 14 will depends on how strictly people follow norms. “We will assess the situation on April 14 on whether to extend the lockdown or not. Until then, successful implementation of measures is in your hands,” Yediyurappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/will-assess-situation-on-april-14-says-karnataka-cm/articleshow/75000989.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Will assess situation on April 14, says Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday again urged people to strictly follow lockdown norms to ensure the spread of the novel coronavirus is contained. Raising concerns over the steady rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, especially in the districts of Bidar, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburgi – all hotposts –the chief minister reiterated that relaxation of lockdown measures post April 14 will depends on how strictly people follow norms. “We will assess the situation on April 14 on whether to extend the lockdown or not. Until then, successful implementation of measures is in your hands,” Yediyurappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-assess-situation-on-april-14-says-karnataka-cm/articleshow/75000987.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Will assess situation on April 14, says Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday again urged people to strictly follow lockdown norms to ensure the spread of the novel coronavirus is contained. Raising concerns over the steady rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, especially in the districts of Bidar, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburgi – all hotposts –the chief minister reiterated that relaxation of lockdown measures post April 14 will depends on how strictly people follow norms. “We will assess the situation on April 14 on whether to extend the lockdown or not. Until then, successful implementation of measures is in your hands,” Yediyurappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-assess-situation-on-april-14-says-karnataka-cm/articleshow/75000988.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 55 NRS junior doctors, nurses sent to quarantine||KOLKATA: Around 55 healthcare workers that included 39 junior doctors attached with NRS Medical College and Hospital were sent on quarantine on Sunday after a patient who died in the hospital tested positive to Covid-19. The report arrived after his death. Some of those who have been sent to quarantine include junior doctors who had faced mob attack on the hospital premises last June. This perhaps is the first time healthcare workers from a state run hospital have been sent to quarantine after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient. The patient, a 35-year-old from Maheshtala, had died in the hospital on Saturday. The male patient suffering from haemophilia had come to the hospital’s emergency on March 30. The patient was initially admitted to the male general medicine ward. “As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the CCU (critical care unit) the next day and put on ventilation,” said a source in the hospital. During treatment, doctors noticed Covid-19 symptoms and his swab samples were sent. The patient died on Saturday morning and the test reports confirming the infection came only on Saturday night. When reports reached the hospital authority late on Saturday night, hours after the patient’s death, officials frantically started searching for any healthcare worker who had come in contact with the patient — right at the emergency, the general medicine ward and the CCU unit. By Sunday afternoon, the hospital had traced 39 junior doctors and 16 other staff that included nurses, paramedics and Group D staff who had come in close contact with the patient. All of them have been sent to the state’s quarantine centre at New Town. “Another 16 persons are under home quarantine. They might also be brought to the New Town quarantine centre if required,” said a senior state health department official. The list of doctors who have been sent to quarantine include 15 post-graduate trainees, six house staffers and 18 interns. The patient, according to hospital sources, did not have any flu symptoms, because of which he did not get any kind of screening at the fever clinic set up in the hospital. He was sent to the male general medicine ward straight from the emergency. “This is the reason we have been asking for PPE. What happens if any of these doctors test positive? They must have come in contact with other patients too. The situation is quite grim. But we will continue to work despite all these conditions,” said a doctor at the hospital. The hospital has disinfected the male general medicine ward. The CCU unit will be disinfected on Monday after shifting three admitted patients. The patient reportedly had also gone to the emergency unit of two other government hospitals where he was denied treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/55-nrs-jr-docs-nurses-sent-to-quarantine/articleshow/75000187.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 6, 2020||Surat||Surat woman spurns doctors' advice, dies; Gujarat records 20 cases, tally 128||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, Gujarat added 20 new Covid-19 cases - the highest single-day spike triggered by 8 fresh cases from Ahmedabad - taking the total tally to 122. The state also recorded the death of a 61-year-old woman from Surat. With the case, now Gujarat has 11 coronavirus deaths, second highest in India after Maharashtra. Among those tested positive on Sunday is a 14-month-old child from Jamnagar who is currently on ventilator. On deaths, Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said the 61-year-old woman from Surat who died in early on Sunday had consulted doctors at a hospital on March 28 with symptoms. "She was advised hospitalization by doctors but did not get admitted," said Ravi. ‘Woman’s husband infected too’She was advised hospitalization by the doctors but she did not get admitted. When she came back again on April 4 evening, her condition had turned critical. She was tested positive and there were no chances of her recovery," said Ravi, adding that the woman's husband is also infected with the virus along with other cases in her area. Ravi said, "We appeal to people that if you hail from an area that has reported high number of cases, seek and follow medical advise on getting any corona symptom like high fever or breathlessness. Late reporting of symptoms or hospitalization reduces chances of survival." On Saturday and Sunday, four districts of Gujarat recorded their maiden Covid-19 cases - it include Patan, Chhota Udepur, Jamnagar and Morbi. Meanwhile, out of 20 cases recorded on Sunday, nine are believed to have connection with Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin, Delhi, said health department officials. DGP Shivanand Jha confirmed that six of the positive cases had history of visit to Delhi. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat police have identified 126 persons with visit history to Markaz. "Active contact tracing and identification of all the persons who have returned from Markaz is being done in Gujarat in association with state police. We have appealed to the community to provide all details for quicker identification and treatment of possible COVID-19 cases," Ravi said. After a man from Maninagar, who was associated with charitable activities during lockdown for past few days, Ravi sounded a word of caution for the NGOs and individuals who are providing help. "Government is providing for people. Please stay indoors. If you must, take all necessary precautions," she said. Watch Covid-19: Surat woman spurns doctors' advice, dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-woman-spurns-doctors-advice-dies-gujarat-records-20-cases-tally-128/articleshow/75001026.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Surat woman spurns doctors' advice, dies; Gujarat records 20 cases, tally 128||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, Gujarat added 20 new Covid-19 cases - the highest single-day spike triggered by 8 fresh cases from Ahmedabad - taking the total tally to 122. The state also recorded the death of a 61-year-old woman from Surat. With the case, now Gujarat has 11 coronavirus deaths, second highest in India after Maharashtra. Among those tested positive on Sunday is a 14-month-old child from Jamnagar who is currently on ventilator. On deaths, Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said the 61-year-old woman from Surat who died in early on Sunday had consulted doctors at a hospital on March 28 with symptoms. "She was advised hospitalization by doctors but did not get admitted," said Ravi. ‘Woman’s husband infected too’She was advised hospitalization by the doctors but she did not get admitted. When she came back again on April 4 evening, her condition had turned critical. She was tested positive and there were no chances of her recovery," said Ravi, adding that the woman's husband is also infected with the virus along with other cases in her area. Ravi said, "We appeal to people that if you hail from an area that has reported high number of cases, seek and follow medical advise on getting any corona symptom like high fever or breathlessness. Late reporting of symptoms or hospitalization reduces chances of survival." On Saturday and Sunday, four districts of Gujarat recorded their maiden Covid-19 cases - it include Patan, Chhota Udepur, Jamnagar and Morbi. Meanwhile, out of 20 cases recorded on Sunday, nine are believed to have connection with Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin, Delhi, said health department officials. DGP Shivanand Jha confirmed that six of the positive cases had history of visit to Delhi. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat police have identified 126 persons with visit history to Markaz. "Active contact tracing and identification of all the persons who have returned from Markaz is being done in Gujarat in association with state police. We have appealed to the community to provide all details for quicker identification and treatment of possible COVID-19 cases," Ravi said. After a man from Maninagar, who was associated with charitable activities during lockdown for past few days, Ravi sounded a word of caution for the NGOs and individuals who are providing help. "Government is providing for people. Please stay indoors. If you must, take all necessary precautions," she said. Watch Covid-19: Surat woman spurns doctors' advice, dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surat-woman-spurns-doctors-advice-dies-gujarat-records-20-cases-tally-128/articleshow/75000992.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government allocates Rs 22.57 crore to set up quarantine centres||CHENNAI: With the number of Covid-19 cases going up with every passing day, the Tamil Nadu government has sanctioned Rs 22.57 crore to establish more quarantine facilities in the state. In addition, the government sanctioned Rs 3.8 crore to procure protective gears - masks and gloves - for government employees in the frontline and to carry out mass disinfection exercise. Sources in the government said the funds have been sanctioned from the state disaster relief fund to the state police, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, Slum Clearance Board and Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The government has given a go-ahead to the director of public health and preventive medicine to procure furniture and necessary equipment, besides taking up civil and electrical works to establish quarantine facilities. "The government has sanctioned Rs 22.57 crore to establish temporary quarantine facilities related to COVID-19," said additional chief secretary of revenue administration Atulya Misra. While Rs 13.74 crore would be utilized for civil and electrical works, the remaining Rs 8.83 crore would be used to procure furniture and other equipment. At present, there are five exclusive quarantine facilities, including three in and around Chennai, in the state. The government has also given its nod to procure disposable masks and disinfectants (soap bars) to be used by 35,533 employees of the Tamil Nadu civil supplies corporation for 30 days. A sum of Rs 1.42 crore would be allocated for the same from SDRF. Of this, the corporation would spend Rs 1.06 crore to procure 10.65 lakh disposable masks for their workforce. "This is to ensure the safety of the employees and continue their service to disburse ration items and the government's Rs 1,000 covid19 relief to more than two crore ration cardholders in the state," said an official in the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-government-allocates-rs-22-57-crore-to-set-up-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75000997.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal gets 23 Covid-19 cases in a day, MP count 215||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 count shot up to 215 on Sunday with 23 testing positive in Bhopal and 22 in Indore. There were five deaths during the day, putting the state toll at 16. Three of Bhopal’s new cases are doctors, and four are senior health officials fighting the pandemic. Four of Bhopal’s fresh patients had attended the Delhi Tablighi jamaat. It’s Bhopal’s highest singleday tally, taking the city’s count to 40. Indore has over three times as many – 135. The four health department officials operating out of Satpura Bhawan include a joint director and three deputy directors. In all, 11 people linked to the health department have tested positive, including a scientist, a consultant and some contractual staff. They are all stable. An AIIMS-Bhopal official said that a businessman, who tested positive on Saturday, continues to in critical condition 22 new Covid-19 cases in Indore The 54-year-old ran a vegetable business in Karond Sabzi Mandi. His son has also tested positive. Among Sunday’s cases is a 15-year-old boy. On the brighter side, six patients --three from Jabalpur, two in Indore and one in Gwalior -- were discharged from hospital after they recovered from Covid-19. Indore, the hotspot of MP’s corona outbreak, got 22 new cases, along with four deaths. Indore now has 11 deaths, Ujjain three and Khargone one. A 53-year-old resident of Snehlata Ganj died on Sunday at 12.15pm. She was admitted to MRTB Hospital on April 1 and had been suffering from shortness of breath and cough for 10 days, and fever for three days. She didn’t have any travel or contact history. She had co-morbid conditions --including diabetes, ketoacidosis, sepsis, acute respiratory distress syndrome, bronchopneumonia, and shock, say officials. The other death of the day was reported from SAIMS at 8.46am. A 50-yearold man was admitted on April 2 with complaints of shortness of breath, dry cough and fever for 10 days. He didn’t have any travel or contact history, but had hypertension, pneumonia and sepsis. Late in the night, another death report came in – that of a 56-year-old man. Eight of the new cases in Indore are women. The youngest patient is a sevenyear-old boy and the oldest 78. Six positive cases were found in Taat Patti Bakhal, where doctors were attacked a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-gets-23-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-mp-count-215/articleshow/75008850.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Immunity of patients’ close kin key factor in spread of Covid-19, says doctors||KOLKATA: Family members of the Covid-19 positive patient, who had travelled to Egypt, were found negative and they were released from the MR Bangur Hospital last week. This is the third instance in Bengal when immediate family members, who have been with a Covid-19 positive patient at home, have tested negative. While they are in home quarantine at present, both the wife and daughter of the patient, who had also visited Egypt, have not shown any symptom so far. Experts claim that infectivity of the source and immunity of the recipient might determine spread of the disease in such cases. “My father was having fever since he came back. We had taken him to the ID Hospital where he was admitted later. But neither me nor my mother showed any symptom. I developed a loss of smell a few days after we were admitted,” said the daughter of the Covid-19 patient. Alarmed, they visited the government hospital again and were asked to remain under observation at the hospital. They were released three days ago after they were found Covid-19 negative. Experts said that the in some of these cases, the first confirmed positive patient, especially those who returned from abroad, must have understood that he or she was at risk of testing positive later and hence took precautions like wearing a mask or keeping himself/herself isolated in the family. The mother-in-law and wife of the Dum Dum resident, the Covid-19 patient who had died recently, also tested negative. The doctors attending him at the hospital, who went to home quarantine, also tested negative. “The family tested negative and that is a big relief for the neighbours. The person who collected his blood samples was also found negative. We are, however, keeping a close tab on others who might have come in close contact with the family,” said Keya Das, councillor of Ward 26, South Dum Dum Municipality. “One possibility is that the patient did not cough or sneeze at all or when he did that no family member was near him,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas. Parents of the youth who returned home from Oxford and was tested positive were also sent back home after 14 days at a quarantine centre in New Town. Both the maids and drivers of the family also tested negative. “The youth maintained social distance and locked himself inside a room after he returned from UK. He did not even meet his father when he came to meet him. He did not even touch the button of the lift or railings. He had not even been to any public place,” said a relative of the youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/immunity-of-patients-close-kin-key-factor-in-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/75000198.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Rapid testing||Kolkata: After the ICMR nod to allow rapid testing for areas reporting clusters, large migration gathering and hotspots, the Bengal government has already started identifying such zones. “Once such areas are identified, the government will take a call on the need for rapid testing. But discussions are on,” said a state health government official said on Sunday. There are at least 30 NABL accredited labs in Kolkata that have the facility for rapid testing. “We had started enquiring about the kits so that we can procure it as soon as we get the go ahead from the state government,” said an official of a private lab. But even before the guideline came up, some private laboratories in the city had started with its ground work on procuring the testing kits. A rapid test can detect if a person has coronavirus through a prick on the finger in just about 30 minutes. As the number of Covid-19 positive cases keeps surging, health experts have been talking about the need for testing more in order to contain the spread of the virus. Now, with ICMR issuing guideline of rapid antibody testing, doctors said it would help in faster identifying of the infected. According to the latest ICMR advisory, rapid antibody testing would be undertaken in all areas reporting clusters of Covid-19 positive cases. “Rapid testing is a screening test. So, all positive cases have to be re-confirmed by RT-PCR testing through swab samples of a person,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. “Since rapid test takes about 20 minutes to give result, it will help scale up number of tests, where only the positive cases will require reconfirmation. In addition to saving time, it will also help in saving a lot of resources, including testing kits for swab samples,” added Chaudhury. So far, all five government laboratories are testing swab samples through RT-PCR method. Two private labs that will start functioning from Monday, too, will be using this method of testing. “There is a need for testing more samples. In such a case, rapid testing is an option. But there are kits for RT-PCR that is less costlier and gives result in four hours,” said Sumon Poddar, a microbiologist at Institute of Child health. While testing swab samples can take six to eight hours and a kit costs about Rs 4,500, rapid testing costs just about one fourth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rapid-testing/articleshow/75000213.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||81 new cases take Mumbai tally to 458, toll now 30||MUMBAI: The city reported 81 new cases on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 count so far to 458, or over 60% of the state tally. It recorded eight new deaths, mostly people over the age of 55 and with underlying health conditions. There was a death in Dombivli too. The city death toll rose to 30 and the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) counted six dead so far. None of the patients had an international travel history, but one of them was a 55-year-old taxi driver who would pick up and drop passengers at the airport. Samajwadi Party MLA Rais Shaikh said a family of 10 from Morland Road in Byculla had tested positive. He alleged no urgency was shown to trace the high-risk and low-risk contacts by the BMC. He said the family lived in a chawl and had no foreign travel history. The first from the family to test positive was a 63-year-old man, who was admitted to Kasturba. Later, nine members of his family were isolated at the Civic Training Centre in Powai. "Though they have traced 19 high-risk contacts, they haven't isolated them or set up containment zones," Shaikh said. Shaikh alleged lack of cordination between the government and BMC, resulting in the exact number of patients not being reported. There were 29 new positive cases of health workers at Wockhardt Hospital alone. The state reported 113 new positive cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the total to 748. With 13 deaths, the highest the state has seen in a single day so far, the toll touched 45. The fatality rate in the state stood at 6% on Sunday, double the national average. Marathwada reported its first death related to Covid-19. A 58-year-old man who tested positive for coronavirus died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad in the afternoon. Pune reported three more deaths, including two slumdwellers, taking the toll there to five. Two suspected Covid-19 patients, a 55-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man died in Jalgaon, but their swab reports were still awaited for confirmation. In two days, 258 new cases were reported in the state; on Friday, the tally stood at 490 cases. On March 30, there were 220 cases. Of the nine new deaths in MMR declared on Sunday as Covid-19 deaths, five were from Saturday and one from Sunday. The remaining had occurred last week. The BMC said six of the eight city death cases had shown co-morbidities and two had age-related factors. The BMC said the 55 new confirmations from private labs included cases from March 31 to April 2. Seven people had tested positive for the infection in Aurangabad till Sunday evening. One of them was the seven-year-old granddaughter of a 59-year-old woman who had tested positive on Friday. A doctor at a private hospital who treated the woman tested positive. Another positive case was a man who had travelled from Jordan to Aurangabad via the city. In Ahmednagar, four persons tested positive for the infection at Booth Hospital. Sources said the four did not have any travel history but were in contact with people who had tested positive after participating in the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Sources said the total positive cases in Ahmednagar district was 21. Among them were four foreigners from the Nizamuddin event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/81-new-cases-take-mumbai-tally-to-458-toll-now-30/articleshow/75001024.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Home quarantine over for first 287, have no symptoms||CHANDIGARH: The first list of those who have completed home quarantine in the city was out on Saturday night. The 287 people have no symptom of Covid-19 but must stay inside to avoid any risk of transmission. Sources in the municipal corporation said that in a day or two, 500 people will have completed the isolation period. The 1,400 quarantined people under constant watch in different sectors get home delivery of food and essential items, besides dedicated collectors to pick up their garbage. Their mobile phones are under surveillance to track their location if they moveout. They have either come back from abroad or come in contact with coronavirus carriers. Home quarantine in the city started in the third week of March. The first 14 days are over and first lot relieved. From now, everyday some people will complete their isolation period. The health department and police strike off the names but for precaution’s sake,the batch is advised further home stay of 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-quarantine-over-for-first-287-have-no-symptoms/articleshow/75001019.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Volunteers help blood bank keep month stock||CHANDIGARH: Foreseeing the lockdown on March 20, the PGI's blood bank had made a roadmap for staggered donation to continue the supply, 90% of which comes from volunteers. PGI transfusion medicine department head Dr Rati Ram said: "We have at least a month's blood requirement in stock. Local blood oganisers have motivated volunteers, who report intermittently. We send our hospital buses to the house of 10-to-15 donors a day. We sensed the problem in advance and took approval from the local authorities." The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was quick to issue an advisory and write to the national blood transfusion council. Dr Ram said: "We wrote to the council to know who all we can screen for blood donation during this pandemic. Since the virus doesn't transmit through blood, we can include those who have tested Covid-19 negative after quarantine." The PGI's blood transfusion department also serves Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Haryana. Dr Ram said: "The OPD (outpatient department) service and elective surgeries are suspended since March 19 and even though the demand has increased, it has not exhausted our supply." At the time of any disaster, the city must have blood in stock for 400-odd people.  Dr Ram said: "We have started planning for the next month. When more blood is required, we will scale up collection.A panel of blood donors is on our contact list." The city's thalassemia patients need 25-to-30 unit of blood a day, which cancer patients are also transfusion dependent. GMCH blood transfusion department head Dr Ravneet Kaur said: "We have stock for 25 days. Volunteers stopped coming in groups because of the lockdown but individual donors do turn up."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-volunteers-help-blood-bank-keep-month-stock/articleshow/75001049.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 6, 2020||Bhopal||Stricter curbs: MP orders total Bhopal lockdown to curb coronavirus||BHOPAL: On a day that 22 people tested positive for coronavirus -including four more health officials spearheading the fight against Covid-19— the state government clamped a ‘total lockdown’ in Bhopal on Sunday. Apart from the three Ms — milk, medicines and media — nothing else will be allowed. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned that police cases will be registered against those who hold community feasts or any sort of gathering in the state. “We have already imposed a complete lockdown in Indore, the hotspot of Covid-19 in the state. Today, I have instructed complete lockdown of Bhopal for three days to control the coronavirus spread in the state. During this period, no activity will not be allowed, even at night,” Chouhan said during a video conference with officials at Mantralaya on Sunday. The state government order says the clampdown is in force till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stricter-curbs-mp-orders-total-bhopal-lockdown/articleshow/75001050.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mysuru||Lockdown: Mysuru could remain closed beyond April 14||MYSURU: B Harshavardhan, BJP legislator from Nanjangud, indicated operations at Jubilant Life Sciences plant in the town, the epicentre of a cluster outbreak, will remain closed even if the lockdown is lifted – which is becoming more unlikely with each passing day – on April 14. An employee of Jubilant – patient 52 – tested positive on March 26 and since then 21 others in the town have tested positive. Senior officials from the health and family welfare department had visited the plant and collected details, but the cause of the outbreak still remains a mystery. Nanjangud, about 20km from Mysuru, has resembled a ghost town in the past week. Harshavardhan said the pharmaceutical unit will remain shut until a probe to detect how employees were infected concludes. He too suggested P52 could have been infected by a consignment from China, although there is no evidence to prove that theory as yet. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar last week said the plant was ordered closed, but it had sought time to gradually shutdown operations since stopping them in one go could trigger a chemical accident. The plant employs 1,400 people. Mysuru district now has a total 28 positive cases, 75% of them from the Nanjangud plant. This could put Mysuru under an extended lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. Authorities tightened restrictions on movement of people over the past few days with all shops, including those that sell groceries, ordered to close by 6 pm. More than 100 samples – mainly from primary contacts from the Nanjangud firm and delegates of the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi – are being tested at a Mysuru lab. More than 750 people are in quarantine in their homes in Nanjangud, while another 100 are housed at a facility in rural Nanjangud. Authorities are distributing food grains, mainly rice, to the doorsteps of people in the town to ensure people do not venture out and to maintain social distancing. Using services of Hopcoms and their personnel, authorities are also delivering vegetables to their doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lockdown-mysuru-could-remain-closed-beyond-april-14/articleshow/75001053.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||58 cases in G-South as Prabhadevi, Worli keep ward under Covid-19 glare||MUMBAI: Worli Koliwada, its adjacent areas and Prabhadevi continued to keep G-South ward on the coronavirus highlight map. In the turn of a day on the weekend, the number of positive cases in the ward increased from 44 to 58. The ward includes Worli Koliwada, Janata Colony and Adarsh Nagar, all closely located Covid-19 hot spots and of which the last one alone reported 15 positive cases and a death over the last week. Prabhadevi, too, reported 15 positive cases and a death. As of Saturday, the number of Covid-19 cases in G-south stood at 58, 14 more than the previous days, showed data made available on Sunday. The other wards with a high number of Covid-19 cases were D Ward with 31, KWest with 25, K-East with 24, and E Ward with 19 cases. In Jijamata Nagar in Worli, a 52-year-old municipal sweeper whose duty took him to the Dharavi area tested positive and several from his family were suspected to have contracted the virus. The BMC started the process of quarantining them in places other than their homes as most of them lived in tiny units that offered little possibility of separation. Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who is a corporator from G South, said if the figures keep rising at the same rate the lockdown would not be lifted and quarantining of suspected cases would have to be increased. “If people stay at home, the figures will decrease and we will be able to win this fight,” Pednekar said. Municipal sources said they were yet to trace the index case, or the person who first came with the virus to the area and from whom the spread started. Officials from the ward were reluctant to share any more information. It is learned that a doctor from the locality whom many patients from Worli would visit had himself tested and turned out to be positive for the virus. Staff from the doctor’s hospital, which include nurses living in Worli, were also found positive for the coronavirus. Some locals in Worli Koliwada said that after much hue and cry from their end on social media, they had finally managed to procure some groceries. One of the residents, who did not wish to be named, said: “On Sunday we received a packet of groceries, which included some rice, onions, dal and potatoes. Vegetables had become unavailable for over a week with shops shut completely. Even if they opened, there would be a long queue. No proper information is given out on the number of positive cases by the authorities so that one can know where precautions need to be taken.” Nitesh Patil of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavsay Sahakari Society said groceries that they were promised would be home-delivered were yet to reach their end of the locality. “While we heard distribution of groceries has began we have not received anything,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/58-cases-in-g-south-as-prabhadevi-worli-keep-ward-under-covid-19-glare/articleshow/75001057.cms||Richa Pinto
April 6, 2020||India||Designate officers to issue authorisation letters to key supply chain firms: Centre to states||NEW DELHI: Centre has urged states to designate nodal officers to issue authorisation letters to companies and organisations having nation-wide supply chain of essential good so they can operate without any hassle. In a letter to all chief secretaries, Union consumer affairs secretary, Pawan Agarwal has urged the state administration to issue e-passes for employees of such companies. The consumer affairs ministry has developed an e-pass system solution, which states can adopt. Referring to a recent communication issued by home ministry on allowing drivers to reach to trucks, Agarwal has urged states to facilitate movement of drivers from their homes to trucks. He has also mentioned the need to allow a truck driver and a helper to move on, if the driver has valid driving licence. TOI on Thursday had first reported how Centre was preparing frameworks for these reliefs to truck drivers and helpers. Consumer affairs secretary has also urged states to facilitate ensuring availability of labour in factories, warehouse, transportation and distribution of essential food and groceries by appealing to house owners, societies and villagers to allow workers to go to work, consumer affairs secretary to states. Shortage of labour for such works has been identified as a major problem. The consumer affairs and food processing ministries are working on a plan to give extra incentives to labour force to carry out essential services after April 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/designate-officers-to-issue-authorisation-letters-to-key-supply-chain-firms-centre-to-states/articleshow/75001074.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Balancing act: Moms juggle work from home, chores, e-schools||MUMBAI: For Arti Singh (name changed) who has eight-year-old twins and works with a stock broking firm, balancing her job and home has never been easy. But the coronavirus pandemic has made it a whole lot worse. With part-time house help barred from the building and several hours of home schooling coming her way, Singh says she feels like a "total wreck". "My husband and I are both working from home but I wake up early to cook and get the printouts done for school work. Through the day, I keep checking that the kids are working on them," she says. Her husband meanwhile, barely chips in with either and focuses on his office work. "He doesn't even help correct children's assignments," she says. "The markets have been volatile so I have barely had time to breathe even in my professional life," she says. Once her work day ends, it's on to dinner and dishes. For the urban middle class in the city, 'Work from Home' in the age of Covid-19 includes "do all the work at home". With Indian husbands used to barely doing any housework, the additional burden of home chores, child care and elder care has fallen mainly on women. For working women, who also have office work to juggle, the gendered impact of the lockdown is stark. As it is, the patriarchal culture in India reflects on the time men and women spend on unpaid work, including household chores. A 2018 OECD study found that Indian women spend almost six hours a day on unpaid work compared with Indian men who clock in barely an hour. Indeed, the gender gap in India is wider than China where men spend 1.5 hours a day on unpaid work compared with 3.9 hours for women. The lockdown has made things worse. "There is clearly an increase in gender disparity in the sharing of house work after the lockdown. Finally, this does have a long-term impact on the woman's career," says Ritu Dewan, former director of the Mumbai University's economics department. Virtual schools are have increased the workload of both working women and teachers. "Teachers who are also working women and managing homes without help are now coping with a flood of work to set online," says Dewan. In some homes, husbands chip in with either the housework or children's school work. Rarely both. "My husband helps with groceries, making the beds and the dishes. But the school work takes up five hours of the day and he doesn't help with that. He says he is not used to teaching the kids," says Rashmi Kaushik (name changed) who is a headhunter. In cases where the husband has the higher paying job, the scales are heavily tilted. "My husband works for a global finance company and gets on to conference calls which last for hours. I work for a non-profit which means I have to do the bulk of the housework and barely get any office work done," says Anita Lokhande (name changed). "This is a good time to recognize the strong dependence on domestic help in urban middle-class homes and to ensure that they have better conditions of work in terms of wages and job security," says economist Madhura Swaminathan from the Indian Statistical Institute. "It's also an important juncture to recognize the unequal care burden which falls on women globally and to correct it," adds Swaminathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/balancing-act-moms-juggle-work-from-home-chores-e-schools/articleshow/75001087.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Schoolteacher turns delivery girl, covers 1,500km to assist the elderly||BENGALURU: The lockdown has not silenced the roar of her motorcycle, but rather the quiet has only amplified the vroom of this Bengaluru school teacher’s Royal Enfield Interceptor 650cc as she crisscrosses the city, supplying essentials to elder citizens. Distraught over the lockdown severing essential supply lines for senior citizens, Dashmi Mohan, 37, a science teacher at Bunts Sangha RNS Vidyaniketan in Vijayanagar, volunteered to door-deliver items. She has so far done 1,500km to ensure needs of the elderly are met. Working in association with the government’s Covid-19 helpline, the avid biker collects information on senior citizens who need medicines or other essentials and delivers them at their doorstep. She began on Day 1 of the lockdown and has been issued a pass by the police. “Bike riding is a passion and I wanted to do something for society during this crisis,” Dashmi, a resident of Chandra Layout, said. “I found many people in my neighbourhood simply could not go out and buy groceries or medicines for various reasons. In some places, medicines were not available. I decided to take up the cause and make door deliveries. I buy the material and deliver it. I foot the fuel bill.” Dashmi says the biggest demand is for medicines. The longest distance she covered was on Friday when she rode to a village in Tiptur, Tumakuru district, 136km away from her home. An elderly citizen with respiratory issues wanted medicine to be delivered as it was not available even in Tumakuru, the district headquarters. His anxious children residing in Malleswaram reached out to the Covid-19 helpline. “I bought the medicines and reached the village in three hours,” Dashmi said. She returned the same day. She says she has been travelling outside Bengaluru almost on a daily basis since, invariably, its people on the outskirts and villages who require help. Dashmi has also developed another lockdown routine. “I also help people who are stranded. Every morning, I go to the Indira Canteen in Chandra Layout and work as a guard to ensure social distancing is maintained among those who come there for food. After that, I collect information from Covid-19 helpline and go about helping senior citizens,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-schoolteacher-turns-delivery-girl-covers-1500km-to-assist-the-elderly/articleshow/75001081.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mask mandatory to enter Mantralaya||The state has made it mandatory for all its officials, staff and visitors to wear a mask while coming to Mantralaya for the next few months. "People coming to Mantralaya without a mask will not be given entry," said a senior official. Mantralaya is currently working at a 5% capacity following the national lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-mask-mandatory-to-enter-mantralaya/articleshow/75001101.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow schools asked not to charge 3-month fee now||LUCKNOW: Amid coronavirus outbreak, the district administration has directed schools not to charge advance fees from students for the months of April, May and June. However, schools can adjust the fees of these three months later in the year. The fees of these months can be paid with instalments of other months. Issuing instructions in this connection, Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Sunday said, “The sudden lockdown has severely impacted the source of livelihood of many whose children study in colleges and schools. Despite all educational insitutions being closed, we are getting complaints that many schools/educational institutions were asking to pay advance fees for the months of April, May and June.” “According to Section 9 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005, all educational institutes in Lucknow have been directed not to pressurize parents to pay advance fees,” added the DM. “Schools can adjust fees of these three months in subsequent months of the year. The district magistrate said the schools could continue to run the online classes for students. “Schools or educational institutes cannot suspend a child on account of non-payment of advance fees,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-schools-asked-not-to-charge-3-month-fee-now/articleshow/75001122.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Man 'denied admission' at Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital, dies||MUMBAI: Three days after allegedly being denied admission at Kasturba Hospital despite showing Covid-19 symptoms, a 70-year-old man passed away at KEM Hospital on Saturday. All the nine family members have been moved to a quarantine facility. The Vakola resident had no travel history. A relative, while speaking to TOI, said the deceased did not have cold or cough, but complained of bodyache and weakness on March 24. They took him to a civic-run hospital at Santacruz. "He showed signs of improvement following medication, but his condition deteriorated after a few days. He was then admitted. The hospital authorities asked us to move him to Kasturba after taking an X-ray. We were told it could be Covid-19," said the relative. The family took him to Kasturba Hospital on April 2. "Since he did not have any history, we were asked to shift him to KEM," said one of his sons. At KEM Hospital, the family claimed he was kept on a wheelchair for almost a day. The hospital took his swab sample for testing, but he passed away on Saturday. An official from KEM confirmed the deceased had tested positive. Officials from Kasturba Hospital remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-denied-admission-at-mumbais-kasturba-hospital-dies/articleshow/75001132.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bus fares surge as demand peaks for April 15 trips||BENGALURU: Demand for bus and train tickets from Bengaluru has shot through the roof amid anticipation of the nationwide lockdown being lifted on April 15. As a result, private bus fares have skyrocketed on many routes. While Indian Railways has shut its ticket counters at stations till April 14, passengers can book online tickets for travel on April 15. All tickets have been sold out for many trains. Bus operators are charging more than double the normal tariff for several destinations on April 15 despite it being a Wednesday. Normally, bus fares from Bengaluru shoot up during weekends and festivals. With two more weeks to go, the rates are likely to increase further. Some are even charging four times the KSRTC fare on a few routes in Karnataka (see box), anticipating the desperation among people to reach their hometowns after the lockdown.  Fares of various private interstate services have also increased. While bus tickets from Bengaluru to Hyderabad on April 15 are priced at Rs 3,500, for Ernakulam the figure is Rs 2,400, Chennai Rs 2,381, Mumbai and Pune Rs 4,000 each and Goa Rs 3,100. TOI checked the availability of train tickets to these destinations after April 15 but most of them were already in the waiting list. Many passengers say they don't have an option other than shelling out more. "I was stranded in Bengaluru due to the sudden announcement of a nationwide lockdown. I am planning to go to my hometown after the shutdown but most private bus operators have already increased fares," said Anand Mathew, a techie in Bengaluru. However, many bus operators say they are under huge losses and their return trips won't find any takers. "When there is a demand, prices will go up. This applies to the airline industry as well," said a bus operator. Though it's not clear whether the lockdown will be extended, major bus terminals in the city may witness huge crowds if workers from other districts and states decide to go back after the shutdown. Transport department officials are also clueless. "We have not received any communication on whether the lockdown will be extended or not. We will take a decision based on that," a senior official said. While BMTC is operating around 200 emergency city services, it allows only 20 passengers per bus to ensure social distancing. No such measure has been implemented in intercity buses. Many passengers may travel in general compartments with most reserved tickets being sold out. Transport commissioner N Shivakumar said: "We will look into the complaints of bus fare increase. State transport undertakings will operate sufficient services to prevent crowding after the lockdown."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-bus-fares-surge-as-demand-peaks-for-april-15-trips/articleshow/75001138.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 6, 2020||Noida||Noida: Cops receive calls about ‘Tablighi attendees’||GREATER NOIDA: While the contact chain of the Tablighi Jamaat attendee in Dadri who tested positive is being traced — 12 people have been quarantined so far — cops are receiving calls about people thought to have returned from a jamaat. On Sunday, labourers spotted a group of six moving towards Loni. They returned from Hyderabad and locals thought they were from a jamaat. “But they were labourers from Loni who worked in Hyderabad,” the SHO of Dadri said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cops-receive-calls-about-tablighi-attendees/articleshow/75000255.cms||Shikha Salaria
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Teen girl, 34-year-old lover clubbed to death by kin in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 34-year-old man and his 18-year-old lover were beaten to death by the girl’s family when they found them alone in a room in Saadatganj on Sunday morning. The girl’s body could not be taken for burial as all the four male members of her family were arrested for the murder and nobody came forward to complete formalities required for conducting postmortem examination. Her body is still lying in the mortuary. However, the man was buried late on Sunday. “We will wait for the girl’s family members for three days and after that it would be declared as an ‘unclaimed’ body. Then it would be sent for an autopsy and after that be handed over to a voluntary organisation engaged in burial of unclamied bodies,” said Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, Bazaarkhala. Victim, Abdul Malik (34), a dairy owner, was living along with his parents, wife and four kids in Mansoor Nagar. Malik was having an affair with the girl, living about 100 metres away from his house in the same locality, Yadav said adding that the incident occurred around 2am on Sunday when elder brother of the girl Mohammad Danish (22) found the couple in a compromising position in a room of his house. Danish started screaming at them. Hearing the noise, other members of the family, including girl’s father Mohammad Usman (52), uncle Sulemani (55) and cousin Rano (30), rushed to the spot and they all started beating up Malik with canes and bricks. When the girl tried to intervene, they also assaulted her, the ACP added. Malik, somehow, managed to call his friend Wasi who also lives in the neighbourhood. Wasi called the police, but by the time the police could reach the spot, the girl’s father and other family members kept on assaulting her and the man till they fell unconscious. The police immediately rushed profusely bleeding Malik and the girl to King George’s Medical University’s Trauma Centre where doctors declared them brought dead, Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-girl-34-year-old-lover-clubbed-to-death-by-kin-in-lucknow/articleshow/75001140.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Wockhardt Hospital declared containment zone as 26 nurses and three doctors test positive||MUMBAI: BMC has declared Wockhardt Hospital a containment zone after 26 nurses and three doctors tested positive for Covid-19 over a week. Nobody would be allowed to enter or leave the Mumbai Central hospital till everyone in it tests negative twice consecutively, a civic official said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said a team has been set up under the executive health officer to probe how infection spread among so many in a hospital setting. "It is unfortunate that such a big cluster of cases have come from a medical facility. They should have taken precautions," he said. Swabs of over 270 hospital staff and some patients have been sent for tests. Nurses who tested positive have been shifted from quarters in Vile Parle to the hospital. The hospital's canteen continues to function and will provide food. Senior inspector Savalaram Agawane of Agripada police station said an officer and two constables have been posted to restrict movements.  With nearly 30 cases, the hospital now has more cases than many city wards. Data shows that only G-South and D wards have more than 30 cases. The hospital management didn't comment on why and how so many among staff tested positive. "Our OPD and emergency services are shut and there will be no admissions," said a spokesperson, declining to comment further. A 70-year-old heart attack patient, who is said to be the source of the infection, came positive on March 27. Two nurses who had attended to the man tested positive too. Then many nurses fell ill and began testing positive. Two of the affected doctors are admitted in SevenHills and one in SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim.  Wockhardt staff have alleged that the infection spread rapidly as the hospital didn't quarantine the colleagues and roommates of the infected nurses. The United Nurses' Association said they were not tested or removed from shifts till symptoms emerged - a charge the hospital has denied. The union has alleged that the nurses were not given PPEs despite attending to suspected Covid-19 patients.  In a combined letter, the UNA and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan claimed that both Covid-19 wards of the hospital are full: "The hospital has not given nurses access to their own test reports. Many who were in quarantine in hostel or other wards have been moved to the Covid ward. Some who were caring for the quarantined nurses have been admitted to the Covidward." The bodies have put forth a set of demands for hospitals at large, which include not putting pregnant nurses on Covid duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-wockhardt-hospital-declared-containment-zone-as-26-nurses-and-three-doctors-test-positive/articleshow/75001148.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Crackers burst as Kolkata gets into Diwali mode at 9pm||KOLKATA: The nine-minute lights-off call from the Prime Minister to display the collective resolve in the battle against Covid-19 turned into frenzied celebration in pockets of Kolkata with bursting of crackers, reminding people of Diwali. It sent shockwaves reverberating through the city. The mindless outburst of noise was not only out of place at a time when the city and rest of the country is battling a dangerous contagion, it also undid much of the environmental benefit that the lockdown had brought by again polluting the air. Bursting of crackers began as soon as the nine-minute show started and continued for well over 20 minutes. Though candles and diyas were sold in local markets in the morning, there had been no indication of the noisy celebration that was in store later in the evening. Even Kolkata Police officers were clueless and taken completely unawares by the development. “The PM had made no mention of any sound. Our only agenda on Sunday was to enforce the lockdown. We were not prepared for what happened after 9.10pm. But as soon as complaints began to pour in, we asked patrol teams to try and identify the spots from where the crackers were being burst. We will draw up specific cases once we know who all resorted to this act,” said a senior officer. Later, 98 persons were arrested from various localities. If sound wasn’t enough, a sky lantern that was released got stuck in a tamarind tree and set it afire. The fire spread to a kadam tree. “I was at my bedroom when I realised the flames were near my third floor window. Residents of the entire building had to rush to the terrace and pour buckets of water to douse the flames,” said graphic designer Puja Sengupta. A senior scientist in the environment department rued the bursting of banned firecrackers not only resulted in noise pollution, it also led to release of toxins and particulate matter in the air. “At a time when the entire world is showcasing how the earth is healing itself in the absence of human activity, this senseless action has brought shame,” he said. While many responded to the Covid-19 lights off-on event, others participated as it reminded them of Earth Day, an annual event celebrated around the world on April 22 when lights are switched off for an hour to demonstrate support for environmental protection. They, along with those who had stayed away, were shocked when crackers were burst. The noise also drowned the sigh of relief that electrical engineers expressed after the system remained stable when homes switched on the lights. In Kolkata, power demand fell by 125 MW during the nine minute switch-off while in the rest of the state, demand nosedived by 1,725 MW||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crackers-burst-as-kolkata-gets-into-diwali-mode-at-9pm/articleshow/75001080.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: CM Yogi Adityanath donates Rs 1 crore, his salary to fight coronavirus||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday donated Rs one crore from his MLA Local Area Development and one month's salary for the newly set up Covid care fund. UP ministers Suresh Rana and Anil Rajbhar, and Apna Dal legislator Ashish Patel also donated donated Rs 1 crore each from their respective Local Area Development fund to Covid Care fund on Sunday. The state government has started this fund to fight against the coronavirus. In a letter sent to UP Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit, Rana said the request may be processed as soon as possible. Last weeks, Dixit had appealed to all MLAs to donate funds to the state government to fight against the nCovid-19. On Saturday, BSP chief Mayawati had asked her party MLAs to donate funds and the CM Yogi Adityanath later called her up to extend his thanks. Earlier, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had donated Rs 1 crore from his local area development funds and two months' salary each in favour of PM-cares and CM relief fund. He had also donated Rs 25 lakh each for Agra and Rae Bareli, the districts of which he is minister in charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-donates-rs-1-crore-his-salary-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75001158.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||190-year-old stone bridge on Mumbai-Pune Expressway razed||The 190-year-old Amrutanjan bridge near Lonavla on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway was demolished on Sunday evening through controlled blasting to facilitate traffic movement. An MSRDC official said that the stone bridge was razed at a cost of Rs 50 lakh during the lockdown period without inconveniencing motorists. On a regular traffic day, the demolition would have cost around Rs 4 crore, and taken three months, he added. The debris will be cleared in four days and till then emergency vehicles will be diverted via the old Khandala route, said MSRDC chief engineer Anil Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/190-year-old-stone-bridge-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-razed/articleshow/75001180.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Seven who duped MNS leader denied bail||NAVI MUMBAI: The bail pleas of seven accused who sold the paternal property of MNS leader Shalini Thackeray were rejected by a Raigad district sessions court on Friday. The accused used fake documents to sell the 1.72 hectare farm land in Mhatrealipada village, Alibag for Rs 3 crore, of which a transaction of Rs 50 lakh was made. After learning from the police, Shalini filed an FIR with Mandwa, and the case was then transferred to the local crime branch of Raigad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/seven-who-duped-mns-leader-denied-bail/articleshow/75001201.cms||Umesh K Parida
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government’s plan to save farmers from lockdown jolt pays off||LUCKNOW: Farmers of the state are reaping benefits of timely measures adopted by the Yogi Adityanath government for their welfare. The 21-day lockdown declared by the government to check spread of Covid-19 had come as a rude shock for farmers whose rabi crop was ready for harvesting. In western UP, lakhs of cane-growers, who had prepared fields for sowing of saplings, too, were facing an uncertain future as they did not know how to reach their fields as ban was imposed on the people's movement because of the coronavirus pandemic. At this juncture, the CM intervened to extend a helping hand to farmers, especially those who are waiting for harvesting of the rabi crop. Yogi Adityanath’s foresightedness and his agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi's experience in the field as he himself hails from a farmer family came as a blessing in disguise for the farming community. The CM immediately contacted authorities concerned at the Centre and sought their permission for allowing farmers and agri labourers to work in fields. Not only this he also directed seeds, fertilizer and pesticide shops to remain open even during the lockdown. Having over 2.50 crore farmers and over three crore agriculture labourers, Uttar Pradesh is predominantly an agriculture state. It is also the highest producer of foodgrains, milk and vegetables in the country. For the state farmers, who were facing huge financial losses owing to untimely rain and hailstorms in January and February, the lockdown had proved a double whammy. However, the state government ensured that no restriction was imposed on inter-district and intra-district movement of vehicles carrying harvesting machines, said agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi. Talking to TOI, the minister said that farmers were also afraid of catching Covid-19 and they were not going to fields. However, the agriculture department kept on convincing them that by maintaining proper social distance they would not catch any infection. Gradually, they, too, realised the point and now they were busy in the harvesting work, he added. From the day one of the lockdown the Yogi government had directed police not to block the movement of farmers willing to go to their fields. The district administration had made it clear that no passes would be required by farmers and agriculture labourers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-governments-plan-to-save-farmers-from-lockdown-jolt-pays-off/articleshow/75001191.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Little ones too join fight against coronavirus||LUCKNOW: Four-year-old Vaibhavi Chaturvedi, who has been collecting money for her favourite 'Barbie' doll, broke her piggy bank on Sunday not to buy the doll, but to donate her savings to 'PM CARES Fund' created to fight Covid-19. She was motivated by her sister Vaishnavi (7) who recited her a story of how her magical 'coins' can save people from a monster named 'Corona'. "I heard my elder daughter motivating her friends and sister to contribute to the fund. I was amazed at her thought and compassion," said her father Rajnish Chaturvedi, principal scientist at Indian Institute of Toxicology Research. Ten more children, too, joined hands to pool money to contribute Rs 24,698 to the PM fund. Parents of all these 12 children are scientists, working in four CSIR laboratories - Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, National Botanical Research Institute, Central Drugs Research Institute and Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants. Brother-sister duo Shivang and Khushi Srivastava also gave away all their savings. "We want to donate money for corona warriors. We all should come forward to donate for the cause," said Khushi (14). Kavya Dwivedi, a nursery student, and Atharva Singh of class 2 donated money so that everyone can wash hands with soap. Manashvi Mohanti, Cherasya A Nannaware, Aaradhya, Kavya, Sriyali and Anika, donated for masks, sanitizers and food for the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-little-ones-too-join-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75001206.cms||Mohita Tewari
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Quarantined? Post selfie every hour for app tracker||By: Piyush SarnaMOHALI: The Mohali police have launched an app for android users by the name 'Covid Control'. Those who are quarantined, have to click a selfie every hour and upload it on the app, which is mandatory for people under quarantine. The unique thing about the app is whenever a home quarantined person uploads his selfie every one-hour the system will update their location. Also, the quarantined persons cannot switch off their phones as the control room will be notified about the same. This app will make it easier for the health as well as the police department to track the quarantined persons through their mobile phone number location and also with the help of the telecom service providers. According to the Mohali police officials, the mobile application has been developed to identify and mark quarantined areas as well as people by using geo-fencing technology. "Any lapse or unauthorised movement will immediately be alerted through a message to the administration control room as well as the person concerned," said an official. Mohali senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal, while having a word with TOI, said, "If any person breaches the protocol, he or she will get a warning message and the administration will get a buzzer in the control room. The police control room will be alerted even in case the phone is switched off and strict action will be taken." Not only for the quarantined, but public can also login to this application and they will be able to see all "red zones" and quarantined or infected areas live on the app. The officials further claimed that the public will also get a notification if they enter an infected area and an alert will be sent to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-quarantined-post-selfie-every-hour-for-app-tracker/articleshow/75001209.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two private hospitals to start testing samples from Monday||KOLKATA: Two private hospitals — Tata Medical Centre (TMC) and Apollo Gleneagles Hospital — are set to flag off their Covid-19 sample testing laboratories on Monday. All private hospitals treating Covid-19 suspects will be sending their samples to these two laboratories. Each of these laboratories will be testing 30-40 samples everyday. So far, private hospitals had been sending their samples to NICED and SSKM. Tata Medical Centre that got the nod to test samples last Saturday will receive samples from 9 am to 5 pm. It will be delivering reports on the same day for samples received before 1pm. Reports of samples received later will be released next day. “We will receive samples from hospitals. Even though the state government has said that we will be receiving samples only from private hospitals, we will remain open to all hospitals as of now,” said a TMC spokesperson. Even though a team of TMC doctors, nurses and other health staff is being trained to attend to Covid-19 patients and suspects, it will cater only to cancer patients admitted at the hospital. With ICMR validating the use of rapid test kits for Covid-19, more centres could join the list leading to a much-needed jump in the number of samples tested everyday. “Once rapid test kits are allowed, which could happen very soon, hundred samples can be easily tested a day. This will allow mass screening of Covid-19 suspects while the more doubtful samples can go to the PCR labs which are already functioning,” said Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Choudhury. “We are ready to conduct tests and run an isolation centre. Since we deal with cancer patients who are severely immunosuppressed, it will be risky to throw open our isolation facility to external patients. So, it will be restricted to just our own patients in case they contract Covid-19,” said TMC director Mammen Chandy. He added that since there has been a dip in the number of cancer patients due to restrictions on OPD, the hospital now has enough manpower at its disposal “who are adequately trained to provide infection-control treatment”. “As far as the infrastructure is concerned, everything from housekeeping to waste management is ready to roll,” said the Tata Medical official. School of Tropical Medicine, too, has started testing samples and has enough kits to conduct 800 tests, Apollo Gleneagles has procured its kits . At its isolation centre, TMC has set up six negative pressure isolation rooms for Covid-19 patients. Even though none has been admitted so far, TMC plans to add nine more isolation rooms once the lockdown is called off. “Since we treat only cancer patients who are immunosuppressed and have a greater risk of contracting the virus than other patients, we can’t risk taking in Covid-19 patients not suffering from cancer,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-two-private-hospitals-to-start-testing-samples-from-monday/articleshow/75001213.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 6, 2020||Pune||Now, bureaucrat comes out with handy guide on management of coronavirus||Medical professional-turned-bureaucrat Sanjay Mukherjee has come out with a comprehensive 360-page operational module for management of Covid-19. The blueprint drawn up by Mukherjee, secretary, medical education department, will serve as an important resource for bureaucrats entrusted with the task of handling the health crisis as well as doctors associated with the state public health department and medical colleges across the state. The compendium provides information on setting up isolation and quarantine wards, transportation of doubtful and confirmed cases of Covid-19, effective and rational utilization of personal protection equipment, management of clinics and handling the deceased. For the first time, an SOP has been prescribed for reallocation of resident doctors and post-graduate and nursing students as part of hospital administration. The disease management protocol also has guidelines for specimen collection, packaging and transportation, handling, treatment and disposal of waste generated during treatment, diagnosis and quarantine of Covid-19 patients and the discharge policy once a patient is declared coronavirus-free. In addition, specific responsibility and accountability has been fixed on the dean/medical superintendent of hospitals. The role of every person involved in the treatment of coronavirus patients has been defined so that there is no confusion and dereliction of duty. A former medical school dean said Mukherjee's compendium would go a long way in effective treatment of cases.  Three ministers give up security, vehicles Three senior cabinet members - Sandipanrao Bhumre (horticulture and EGS), Shankarrao Gadakh (soil and water conservation) and Abdul Nabi Sattar (rural development)-- have given up their escort vehicles and security personnel so that they can be used to tackle the health crisis in the State. Ironically, the trio's gesture comes at a time their colleagues and senior politicians are asking for additional escort vehicles and security staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-bureaucrat-comes-out-with-handy-guide-on-management-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75001233.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi-NCR answered PM’s call to switch off lights and light candles||GURUGRAM: There was more sound than light at 9 pm on Sunday, as residents of Delhi-NCR answered the prime minister’s call to switch off lights and gather outside to light a candle for nine minutes to fight coronavirus.At some places there were the sounds of conch shells followed by the chanting of mantras and some other areas witnessed the singing of religious and patriotic songs and sloganeering. Worst, some even resorted to letting off fireworks, seeing candles were being burnt and thinking that Diwali had come seven months early.Several Gurugrammers complained that the noise was overwhelming, defeating the very purpose of this communal ‘gathering’. “Didn’t realise firecrackers were part of this call by PM— what an irony!” remarked an angry Gurgaon resident.“I lit a row of lamps along my windowsill. It was nice to participate in the spirit of unity with all fellow Indians,” said Poonam Atree, resident of Noida Sector 29.Gajendra Arya, president of the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, Raj Nagar Extension, said, “The event was celebrated with great enthusiasm in the township having over 32 group housing societies. People expressed their gratitude by lighting candles, diyas and decorative lights.”In South Delhi’s Old JNU campus, people had already come out 15-20 minutes in anticipation of the 9pm spectacle. While families and elderly had lit dozens of diyas in their balconies, the youngsters —mostly tenants —resorted to using their mobile phones to show solidarity to each other.Some people, however, decided not to participate in the exercise. For Charu, 35, an educator and a Mayur Vihar resident, this move was tokenism and a bid to distract from tough questions. “Health workers are being harassed and doctors are dying due to lack of medical equipment. Questions regarding Covid-19 testing kits and arrangements for daily wage workers remain unanswered by the government. We need to attend to these things as a community, not indulge in empty acts like banging thaalis and lighting diyas. This is not action, this is tokenism,” she said.(With inputs from Sharad Kohli, Sharmila Bhowmick, Meenakshi Sinha and Aditya Dev)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-ncr-answered-pms-call/articleshow/75000461.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||US navy captain fired for voicing virus concern tests positive: Report||WASHINGTON: The US naval commander whose widely publicised plea for help for his coronavirus-affected crew led to his dismissal has reportedly himself tested positive for the disease. Captain Brett Crozier's COVID-19 test result was reported Sunday by the New York Times, just hours after US Defense Secretary Mark Esper defended the captain's firing. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageEsper told ABC that Navy Secretary Thomas Modly had "made a tough decision, tough call" in deciding to fire Crozier from his command of the aircraft carrier USS Roosevelt, now docked in Guam. Asked about a report that President Donald Trump wanted Crozier fired, Esper replied, "This was the secretary's call. He came and briefed me ... It was the secretary's call. I told him I would support it." The firing was widely condemned as a callous and unfair punishment of a respected officer who was looking out for the welfare of his crew when he implored his superiors to let him quickly vacate the ship after it docked in Guam. "We are not at war," Crozier wrote in a letter that leaked to the press. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"Sailors do not need to die." But some senior Pentagon officials said Crozier erred by letting his plea go public. Crozier "demonstrated extremely poor judgment in the middle of a crisis," needlessly worrying family members and undermining the chain of command, Modly said. Trump, speaking in a news conference Saturday, supported the dismissal. "He shouldn't be talking that way in a letter," he said of Crozier. "I thought it was terrible what he did." The Times, in reporting Crozier's test result, cited two of his former classmates at the US Naval Academy. It said he had begun exhibiting symptoms before leaving the ship on Thursday. Hundreds of sailors cheered Crozier as he left the ship, as seen in video that quickly went viral. Some called him a hero. Democrats have also sharply criticized the dismissal. Joe Biden, the leading Democratic candidate for president, condemned the firing on Sunday, telling ABC it was "close to criminal." "I think he should have a commendation rather than be fired,"the former vice president said. And a statement from Democratic leaders of the House Armed Services Committee said Crozier might not have handled the matter perfectly, but that his dismissal was an "overreaction." Esper declined Sunday to say whether other Pentagon leaders agreed with the firing, pointing to an ongoing investigation. He told CNN that more than half the Roosevelt's 4,800-member crew had now been tested for the coronavirus. In all, 155 sailors tested positive but none required hospitalisation, he said. Crozier's dismissal came as the Pentagon struggles, amid the spreading pandemic, to maintain the readiness of its air, sea and ground forces worldwide. "We have had to cancel exercises. We've had to constrain basic training, for example," Esper said, before adding, "We think those are all manageable." Esper pointed to the particular challenges facing the military -- it is impossible to respect social distancing in a crowded bomber plane or in the confinement of a nuclear submarine, he told ABC. He said the military overall was "ahead of the curve" in balancing troops' health and military readiness. The military has also been called to help the fight against the coronavirus inside the US. Trump said Saturday that 1,000 military personnel, mostly doctors and nurses, would be deployed to help in New York City, the epicenter of the US outbreak. Troops have already been helping out at the Javits Convention Center, which has been transformed into an enormous hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-navy-captain-fired-for-voicing-virus-concern-tests-positive-report/articleshow/75001288.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||Coronavirus-hit US girds for 'Pearl Harbour moment' as death toll spikes||NEW YORK: US governors on Sunday appealed to the White House for a national strategy against the fast-spreading coronavirus, as deaths surged and health authorities warned the coming week could resemble a "Pearl Harbor moment." The US death toll was creeping toward the grim milestone of 10,000 as the pandemic's epicenter in New York racked up hundreds of lives lost a day and hospitals girded for an influx of new infected patients. Anthony Fauci, the senior American scientist battling the pandemic stateside, warned of a looming "escalation," saying Americans should prepare for "a bad week." "I will not say we have it under control," Fauci told CBS Sunday. "That would be a false statement." US Surgeon General Jerome Adams sounded an even more dire alarm. "This is going to be the hardest and the saddest week of most Americans' lives, quite frankly," he told Fox News. "This is going to be our Pearl Harbor moment, our 9-11 moment, only it's not going to be localized." Most of the nation is under shelter-in-place orders, but nine states have yet to issue such regulations, while the federal government has declined to mandate anything on a national level. Adams noted that the nine states without orders were producing much of the US food supply. Still, he pleaded with state leaders to urge residents to stay home for at least the next seven to 10 days: "There is a light at the end of the tunnel if everyone does their part." Sunday night the White House aimed to emphasize progress in the fight including plans to send hundreds of thousands of masks to counties in New York, but could not sugarcoat the difficult weeks ahead. "We all know that we have to reach a certain point, and that point is going to be a horrific point in terms of death," President Donald Trump said at his briefing. The coronavirus death toll in hardest-hit New York state rose to 4,159, Governor Andrew Cuomo said, up from 3,565 a day prior. It was the first time the day-over-day toll had dropped -- on Saturday it hit a record 630 deaths in 24 hours -- but Cuomo told journalists it was too early to tell whether that was a "blip." New York's peak could arrive over the next week, he said, though he cautioned it was unclear if the apex would be a point, followed quickly by a decline, or a lingering plateau. The state has now reported 122,031 confirmed infections -- roughly one-tenth the worldwide total. Cuomo said he aimed to shift patients away from already overburdened hospitals to others with more capacity and equipment. "I can't say to a hospital, I will send you all the supplies you need, all the vents you need. We don't have them," he said, referring to life-saving ventilator equipment. "You are going to have to shift and deploy to different locations." The governor said rapid testing, still out-of-reach, was key to a "return to normalcy," while reiterating appeals for equipment including ventilators from other states as well as from the federal stockpile. Cuomo vowed to return the favour as the virus spreads elsewhere -- New Jersey, Michigan and Louisiana are all emerging hotspots -- saying that New York could offer a strategic blueprint. On the Sunday morning talk show circuit, other state governors voiced alarm that the Donald Trump administration has not offered a unified policy plan. "Not having a national strategy where there is one policy for the country as opposed to a patchwork based on whomever the governor is, is something that I think is creating a more porous situation where COVID-19 will go longer and more people will get sick," Michigan's Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer said on Fox News. "We are not one another's enemy," she added. "The enemy is COVID-19. And it has to be all hands on deck, from the federal level, to the state level, to the local level." Throughout the weekend Trump stressed that the US -- where infections have surpassed 330,000 -- cannot remain economically shut down forever, and continued to leave it to the states to declare their own mitigation strategies and lockdown orders. Illinois' Democratic governor JB Pritzker skewered the Trump administration for not better preparing the nation, leaving the virus to slam the US as it has Europe and China. "If they had started in February building ventilators, getting ready for this pandemic, we would not have the problems that we have today, and frankly, very many fewer people would die," Pritzker told CNN. At his briefing the president later accused Pritzker of "always complaining."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coronavirus-hit-us-girds-for-pearl-harbour-moment-as-death-toll-spikes/articleshow/75001360.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. * Update at 10.38pm: Manipur woman suffering from coronavirus infection recovers 23-year-old Manipur woman, the first #coronavirus patient in the northeast, has recovered, say officials… https://t.co/QnQdCrL0A5— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1586192411000*Update at 10.35pm: Tripura reports first coronavirus case First #coronavirus positive case detected in Tripura. The patient is from Udaipur, reports ANI quoting CM Biplab Ku… https://t.co/F8svxDoU38— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1586192514000* Update at 9.21pm: West Bengal chief minister said 12 people had tested positive for coronavirus in the state since Saturday evening, taking the total number of active cases to 61. *Update at 9pm: IAF airlifts medical supplies from Bagdogra to Gangtok for coronavirus patients * Update at 8.30pm: The West Bengal government has started identifying areas where it will undertake rapid antibody testing of suspected coronavirus patients Update at 7.20pm: The nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus is forcing tipplers in Kolkata to shell out a hefty overcharge to buy liquor in the black market. Update at 6.08pm: Due to lockdown, there's no revenue. We don't know how long we've to stay like this. We've to plan for future. Our govt will form a Global Advisory Committee for COVID-19 response policy in state. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee will be a part of the committee: Mamata Banerjee Update at 6.05pm: Only 3,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have been sent by the Centre on Sunday. I myself arranged 2,27,000 PPEs: West Bengal CM * Update at 6pm: As of 12pm today, the total number of active coronavirus cases reported in West Bengal is 61, of which 55 cases are from 7 families only: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee * The wide fluctuation in vegetable prices in Kolkata has stopped completely, with ease of vendors’ movement in the city. Prices of most of the vegetables plunged below Rs 40. Except Lemon, availability of vegetables has become steady. * Grocery items, including wheat floor and maida, have become available across Kolkata. However, thanks to absence of labourers, the bakeries are yet to assume full-scale operation. * Milk supply is not uniformly same across Kolkata. In some pockets, milk supply is erratic and split milk complaints are mounting with a lot of milk packets entering the market without expiry dates. However, there are scarcities of some items like matchbox in some pockets of Kolkata. There is no shop open to recharge talktime of mobile phones. * Surgical gloves have disappeared from the markets of Kolakta. Those medicine shops still have the stocks, are selling them at exorbitant rates. * Mutton supply has suffered a setback from Monday, with truck movement from Uttar Pradesh has become erratic. A lot of truck operators refused to move beyond the state border out of fear of infection. Moreover, loading and unloading have also become an issue. In some markets, mutton was unavailable on Monday. However, there has not been any jump in mutton price. * ANI update at 2.50pm: No coronavirus case has been reported in Assam in the last 24 hours, says Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma * ANI update at 2.37pm: There are a total of 26 coronavirus positive cases in Assam so far. We have tested 2000 samples till date, report of 165 samples to come by evening, says Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma *ANI update at 2.20pm: Residents of Kumarpur area in Asansol felicitated sanitation workers in their locality, for their services amid coronavirus lockdown* ANI update at 2.01pm: West Bengal minister Dr Sashi Panja distributes food items and Ludo game kit among people of her constituency Shyampukur in Kolkata. *25 with Tablighi links test negative in Arunachal Pradesh *Mizoram health secretary issued a notification on Sunday instructing all the doctors working under the state government to remain accessible to patients. *Manipur’s first Covid-19 patient was shifted from the isolation room to the general ward of JNIMS on Sunday after she tested negative. *Update at 11.57am: Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation health workers spray disinfectants in front of houses in several wards across Salt Lake. *Liquor bottles sell at thrice the MRP as bootleggers fleece desperate tipplers in West Bengal *Mizoram sports minister Robert Romawia Royte said the state will set an example to the world that the lockdown period can make people stay fit and healthy. *Jadavpur University has taken an initiative to develop three-layer masks with low-cost materials * Update at 9.16am: Mizoram CM urges people to take part in physical activities during lockdown and boost immunity. *Several elderly citizens in Kolkata and the districts received their pensions and monthly interest payouts at their homes on Saturday. The idea was to minimize chances of the senior citizens coming in contact with outsiders. *Two private hospitals to start testing samples from Monday in West Bengal *Four patients in West Bengal ‘die of co-morbidities’ *Around 55 healthcare workers that included 39 junior doctors attached with NRS Medical College and Hospital were sent on quarantine on Sunday. *After ICMR nod, West Bengal ready to identify areas for rapid testing *Crackers burst as Kolkata gets into Diwali mode at 9pm *Delhi-bound flight takes off from Kolkata with 89 US citizens. On arrival in Delhi, the passengers were transferred to a United Airlines flight to San Francisco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coronavirus-in-kolkata-latest-news-updates-on-kolkata-corona-cases-deaths-6-april-2020/articleshow/75001326.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Expect rainfall, mercury to dip this week||LUDHIANA: Officials of meteorological departmentpredicts have predicted that the city can receive rainfall on Monday and Tuesday. “There are chances of light rainfall (between 1mm and 15mm) and thunderstorm in the city on Monday and Tuesday. After a gap of one day, it may rain again on Thursday and Friday. The day temperature is also expected to dip a bit, whereas in the night, the mercury may rise,” said director of meteorological department, Chandigarh, Surender Paul. He added that after Friday, the weather was expected to be clear for many days. Meanwhile, on Sunday and remained in the sky for most part of the day, it did have impact on the weather in city. As per the Met department, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Sunday was recorded at --degrees Celsius, which is –degrees –than normal. The minimum (night) temperature in the city was recorded at 15.7 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.9 degrees Celsius, two degrees less than normal. The officials said that the day temperature on Monday could fall to 29 degrees Celsius. The night temperature is expected to rise to 18 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/expect-rainfall-mercury-to-dip-this-week/articleshow/75000619.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Camps held in Ropar villages sans health department and administration’s permission||ROPAR: Health camps in a few villages of Ropar district, including Chatamli, where husband of the sarpanch tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19), were held without permission of the health department and administration. A total of 24 foreign nationals from different countries participated in the health camp organised in Chatmali on March 13. They gave medicines to villagers who underwent check-up at the camp. The 55-year-old husband of the sarpanch tested for Covid-19 on Friday, a few days after being admitted to Government Super Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh following diabetes and hypertension. The Ropar administration took 17 samples, including those of seven members of the Covid-19 patient’s family for testing on Saturday. District officials in Ropar have said that none of the foreign nationals who participated in the camp were doctors. They said the medical check-up was conducted by private doctors from Mohali, Kharar and Chandigarh. The foreign nationals are said to be from the Christian Missionary Foundation. “Camp organisers did not take permission from any official including the health department, which was mandatory. We are inquiring if permission for camps held before or after March 13 in villages was taken or not. None of the foreign nationals were doctors. They did not conduct any check-ups or give any medicine. Instead, a team of doctors from Mohali and other areas checked villagers. The prayers were held by Pastor Randeep,” Ropar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said. When asked about the role of foreign nationals in the camps, she said, “They came to collect charity and donation from villagers.” However, village residents, including the panchayat member who participated in the camp claimed that foreign nationals carried out health check-up of villagers and gave them medicines besides offering prayers. Chatamli panchayat member H S Happy said, “The foreign nationals and doctors from Punjab conducted check-up and gave medicines. The foreign doctors even held prayers for every patient.” Similar camps were held in a few other villages of Ropar, including Manak Majra, Lakhmipur and other villages On March 12. The administration has sealed these villages and all villagers are being monitored. The health minister was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-camps-held-in-ropar-villages-without-health-dept-admn-nod/articleshow/75000690.cms||Bharat Khanna
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||As environment heals in lockdown, Punjab orders survey to check pollution||PATIALA: With the prolonged lockdown having an unprecedented positive impact on the environment, the state department for science and technology has asked Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to conduct a survey to devise future strategies and set new parametres. During the lockdown, the environment in the state has rejuvenated and pollution load of effluents in drains like Buddha Nullah, Kala Sanghian Drain, Tung Dhab Drain and Lasara Drain, among others has reduced substantially. Ever since eight continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (QAAQMS) were installed in the state, air quality index has improved. The basal level of air pollution in the state has been discovered only during this lockdown, said K S Pannu, director, environment and climate change, Punjab. He also said that the load of plastic and other non-biodegradable waste has reduced to a great extent. Same is the case with bio-medical and electronic waste. Pannu said even though the lockdown has grounded economic activities in the country to control the spread of Covid-19, it has given environmentalists the opportunity to study how nature repairs itself from both air and water pollution. Because of the curfew imposed in the state since March 22, all industrial, transport, human movement and economic activities have been at a standstill. Pannu said this has given the state a chance to conduct a detailed survey of all environmental parametres including air, water and soil pollution. The survey to be conducted by PPCB will go a long way in devising future strategies to keep pollution in control, he said. During the survey, PPCB will bring on record the status of various pollutants and study their impact on the environment. The study will also bring on record measures that can be taken to reduce the pollution load in the state even after the lockdown is withdrawn. Pannu said all this data will be used in planning and executing actions to combat pollution load in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-environment-heals-in-lockdown-punjab-orders-survey-to-check-pollution/articleshow/75000688.cms||Manish Sirhindi
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||6 more positive cases in Haryana, including 5 Tablighis||KARNAL/CHANDIGARH: Two days after testing positive for coronavirus, a 58-year-old man from a village in Karnal, who was undergoing treatment at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) in Chandigarh, died on Sunday evening. Confirming the death, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the deceased, Gyan Singh, a resident of Rasin village under Gharaunda block in the district, was admitted to Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital on March 25 with severe respiratory illness. On April 1, he was referred to the PGI. His sample was taken on Thursday, and on Friday, he was declared a confirmed case. “On Sunday evening, we received the information from PGI that Gyan Singh had died due to coronavirus. The patient had no foreign travel history. The source of infection is yet to be traced,” said the officer. Meanwhile, with six new cases being tested positive, who included Sri Lanka Nationals Tablighis and their driver from Nuh, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana has gone up to 76. The lone non-Tablighi Jamaat related case is from Gurugram. The Tablighis and their driver has been admitted into the dedicated hospital in Nalhar Medical College of Nuh. While Gurugram patient has been admitted in local hospital there. Meanwhile, in what appears to be a major respite for the state health authorities, no fresh cases have been reported from Panipat, Sonipat, Fatehabad and Hisar. Even the due samples of Tablighis Jamaatis have tested negative. Meanwhile, the Haryana health department in its bulletin released on Sunday evening said of the total Tablighis who have been tested positive in the state, five are foreign nationals and rest 20 are from other states. Till date, 17,010 persons, including those with travel history to foreign countries and those who were in touch with Covid-19 positive cases are under hospital quarantine or self quarantine in the state. Meanwhile, Haryana Police have managed to track 98 more people, who had attended Jamaat’s Nizamuddin sessions in Delhi Sources said majority of Jamaatis were found on the basis of inputs given by locals and panchayat representatives. Some of them approached the police or health authorities of the area on their own. At present, there are nearly 1,400 Tablighis in Haryana. “All of them have been put under medical surveillance and have been quarantined at hospitals or other places. Their samples will be drawn and sent for testing. The teams concerned are investigating their movements as well,’‘ said sources. Additional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk confirmed that mote Talbighis were tracked. 2,104 arrested under Epidemic Act In a related development, till Sunday evening, the police have so far arrested 2,104 persons and registered 1,413 FIRS for violation of the Epidemic Act. The police also claimed to have recovered Rs 7.86 crore and impounded 6,100 vehicles from across the state. Current statusThe health authorities said of the 1,530 samples sent so far, 972 samples have been tested negative. Result of 482 samples is awaited. In total, 492 persons, including the Covid-19 active cases, have been hospitalised so far. Till Sunday, 15 patients have been discharged after treatment, while 61 persons are undergoing treatment,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/6-more-positive-cases-in-haryana-including-5-tablighis/articleshow/75000684.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||CBIT gives relaxation on return filings and e-way bills||LUDHIANA: In a major relief to city-based businessmen amid the ongoing lockdown, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes (CBIT) has issued several guidelines for filing GST returns and other related laws, and extended the deadlines. The validity of some e-way bills too has been extended till April 30. The date of filing quarterly return by composition dealers has been extended — subject to fulfilment of some conditions. Giving more information, advocates PK Thamman and NK Thamman said, “Several relaxations have been announced by the government. Validity of any e-way bill issued — which expires between March 20 and April 15 — has been extended. So if the taxpayer, whose e-way bill has expired due to the lockdown, can continue to move goods on expired e-way bills until April 30.” “The board has also given relaxation on interest for late payment of GST. It has waived late fee for GSTR-3B to be filed from February to April. It has been clarified that there will be no extension in the last date of filing GSTR-3B. Only relaxation from interest and late fee is provided, subject to several conditions,” added the advocates. The taxpayers are divided in three classes for this benefit. “Taxpayers having aggregate turnover of over Rs5 crore in the preceding financial year are not required to pay any interest for the first 15 days of the due date of filling GSTR-3B. Thereafter, interest rate will be charged at 9% per annum. This relaxation is for GSTR-3B to be filed for the months of February to April — provided GSTR-3B for these months is filed on or before 24/06/2020. Further, no late fee will be levied, if returns are filed by June 24. “Taxpayers having an aggregate turnover more than Rs1.5 ,crore and up to Rs5 crore in the preceding financial year are not required to pay any interest. This relaxation is for GSTR-3B to be filed for the months of February and March — provided GSTR-3B for these months is filed on or before June 2. No late fee will be levied, if returns filed by the due date is mentioned in the preceding lines,” they added. Taxpayers having an aggregate turnover up to Rs1.5 crore in the preceding financial year are not required to pay any interest. This relaxation is for GSTR-3B to be filed for the month of February 2020, provided GSTR-3B for this month is filed on or before June 30. This relaxation is also for GSTR-3B to be filed for the month of March 2020, provided GSTR-3B for this month is filed on or before July 3. Similarly, this relaxation is for GSTR-3B to be filed for the month of April, 2020 provided GSTR-3B for this month is filed on or before 06/07/2020. Further, no late fee will be levied, if returns filed by due date mentioned in preceding lines. Those taxpayers who do not file return GSTR-3B by the due dates mentioned above are required to pay interest @ 18% pa. from the due date of filling GSTR-3B, which is the 20th of next month for taxpayers having an aggregate turnover above 5 crore and 24th of next month for taxpayer having aggregate turnover up to Rs5 crore till the date on which the return is filed. Further, regular late fee is leviable for such delays, along with liability for penalty. So, the units are advised to stick to due dates to save from these penal consequences. Relaxation for composition dealers has also been given, the date for filling quarterly CMP-08 for the quarter ending 31.03.2020 is extended till 07.07.2020. The date for filling annual GSTR-4 for the financial year ending 31.03.2020 is extended till 15.07.2020. The date for filling intimation for opting for composition in form GST CMP-02 for the financial year 2020-21 has been extended till 30.06.2020. Where a normal taxpayer is opting for composition scheme, he is required to reverse ITC and to fill form GST ITC-03. The date of filling this form is extended until July 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cbit-gives-relaxation-on-return-filings-and-e-way-bills/articleshow/75000624.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: People solely dependent on rent wonder how to cope||MANALI: While many people in Himachal have set a welcome precedent by deferring rent collection even while paying full salaries to employees and workers, confusion prevails among those who are dependent on rent for livelihood and those who are incapable of paying salary. Thousands of people in Himachal who are dependent on rent do not know whether to ask for money from their tenants or not. While many have deferred payment, others are offering discounts. A large number of tenants who belong to other districts and states have left for home and landlords are worried if they will return. A few have paid up. “I owe nearly Rs 30 lakh to the bank and my five tenants are the only source of my income. Three locked their rooms and returned to their native places before curfew. One said he would try to pay next month and the other has not brought it up so far. I cannot force them to pay under these circumstances. It is a big relief that I do not have to deposit my EMIs for three months. But what about other expenses that I need to run my home,” said Kaushalya Devi from Manali, who has two children. The Himachal police has sealed all the districts and state borders and warned people that they cannot harass tenants to leave the rented room and hotels. The government is also requesting landlords not to charge rent from the tenants on humanitarian ground. With no clear directions on this, people are confused over its legal obligation. Similarly, thousands of hotelier, restaurant owners and travel agencies are worried for salary and wages to the staff. The hotels and travel agencies have been closed completely since mid-March. Half of the employees from other states and districts had returned back home before lockdown. Local staff also moved to their places. But almost half of the employees are still stuck in hotels and where they work. Himachal Pradesh Travel Agents’ Association president Budhi Parkash Thakur said, “Many employers have paid salaries and wages for March. As tourism is inessential item, all those people linked to it are facing big trouble. Everyone is worried for staff salary. Many are thinking about laying off the staff. Salary cut is not a permanent solution. Everyone based on tourism trade in Himachal earns only between April and June during summer season. All are looking at government help to recover from the problem.” were reports that some hoteliers were cutting on their staff permanently to avoid paying salaries in coming days. Most hotels had recruited staff in February and March, just before beginning of the peak season. Some hoteliers are taking chance of keeping full staff as they are confident that everything will be normal in few weeks and tourists will again make beeline to the hill state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/people-solely-dependent-on-rent-wonder-how-to-cope/articleshow/75000696.cms||Suresh Sharma
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: More schools and colleges move to online study platforms||LUDHIANA: The initiative of teaching online was taken in response to the lockdown situation in the entire country, so as to keep students involved in the learning process, and use the time for productive purposes. Although coronavirus hit schools and colleges hard, it has transformed higher education in a matter of days. Even though school has shut down for offline classes, we are still running online classes for everyone. The online teaching system has proved to be an effective step in these critical times, as students have access to education on their fingertips. This step has inculcated discipline among people, as routine classes have swept away the laziness of quarantine days. Law and ManagementAt the Panjab University Regional Centre (PURC), professors have initiated online lectures for students of both law and management courses, as an endeavour to provide the best possible advantage to students. This initiative has enabled students from different parts of the country who attend classes in college to sit in the safety of their homes without sacrificing their studies. Students from as far as Shimla, Paonta Sahib, Kurukshetra, Faridabad, Sirsa, and Chandigarh also have the privilege to attend classes without any compromise with their health and safety. PURC director Ravi Inder Singh said, “Teachers of both the University Institute of Laws, and University Business School, have started delivering online lectures, according to the time-table that was followed on regular working days.” He adds, “Classes are being taken using various online options like Zoom app, WhatsAPP application, and other online sources for making the learning process effective. In order to find out the effectiveness of online teaching, we conducted surveys as well.” Sharing the reports of the survey, Singh said 33% of the respondents felt highly satisfied, and 67% felt satisfied with the online classes. Around 73% of the respondents said online classes were highly effective, and 93% said that they love attending classes through the online mode. Students have shown a positive response towards online classes, and are glad to be able to approach teachers and clarify their doubts. The stagnation that could have occurred in the academic process due to the lockdown has been evaded due to the initiation of online classes. All teachers have acted responsibly in the time of the pandemic, and the collective efforts of the faculty and students has led to the achievement of a proper teaching system in the absence of classroom teaching. Lovish Chauhan, student of Family Law, class representative of BA-LLB of IV semester, said, “Online teaching provides a convenient platform to the students to learn and clarify their queries.” Another student of Legal History, Manmeet Kaur from BA-LLB IV semester, is of the view that online teaching is helpful in utilising time right way during lockdown, and gives a better understanding through direct interaction between teacher and student. Vivek Badoni, student of Constitutional Law, was of the view that online lectures were an effective method to cope with the current situation. MBA IV semester student Dewang said online classes were a good source of study at this point of time, and almost similar to those in physical form. Chamandeep Kaur, a student of MBA II semeter at University Business School, said, “Online classes are an excellent mode to effectively utilise and make the best use of electronic technology. She said even their parents were happy students were making the best use of their time, and not missing out on important learning. PURC professor Aman Cheema commented regarding the online teaching system. “Everything should go as per the schedule formulated earlier, so that we are able to finish the syllabus well in time, and come back for the presentations, and thereafter, exams. I am using Zoom. The interactive sessions are the same like in a classroom, except that we are sitting at home. All are present in the class, and students have their queries solved during the lecture itself. Moreover, I am taking the classes as per my schedule at the university. Associate professor in Laws, Ashish Virk, believes that if the present system of the world has introduced us to viruses like corona, it has also blessed us with inventions like the internet, which should be used by all in these tough times. While giving assignments on the subject of jurisprudence on a Whatsapp class group, and dealing with leftover topics on Zoom online classes, she believes the availability of such apps has only eased the comfort of both students and teachers, and has relieved much of the stress which would have otherwise accumulated in isolation. She further acknowledges, “It has been a while since emphasis was laid on online teaching, and MOOC (massive online open courses) by UGC and Panjab University, but the turn of events in the past few weeks has provided the much-needed impetus to push towards the adaptation of the technology. KCW adopts new methodsThe faculty of Khalsa College for Women (KCW), Civil Lines, have adopted the online mode of teaching to continue with the teaching-learning process. In the current situation, the faculty of the college has adopted novel ways, using digital technology to keep students engaged in constructive learning. College principal Mukti Gill said, “The college faculty is following a three-step process — share, interact, and assess to impart learning in an effective way, while making optimum use of digital technology. The teachers are creating notes, presentations of their lecture slides, recording videos, and sharing them with students through various platforms like YouTube, WhatsApp groups, online learning management systems like Google Classroom, and other digital tools like DropBox, Google Drive, Google Groups, etc.” She added, “In the next step, teachers invite queries from students online, and interact with them to address their doubts through Group Chats using WhatsApp, Google Groups, Google Classroom etc, or interact live using Zoom app, Google Hangouts, etc. The students are also being assessed online through online assignments, assimilation quizzes, open-ended questions, open book tests etc, using Google Classroom, Google Forms, etc. Proper feedback is being provided to students. Teachers preparing videos For primary and middle school at BCM Arya School, Shastri Nagar, the results of the last session were declared online on the student profile. Students and parents could see the entire progress report online. Since the past 10 days, teachers have been preparing videos, along with audio, plus some animated YouTube video links related to the topics. Each topic is followed by some interesting suggested activities, worksheets, and practice sheets to help understand the concept thoroughly. Teachers have explained the topics with read-along videos, and instructions to solve the related exercises in their own voice, giving a personal touch to content that will help children get the feel of a teacher’s presence. School prncipal Dr Paramjeet Kaur said, “Sharing and learning from online content won’t be a challenge for teachers or students, as it is very much a part of our education system now. The school app is functional since the past three years, and parents are accustomed to using the content uploads. But the only difficulty that parents may face is availability of books and notebooks for the new class. For that, teachers are scanning the pages of textbooks. Teachers are also reading, along with voice modulation for better understanding. For notebooks, parents are being suggested to use the blank pages of last year’s notebooks.” The school’s sports, art, and dance teachers are also recording videos, showing various steps for doing the suggested activity to keep them physically and mentally engaged. Sharing further, Kaur said, “The school will also be uploading a fun game — an adventurous task of the day that kids can enjoy with siblings and parents, ensuring physical activity as well as skill development. We have sent login ID and passwords to parents of all students on April 1 for BCM Arya application. Queries of parents and students will be taken through remarks column of the profile. All class teachers will make WhatsApp group of all parents and subject teachers and queries will be answered in that group, which will be accessible to all parents. Links for watching various animated stories will also be shared.” For senior and senior secondary, BCM Arya has planned virtual classrooms to deliver and livestream lectures, conduct workshops for teacher grooming, lesson planning, record keeping, and training through various online tools like Zoom, WhatsApp, Skype, and Google Duo. Audio and video lectures recorded by teachers, online assignments, speaker notes, e-books, and PowerPoint presentations related to every subject are being used. To make learning more effective, online quizzes, e-games, and other online educational resources for subject reference are shared with students using the BCM app. Guidelines related to health and hygiene are also uploaded on BCM’s e-resources. School counsellors are working on motivational videos and tips to be sent to students as well as parents to remain stress-free and positive in the present situation. In addition to this, BCM Arya in Shastri Nagar is also updating its stakeholders with cyber safety tips to be safe, while being online. In junior lab, Tux Math is used. It’s an e-game. We can also share sites kike AutoDraw. Tech-savvy faculty, students MGM Public School has always been tech-savvy. So, in order to keep up the smooth sailing of academics, faculty members are making students learn through online methodology. School principal Sunita Vij said, “Teachers are using online classroom sessions, which gives ample opportunity to students to get their doubts cleared, and maximum optimum use of the time is being done. A proper pattern is followed in order to ensure the syllabus gets covered in a fruitful manner, and students are rendered home assignments and test - tasks. Parents are also accepting this welcoming change and showcasing their cooperation and support. We firmly believe we would surmount the situation, and studies of students would remain intact and productive. This will enable students and teachers to be more tech-savvy. Speedy change is anticipated.” Waging war against Covid-19 All the three DAV schools falling in Ludhiana situated in BRS Nagar, Police Lines, and Pakhowal Road are working in tandem to counteract the mayhem created by Covid-19. Although the schools are officially closed due to the nation-wide lockdown, the entire staff has rolled up its sleeves to ensure students do not lose out on valuable learning time. Services like WhatsApp, Snap Homework, Tata Class Edge, Swayam, Diksha, etc and YouTube links are being used for live online teaching, clearing difficult concepts, sending notes, worksheets, and interacting with the parents and students. Provisional admission to Class XI for school students has been conducted with the help of online Google Forms. Online testing is also in the offing to ensure complete sincerity on the part of students. Regular advisories on community sanitation and hygiene are being sent to parents through school websites, and some of the above-mentioned apps. The DAV management is in regular contact with schools to ensure no lapse occurs in academics and administrative work. The DAV fraternity prays for the well-being of the entire planet and hopes that the world wins over Covid-19 soon. The future of learning Keeping in mind the present situation, The Lakewood School — one of the premier institutes of the city — has initiated online classes for their students from April 2. The classes will be held for students from Grade III to Grade IX. From kindergarten to Grade 2, daily worksheets and activities are being sent. This will ensure students can study from the safety of their own homes, and there is a continuity in their study schedule. The school also took an initiative to send the annual performance of their wards through SchoolPad to further curb the community spread of this pandemic. School director Anmol Singh said, “We believe that continuity and integration of learning is vital to our goal of imparting quality education to our children. While schools may have to consider closing due to the outbreak of Covid-19, The Lakewood School is ensuring students do not stop learning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-schools-and-colleges-move-to-online-study-platforms/articleshow/75000638.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, three positive cases in Punjab||Chandigarh: Two deaths and three new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Punjab on Sunday. A 69-year-old woman in Ludhiana with no travel history scummed to the deadly virus, taking the total tally of deaths to six in the state. The deceased was admitted to hospital on March 31 having fever, cough and loose motion and she was diagnosed COVID-19 Positive on April 2. She suffered cardiac arrest at around 2:30 pm. The number of death is expected to go up as one more person is serious and on ventilator support. In Pathankot, a 75-year-old women, resident of Sujanpur, who was tested positive for coronavirus and was undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital died on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal confirmed that the elderly woman passed away on Sunday. With three more people testing positive, the number of positive cases have gone up to 69. One case each was reported in Barnala, Amritsar and Ludhiana. The man from Ludhiana had attended Tablighi Jamaat at Delhi. Till date, as many as 2208 samples have been collected of which 1,711 have been found negative while results of 429 are awaited. So far, four people have been cured while 59 active cases are undergoing treatment at different hospitals. The case in Amritsar was detected in a private hospital there on Sunday. Dr H P Singh of Fortis hospital said the patient was earlier admitted in Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Dr Singh said the patient tested negative for Covid-19 at Guru Nanak Dev hospital following which he was admitted to the hospital. After he displayed his symptoms, they decided to conduct another virology test on him which tested positive, he said. A total of six coronavirus patients are being treated at Fortis hospital while four are admitted in the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev hospital. In Barnala, a 44-year-old woman from Sekha Road locality of the town, tested positive. She, however, has no travel history. She has been admitted in Barnala civil hospital for the last few days. After her reports were received, the locality was barricaded and the district administration started working on tracing her contacts. Barnala civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Tapinder Jyot said the woman has been kept in isolation and is stable. Her family members and people who were in close contact with her are being examined. In Malwa region, where the pandemic reached later than other parts of the state, Mansa, Faridkot and Barnala districts have reported cases. First, three positive cases were reported from Mansa . On Saturday, one positive case was reported from Faridkot and on Sunday, Barnala joined the list. Faridkot deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said it was still not known from whom the 35-year-old man from Harindra Nagar locality got infected. Authorities have traced around 500 contacts of the man, who tested positive on Saturday morning. A total of 25 persons have been quarantined and their samples have been taken. Two more members of Tablighi Jammat have been traced and their samples have been taken. The three persons, who belong to Chhattisgarh, tested positive in Mansa after their return from Tablighi Jamaat on March 19. They stayed at a mosque in Budhlada town and have now been put under isolation at Mansa civil hospital. Mansa deputy commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said, “They are said to be preachers and had landed at Budhlada on March 19 but failed to go further. They have been put in isolation at the civil hospital and administration is identifying who they met all these days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-deaths-three-positive-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/75000686.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Video on improper distribution of food goes viral on social media||LUDHIANA: The alleged improper distribution of food has once again been highlighted through a video going viral on social media in which president of Sikh Welfare Council, Ludhiana, Baljinder Singh Jindu has condemned the ongoing system of distribution of food by various NGOs. He claimed that the district administration and civic body officials do not have a proper system through which food or grocery should reach those requiring it. In some areas food is being distributed in excess while some other areas are devoid of everything. However, the MC commissioner MC denied these allegations. In the video he mentioned about a meeting of NGO members and councillors with MC commissioner K P Brar on Saturday evening. The meeting was called up to streamline the system of food distribution. Jindu claimed that when they asked about the demand of food in the city, the commissioner replied that at least 1 to 1.25 lakh people require cooked food daily and he told her that in the city food for at least 5 lakh people was being cooked and he had no idea where the excess food was going. He said at this moment all major gurdwaras, temples and other social organisations were cooking food while some were distributing dry groceries among the needy. He said the commissioner could not answer his questions, so he was forced to upload the video on social media so that people should become aware. He said Punjabis were happy to help everybody, especially when there was such a scare among people, but the administration should streamline the system, or else everything would go in vain. As soon as he put this video on the social media, some other people also reacted over the same. In yet another video a person showed cooked food being thrown in garbage in some areas where quarters have been recently constructed. Even in that video the erson who uploaded it requested the public to distribute food only where it was actually required. However, on the other hand the MC commissioner refuted the same and said, “I had called up the meeting for streamlining the system and convincing the NGOs to distribute food or grocery in a systematic manner for avoiding overlapping. The man who posted video did not attend the meeting. He had come to meet me after the meeting and then he posted the video.” She said she had conducted the meeting with owners of the quarters as well and they shared that they had already provided ration to their tenants. She said some labourers had started doing hoarding and for this reason they were asking for dry ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/video-on-improper-distribution-of-food-goes-viral-on-social-media/articleshow/75000667.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||UK to send 7 charter flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Goa to fly stranded nationals back||CHANDIGARH: Giving much awaited relief to around 20,000 British nationals stranded in India, UK is sending seven charter flights to fly its nationals back from New Delhi, Mumbai and Goa airports between April 8 and April 12. The charter flights will depart for London on April 9 and 11 from New Delhi and Mumbai international airports and on April 8, 10 and 12 from Goa international airport. Though a considerable number of UK nationals are expected to be stranded in Punjab, no flights have been announced from either Amritsar or Chandigarh airport. However, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh assured that his government would facilitate travel of foreign nationals to the nearest airports. UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi tweeted, “Why isn’t one of these (at least) from Amritsar? Given the huge numbers within Punjab, especially elderly and those fast running out of medicine, surely that should have been actioned. No doubt questions will be raised afterwards about numbers stranded in different locations.” UK announced the first seven charter flights from India on Sunday. These are part of a 75 million pound package announced on March 30. More charter flights from India are yet to be announced by the UK government. As per the UK high commission, there are around 35,000 British nationals currently stranded in India but just over 20,000 have conveyed their willingness to return to the UK at the earliest. These seven charter flights are for UK travellers who normally reside in the country and their direct dependants. Some of the seats in these flights will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable, who will be contacted directly. Since movement is restricted in India because of the complete lockdown to check spread of Coronavirus, travellers have been advised to only apply for flights leaving from the state they are currently in. As per UK high commission’s advisory, to book flights and register their details, British nationals need to use city-specific webpages for New Delhi, Mumbai and Goa. Those who are willing to take these flights will get details about flight costs and luggage allowance on the booking portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-to-send-7-charter-flights-to-delhi-mumbai-goa-to-fly-stranded-nationals-back/articleshow/75000695.cms||Sanjeev Verma
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Out of 27 Covid-19 positive contacts of Baldev, 8 test negative||Nawanshahr: Seven Covid-19 positive patients – all contacts of late Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village, who was the first Covid casualty in Punjab – tested negative on Sunday, including 78-year-old Sant Gurbachan Singh. Four grandchildren of Baldev Singh tested positive on Sunday while his son has been declared cured after his second sample also tested negative. The negative reports came as a big relief for the family as well as for the village and people greeted each other. “All these days, the mood was gloomy after Baldev Singh’s death. While people are still mourning his death there was great anxiety about the health of others who had tested positive,” said village resident Harpreet Singh. It also came as a huge relief for the district administration and health department. The village was sealed on March 18 just after health department got suspicious that Baldev Singh could have corona infection even as he was rushed to Civil Hospital Banga with typical symptoms of heart attack. Sant Gurbachan Singh of Pathlawa village and Daljinder Singh, 60, of Jhikka village were late Baldev Singh’s co-travellers to Germany and Italy and former was the eldest in the 27 contacts of Covid-19 victim who tested positive. Another contact, Harbhajan Singh, in his 60s, from Moranwali village had died at Government Medical College in Amritsar. He was also diabetic. Another elder patient is Sarpanch Harpal Singh’s 75 year old mother. “She is also doing fine. We only had mild symptoms like some cough. The reports today has come as a huge relief for all of us,” said Harpal Singh, while speaking to TOI on phone from the isolation ward civil hospital Nawanshahr. “The family is still in trauma as all things came together — death of their patriarch, then all of them testing positive and then vilification campaign against the dead patient,” he added. After Baldev Singh tested positive on March 19, state government pressed the panic button. Nawanshahr DC Vinay Bublani took the initiative of issuing orders under 144 of CrPC making violating of home quarantine, advised to anybody, an offence and later the model was followed across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/out-of-27-covid-19-positive-contacts-of-baldev-8-test-negative/articleshow/75000687.cms||IP Singh
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 64 year old woman commits suicide, fear of Covid-19 suspected||PHAGWARA: A 65-year-old woman who had been unwell for the last few days poisoned herself in Khurampur village on Sunday morning. Police suspect that the fear of Covid-19 pushed her to take the extreme step. Station house officer (SHO), Phagwara Sadar police station Amarjit Singh said the deceased, Santosh Kaur had been suffering from cough and fever for the last few days and she visited the civil hospital. “Doctors gave her medication and told her that the fever had nothing to do with Covid-19. Neither did she have travel history nor had she received any guest from abroad. She had been living alone as her four daughters were married and her husband had died. Apparently she was depressed,” he said. The SHO said they spoke to her daughters and other village residents and could identify no other triggers. Her last rites were performed in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/64-year-old-woman-commits-suicide-fear-of-covid-19-suspected/articleshow/75000691.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: After Covid-19 case, Payal subdivision villages seal borders||LUDHIANA: As a Covid-19 case has been reported from Payal subdivision, more and more villages in the area have sealed their entry and exit points to check the spread. On April 1, Payal SDM Sagar Setia in an advisory to the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), Doraha and Malaud, had wrote that as deputy commissioner had ordered imposition of curfew to check spread of coronavirus, it had come to his notice that villagers in some areas go to city for small works in violation of the curfew norms. He had directed the BDPOs to issue stern advise to the panchayats to seal the limits of the villages and enforce a complete lockdown. Giving details, the SDM told TOI of the 110 villages in the sub-division Payal, only few villages were yet to take the steps for restriction of movement even as more than 100 villages had already enforced restriction on movement of villagers. He added that these villages had set up small barricades for the purpose, where volunteers inquired from persons entering or leaving the villages. The officer said this would help in checking the spread of the disease even as a case had been reported from the area. He added that he was monitoring the curfew and had been visiting various areas in this regard. The SDM further said Payal DSP, tehsildar and some other officers were also working together to ensure movement of people was checked while excluding those who were facing some emergency. The officials said that though the Police is also there and does Patrolling across the villages but services of volunteers to check Unnecessary movements of people adds to the strength of administration and police. They clarified that those with valid passes are allowed to move through the villages. In the meanwhile, a Maloud area resident said that volunteers along with police on the barricades to check any unnecessary movement in the area which helps in checking spread of Covid 19. He added that only those people with valid curfew passes were allowed to pass through the barricades. What the advisory saysAs per the advisory, anyone entering the village will have to be asked the reason before allowing him entry to the village and those going out should be allowed to do so only after proper inquiry. Vegetables, fruits, milk supplies, medicines will be allowed. Volunteers taking precautionsPayal SDM has said there were one or two volunteers at every entry and exit point in the village and they had been asked to follow social distancing. He added that besides this, the volunteers wear masks, wash their hands every hour and have sanitiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-covid-19-case-payal-subdivision-villages-seal-borders/articleshow/75000671.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhinana: Kishore Nagar residents protest over no ration||LUDHIANA: The non-availability of ration in their houses forced residents of Kishore Nagar EWS Colony to stage a protest against the authorities on Sunday. In this area most of the poor workers are living and they alleged that they did not get even a single packet of ration from anybody. On the other hand, the area councillor claimed that he had handed over a list of 1,400 persons to the authorities concerned but not even a single packet has been delivered till date. The residents rued that some social organisations were coming to distribute cooked food in their localities but that was not sufficient for their families. They claimed that they had been asking for ration from the authorities and councillors, so that they could cook food in their houses but till date nothing has been done so far. In their protest, the residents did not care about the curfew and social distancing while saying that they would die with hunger if not from coronavirus. Meanwhile, councillor Jasmit Kaur said she had handed over the list of beneficiaries to the authorities concerned and when she asked about the ration she was told that MLAs of constituencies were handed over the packets. She said she did not receive even a single packet so far. However, MLA Sanjay Talwar said he had been arranging cooked food for the families in the constituency and dry ration was also being distributed. He said nobody would be allowed to sleep hungry and if anybody was facing any problem, then they could contact him. He said he was available throughout the day at Mata Vaishno Devi Dham in Sector 32. Mamta nabs vendor selling veggies at high rates Congress councillor Mamta Ashu caught hold of a vegetable vendor who was selling these same at high rates in Lajpat Nagar. Besides, he did not even have a valid pass for the same. On Sunday, she received a complaint from area residents that some vendor was overcharging while selling vegetables. She reached the spot and when asked him to produce his pass e could not show it. The vendor was having a registration card of Shimlapuri area but was selling vegetables in Lajpat Nagar. She took his registration card and handed over to police. Ashu said cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan ashu has already issued warning against over charging but still these people are not mending their ways. She said now police will decide whether this vendor will be allowed to sell anything or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kishore-nagar-residents-protest-over-no-ration/articleshow/75000665.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: A banker takes upon himself to sanitise areas in his locality||LUDHIANA: Even as some residents are cribbing over no sanitization around their localities, a 40-year-old banker Satinder Singh is out on mission to at least sanitise areas near his household. Not only this, he delivers food from the nearby gurdwara in his locality to nearby places where it is required. His moto is to serve the humanity at any cost. Satinder Singh of Punjab Mata Nagar on Pakhowal road said, “I took a small sanitisation machine from the councillor’s office and started the sanitisation exercise on my own. The sanitation staff deployed for this task is also like me and if I need to sit back home, then they also require rest.” He said he had sanitised areas near his house, including Vikas Nagar, Vishal Nagar and Jawaddi. He claimed that the machine remains in demand and whenever he gets a chance he uses it for sanitisation. Satinder’s wife and his children do not stop him from doing social service. He said this was a very crucial time for everyone and he could not sit at home after seeing so many needy people around. He said there was a gurdwara in the locality from where he supplied food to the poor. He claimed that he also delivered food to officials on duty around as a temporary jail had been created in an indoor stadium where he gave food even to those people who were caught by police for moving out during curfew. He said he had no problem in visiting any temple, gurdwara or even a mosque because this was not the time to think about religion or community. “At this moment everybody should see the other person as a human being only because if we would survive only then religion and community would survive,” he said. Meanwhile, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Pardeep Dhall, appreciated his move and said, “On seeing him doing sanitisation from door to door I first thought some MC staff had come for the job but when I asked him, I came to know that he was only doing it as service to humanity. He sanitised Geeta Mandir premises as well and now its management has decided to honour him for his service once this lockdown finishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/a-banker-takes-upon-himself-to-sanitise-areas-in-his-locality/articleshow/75000657.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab issues show cause notice to 6 schools for demanding fee||CHANDIGARH: Taking serious note of private schools violating government directions by demanding fee from parents during lockdown, Punjab government initiated action against six such defaulters. The education department issued show cause notices to schools forcing parents to pay fees during the lockdown. The defaulters include La Foundation School, Sangrur; DAV Public School, Bhupindra Road, Patiala; Bhupindra International School, Patiala; Delhi Public School, Ludhiana; Angels Paradise School, Amritsar and Mount Litera Zee School, Faridkot. The move came in the wake of complaints from parents. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “Show cause notices have been issued to the violators and they have been given one week to file their reply. If they fail to give a satisfactory reply, the department will cancel their affiliation.” The education minister also warned other schools against defying instructions and said that if any violation comes to light in future, the errant school will be sealed by the district magistrate before any reply is sought. Singla said the education department had issued an order on March 23 directing schools to provide a window of at least 30 days for submission of fees after the situation returns to normal. He said schools have also been directed not to charge any late fee or fine from students for this period. After the orders were issued, schools were regularly being warned of strict action for defying the directives, he said. He asked parents to directly lodge complaints on his email, vijayindersingla@gmail.com. Last month, the department had taken action against six private schools for defying government orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-issues-show-cause-notice-to-6-schools-for-demanding-fee/articleshow/75000698.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Health department’s protocol lapse brings to light careless attitude||LUDHIANA: A protocol lapse by the health department on April 4, when a 26-year-old was sent back home by stating that his reports for Covid-19 were negative, reveals their indifference and carelessness as later in the evening the patient was tested positive. The man, who was confirmed positive on Saturday evening, said, “The health department picked me up from my house on the evening of April 2 and admitted me to the civil hospital isolation ward. They took my throat swab and didn’t serve me dinner. I was told that my report will be out the next day. When I inquired that day, they said it will come on April 4. On April 4 morning, when I asked them, they said I tested negative and I was released at 11.30am.” “I requested the health department to drop me home in an ambulance as it was difficult to get a transport during the curfew. But they refused. I then walked till Dholewal Chowk, from where my father picked me up,” he added. On April 4 night, health department officials called him up and said they were coming to hand over him his reports. “When they came, they said I had tested positive and that they had come to pick me up. I have no symptoms like cough and fever. I am perfectly fine. I didn’t go out during the lockdown,” he continued. Despite repeated attempts the civil surgeon, Rajesh Kumar Bagga, did not pick up the phone. An official of the health department said, “We cannot send the patient till the time we get the report of the patient. If the report is negative then the patient should be either dropped by an ambulance at his house or his family be called. If it is positive, then the patient needs to remain in the hospital. Long wait for test reportsPatients are being made to wait to get their test reports. Patients have to wait for a long time, creating panic among patients. 12 members from Amarpura, who were tested on Wednesday, had neither received reports from the department concerned, nor they received any call regarding their tests. Kewal Dogra, a resident of Amarpura, said, “Panic has gripped us after a 42-year-woman died on March 31 and our neighbour also tested positive . The next day, we called up the department that they should take our samples also. After repeated attempts, they took our samples on Wednesday and it’s been five days and we are still waiting for the reports.” He adds, “We have been quarantined at our home but at least it is the department’s duty to inform us whether we have tested negative or positive.” On the same issue another resident, Rustom (30) said, “Even if they do not want to give us a written report, at least they can give a confirmation call and tell us about the report but I feel the health department has turned a deaf ear to the problem.” According to protocol, as soon as the samples of throat swabs are collected, they are sent to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, by a special car and then the health department receives the report online. Those who are tested positive are either picked up from home or if they are already admitted in the isolation ward. But when there is a negative case, the health department does not bother to inform those concerned. ‘No proper food in isolation wards’ According to the diet chart, people in isolation wards are served recommended diet. But people are not happy about it and they are often found complaining when they come out of the ward. On Sunday, there were 38 patients who were released. A 30-year-old patient who was admitted in the isolation ward from Jeewan Nagar said, “The isolation wards are cleaned properly after every four hours but I have received just two slices of bread and tea and nothing after that. We were served lunch at 3 pm. I am a BP patient and want something on hourly basis.” Another patient (23) from Amarpura said, “I have admitted here since 4 pm on April 3. The authorities served me two rotis and dal but later two slices of bread and tea. The breakfast needs to be heavy and it’s been 3pm and we haven’t eaten anything. Fruits too should be served.” A patient who claimed that he was tested negative but he had other ailments said, “I tested negative but when I said there were a lot many other issues and I should be given some medications. Doctors there turned a blind eye and told me to go an OPD. I was released from the isolation ward and the OPD starts at 9am. Now, I have to wait for two hours. The doctors should have treated with patience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-depts-protocol-lapse-brings-to-light-careless-attitude/articleshow/75000668.cms||Mehak Jain
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Residents pitch in for coordinated distribution of food||LUDHIANA: As soon as discussion over wastage of food started after a video of an NGO member went viral, where he mentioned that lack of coordination was responsible for unequal distribution of food among needy, certain city residents demanded that either langars should be stopped or it should be done under one roof for better distribution. The members also claimed that NGOs and social organisations should instead be asked to distribute medical kits for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, which are fighting at the front in these difficult times. Some even opined that the usage of funds being provided by the state government should also be made public. A resident of BRS Nagar, A P S Mann said, “It was a serious matter if food was getting wasted in such a manner. There is requirement of strengthening of medical facilities in the district so people should contribute for that as well.” He said the city councillors and other authorities concerned should also come forward to answer the questions being raised in that viral video. Mridula Jain, a resident of South City, said, “People involved in langar distribution and even NGO members should interact with the deputy commissioner or other authorities concerned to stop unnecessary food distribution and instead pool in for providing equipment or medical kits in hospitals.” She said she has forwarded the video to the DC for appropriate action in this regard. A resident of Barewal Road, Anoop Garg, said any distribution of ration or food must be registered with the district administration or police so that proper record could be kept and people do not get chance to hoard groceries. Another resident from Model Town Rajiv Sharma claimed that it would have been better if the authorities had distributed dry ration in households properly and a record should have been kept. Then there would have been no requirement for NGOs to distribute cooked food. He said in some areas during food distribution all norms were being violated and nobody cared about social distancing. So, langar distribution should be stopped for a few days. However, MC commissioner K P Brar said, “We are trying to organise everything properly and we have requested all such people who want to serve food or grocery to contact us for avoiding overlapping.” She said whether langar service should be stopped or not will be decided at the highest level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-pitch-in-for-coordinated-distribution-of-food/articleshow/75000660.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: DPS served notice for flouting govt orders over school fee||LUDHIANA: The education department has started acting tough against schools asking parents to pay fee during the lockdown period, defying Punjab government directions. Despite repeated instructions, there were reports about some schools asking parents to pay the fee of their wards after results. Strict action was being taken against them. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “On Sunday, Delhi Public School (DPS) was given a show cause notice for violating government orders, and it has been given a 7-day period to file their reply for the violation. If they fail to give a satisfactory reply, we are going to cancel their affiliation or ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC).” Despite repeated attempts to contact the school, the principal did not pick up calls from TOI. Besides this, La Foundation School in Sangrur; DAV Public School, Bhupindra Road, Patiala; Bhupindra International School, Patiala; and Mount Litera Zee School at Faridkot were also served notices. The education minister also cautioned other schools not to defy instructions, and said if any violation came to light in the future, the school concerned would be sealed by the district magistrate, before seeking any reply. Singla said the education department had issued an order dated March 23, in which all private schools in the state were asked to reschedule their admissions for 2020-21. He added that according to the orders, the schools were directed to provide a window of at least 30 days for submission of fee after the situation got normalised. He said that schools were also directed not to charge any late fee or fine from students for this period, and added that after the issuance of these orders, schools were being regularly warned — through various means, including the press — of strict action for defying the government directions. He said parents from all over the state could directly lodge complaints regarding the flouting of these orders on his email ID, vijayindersingla@gmail.com. The cabinet minister said coronavirus was a worldwide disaster, and due to the lockdown, parents were not able to pay the fee, even through online banking options. He added that the spread of the virus had brought all businesses to a standstill, and private schools should also cooperate with the state government by following its directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dps-served-notice-for-flouting-govt-orders-over-school-fee/articleshow/75000629.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Truckers demand stimulus for transport industry||LUDHIANA: The Punjab government on Sunday set up control rooms statewide to facilitate uninterrupted movement of trucks carrying essential supplies. While the central transport control room is headed by the State Transport Commission (STC), the facilitation controls rooms in the districts are headed by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA). The contact numbers of the control room at Ludhiana are 9888405018 and 8528214311. Ludhiana transporters have welcomed the move, but are of the view that a lot needed to be done by the government to ensure that transporters — who are among the worst sufferers due to the lockdown — are compensated. According to Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) — the biggest body of transporters in India — “Establishing transport control rooms is an appreciable move, as it will help transporters and drivers move trucks anywhere in Punjab for the transportation of essential commodities, and these control rooms will also help truckers from Punjab facing problems anywhere in India by coordinating with the authorities concerned of those states.” He added, “However, just this measure alone will not be able to bring the transport industry out of the massive losses being suffered by us ever since the lockdown started. With factories making non-essential goods totally closed, besides shops and traders who order raw material like iron and steel from other states, our industry has been totally crippled, and every transporter is now under heavy debts, as our expenditure — like bank EMIs, insurance costs of trucks, salary of drivers and other staff, etc — have not stopped. He further added, “What is worse is that even if the lockdown ends on April 14, factories will take time to start production, and trucks will still not be needed. The need of the hour is that the government introduce a package for transport industry and compensate transporters, otherwise 90% of them will go bankrupt.” According to Tarun Bindra, a city-based transporter, “The control room initiative is good, but it is not going to help ordinary transporters, since more than 90% of the transport industry is dependant on supply of non- essential goods, where there has been zero activity since March 22. We request the state government to take stock of the on-ground situation of transporters, and accordingly help us at the earliest.” According to Raju Sharma, another transporter, “Ever since the lockdown started, we have been regularly paying our drivers, cleaners, labour, and office staff so that they survive these turbulent times. But without any earnings, it will not be possible for us to continue doing so, as we too have limited savings. It’s high time the government steps in and financially compensates us for our losses, and also presses upon banks to waive off at least one-month EMI on our vehicle loans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truckers-demand-stimulus-for-transport-industry/articleshow/75000626.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Simarjit Bains starts helpline for the needy||LUDHIANA: Known for being among the vocal MLAs of the city and popular among poor people, Atam Nagar MLA and Lok Insaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Bains has started a helpline to help the poor and needy, and is supplying them ration, breakfast, and tea. However, even as he and his his elder brother Balwinder Bains (MLA from Ludhiana South) are doing their bit, they also appreciate the state and central governments for the help they are providing. “We believe needy persons should get ration, and feel bad that there are some who are taking undue advantage of the situation when the world was suffering, by buying and stocking up ration for months. It is the duty of society to help those in need, so we are doing our bit. Our councillors, ward presidents, and mohalla presidents know the financial conditions of families, and we get demands from them, after which we provide necessary help in the form of ration,” said Simarjit Bains. “We have started a helpline number as well, wherein we get requests from people in the form of messages. We have a five-member team which compiles a list of people who send messages for help. Then, a three-member team goes in a vehicle, and provides ration to the needy in their houses.” He added that if they find ration in the home of a person who has sent a message for help, they refuse to give them ration. The LIP leader said each ration kit has 10kg atta, 2.5kg rice, 2kg dal, 2kg sugar, 250g tea, 5kg potatoes, and 1kg onion, whereas for migrant families, they include 5kg rice, as it forms a part of their diet. He added that by providing a ration kit, they ensure that a family of 4-5 members can have food for 10 to 15 days, and they don’t need to go out. The Bains brothers said they also work with gurdwara committees, temple committees, and NGOs, and provide meals to 3,000 persons. “Some gurdwaras have funds, but some don’t have, so we provide them atta, dal, vegetables etc, and they cook and then feed it to needy people in their localities. Besides, our youth wing team also prepares aloo parathas and tea, besides routine meals, and serves them to needy people in various areas. However, we ensure that people don’t gather at a place and maintain 7-ft distance because control of pandemic is our prime target,” said the LIP supremo. “We believe that food is not as important as our fight to control this disease and defeat it. Also, it is land of Baba Nanak, so no one will sleep hungry,” he added. Bains brothers said they had prepared a mohalla-wise list of about 2,000 needy families in Atam Nagar and Ludhiana South constituencies and they will be distributing ration kits to them. They added that they have got great support from party workers, and supporters, including industrialists and traders in this endeavour. ‘Lockdown saved Indians’The LIP chief said the state government was doing its job, and also appreciated the lockdown ordered by the prime minister. He added that by enforcing the lockdown, 135 crore Indians got saved, as the health system is not that good in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bains-starts-helpline-for-the-needy/articleshow/75000596.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||Tiger at New York's Bronx Zoo tests positive for coronavirus||A tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York City has tested positive for the respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus, in the first known case of a human infecting an animal and making it sick, the zoo's chief veterinarian said on Sunday. Nadia, the 4-year-old Malayan tiger that tested positive, was screened for the COVID-19 disease after developing a dry cough along with three other tigers and three lions, the Wildlife Conservation Society, which manages the zoo, said in a statement. All of the cats are expected to recover, it said. Full statement of USDA statement on the Confirmation of COVID-19 in a Tiger in New YorkThe virus that causes COVID-19 is believed to have spread from animals to humans, and a handful of animals have tested positive in Hong Kong. Join TOI initiative to help keep you and the nation safeBut officials believe this is a unique case because Nadia became sick after exposure to an asymptomatic zoo employee, Paul Calle, chief veterinarian at the Bronx Zoo, told Reuters. Calle said they did not know which employee infected the tiger. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news"This is the first time that any of us know of anywhere in the world that a person infected the animal and the animal got sick," Calle said, adding that they planned to share the findings with other zoos and institutions. "Hopefully we will all have a better understanding as a result." While the other tigers and lions were also exhibiting symptoms, the zoo decided to test only Nadia because she was the sickest and had started to lose her appetite, and they did not want to subject all the cats to anesthesia, Calle said. "The tigers and lions weren't terribly sick," he said. Nadia underwent X-rays, an ultrasound and blood tests to try to figure out what was ailing her. They decided to test for COVID-19 given the surge in cases in New York City, the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States. The first tiger at the zoo, which has been shut since mid-March, began showing signs of illness on March 27, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services Laboratories, which performed the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tiger-at-new-yorks-bronx-zoo-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75001382.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||Ecuador city runs out of coffins amid Covid-19 crisis||QUITO: Soaring numbers of COVID-19 deaths in Ecuador's second city Guayaquil have led to a shortage of coffins, forcing locals to resort to using cardboard boxes, city authorities said Sunday. Authorities in the Pacific port city said they had received a donation of 1,000 pressed cardboard caskets from local producers, and delivered them for use in two local cemeteries. "It's so they can meet demand," a city hall spokesman told AFP. "There are either no coffins in the city or they are extremely expensive." Businessman Santiago Olivares, who owns a chain of funeral homes, said his company was unable to keep up with demand. "I sold the 40 that I had at the downtown branch, and 40 others from my headquarters. I had to order 10 more at the weekend and they've run out," Olivares told AFP. The cheapest coffins currently cost around USD 400. Olivares said a 15-hour curfew in the city was contributing to the shortage of basic raw materials for coffin makers like wood and metal. Last week, residents posted videos on social media showing abandoned bodies in the streets in the Latin American city worst hit by the pandemic. The government called in troops to pick up 150 corpses from streets and homes earlier this week after mortuary workers in the city were unable to keep up with a backlog of removals. The cardboard coffins "will be a great help in providing a dignified burial for people who died during this health emergency," the Guayaquil mayor's office wrote on Twitter. Ecuador reported 3,646 cases of the coronavirus on Sunday, including 180 deaths, the majority of them occurring in Guayaquil and its surrounding province of Guayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/ecuador-city-runs-out-of-coffins-amid-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75001332.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. Update at 10.45pm: The Thane corporation has created an online module for monitoring health of city residents and detect any possible signs of Covid-19 symptoms. Residents will have to log into https://bit.ly/TmcSa anytime, update their details, answer questions related to their health status, travel history among others and update any changes. Update at 10pm: Media reports that area near Matoshree house in Mumbai is sealed is incorrect. Routine sanitisation work was going on, ANI quotes BMC PRO as saying. Update at 9.52pm: A 38-year-old pregnant woman from Nalasopara who tested positive for Covid-19, passed away today at Nair House, ANI quotes Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation. Update at 9.07pm: 4 Covid-19 positive patients from one family have been detected at Ulve. The building has been sealed. In Panvel, so far 15 cases have been reported. Update at 8.25pm: APMC vegetable wholesale market has setup a sentaizer tunnel for vendors and staff in Navi Mumbai Update at 7.40pm: The state government will minutely monitor the situation between April 10 and April 15. Depending on the situation, central government advisory, WHO guidelines, state government will take a decision on lifting the lockdown, said Tope. Update at 7.30pm: All Covid-19 patients to be shifted to Saifee, Nanavati, Seven Hills and Kasturba hospitals. No other hospital to be used for treating coronavirus patients, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. Update at 7.10pm: A vendor who sells tea near 'Matoshree', the private residence of Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray in suburban Bandra, has been found positive for novel coronavirus infection, a civic body official said on Monday. (PTI) Update at 6.55pm: "As part of the contact tracing efforts, the MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) has surveyed 15 lakh population through health teams till date and identified 665 contacts which are referred for testing," a BMC release said. Update at 6.14pm: 57 coronavirus cases have been reported in Mumbai today. Tally touches 490 including 34 deaths, says BMC. Update at 5.35pm: Needy people wait in queue for free food distribution at Jarimeri in Mumbai Update at 4.45pm: Two private hospitals in Mumbai sealed after some staff, including doctors and nurses, test positive for ccoronavirus, PTI quotes officials. *Update at 4.16pm: With six persons testing positive for coronavirus in the areas under Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the number of such patients in the region rose to 34 on Monday, officials said. Out of six patients, four are from Dombivli and two are from Kalyan (West). *Update at 3.50pm: Three doctors and 26 nurses have tested positive for coronavirus in Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central and the facility has been sealed off to prevent the spread of infection, BMC health officials said on Monday. *Update at 3.25pm: A 25-year old coronavirus patient who infected six others at a wedding held on March 19 in Dombivli today got discharged from the Kasturba hospital. * Update at 2.03pm: "We request all attendees of Tablighi Markaz at Nizamuddin, New Delhi to report their travel details on @mybmc helpline 1916 & help us in our fight against this pandemic. Those failing to cooperate will face strict action under IPC, DM Act & Epidemic Act. (sic), " tweets Mumbai Police. * ANI update at 1.51pm: Sex workers in Kamathipura, Mumbai are facing difficulties in meeting day-to-day needs of themselves and their families amid coronavirus lockdown. One of the workers says, "We are not getting any ration, we only get to eat what is given to us by NGOs." *The BEST drivers and conductors who report to work will be incentivised with a special daily allowance of Rs 300 for ferrying the essential workers from far-flung areas to their place of work in Mumbai. The essential staff includes medical and paramedical staffers, policemen, civic officials, among others. * Update at 1.06pm: BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi visited Dharavi where five Covid-19 cases, including one death has been reported so far. *During the switching off the lights on Sunday evening at 9pm, Mumbai's demand had dropped by 480 MW ( 25%) and Maharashtra's demand had dropped by nearly 3000 MW which were much higher than anticipated: Tata Power statement *Maharashtra cyber cell has advised people not to fall victim to freebies offered by fraudsters on various social media platforms in the name of Covid-19. *Update at 12.10pm: A 50-year-old coronavirus patient from Ambernath died during treatment at Bhabha hospital in Mumbai. He was suffering from diabetes. * PTI update at 11.41am: Among the new cases that were reported in Maharashtra on Monday, 19 were reported from Pune city, 11 from Mumbai and one each from Satara, Ahmednagar and Vasai (in Palghar district), said a health official. * Update at 11.33am: Policemen in Kurla urge people to stay indoors and help in fight against coronavirus Policemen in Kurla urge people to stay indoors and help in fight against coronavirus. #coronaupdatesindia… https://t.co/wEzhHdWkW6— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1586152841000*Update at 11.31am: Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari donates a month's salary to CM relief fund and 30 % of his annual salary to PM care fund *Update at 11.12am: 33 more Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra; state's tally jumps to 781, reports PTI quoting health official. * Update at 11.02am: BMC urges all those who attended the Tablighi Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi to reveal their travel history immediately by calling 1916. The civic body warns of strict action under IPC, DM Act & Epidemic Act against those failing to comply. *Fewer breach home quarantine in Thane, thanks to e-surveillance *With nearly 30 cases, Wockhardt Hospital now has more cases than many Mumbai wards. *BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde issued a diktat over the weekend -— that memos will be served to every driver and conductor who shirks his responsibility, and he will face strict departmental action. *Worli Koliwada, its adjacent areas and Prabhadevi continued to keep G-South ward on the coronavirus highlight map. In the turn of a day on the weekend, the number of coronavirus positive cases in the ward increased from 44 to 58. *Maharashtra has made it mandatory for all its officials, staff and visitors to wear a mask while coming to Mantralaya for the next few months. * ANI update at 8.17am: People at Bandra-Kurla vegetable market in Mumbai buy essentials *BEST staffers who don’t report to work to face action *Wockhardt Hospital declared containment zone as 26 nurses and 3 doctors test positive for coronavirus. *A positive case of Covid-19 was found in Dharavi on Sunday, taking the toll in the slum-dominated area to five. *Mumbai coronavirus death count rose to 30 and the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) counted six dead so far. *Mumbai reported 81 new cases on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 count so far to 458, or over 60% of the state tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-in-mumbai-latest-news-updates-on-mumbai-corona-cases-deaths-06-april-2020/articleshow/75001383.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||In Mewat, 15 lakh people, only 250 isolation beds||GURUGRAM: Mewat is not known for its healthcare infrastructure, and ever since the attendees from the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin have started returning, villagers are a worried lot. Many of the participants have tested positive for Covid-19. In Marora village, the closest civil hospital is over 10 km away, and the dedicated Covid-19 hospital is over 30 km away. “If the virus spreads here, by the time we’ll realise it, almost the entire village will be infected. Houses here are in tight clusters, and even if people step out to go to toilets or to the fields, there’s hardly any concept of social distancing,” said Sonu, voicing the concerns of hundreds of families in the village. The district has less than 250 isolation beds for a population of nearly 15 lakh people. The concerns have become pronounced as eight people tested positive of the 37 reports that have emerged from analysing 128 samples. People fear that if the government goes for mass testing, the number of positive cases may surpass the number of isolation beds that have been created. Even home quarantine is a big challenge in the district because water supply is unreliable. “Washing hands every 2-3 hours is a luxury we don’t have. We barely manage water for cooking and cleaning the house. There are days when we don’t even get to take bath. All this is coming around as great mockery for us,” argued 60-year-old Islami, a resident of Marora village. Another villager claimed that the Muslim colony which is separated by a narrow labyrinth has been deserted by the Hindu community. “Nobody even takes that route now.,” said Manoj, another resident of Marora village. District administration has claimed that the returnees could not have met anyone as the district has been in lockdown since March 22. But fact remains that most of the PHCs in the district are non-functional. While there are 450 medics and paramedics, there are only 60%-70% doctors (70) of the total sanctioned strength of over 100. This roughly translates to one government doctor per 21,500 people. This is way below the national average of one government doctor per 10,189 people and alarmingly below the 1:1000 ratio recommended by WHO. “The entire medical staff is working round the clock. Over 2,000 quarantine beds have been created. Moreover, there are 215 isolation beds. Mandikhera Civil Hospital and Nalhar Medical College both are dedicated to serving patients and, there are talks to convert more colleges and school buildings into quarantine facility,” a district administration official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-mewat-15-lakh-people-only-250-isolation-beds/articleshow/75000373.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Survey in Palwal, 1,500 with Tablighi Jamaat link identified||GURUGRAM: The health department of Palwal on Sunday covered more than 2,000 houses in its door-to-door survey in 11 villages of the district to identify people who came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members. As per the data, around 214 houses have been identified till now in the district which is under quarantine. Though the district did not have any new cases on Sunday, however, they have ordered isolation for 1,500 people who came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members.“We have completely sealed 11 villages to curb the spread of the virus. We have increased sample collection process and the door-to-door survey is being conducted rigorously. We have identified 214 houses which we have sealed,” Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu said. The health department also have involved police and the district magistrate to conduct surveillance. “We have ensured that the villages are completely sealed. We have asked all these villages to have a person guarding the border and have made containment zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/survey-in-palwal-1500-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-identified/articleshow/75000383.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Realtors told to give food, shelter to 21,000 workers||GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has directed developers to provide food and accommodation to around 21,000 workers employed at 85 construction sites free of charge as per guidelines issued by the state government. In case of any complaint, strict action will be taken against them, the department said in an order issued last week. DTCP has constituted five teams to monitor these sites to ensure that the developers concerned are doing their bit and workers don’t leave the sites in search of food and shelter. District town planner RS Batth told TOI the DTCP director ordered developers to arrange adequate accommodation along with food at the sites for all labourers and their families to ensure that they aren’t forced to return to their hometowns. “Our teams are visiting sites to ensure basic facilities like water supply, sanitation and medicines are made available at all such locations. The developers should not charge any amount for such facilities,” he said. Batth said in cases where developers were unable to make the arrangements, it was done with the assistance of the district administration and NGOs. “We have put contact numbers of DTCP teams at the sites so that workers can call them in case they are not provided food and other essential items,” he said. The DTCP order had directed all developers to whom licences have been granted under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975, not to release the workforce labour engaged in various construction sites in licenced colonies across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/realtors-told-to-give-food-shelter-to-21000-workers/articleshow/75000402.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
April 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Chennai. *Update at 10pm: The Tamil Nadu government has announced free treatment for frontline staff of its essential services if they test positive for Covid-19. Th treatment will be free for them both in government and private hospitals. They will also be provided with ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh. *Update at 9pm: Tamil Nadu on Monday continued to top the southern states with the most number of COVID19 patients, with a bulk of them being returnees of the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi last month. Kerala also reported fresh cases of the virus, some of them with a history of travel to the national capital to attend the Islamic meet in Nizamuddin West in South Delhi. *Update at 8pm: One more COVID-19 death was reported in Tamil Nadu on Monday, while 50 people tested positive for coronavirus, including 48 returnees of the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat meet, taking the total number of cases to 621, a senior official said. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the state has now increased to six. *Update at 7pm: Tamil Nadu reports 50 COVID-19 cases, 48 were Jamaat meet returnees. Total number of cases 621. *Update at 6pm: Medical staff walk through a disinfection tunnel at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai. *Update at 5pm: Interactive robot 'Zafi' that will be deployed at Covid -19 isolation wards is pictured during a demo at Stanley Medical Hospital in Chennai. *Update at 4pm: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday said order has been placed for buying one lakh Rapid Test Kits from China and it will arrive here on April 9 aiding quick screening for coronavirus in the State. Of the 4,612 people who were tested for the contagion, 571 turned positive, Palaniswami said, adding, the RTKs will be sent to all districts and testing could be done quickly for whomever needed. *Update at 3.45pm: At a time when the world is struggling to get ventilators to treat COVID-19 patients, 200 such equipment are lying at Chennai port but they are 'second-hand' or 'used' ones and come under the 'hazardous' category. Import of such used equipment is prohibited under hazardous waste management rules of the Ministry of Environment and Forest. * Update at 2.48pm: A part of Muthilapet area in Puducherry has been brought under the Covid-19 containment plan as per protocol after a positive case was reported in the adjoining Kottakuppam hamlet in Villupuram district of Tamil Nadu. * Update at 1.40pm: About 2.10 lakh people screened in airports, 90,541 in home quarantine; 10,814 completed 28-day quarantine period, says chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami * Update at 1:15pm: Policemen disinfect their vehicle at Wallajah Road, Chennai * Update at 1.07pm: Women walks with her child on a deserted road at Kilapuk in Chennai *The number of patients going to hospitals with heart attacks has come down across the country after the lockdown triggered by Covid-19. *Gone are the days when consumers can spend time leisurely in supermarkets, dawdling at shelves to read about products before buying them. With social distancing being the norm, supermarket chains in the city have limited the number of people who are allowed to enter the stores at a given time. *While voluntary maternal health check-ups by pregnant women at hospitals and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) have declined because of the lockdown and Covid-19 scare, there is no laxity in providing maternal healthcare for urgent cases, said doctors and health officials. *The state government has sanctioned Rs 75.27 crore, from state disaster relief fund, for the state police department towards food allowance for 91,244 police personnel, who are maintaining round the clock vigil and vehicle checks along inter-state borders from March 24. *Doctors working for Greater Chennai Corporation and volunteers at Loyola College are offering tele-counselling for home quarantined people in the city. *With the number of Covid-19 cases going up with every passing day, the Tamil Nadu government has sanctioned Rs 22.57 crore to establish more quarantine facilities in the state. *Travel restrictions due to the lockdown have forced hospitals to postpone blood stem cell and bone marrow transplantations for patients with cancer and blood disorders. *Looks like hundreds stuck in Chennai will be heading home once the lockdown ends on April 15, as tickets on trains to southern towns and cities in the neighbouring states are sold out already. *The streets may be deserted but the terraces of apartment buildings are now filled with people who surface for a breath of fresh air in the evenings, after being cooped up all day at home. And for couples with young children, it is playtime as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-in-chennai-latest-news-updates-on-chennai-corona-cases-deaths-6-april-2020/articleshow/75001386.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from your city. * 11pm: Karnataka agrees to allow ambulances carrying non-COVID-19 patients through Talapady border in Kerala’s Kasaragod district for treatment at hospitals in Mangaluru during lockdown. * 10pm: The Karnataka government on Monday exempted bakery and biscuits, condiments, confectionery and sweet units from lockdown and permitted them to operate with minimum staff. The units shall not permit serving or dinning in the premises and only parcel and takeaways were permitted, a circular issued by State Nodal Officer, Essential Commodities & Supply Chain Management Rajender Kumar Kataria said. * 9pm: Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Monday appreciated efforts of Karnatka government in identifying and testing Tablighi event returnees for COVID-19 and sought action against those trying to project the entire minority community in bad light on social media for the spread of the pandemic. In a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he also condemned incidents of attacks on doctors and health department workers and sought protection for them. * 8.30pm: Belagavi police have filed FIR against Tablighi Jamaat-related 10 Indonesian nationals for entering India without valid visa. * 8pm: On the eve of Mahavir Jayanti, Jain Temple trusts on Monday donated Rs 51 lakh to CM Relief Fund. The amount was handed over to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. * 7pm: Three more Covid-19 patients discharged in Dakshina Kannada. No fresh positive cases in either DK or Udupi today. With this, total positive cases in DK drops to 8, Udupi status quo at 3. *6pm: Karnataka government in association with Akshaya Patra Foundation and state labour ministry distributing food items to the needy in the state. (ANI) * 5.45pm: Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, his son Nikhil's wedding will be a low-key affair in the presence of close family members on April 17, at the residence. Nikhil is engaged to Revathi, the grand-niece of former minister and Congress legislator M Krishnappa. * 4.45pm: Of the 12 new cases reported in Karnataka on Monday, seven were from Mysuru, three Bengaluru and two Bagalkot. There are three women among the new patients. * 4.15pm: Worried over the fallout of coronavirus spread if not contained, the state-run Karnataka Wakf board appealed to all Tablighi Jamaat returnees to take the Covid test at the earliest, a top official said on Monday. "We have appealed to all Tablighis who returned to the state from New Delhi's Nizamuddin mosque congregation (ijtema) in March to take the Covid test at the state-run hospitals immediately in their interest," Wakq board chief executive Islauddin Gadyal said in a statement here. * 4pm: Karnataka State Board for Auqaf on Monday issued orders suspending congregational prayers and visit to the Qabrasthans (Muslim Graveyards), Dargahs on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat on April 9, due to the coronavirus pandemic. "It is hereby directed to all the managements not to allow any congregational prayers in the masjid and the managements of the Qabrasthans/Dargahs throughout the State to suspend the visit of public on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat on Thursday, April 9," the order read. * 3.30pm: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said he is following the one-time fasting as per the order by BJP President JP Nadda. "I am following the one-time fasting as per the order by our national President JP Nadda, on BJP foundation day today, as a mark of respect to doctors, nurses, media personnel," said BS Yediyurappa. * 2.42pm: Following are today's vegetable rates in Bengaluru quoted at APMC (rates per quintal): Cauliflower Rs 200-2,400, Brinjal Rs 500-2,900, Tomato Rs 133-1,500, Bitter Gourd Rs 800-4,400, Bottle Gourd Rs 100-2,000, Ash Gourd Rs 800-1,500, Green Chilly Rs 400-4,000, Banana green Rs 500-3,000, Beans Rs 500-5,500, Green Ginger Rs 300-8,000, Carrot Rs 500-3,800, Cabbage Rs 200-2,000, Ladies Finger Rs 500-3,600, Snake Gourd Rs 500-2,200, Beetroot Rs 200-2,300, Cucumber Rs 200-3,100, Ridge Gourd Rs 200-4,000, Raddish Rs 300-2,200, Capsicum Rs 500-3,500, Drumstick Rs 600-3,200, Sweet Pumpkin Rs 100-2,500, Knool Khol Rs 300-2,500, Lime Rs 3,000-5,100. *2.04pm: Twelve new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Karnataka; total number of infections in state at 163. (PTI) *1.08pm: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa says he will give up one meal in response to a call given by BJP president J P Nadda to party workers on its foundation day to show solidarity with people facing hardships during lockdown. (PTI) *12.21pm: Chikkamagalur district officers help in construction of a man's house at a remote village in Kalasa. Officials were there to distribute PDS ration. *Karnataka, which figures among the top 10 states in Covid-19 incidence, has been allocated only Rs 396 crore of the Rs 11,067 crore released by the Centre under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRF) to fight the pandemic. *Dakshina Kannada district administration has released a list and phone numbers of online delivery agencies, stores and supermarkets willing to do home deliveries in Mangaluru. However, not all of them are able to cater to the increase in demand. *Four people from Belagavi tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. *Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendee’s 60-year-old spouse contarcting Covid-19 despite her husband’s test results showing no signs of infection could be Karnataka’ first case of asymptomatic transmission. *A 33-year-old man who returned to Dharwad from Australia, and had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Sunday after the doctors confirmed that he had recovered fully. *Defence Research Development Laboratory, which in addition to manufacturing N-99 five-layered masks, has ordered a Mysuru-based private firm to manufacture 30,000 ventilators to help bridge the supply gap. *Mysuru could remain closed beyond April 14. B Harshavardhan, BJP legislator from Nanjangud, indicated operations at Jubilant Life Sciences plant in the town, the epicentre of a cluster outbreak, will remain closed even if the lockdown is lifted – which is becoming more unlikely with each passing day – on April 14. *A locally built ‘disinfectant tunnel’ has come in handy for the administration in Gauribidanur town, Chikkaballapura district, to ward off the threat of a Covid-19 infection even as townsfolk go about purchasing essentials every day. *Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday again urged people to strictly follow lockdown norms to ensure the spread of the novel coronavirus is contained. Raising concerns over the steady rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, especially in the districts of Bidar, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburgi – all hotposts –the chief minister reiterated that relaxation of lockdown measures post April 14 will depends on how strictly people follow norms. *Two women and three men who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi were among seven people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of those infected in Karnataka to 151. Four of the Tabligh delegates are from Raibag in Belagavi while one is from Ballari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-in-bengaluru-latest-news-updates-on-bengaluru-corona-cases-deaths-06-april-2020/articleshow/75001516.cms||---
April 6, 2020||World||PIO MP Lisa Nandy is Labour Party's new shadow foreign secy||Keir Starmer wasted little time in laying out early battle lines as he seeks to return his UK opposition Labour Party to power, criticising Boris Johnson's Conservatives over austerity and the damage done to the National Health Service. Starmer, who was elected Labour leader on Saturday, named his top team of shadow cabinet ministers on Sunday. Anneliese Dodds became the first woman to be shadow chancellor of the exchequer, and Indian-origin MP Lisa Nandy, who stood against Starmer for the leadership, was appointed shadow foreign secretary.  On her appointment, Nandy, who has been MP for Wigan since 2010, thanked Keir for the "opportunity to serve". She said: "It's a real honour to be tasked with leading Labour's foreign policy response in these difficult times." Nandy, 40, is the daughter of Indian academic Dipak Nandy. Her mother is British. Her father was born in Kolkata and came to Britain in the 1950s to study at the University of Leeds. Dipak Nandy was the first director of the Runnymede Trust think tank on race and helped draft Britain's Race Relations Bill of 1976.  Starmer's top team will form a new shadow committee, which will be responsible for coordinating Labour's response to the coronavirus pandemic. Starmer said: "We are living through a national emergency. Under my leadership, the Labour Party will always act in the country's interest to save lives and protect livelihoods. That will be the number one priority of my shadow cabinet."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/pio-mp-lisa-nandy-is-labour-partys-new-shadow-foreign-secy/articleshow/75001547.cms||---
April 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Man to return to jail 7 years after acquittal in murder case||BENGALURU: Seven years after he was acquitted of the charge of murdering his employer for gain, a 32-year-old gardener will now have to return to prison and spend the rest of his life there. Overturning Siju Kurian's acquittal, the high court held the trial court shouldn't have overlooked the fact that the employer's body had been located and exhumed from a desolate place only on the basis of the accused's statement. Siju, who's from Mannarkad taluk of Palakkad district in Kerala, was employed by Jose C Kafan in September 2011 to look after his garden at Kerodi village in Sagar taluk, Shivamogga district. Following a complaint from Jose's son Sajit Kafan that his father was missing, police arrested Siju on January 20, 2012. Sajit got suspicious after he heard that Siju was trying to sell his father's Sagar property. The next day, Siju pointed to the place (western portion of the garden) where Jose's body was buried. It was exhumed and the autopsy said he had died after being hit on the head and face. Siju revealed he had killed his employer between 6am and 6.30am on December 2, 2011. An iron rod was recovered from the place where Jose was buried. However, on August 8, 2013 the trial court acquitted Siju holding that the prosecution failed to prove his guilt beyond reasonable doubt as there was no supporting evidence to show he was the culprit. The state appealed against the acquittal. Relying on the principles of Evidence Act, an HC division bench headed by Justice SN Satyanarayana imposed simple imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs 50,000 on Siju. Had told people man died in US  The high court pointed out there is supporting testimony that the accused disposed of many agricultural tools of his employer pretending to be his relative. "The trial court ought to have taken much care and caution while appreciating the evidence available on record. The same has not been done, which has resulted in miscarriage of justice. This is nothing but allowing a wrongdoer to escape from the clutches of the law," the bench has said. Many witnesses categorically deposed that Siju had told them Jose had gone to Kerala where he suffered a paralysis attack and was taken to the US for treatment. They said Siju also told them Jose had died in the US and was cremated there, bench has further noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-man-to-return-to-jail-7-years-after-acquittal-in-murder-case/articleshow/75001568.cms||Vasantha Kumar
