April 7, 2020||India||Hope to see UK PM Boris Johnson in perfect health soon: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hoped that his British counterpart Boris Johnson, admitted to a hospital for treatment of coronavirus, finds himself in perfect health soon. "Hang in there, Prime Minister @BorisJohnson! Hope to see you out of hospital and in perfect health very soon," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. Hang in there, Prime Minister @BorisJohnson! Hope to see you out of hospital and in perfect health very soon.— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1586195220000British Prime Minister Johnson had earlier tweeted that on the advice of his doctor, he went into hospital for some routine tests as he was still experiencing coronavirus symptoms. "I'm in good spirits and keeping in touch with my team, as we work together to fight this virus and keep everyone safe," he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-to-see-uk-pm-boris-johnson-in-perfect-health-soon-pm-modi/articleshow/75018117.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Agra||Two including a youth who attended Delhi’s Jamaat test positive for Covid-19 in Mathura||AGRA: A 53-year-old woman from Agra and a local youth, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat at Delhi’s Nizamuddin along with 29 others, were tested positive for novel coronavirus in Mathura on Monday. The woman was admitted to a private hospital in Mathura in a critical condition, while the youth, a resident of Shamli, was referred to a hospital in Agra. Mathura’s district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “The woman’s condition is critical and she has been put on ventilator.” Officials said the woman was recently referred to a Mathura hospital from Agra for some other treatment. But, since she appeared symptomatic, her sample was sent for testing. Efforts are now on to track all those who had come in contact with the woman recently. These would include the staff and doctors of the private hospital in Agra where she was initially admitted. While the youth was part of a group of 30 Jamaat members quarantined by the administration on March 31. No one else in the group tested positive for the infection. Officials are also testing and quarantining people who were in contact with the youth. An area of three kilometre radius around the Markaj mosque in Andhiquiyan and Farah’s mosque is being sanitised. They will also be sealed for a certain period as a precautionary measure. A medical team will conduct a door-to-door survey in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-including-a-youth-who-attended-delhis-jamaat-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mathura/articleshow/75017237.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana railway unit too gets nod for PPE kits||YAMUNANAGAR: The Jagadhri workshop of the Northern Railways got approval to manufacture personnel protection equipment (PPE) kits after three of its samples were found to be compliant with required specifications. Deputy chief personnel officer of the workshop, Rajiv Bajaj said their samples met the ISO 16603:2004 Class 3 or above requirements. "Up till Sunday, our workshop manufactured around 200 PPEs. It has now started to prepare more for frontline medical and para-medical staff working tirelessly to fight the Covid-19 pandemic," Rajiv said. He said the Jagadhri workshop prepared three samples of PPE kits for frontline medical staff, which were sent to Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE) and Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) through the headquarters of Northern Railways for testing PPEs to be used by doctors in hospitals and Indian Railways. Bajaj said the workshop started manufacturing the PPE kits but were waiting for approval from DRDE and DRDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-railway-unit-too-gets-nod-for-ppe-kits/articleshow/75018536.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 7, 2020||India||Some community spread in hotspots: AIIMS chief||NEW DELHI: There may be some community spread of Covid-19 in hotspots and these areas need to be monitored closely to prevent community transmission of the virus, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Monday, even as fresh coronavirus cases in the country registered a slight dip and fell below 500 for the first time in the past five days. As Dr Guleria’s remarks triggered a fresh debate over the stage of Covid-19 transmission in the country, the health ministry concurred with the doctor’s statement. “What the AIIMS director has said is not in variance with what we have been explaining,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. Agarwal said the government was following the strategy of cluster containment strategy when a limited number of cases were being reported from a particular area. This action was being intensified when a larger number of cases came to light. “If we go by the wordings (of AIIMS Director), he said localised community transmission, which implies larger number of cases are being found in a particular area – something we have been stating too,” the official said. He added that the government’s efforts are aimed to ensure the country does not enter stage 3 of transmission, when it becomes difficult to identify the source of infection. As per latest data from the states, the number of coronavirus cases recorded so far was 4,757, with 479 fresh infections on Monday. There were 16 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra accounting for seven, taking the total death toll from the virus to 132. The health ministry has confirmed 4,281 cases and 111 deaths. It reported nearly 700 new cases on Monday, a bulk of which have earlier been by TOI through confirmed reports from states. Maharashtra remains the worst affected state with 868 confirmed cases and 45 deaths, followed by Tamil Nadu (621 cases and 6 deaths) and Delhi (525 cases and 7 deaths). Maharashtra also recorded the highest number of 120 fresh coronavirus positive cases, with Mumbai’s tally alone crossing 500 to end the day at 526. Of the seven deaths, four were from Mumbai and one each from Vasai-Virar, Kalyan and Thane. These included the death of a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Nalasopara (East), the first case of a pregnant woman becoming a victim of coronavirus. She was also the youngest in the state to succumb. In Delhi, several hotspots for Covid-19 have sprung up recently. Most prominent of them is the Nizamuddin cluster which accounts for 329 out of 525 Covid-19 cases in the state. East Delhi has at least two other hot spots – Dilshad Garden, where a 38-year-old woman spread Covid-19 to more than a dozen persons and a cancer hospital in the same area where two doctors and 16 nurses have been found positive for the disease. The health ministry said the in-charge of all districts across states have been explained about Covid-19 focussed crisis management plan. With 41 new Covid-19 cases — 21 in Bhopal, 16 in Indore, and one each in Vidisha, Betul, Khargone – Madhya Pradesh recorded its highest ever single-day tally on Monday, taking its count to 256. Bhopal recorded its first death on Monday, taking the state toll to 17. Two IAS officers and several health officials spearheading the battle against the virus in Madhya Pradesh have tested positive for Covid-19 and are in quarantine. In Gujarat, 146 Covid-19 and 12 deaths have been confirmed till date. Meanwhile, Kerala, which till a few days ago seemed to be competing with Maharashtra for the “worst-hit state” tag, continued to report marked improvement with just 13 new cases in the past 24 hours. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Monday that the state could see 100-110 more Covid-19 cases in the next few days, even as 30 new positive were reported. Two Covid-19 suspects with co-morbidities died in Andhra Pradesh taking the death toll in the state to three. Officials said one of the two people, who died due to Covid-19, is a 64-year-old man. He was a close contact of a Mecca returnee. The other mortality case was of a 55-year-old man. Uttarakhand on Monday reported five new Covid-19-positive cases taking the state’s tally to 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-community-spread-in-hotspots-aiims-chief/articleshow/75018640.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 7, 2020||India||Lockdown in India far more effective than other countries, says public health expert||Recorded instances of successful lockdown are available even from the 1918 flu pandemic and now from other countries, including China and several European nations, but data show that social distancing in India in the wake of coronavirus outbreak has been more effective than in other country, Public Health Foundation of India president K Srinath Reddy tells Sushmi Dey. Excerpts: Q: After almost two weeks of lockdown now, what is your assessment of its impact on Covid-19 transmission?A: We must recognise that there is a lag period between infection and clinical symptoms. This is usually around 5 days but can extend to 14 days. So the impact of the lockdown, in terms of markedly slowing down the rate of transmission, will be mostly seen in its third week and beyond. Even at present, we are seeing an impact on the lengthening of doubling time of the infected cases. Google mapping data also show that social distancing in India has been more effective than in many other countries. Q: What is the current growth trend in terms of new cases? What is road ahead for us?A: We are still on the ascending limb of the infection curve, though we seem to have brought it to a lower slope by slowing down transmission. The doubling rate of detected cases has ranged between 3 and 5 days but now seems to be closer to the latter. We should expect to see some more new cases, even when the curve bends. We should try to bend it soon by combining the beneficial effect of lockdown with maintenance of social distancing and personal protection measures. Q: How serious is the issue of Tablighi Jamaat? How difficult is it going to be to control the transmission after such incidents?A: Even though the congregation took place before the lockdown, it was a very ill-advised breach of social distancing. Added to the danger posed by the large size of the gathering was the foreign origin of several persons who were part of it. The mingling of foreign visitors from many infected countries made transmission very easy. As the infected persons then dispersed across the country, the virus found many new persons to infect in multiple locations. Public health, intelligence and law enforcement agencies are making heroic efforts to quickly trace participants and identify cases as well as contacts for isolation. Q: The government has maintained that if lockdown and social distancing measures are followed stringently, the chain of transmission can be disrupted.A: It has been clearly demonstrated in multiple countries, even during previous respiratory virus epidemics, that social distancing prevents person to person spread. Lockdown is a stronger measure, which involves a society wide form of distancing ... that is effective in interrupting the transmission chain of a highly infectious virus. Q: Are we likely to see an upswing of the epidemic?A: More new cases are likely to appear for some more time but if containment measures are effective, it will slower rate of increase. Then the curve will come down. Q: Is coronavirus disease here to stay? Will it become a seasonal infection, like H1N1, and the seasonal coronaviruses that cause symptoms of common cold?A: Planet Earth is a good home for viruses as it is for humanity. Our task is to keep them confined to the wild and not invite them into our habitat and human bodies through acts of ecological vandalism, distorted development paradigms and fetish for exotic animal flesh. I believe this virus will stay as a long-time resident of this planet. Q: Is the summer going to be a saviour?A: I hope so. Though this coronavirus is new and its behaviour patterns are not fully known as yet, the limited evidence that is available suggests that it will wane in summer. We must remember, of course, that India is a large country with many climatic zones. Q: How prepared is India’s health system to tackle further surge in cases, especially if the virus spreads to remote areas?A: We have seen the health systems of many high-income countries crumbling under the pressure of an advancing epidemic. The measures we have already taken should slow down the epidemic, giving more time to strengthen our health system response with more resources and operational coordination. The southern states are better prepared. We should not forego the advantage of having a large rural population, unlike more urban countries, which have been worst affected so far. We should prevent urban to rural transmission as effectively as possible. We should also speedily strengthen both rural and urban primary healthcare services and district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-in-india-far-more-effective-than-other-countries-says-public-health-expert/articleshow/75018787.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 7, 2020||India||30% pay cut for MPs; MPLADS suspended||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance to cut salaries of the Prime Minister, all ministers and sitting MPs by 30% for one year in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis and also decided to suspend the MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years. The twin moves will release Rs 7,900 crore to combat the disease. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told the media that President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and governors of states have also voluntarily offered to take the 30% pay cut as a social responsibility. The move, intended as an austerity measure, reflects the thinking in government that the political class should signal that it is not standing apart from the economic hardship caused to the common people. The wage cuts will come into effect from April 1 for a year and the suspension of MPLADS fund will be for 2020-21 and 2021-22. The total amount will be transferred into the Consolidated Fund of India. Javadekar said the ordinance route was taken as a salary cut of MPs requires a change in law. He added the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act will be amended during the next Parliament session. The suspension of MPLADS, however, did not go down well with the opposition with several Congress functionaries protesting that this will impact ongoing development works in their constituencies and affect people directly. The government said that most MPs would anyway set aside a substantial part of their constituency funds for Covid-19 mitigation. Responding to a question on how much would be saved due to 30% salary cut, Javadekar said the amount was not important. “This is a landmark decision that sends the right signals. Many MPs have already announced donation of Rs 1 crore each from their MPLADS fund. Some felt the money under this scheme should be utilised to deal with the pandemic. This is our social responsibility,” he said. There has been concern in the government that if there are layoffs and wage cuts in non-government sectors, the perceived privileges of official jobs will stand out in contrast. Asked if the Centre was expecting states to take similar decisions of pay cut for MLAs and MLCs, Javadekar said it was a matter for state governments and the Centre could not comment on it. Some states have already decided to do it. While the Kerala government has decided to cut a month’s salary of all its staffers and this will go to the state disaster relief fund, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan have also announced salary cuts of government employees depending on their rank. Maharashtra has decided to pay salaries in instalments. Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa has given up a year’s salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/30-pay-cut-for-mps-mplads-suspended/articleshow/75018826.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Woman set ablaze by two, succumbs||Vadodara: A 40-year-old woman with learning difficulties set ablaze allegedly by two assailants in Danteshwar locality of the city succumbed to her burn injuries at SSG Hospital on Sunday. Police said the accused, identified as Jesinh Bharwad and Gotu Marathi, had allegedly set afire Bela Vyas on March 31. The accused were annoyed with Vyas as she would keep pestering them for money. On the fateful day, the accused were angry with Vyas after she demanded Rs 100 from them. “The accused poured inflammable liquid on Vyas while she was standing with one Deepak Jadav, a labourer, and set her on fire. Jadav and Vyas’ sister tried to douse the flames by pouring water on her. Jadav, who too suffered burns on his both hands, took Vyas to the SSG Hospital,” said a police official. Vyas had suffered grievous burn injuries below her throat due to which she died at the hospital. “Earlier, Bharwad and Marathi were booked for an attempt to murder, but with Vyas’ death, we have added murder charges in the original complaint,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-set-ablaze-by-two-succumbs/articleshow/75015704.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||Corona test kits, PPE flownin to replenish IMS supplies||Varanasi: A chartered flight of Air India landed at LBS International Airport here on Monday morning carrying kits for Covid-19 test, RNA extraction, personal protective equipment (PPE) and other medical apparatus for the microbiology laboratory of Institute of Medical Science, Banaras Hindu University. The IMS lab has been conducting tests and was running short of kits and protective gear. Prof Gopal Nath, in-charge of microbiology laboratory, which is testing samples from 16 districts of east UP region, told TOI, “The laboratory had started facing shortage of these kits and on Sunday we had to arrange some material from other laboratories of the institute. With the arrival of this consignment today, now we have sufficient stock to meet the requirements of coming one week in view of the increased flow of samples from all 16 districts.” The IMS microbiology lab was declared as one of the nodal centres for Covid-19 test by the government on March 6. “Till March 27, on an average, 8-10 samples were coming from districts to our lab per day. But, after March 28, the volume of samples increased sharply. Till March 31, as many as 246 samples were tested at our laboratory. And till Monday morning, the number of tested samples reached 615,” Prof. Nath added. “Now, we are testing over 100 sample||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/corona-test-kits-ppe-flownin-to-replenish-ims-supplies/articleshow/75016465.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Cops on toes as lockdown gives Maoists a ‘free run’||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown has come as a blessing for the Maoists as police are busy enforcing it. The shift in the state police’s focus on containing the spread of Covid19 has allowed the red rebels to move around freely in the remote areas of districts near the Jharkhand border. DIG, Munger range, Manu Maharaaj on Monday said the Maoists were trying to take advantage of the situation arising out of the Covid19 outbreak. “We are cautious and have foiled their attempts to cause damage to the security forces during the lockdown,” he added. On Sunday, the security forces detected explosives in Jamui’s Chakai police station area, close to the Jharkhand border. “The powerful explosives were meant to target the security forces and loot their weapons. However, timely detection of the explosives foiled their plan,” the DIG told this newspaper over phone. Altogether four container bombs and 97 gelatine sticks, batteries and iron nails in huge quantities were seized at Garurbad and Barsolia villages in Jamui district. The bombs were to be used to blow up vehicles carrying security forces. The Chakai area is considered to be a safe hideout of the Maoists, who sneak in from Giridih in Jharkhand. “Pintu Rana, a self-styled area commander of the banned Naxal outfit, holds sway in the entire region,” CRPF’s assistant commandant Ajay Kumar said. Tahir Mia, a local resident, is stated to be the local link of the Maoists. Bhelwaghat police outpost in-charge M J Khan said Tahir was booked for providing logistical support to the extremists in the region. “He is at present evading arrest,” Khan said. Two days ago, four bombs, 35 detonators, iron pipes and other materials were seized during a search operation in Baskatwa forest in Gaya district. Three bombs weighing 5kg each and one bomb weighing three-kg were later defused by the bomb disposal squad. These apart, a huge quantity of explosives were recovered from Madan police station area in Aurangabad district. According to the CRPF DIG, Sanjay Kumar, the seized explosives, including over 60 landmines, were meant to attack security personnel. “At least three attempts to attack the security forces have been foiled in the last two weeks in Jamui, Gaya and Aurangabad districts,” a senior police officer at the police headquarters said. However, Maoists too are facing hardship due to disruption in the supply of food and other essentials in the remote areas due to lockdown. March and mid-April are considered to be the period when the rebels stock-up on food as they don’t prefer to venture out of their forest hideouts during Monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-on-toes-as-lockdown-gives-maoists-a-free-run/articleshow/75016397.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||First disinfectant tunnel set up in Patna||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has set up a ‘disinfectant tunnel’ at the entrance of Rajendra Nagar vegetable market to fight the spread of coronavirus. It was jointly inaugurated by mayor Sita Sahu, PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma and DM Kumar Ravi on Monday. Ravi said it is a first-of-its-kind tunnel in Patna. The moment a person enters the tunnel, he or she will be sprayed with diluted sanitiser (sodium hypochlorite with dihydrogen oxide) from all four sides to eliminate the germs on that person’s body. The automated liquid spray is a combination of a sodium hypochlorite, water-soluble polymer and iodine, which saturates the environment and thus disinfects all surfaces through its nozzles fitted in the tunnel. Four more such tunnels will come up at Digha, Meethapur, Mussalahpur Hatt and Bazaar Samiti this week. Sahu said every person has to pass through this tunnel before entering the vegetable market. “The shoppers would be sprayed with misty disinfectant vapour to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 virus,” she said. “Since, many people are not following social distancing norms at market places, especially vegetable markets, the PMC has initiated this measure to contain virus,” she added. Such tunnels are being used in cities like Hyderabad, Hubli, Mysore and Gorakhpur. The tunnel was installed jointly by Tata and Ayshra Technofab and each tunnel costs Rs2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-disinfectant-tunnel-set-up-in-patna/articleshow/75016749.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Amazon pumps Rs 284cr into food retail unit||Bengaluru: Amazon has pumped in Rs 284 crore in Amazon Retail, the unit which sells grocery and food items on the India marketplace, according to regulatory documents sourced from business intelligence platform Tofler. This comes at a time when Amazon India is only selling essentials due to the lockdown restrictions and is witnessing high demand for grocery and food items. The capital infusion was approved last month before the lockdown began. Amazon’s Singapore and Mauritius-based entities have infused the capital. In October last year, Amazon Retail had received about Rs 172 crore in new capital, which was preceded by another Rs 240 crore earlier. The food retail unit plays a critical role in fulfilling orders for Amazon Pantry and Amazon Fresh, the two primary vehicles for selling essential items. The company is currently seeing a continuous rise in order volumes and now has restarted deliveries in select areas of about 40 cities. The latest capital infusion will only mean the Seattle-based e-tailer’s local arm would further scale up the grocery and food retailing business as consumers are expected to further curtail their spending on non-essential items. An email sent to Amazon India did not elicit any response on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-pumps-rs-284cr-into-food-retail-unit/articleshow/75017957.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 7, 2020||Business||Sidbi lines up Rs 100cr for loans to startups||Digbijay Mishra & Mayur Shetty | TNN Bengaluru/Mumbai: The Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) has started a working capital loan facility of up to Rs 2 crore for startups to meet expenses like salaries, vendor payments and rent amid a liquidity squeeze due to the coronavirus. A senior Sidbi official said it has lined up about Rs 100 crore for the same and had received over 50 queries by Monday evening. Sidbi has also increased fourfold its assistance to small businesses engaged in the Covid-19 fight. The limit of SAFE (Sidbi Assistance to Facilitate Emergency response against coronavirus) loans, which was launched a few days ago, has been enhanced from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 2 crore for executing government orders. This is applicable to those MSMEs that are eligible under the respective state government’s special policy package for interest subsidy/subvention or capital subsidy. For startups that want to avail of the Covid-19 Startup Assistance Scheme loan, they need to fulfil certain criteria like positive unit economics, at least one round of funding from certified investors, a minimum turnover of Rs 10-60 crore and at least 50 employees. “The idea is to help startups that would have a wider impact in the functioning economy. This is why these conditions have been laid out,” the official said. He added Sidbi is looking at 75-100 such startups who will make the cut. The move comes amid a growing number of startups either considering or have announced salary or job cuts while working on other financial arrangements to survive the coronavirus-hit economy. Various industry bodies, such as the Indian Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, had also sought a financial package for startups from the government. The Sidbi’s startup loan needs to be paid back within 3 years with a maximum moratorium of one year. For small businesses involved in the coronavirus fight, the list of products eligible for financing under SAFE and SAFE Plus has been expanded from 21 products earlier to all medical products being procured by the respective state governments to tackle Covid-19. Earlier, the apex institution for loans to small businesses said that medium and small enterprises engaged in manufacturing of hand sanitisers, masks, gloves, headgear, bodysuits, shoe-covers, ventilators, goggles and testing labs could avail loans. These would be up to Rs 50 lakh at a fixed interest rate of 5% for a maximum loan repayment tenure of 5 years. These are collateral-free loans and may be sanctioned within 48 hours of applying and submission of documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sidbi-lines-up-rs-100cr-for-loans-to-startups/articleshow/75018009.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 7, 2020||Business||Swiggy gets another $43m from Tencent, Samsung||Bengaluru: Online food delivery major Swiggy has raised over $43 million in additional funding from backers like South Korea’s Samsung Ventures, Mirae Asset Capital Markets and Korea Investment Partners, besides existing backer Tencent. This takes the total capital raised in this round to $156 million, according to data from Tofler. In February, Swiggy was backed by existing investors like Prosus along with China’s Meituan Dianping and US-based asset manager Wellington, valuing the company at $3.6 billion. The new round comes at a time when orders in the food delivery space have taken a significant hit of 70-80% due to the nationwide lockdown. The disruption in its service was also due to police beating its personnel besides fall in consumer demand due to Covid-19. At the same time, it is also seeing a spike in demand for its new businesses, like micro-delivery platform SuprDaily and grocery supplies through Swiggy Stores. But Swiggy’s valuation — which was pegged at around $3.3 billion in December 2018 after it raised $1 billion — was already sobering up as it increased less than 10% at $3.6 billion after including the employee stock options base in the current round. Swiggy’s rival Zomato is also currently raising its new round of funding. “Swiggy has built a sustainable food delivery business over the years while solving various customer pain points…..Our focus remains to execute on our vision while building a sustainable path to profitability,” Swiggy CFO Rahul Bothra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-gets-another-43m-from-tencent-samsung/articleshow/75018035.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||MF investment, redemption time advanced||Mumbai: After the RBI cut trading and operational hours for various segments in the market effective Tuesday, Sebi has allowed fund houses to advance the daily cut-off time for investors to invest and redeem in various types of funds. Sebi’s decision is also effective the same day. Under the changed timings communicated to the fund houses, to invest and withdraw money in all types of funds except overnight and liquid funds, investors should put in their request to their fund houses by 1pm. However, to invest in overnight and liquid funds, the cut-off time is 12.30pm. This will be valid from April 7 till April 17, the Sebi mail said. Earlier, the cut-off time for all funds for investments and redemptions was 2pm. On April 3, the RBI said that effective April 7, the money and debt market segments like call, term money, repo, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, gilt trading, forex and interest rate derivatives will operate from 10am to 2pm, halved from the 9am to 5pm timing earlier. Sebi’s Monday directive will help mutual funds to align their investment and accounting practices with the new trading and operational timings in these segments of the market, industry players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mf-investment-redemption-time-advanced/articleshow/75017890.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Elderly woman killed in Madhubani||PATNA: An altercation between two families allegedly over switching off of lights led to the death of an elderly woman at a village in Madhubani district on Sunday evening, police said on Monday. The incident took place around 9 pm at Satlakha village on Sunday when Surendra Mandal asked his two neighbours to switch off the lights of their houses to support PM Narendra Modi’s call. But the neighbours refused and kept the lights on. Mandal again asked his neighbours to follow his diktat, which led to the altercation between the two families. One of the accused barged into the house of Mandal and strangulated his 70-year-old mother, Kala Devi, to death. The victim was rushed to the primary health centre at Rahika where the doctors declared her brought dead. Rahika SHO Rahul Kumar said, “The accused are absconding. A case under Section 302 has been lodged against the accused on the statement of the deceased’s son. The body was handed over to the family after post mortem”, adding, that the dispute over switching off lights between the two neighbours led to the incident. Madhubani SP Satya Prakash could not be reached. Madhubani sadar SDPO Kamini Bala visited the spot on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-woman-killed-in-madhubani/articleshow/75016476.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Five of a family shot at in Bhojpur||ARA: Five persons of a family, all belonging to Mahadalit community, from Sara village under the Tarari police station area in Bhojpur district, were shot at by some influential persons of the same village on Sunday night. The incident happened when the miscreants allegedly barged into a house to steal chickens, which was opposed by the women members of the family. In retaliation, the miscreants allegedly opened fire at the male members injuring five of them. They also misbehaved with the women. Tarari police station SHO Arvind Kumar said, “Four persons—Ramnath, Krishna , Ajay and Bhikhan—who were injured in the firing, have been sent to Ara sadar hospital, while another person, who has minor injuries, has been sent to Tarari PHC. An FIR against four named and two unknown has been lodged. In the FIR, it has been alleged that the accused were trying to steal chicken and have misbehaved with the women when they tried to stop them,” the SHO said. Meanwhile, Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar said police are conducting raids to nab the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-of-a-family-shot-at-in-bhojpur/articleshow/75016533.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Village cooks food for Rajkot’s homeless||RAJKOT: Ever since the lockdown began, residents of Nagar Pipaliya village, 30km from Rajkot, wake up at 5am sharp and gather at a community kitchen. The men start chopping vegetables and the women get busy making chappatis. Soon aroma of chappatis, sabji and khichdi wafts through the air. But this scrumptious food is not for the villagers. Nearly 5,000 chappatis and 100 kg each of subji and khichdi are ready to be dispatched to Rajkot city for distribution to thousands of poor and homeless. This has been their daily routine of the hamlet having a population of 3,700 since day one of the nation-wide lockdown as villagers have taken up the responsibility to feed the poor in the city. Their benevolence is aided by the three-decade-old Rajkot-based NGO Bolbala Trust, which distributes it in Rajkot. “Ever since the lockdown order was imposed, we have been cooking one-time meal daily for 1,500 poor in Rajkot city,” says Nagar Pipaliya village sarpanch Kamlesh Sakaria, who was approached by Jayesh Upadhyay, president of the trust. Unfortunately, the NGO’s kitchen was gutted in a fire incident few days ago and they had to discontinue the service. “We had conducted a health and blood donation camp in Nagar Pipaliya and hence, we knew about Sakaria, who offered us help many times. When the lockdown was imposed, we approached Sakaria with a request to prepare food for the urban poor and he readily agreed,” says Upadhyay. Sakaria exhorted the village women to help in his mission and carried out a door-to-door collection of food grains in the village. “The villagers, especially women, gave us an overwhelming response. So far, more than 2,000kg wheat has been collected,” says Sakaria. “Women gather at the makeshift community kitchen in Patel Samaj ni Vadi and prepare more than 5,000 rotis. We also cook 100kg of vegetable curry and an equal amount of khichdi,” said Savita Khunt (52), a villager engaged in the benevolent service. Meanwhile, cash and edible oil tins have been donated by well-off families of the village. “About 15 tins of edible oil and Rs 30,000 in cash have been donated to us,” Sakaria said, adding that he transports the cooked food in a utility van to the Bolbala Trust in Rajkot daily. Apart from Bolbala Trust, Nagar Pipaliya villagers also donated 50kg wheat flour daily to Sadbhavana, another NGO. “Sadhbhavna distributes foodgrains among the poor. When we came to know about it, we contacted the NGO and expressed our desire to donate,” Sakaria added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ngos-kitchen-gutted-village-cooks-food-for-1500-rajkots-poor-daily/articleshow/75017600.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bid to identify 100 Air India passengers||PATNA: The state disaster management department with the help of district authorities has started identifying the flyers, who had travelled by Air India flights— AI-101 (Mumbai to Delhi) AI-415 (Delhi to Patna) on March 22 and March 23 respectively. The flyers list provided by the Centre has been sent to the district magistrates. Earlier on Saturday, the disaster management department had issued an alert to Air India after a flyer who travelled by the Mumbai-Delhi and Delhi- Patna flights, was tested Covid-19 positive on March 31. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “According to the flyers list provided by the disaster management department, altogether 100 passengers travelled to Patna from Mumbai via Delhi on March 23. We are contacting them on their registered cell phone numbers and they will be advised to undergo isolation and home quarantine for 14 days.” He added, “The health team will collect the sample of those flyers, who travelled on these two flights and if they were found to be symptomatic. Besides, asymptomatic would have to strictly follow home quarantine for 14 days.” Air India on its Twitter handle issued an appeal to the passengers: “As informed by the disaster management department (DMD), Government of Bihar, Patna, one passenger who travelled from Mumbai to Delhi by AI-101 on March 22 and from Delhi to Patna on March 23, has been found to be Covid-19 positive on March 31. As advised by the DMD, passengers of both the flights in proximity are required to follow necessary isolation/ quarantine action as applicable.” The station manager of Air India at Patna airport said the passengers list was sent to the state government by the airlines from Delhi. “The flight AI-415 (Delhi- Patna) went to Kolkata after the flyers de-boarded the flight,” the manager said. The officials at DMD said that altogether 100 flyers travelled to Patna from Delhi on March 23 on AI-415. “They are from different districts, hence the flyers list was sent to the DMs for their routine check-up and home quarantine,” the officials said. DMD principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bid-to-identify-100-air-india-passengers/articleshow/75016881.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||PMCH paramedic stays away from family||PATNA: Rajeev Kumar, a paramedic working at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), has not gone home for the last 11 days. He collects the samples of different patients and does not want to put his family at risk as he fears of getting infected with coronavirus. Rajeev (37) and few of his colleagues have taken on rent a room near the hospital premises to work even in emergency situations. A resident of Gai Ghat in Patna, Rajeev said, “Generally, we have an eight-hour duty at the microbiology department of PMCH. But under the present circumstances, we have to work some extra hours,” he said on Monday. “There are 25-30 paramedic staff at the hospital for collecting swab and blood samples for different tests. Since, we are working in a tight schedule, it is best to live in a nearby area. Besides, we come in contact with several suspected patients. So, there is always a chance to get infected. To ensure that my family remains safe at home, I have rented a room near the hospital,” he said. “I talk to my family members over the phone and see them through video calling after returning to my room from hospital,” he said. Rajeev’s wife Diksha Kumari, however, ensures that her husband gets home-cooked meal. “My wife sends food twice a day through the neighbourhood youths,” he said. “My parents were supposed to return to our native place Khagaria after Holi, but they stayed here after the corona scare. It is good that they are here and being looked after by my wife, son Aditya Kumar (7) and daughter Ayushi Kumari (12),” Rajeev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-paramedic-stays-away-from-family/articleshow/75016826.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 7, 2020||Surat||Youth arrested for kidnap, rape of 4-year-old girl in Limbayat||SURAT: Limbayat police in Surat city on Sunday night arrested a 19-year-old youth for alleged abduction and rape of a four-year-old girl on March 24. The accused was identified as Atul alias Karan alias Bhuriyo Jadav, a resident of Kalpna Society in Limbayat. He works as a labourer in Limbayat area. According to police, the girl went missing from near her house in Limbayat area on March 24, while she was playing. Her parents, who are casual labourers, lodged a complaint with the police, who launched a massive search operation. Meanwhile, on March 25 morning, a passer-by found the girl crying near Samrat Industries and informed the police. She was admitted to the SMIMER Hospital where the doctors conducted medical check-up and confirmed that the little girl was raped. Cops scanned through CCTV footage of the area which led them to the accused who was staying in a rented house in Swaminarayan Society a few kilometer from the minor girl’s house. However, when the cops reached the house, Jadav had moved to other place. But cops traced him to his new address and arrested him on Sunday night. He has been charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012. Jadav was produced before a magisterial court which sent him to police remand till Tuesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/youth-arrested-for-kidnap-rape-of-4-year-old-girl-in-limbayat/articleshow/75017963.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||IIM-Calcutta summer interns left in the lurch as firm withdraws offers||KOLKATA: Summer placement interns from Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIM-C) have faced the brunt of the country-wide lockdown. With all major organizations asking employees to work from home, most of these trainees are yet to join work. Though a significant number have been given an opportunity to start attending virtual office from home, others will have to wait until the lockdown is lifted. The lockdown is also likely to force several graduates to work from Indian locations instead of joining the international offices. Sensing the crisis looming over interns across all business school campuses in the country, IIM-C has deferred reopening the second-year classes by two weeks. The students, after returning from internships, were scheduled to begin the third semester on campus from June 8, which will now be from June 22. The institute is now open to accept virtual internships as a part of the summer placement or a combination of both. On the other hand, a leading global market advisory firm has withdrawn an internship offer, leaving several students stranded. These students will now have to be accommodated in other companies. The organization, which has traditionally recruited from the major IIMs, has also withdrawn an offer to the final placement students. “Our team is trying to contact the firms which have withdrawn offers. Several other reputable companies have already shown an interest in offering summer internships to students who have been left out. Every student will get an opportunity for training,” said a senior faculty member of IIM-C. Some of the teachers are, however, concerned about the lockdown being extended. “At the moment, we should be able to adjust and finish the coursework even if classes begin two weeks later than scheduled. But in case students miss out on summer internship opportunities or have to reduce the duration of the training, we will have to come up with an alternative plan,” a teacher said. All the summer interns were scheduled to join the training from the first week of April which has now mostly been deferred at least till April 16. In the summer placements, finance and consulting firms accounted for 43.2% of the offers. Several firms had also opened international roles, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Hexaware. IIM-C continued its strong presence in sales & marketing and general management, which covered 35% of the total pie in the summer placement reports in October. The number of participating firms grew by 13.3%, which included first-timers like Puma, Emami, Cochlear, Atha Group, Valuelabs and Apparel Group. According to sources, a letter has been sent by placement cell chairperson Abhishek Goel to 120 firms who recruited interns. “The students need to report to the institute by June 21, 2020. This will allow you a minimum of eight weeks for a summer internship from April 15, 2020. Those who have already started or are starting soon will have greater flexibility to deal with contingencies. As indicated earlier, we encourage you to use the flexibility of virtual plus on-field mode of the internship,” Goel’s letter said. “Our students are looking forward to meeting the challenge of uncertainty. We are helping give it their best. I hope they will be able to meet or surpass the benchmarks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-summer-interns-left-in-the-lurch-as-firm-withdraws-offers/articleshow/75017891.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Private doctor detained for isolation ward intrusion||GAYA: A private medical practitioner has been detained and quarantined for intruded into the highly protected isolation ward of Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) and allegedly distributing Ayurvedic medicine among the inmates on Sunday night. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said a case would be lodged against the doctor under IPC, Epidemic Law and Disaster Management Act after the hospital superintendent’s report. The source and supplier of Ayurvedic medicine to the doctor was being ascertained. ANMMCH deputy superintendent and nodal officer of the anti-Covid operations in the district, Dr NK Paswan, said the doctor is a private practitioner in the town. How he managed to reach the highly-protected isolation ward was being ascertained. It was also a case of breach in security, Dr Paswan said. Medical College police station SHO said the intruder managed to reach the ward as he was in the doctor’s uniform. At least five persons have tested Covid positive in the district. As per records, there were 16 inmates in the hospital’s isolation ward when the private practitioner entered there. According to DM Abhishek Singh, 14,126 persons have been quarantined in Gaya district. Of them, 11,832 are under home quarantine while 2,294 are at quarantine centres. This is for the second time during the ongoing Covid crisis that Gaya doctors have been in the news for the wrong reasons. Earlier, a doctor allegedly posted a false report of a Covid patient’s death. Gaya DM subsequently recommended action against the rumourmongering doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-doctor-detained-for-isolation-ward-intrusion/articleshow/75016332.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||With no train, PWD razes 3 Tallah spans||KOLKATA: Around 25 workers, along with engineers brought down three spans of the Tallah Bridge on Monday. The PWD, which has been given exemption for this work said span 2 of the bridge was the last to be pulled down on Monday. Spans 3 and 4 were also brought down after the lockdown was announced. “Work had got halted initially for a few days, just like the several other important projects, including the reconstruction of the Majerhat bridge. But it was argued that with very little rail movement on the tracks, thanks to the pan-India railway lockdown, we thought this was a right time to utilize and bring down the old structure. The railways is in the process of bringing down the line wires. Once that is done, we will bring down spans 1 and 8,” an engineer leading the team told TOI. A very important machine, which is being used in this construction work, is a jaw machine that was been brought from Italy, a country facing the worst Covid-19 pandemic attack in the entire world. “We are maintaining maximum protection for workers as we know that we are the only PWD non-Covid project that is still operational. Besides the mandatory masks, we are following the rule of minimum distance,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-no-train-pwd-razes-3-tallah-spans/articleshow/75018320.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 7, 2020||Mysuru||Two elephants found dead in Cauvery River||Mysuru: Two elephants were found dead in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Chamarajanagar district in separate incidents. One of the dead elephants was pregnant and the calf also died in the womb. In the first case, a 25-year-old pregnant elephant died at Barehodagu of Dabbaguli beat coming under Chowdahalli forest range in the Cauvery wildlife division. Foresters suspect that the elephant, which was moving with the herd, fell into the river after losing balance at the steep gradient and had drowned in the over 30-feet deep river. DCF S Ramesh told TOI that the elephant would have given birth to the calf in another 15 days. “The elephant had tried to enter the river to drink water, but lost its balance and fell into 30-feet deep river. It is sad that the elephant died along with the baby inside the womb,” he said. In the second incident, another elephant aged 15 years died while crossing Cauvery River at Kongamada of Uganiya beat in the same Chowdahalli forest range. Ramesh said the elephant was trying to cross the river to reach the forest area in Tamil Nadu side when the incident happened. “It has slipped and after hitting a rock received a blow to the heart. Even though it had tried and struggled hard to stand, but has failed and had died. This elephant was also with the herd and it is a regular route for them. The postmortem of both the elephants were conducted and the carcass were burnt,” he said. Ramesh said the incidents have taken place between March 25 and 30. “While the pregnant elephant was found three days after its death, the death of 15-year-old elephant was found on the same day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-elephants-found-dead-in-cauvery-river/articleshow/75016303.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Mysuru||Upward spiral continues: Number of Covid-19 patients in Mysuru rises to 35||Mysuru: The district saw a rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases on Monday with seven more persons contracting the virus, pushing the total tally to 35. The district authorities have appealed to residents to voluntarily come forward for testing in case they have visited Delhi for meeting. Among those tested positive, three belong to Tablighi Jamaat group and they are residents of Delhi. The fourth person is a primary contact of a Dubai traveller, who is in Covid hospital. The rest three–one is an employee of Jubilant Generics and the other two are primary contacts of the pharmaceutical company employees. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said all the seven cases detected are either primary contacts of employees of the pharmaceutical firm in Nanjangud or part of the group that attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi. Mysuru has no cases outside these two clusters, he said. A total of 10 Delhi residents arrived in Mysuru in January and since then they are staying here. They had visited parts of Mandya and Bengaluru before they were tracked and quarantined. Of the 10, eight have been tested positive. The group had contacted eight other local residents who are also under quarantine. The deputy commissioner has appealed to residents to voluntarily approach Covid hospital in case they have visited Delhi to attend the Tablighi Jamaat conference. The employee of Nanjangud firm who has tested positive along with two others had contacts the with previous employees isolated at Covid hospital. The other one had contacts with second Covid patient who belongs to Kerala. Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner has warned of action against those removing posters affixed by health department on the houses of home-quarantined. Action will be taken under provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act, the DC said. So far, 1,533 have completed home quarantine period of 14 days but continue to be under observation. As on date, 1,334 are under home quarantine in Mysuru. Covid suspect flees from hospital, traced The authorities at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) were on their toes on Monday as one of the suspected Covid-19 persons escaped from the isolation ward. The suspected person, who is among those who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics in Malavalli town, had escaped from the isolation ward. The medical staff soon informed police. SP Parashuram and other officers rushed to the hospital and teams were sent to trace the suspect. The policers officers scanned CCTV footages of hospital and surrounding areas to trace the fleeing man. After long hours of frantic search, he was found in his relative’s house at Guttalu Colony. He was taken to hospital and warned of serious legal actions if he does attempt to flee from isolation ward again. As many as 52 persons who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics are put in isolation ward in MIMS and district authorities are waiting for their medical report. Mysuru’s five Tablighi Jamaat attendees are all housed in Mandya before they left for Mysuru. Meanwhile, the district administration has arranged vegetables and fruits to be supplied at the doorstep of customers to avoid them going out for purhcases. More than 30 goods autos have been hired for this purpose. The HOPCOMS officers said that this facility would be extend to other parts of the district in coming days. Photo caption Deputy commissioner Venkatesh inaugurates the supply of vegetables and fruits to households in Mandya on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/upward-spiral-continues-number-of-covid-19-patients-in-mysuru-rises-to-35/articleshow/75016813.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||No fresh +ve case, 5 more discharged from hospital||PATNA: Five people were discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Monday after their second sample tested for coronavirus were found negative. Total nine corona suspects have been discharged from hospitals in the state. There was no fresh positive case of Covid-19 in Bihar on the second consecutive day. Those discharged include four Siwan native who had travel history from the Middle-East and an employee of a private hospital on Bypass Road in Patna where the Munger man who died of corona had undergone treatment. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said these people were discharged after their two consecutive tests were found negative for Covid-19 virus. All the four Siwan natives had tested positive on March 31. They had come from Muscat, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain. So far, eight people have recovered at NMCH and one woman with travel history from Nepal at AIIMS-Patna. 76 doctors served show-cause notices: State health department issued show-cause notices to 76 doctors for not being present on duty on March 31. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said these doctors have been given three days to explain why action should not be initiated against them under Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and administrative proceedings. Leave of all the doctors and medical staff had been cancelled in Bihar on March 13 because of Covid-19 outbreak. Health department is also in the process of initiating action against 122 other doctors, 60 of whom were found to be absent from duty on April 1 and 62 on April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-fresh-ve-case-5-more-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75016858.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Spat over cigarette smoke triggers attack||BETTIAH: The serenity of the present lockdown was abruptly blown by a village youth’s misdemeanour when he stepped out from home for fresh air amid the manicured wheat fields at Bhainsahi, 20km from the district headquarters of West Champaran, on Sunday evening. Stopping by a bridge over tributary canal, Sabir Mian lit a cigarette and exhaled into the face of Sunil Ram, a co-villager, sitting on the culvert. A spat ensued and was ended within minutes by villagers who intervened. A few hours later, a little before the countrywide candle/diya lighting event, Sabir led a horde from his Pokharia Tola and attacked the Mahadalit basti of neighbouring Ambedkarnagar. Five people of Sunil Ram’s extended family were injured. Sunil, with sharp-edged weapon injury and his uncle his Dhonrha Ram, with firearm injuries, were referred to Patna by the Government Medical College & MJK Hospital at Bettiah. “Sabira Sunil ke moohey par dhuan pheklas... mana kar ke ka galati kailas laika... bimari ke itna hulla ba (Sabit blew (cigarette) smoke on Sunil’s face...What wrong did the boy do by objecting...there is so much noise of (corona) disease),” Sunil’s uncle Basudeo Ram told this reporter over phone. Basudeo, his brother Mohan Ram and the latter’s son Pramod Ram were also injured in the attack. Sunil is Mohan’s son while Dhonrha is the cousin of Mohan and Basudeo. Bettiah SP Natasha Gudiya rushed to the village the same night and a police force has been deployed there. “We are inquiring if there is any past enmity between the groups though, prima facie, this appears to be spurred by a sudden rush of blood between the two young men (over cigarette smoke),” she said and added that Sabir is absconding. Sources said close to the spot of the spat sits Dhruv Master, who repairs bicycles. Three years ago, Sabir’s brother Qadir had eloped with Master’s daughter. “This attack on us last night has nothing to do with Qadir’s elopement and marriage with Dhruv Master’s daughter,” Basudeo Ram said. “Qadir works in Saudi Arabia ... and we have nothing to do with Dhruv and his family, since that incident, even though he is our ‘jaat’ (caste),” Basudeo reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spat-over-cigarette-smoke-triggers-attack/articleshow/75016514.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
April 7, 2020||Patna||160 who returned from abroad test negative||CHHAPRA: The Saran district administration has provided help to 1,735 persons in reaching their destination. Out of this, 714 were from different parts of this district, 936 were from other districts, while the remaining 85 were from other states. The district administration has also provided medical aid to about 13,506 persons. Saran DPRO G Prakash said that 160 persons arrived from foreign countries who were tested negative for corona. Quoting Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen he said, “ Altogether 49 persons have been isolated and 13 have been discharged,” adding that the GNM School on the premises of sadar hospital has been made isolation centre besides all the PHCs and 17 of the local hotels.  He further said that the district disaster centre received 1,626 calls, while the district control room received 9,743 calls and their problems have been solved. Meanwhile, altogether 10,102 persons have been home quarantined. While 714 persons have been quarantined in schools, 5,714 persons have been screened in schools and samples of 180 persons at Chhapra and 15 persons at PMCH have been tested and only one case has been found positive in the district so far. “Chandpur village under the Ishuapur PS has been isolated. Although, the screened persons of this village have not shown any symptom of Covid-19, they have been advised to remain indoors, maintain social distancing, frequently cleaning hands with soap and sanitizer and other precautions said,” Saran civil surgeon Dr Madhweshwar Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/160-who-returned-from-abroad-test-negative/articleshow/75016418.cms||H K Verma
April 7, 2020||Patna||ANMMCH made ‘dedicated corona hospital’||GAYA: The state government has notified Gaya-based Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) as a dedicated treatment centre for Covid-19 patients. As per the government notification issued by Kaushal Kishore, additional secretary of the state health department, rapid growth in the number of Covid 19 positive cases was being apprehended and as such the ANMMCH was being notified as a dedicated hospital for Covid patients. The notification further says that Covid-19 patients from the districts of Gaya, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Nawada, Arwal, Rohtas and Kaimur will be treated at the ANMMCH. As per the 2011 census, the combined population of the seven districts attached to ANMMCH was about 1.47crore. The hospital, according to its superintendent, Dr Vijay Krishna Prasad has got 544 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anmmch-made-dedicated-corona-hospital/articleshow/75016368.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Kadi man tests positive||Palanpur: A 47-year-old man from Kadi has tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, making it the second case in Mehsana district.Mehsana’s district development officer (DDO) AY Daxini told TOI that the man was scheduled to attended a majlis gathering with his friends from Ahmedabad and had left Kadi on March 19. District collector HK Patel said that he was in a mosque in Kalupur with his friends and they were shifted to a government quarantine facility at different places and their samples were collected for testing. His four family members including wife and children who live in Kadi have not shown any symptoms of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kadi-man-tests-positive/articleshow/75018001.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Staffing cos fear job cuts after lockdown period||Chennai: Nearly 3.5 million employees who are on the rolls of various staffing companies are on tenterhooks as they wait for reopening of factories and offices with bated breath, hoping there’s no job loss after the lockdown. For now, there is no clarity as the principal employers are yet to given an assurance on salaries or jobs. However, they haven’t said anything to the contrary either. Quess Corp, among the largest private sector employers with 3.85 lakh staffers on its payroll, and facility management firm UDS, with about 55,000 employees, are yet to get any clear indication from their clients. “It is a kind of a humanitarian scene. As of now, there is no problem due to the clear directive from the respective state governments and the Centre not to downsize and to ensure payment of salaries. Until the lockdown period, nothing will change. At the same time, no client has given any signal about downsizing or retaining employees at this point of time,” says Quess Corp COO Guruprasad Srinivasan. Since closures and lockdowns happened only towards the third week of March, most companies did not face problems paying March salaries. “We are not sure of what will happen for April, with the lockdown on till April 14. Several of our employees are sitting at home, assuming they are still employed. That is worrying,” says UDS founder MD Raghunandana Tangirala. “Almost 90% of the workers have got their salaries for the lockdown period in March. As for salaries for the April lockdown period, there is no clarity from the clients who are the principal employers of these temporary staff, even though they are on our rolls,” adds Tangirala. Guruprasad feels there will not be any problem in terms of salaries for the lockdown period in April too, since the governments have insisted against downsizing. “Even if the lockdown is going to be lifted after April 15, it may not be for all sectors. IT/ITeS may get back to work on the lines of the ‘one by two’ policy adopted by the Singapore government (half the workforce works on alternate days). Until April 30, no major disruptions are expected. But sectors like retail, cinemas and malls may continue to remain shut,” says Guruprasad. “We are trying to do something called Quess Employment Exchange to redeploy resources from segments that are not yet open to sectors that are operating by mapping the supply and demand. Once everything returns to normalcy, they will return to their regular work,” he adds. The Indian Staffing Federation (ISF) has written to the Centre and NITI Ayog, seeking measures including exemption from paying mandatory ESI and EPF for a few months. “There is a need for the government to step in to safeguard the interests of the workers. Based on the remittances we made, on behalf of employees in the ESI and EPF accounts until last month, the government should come forward to pay at least 75% of workers’ salary directly into their accounts during the troubled phase and until normalcy returns,” says Tangirala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/staffing-cos-fear-job-cuts-after-lockdown-period/articleshow/75018018.cms||D Govardan
April 7, 2020||Surat||Three new Covid-19 positive cases detected||Surat: The Diamond City reported three new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the number of total positive cases to 17 on Monday. The health department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is planning to put the portion of Gorat area located on New Rander Road under mass quarantine after two Covid-19 positive cases were detected from here on Monday.A 45-year-old woman, identified as Yasmin Abdul Wahab Kapadia, a resident of Alvi Raw House and a 52-year-old man, identified as Ehsan Rashid Khan, a resident of Al-Amin Residency — located in Gorat on New Rander Road — tested Covid-19 positive on Monday.The health officials of the SMC said that both the patients had no travel history and that they might have contracted the infection from local transmission.The third Covid-19 positive patient was identified as Daya Chapadiya (80), a resident of Begumpura who is the mother-in-law of a Covid-19 positive patient from the same area. The woman was shifted to the quarantine facility at Samras Hostel at VNSGU after Rameshchandra Rana (65), a resident of Hathi Faliya in Begumpura, tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday.Earlier, the SMC had put one-square kilometre area of Rander town under mass quarantine after two Covid-19 positive cases were detected there on April 1.Dr Ashish Naik, SMC deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), said, “Two new Covid-19 positive cases have been detected from New Rander Road. We have recommended mass quarantine in the area to combat the further spread of the virus. These are all cases of local transmission.”Meanwhile, seven new patients with suspected Covid-19 symptoms were admitted to the isolation wards of New Civil Hospital (NCH) and the Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital on Monday. All the patients have no travel history. COVID 19 metreSuspected cases: 213Positive cases: 17Negative cases: 191Pending report: 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-new-covid-19-positive-cases-detected/articleshow/75017704.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Woman kills her mentally ill mother-in-law||Rajkot: A woman was arrested on Monday for allegedly killing her mother-in-law in Madhavbaug locality of Jamnagar. Police said the accused, identified as Manisha Kanjharia (35), had first hit her mother-in-law, Kastur Kanjharia (55), with a scythe on her head and then she had strangled her on March 12. Manisha was arrested on the complaint of her brother-in-law Ashwin Kanjharia who alleged that Manisha had tried to mislead the police by saying that she did not know anything about the incident and had seen Kastur’s dead body after coming out of her room. However, the postmortem report of Kastur which was received by cops only on Monday, established that she had died of deep wounds on her head.According to the police, Kastur had been suffering from mental illness for the past 20 years. She would create ruckus in the house often and hurl abuses at her family members. “On the day of the crime, both Kastur and Manisha were alone at home. While Ashwin along with his wife and children had gone to Bed village to meet his relative, Manisha’s husband Arvind, who works as a driver, had gone for his duty. When Kastur started hurling abuses at Manisha, she lost her cool and attacked her,” said M J Jalu, inspector with Jamnagar C division police station. When Ashwin returned home and saw the body of his mother, Manisha said that Kastur had committed suicide by banging her head against the wall, while she had locked herself up inside her room. The postmortem report also revealed that Kastur had been strangled. After Ashwin came to know about the postmortem report, he questioned Manisha, who confessed to her crime and the complaint was filed against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-kills-her-mentally-ill-mother-in-law/articleshow/75017980.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||ECR employees make 31,000 masks||PATNA: Railway employees have started working in double shifts at its in-house manufacturing workshops in each division of the East Central Railway (ECR) to produce more masks, sanitizers and disinfectants to fulfil the needs of railway hospitals and other frontline staff. They have prepared 31,000 face masks, 33,000 litres of sanitisers and 8,255 bottles of disinfectants till Monday to cater to the needs of each division of ECR, its chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said on Monday. “At a time when obtaining these items from open market has become difficult in the backdrop of nationwide lockdown, railways has no choice but to make arrangements on its own from precautionary point of view,” he said. Lauding the efforts of ECR employees in facing the Covid-19 challenges, Kumar said Dhanbad division has prepared 4,639 and Danapur division 1300 masks, followed by Samastipur (1100), Sonepur (7018), Pt Deendayal Upadhyay (3200) and Haranut coach maintenance workshop in Nalanda district (2000). According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, railways has been put on full preparedness by the Railway Board to tackle Covid-19 challenges more effectively in the state. “Apart from making normal face masks, railways has also prepared 7350 disposable masks to cater to the needs of health workers while it has prepared 140 N95 masks for railway doctors,” he said, adding railway workshops have also made 870 washable masks for its frontline sanitary staff. Railways is also providing face masks and sanitisers to each loco pilot of goods trains, cabin men and other station staff working at different places in Danapur division. “Washing pit staff of Danapur, Patna and Rajendra Nagar have been given protective gears to take care of themselves against the deadly infection,” the DRM said. According to the CPRO, ECR has also made 269 personal protection equipment (PPE) so far for railway doctors and nursing staff. “ECR superspecialty hospital at Karbigahiya in Patna, five divisional railway hospitals and health units located at different places need these masks and other protective gears. Even indoor patients undergoing treatment in the divisional railway hospitals at Danapur, Pt Deendayal Upadhaya, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur are being provided with masks from safety point of view,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-employees-make-31000-masks/articleshow/75016774.cms||Kumod Verma
April 7, 2020||Surat||Group of 15 ends hunger pangs of 800 people in Rander||Surat: When one square kilometre area in Rander town was mass quarantined after two persons tested positive for COVID-19 there on April 1, like many residents he too could have stayed safe in his house. But, Sohail Shaikh, 32, who runs private tuition classes in Rander, decided to feed poor people in his area.Sohail managed to raise donation from residents of his locality, Vakhari Oli Mohalla and started a kitchen on the terrace of his three-storey building. Cooking food in the street was not possible due to ongoing massive sanitization drive by the civic body’s health department. Since April 1, Sohail and his group of 15 friends are feeding about 800 poor people twice a day. With Rs42,000 raised from people having exhausted within two days in purchase of groceries and vegetables, Sohail and his friends are now spending money from their own pockets to ensure that their terrace kitchen continues to run unhindered. “I could not have started the terrace kitchen without the support of my family members and residents of our mohalla. We cook food for poor people twice a day and personally visit nearby areas to deliver food packets to them. We are giving food packets to about 800 poor people living in the slums and EWS tenements,” said Sohail. Since he is out in the field throughout day and night distributing food packets and helping in the kitchen, Sohail also ensures that he maintains social distancing from his family members, including wife and seven-year-old son. He is living in a separate room in his three-storey apartment. “I always wear face mask and gloves in my hands when distributing food to poor people. I maintain social distancing even from my family members. Since April 1, I am living in a separate room to keep my family safe,” Sohail added. Abbas Hans owns a computer hardware shop in Nanpura. He is also working with Sohail to provide food to poor people. Hans said, “People tell us that we are risking our lives. Yes, we are risking our lives, but the joy of feeding the needy people gives us immense satisfaction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/group-of-15-ends-hunger-pangs-of-800-people-in-rander/articleshow/75017615.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Fatherhood joys come next to duty for these cops||Rajkot: The joy of fatherhood is universal, but for these two new dads, its their job which tops their priority lists. Ravi Sharma and Suryarajsinh Jadeja — our corona heroes from Jamnagar police have been on their toes 24X7 and not in a mood to relent. “I received news that my wife delivered a baby boy on April 1. However, I controlled the urge to run home and see my son as my duty needs me most while enforcing lockdown which is the most essential thing in the time of such crisis,” says Sharma, a constable with Jamnagar C division police station. Echoing the same sentiment, Jadeja, a head constable with Jamnagar marine police station, said, “I got a baby boy but suppressed my desire to go home and see him as people of Jamnagar needs me more at this time of crisis. They come first before my family. My duty to ensure the lockdown is more important than my son.” “When the cops are making such sacrifices, Jamnagar people too should do their bit by cooperating and staying indoors,” said K J Bhoye, inspector, Dhrol police station in Jamnagar district. Bhoye has himself left his daughter alone at his residence in Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fatherhood-joys-come-next-to-duty-for-these-cops/articleshow/75017641.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Six lion cubs born in captivity at Sakkarbaug, Ambardi||Rajkot: Half-a-dozen lion cubs were born in captivity, three each in Sakkarbaug Zoo of Junagadh and Ambardi Safari Park of Amreli on Monday. With this, total nine cubs have been born in a weeks time. Last week one lioness in Sakkarbaug had given birth to three cubs. The cubs are healthy, said forest officials. However, in Ambardi, the forest department has separated the cubs from lioness. D T Vasavda, chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) said, “In the past, the same lioness at Ambardi had killed her own cubs after giving birth. It happens sometimes. So, we have separated the cubs from the mother and will be sending it to Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-lion-cubs-born-in-captivity-at-sakkarbaug-ambardi/articleshow/75017938.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Assorted veg bags yet to reach many residential areas||Trichy: Though Trichy City Corporation launched sale of assorted vegetable bags three days ago to keep people indoors during the lockdown, many residents complained that they are yet to get the bags. Peripheral and interior wards are not covered as only four vehicles have been selling the bags. Residents urged the corporation to ply more vehicles to effectively cover all the 65 wards. Each bag containing 11 types of vegetables is priced at Rs 150. Around 250 bags per zone will be moved in a mini-truck allotted for each of the four zones. As vegetable prices declined on Monday, the price of the bag was revised to Rs 100. However, many residents have not seen the vehicle selling the vegetable bags. “A bag full of a variety of vegetables at an affordable price is a boon for the families. Unfortunately, our locality was not covered by the vehicle so far,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur, said. Residents said that such an initiative will become a competitive tool to prevent fleecing and monopoly by vendors selling vegetables at the doorstep. A section of residents at Karumandapam, Ponmalai, Cantonment and Khajamalai claimed that the mini-trucks have not visited their streets. With 65 wards spread in four zones, residents said that one mini-truck for an entire zone is insufficient. “Around 7kg of vegetables for Rs150 is a good deal. Instead of covering the arterial roads, the corporation should cover interior residential areas to benefit the residents,” D Manoj, a resident of Cantonment, said. Corporation sources said that trucks selling vegetable bags covered the containment zones in the city on Monday. “We will gradually increase the number of mini-trucks,” a senior official with the corporation told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/assorted-veg-bags-yet-to-reach-many-residential-areas/articleshow/75018399.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 7, 2020||Surat||NGOs feed stray dogs and birds dying of starvation in city||Surat: Not just humans, even stray dogs are suffering due to lockdown in the Diamond City. Hence, several volunteers of non-government organizations (NGOs) have come forward to feed dogs, cows and birds facing starvation due to lockdown announced to contain spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Due to lockdown, stray dogs are not getting leftovers and birds grains and water in the scorching heat. Snehal Patel, a volunteer of Nature Club Surat (NCS), an NGO working for rescue of birds and animals, told TOI, “Food and water have become scarce for birds and animals after janata curfew and announcement of 21-day lockdown. Hungry stray dogs pose a serious threat to humans and are likely to attack people. If they die of hunger, their carcasses can also cause serious health issues to people.” Patel said, “We have about 30 volunteers in different parts of the city who are feeding stray dogs. These dogs are not used to eating dog food, so we have started a kitchen for cooking boiled rice for them. We are also putting up water bowls at different places so that animals and birds can quench their thirst.” Darshan Desai, a volunteer of Prayas, an NGO working for environment and animal rescue, said, “We have a team of 70 volunteers who visit different areas during night hours to feed stray dogs. We collect leftovers from residential societies and feed stray animals. Stray animals are not getting food to eat ever since lockdown was announced.” Desai added, “We will have to continue feeding stray animals and birds till April 14. At present, we are feeding over 350 stray dogs every day. We have also put up water pots at various spots across the city and regularly fill them to quench the thirst of animals and birds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ngos-feed-stray-dogs-and-birds-dying-of-starvation-in-city/articleshow/75017747.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Reliance to infuse Rs 500cr in ed-tech biz||Reliance Industries will invest an additional Rs 500 crore in Embibe as it doubles down on the education technology venture it had acquired in April 2018, according to filings with the ministry of corporate affairs. About Rs 30 crore has already been invested into the company, according to data obtained from business intelligence platform Tofler. The additional investment comes as ed-tech companies across the country are seeing a spike in users, as schools remain shut due to Covid-19. Byju’s, which is valued at $8 billion, said it has added 6 million students since it announced free classes last month. Unacademy, an ed-tech startup backed by Facebook, said students spent a record 1 billion minutes on its platform in March. Embibe, which was acquired by the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries for Rs 100 crore, offers test preparation for engineering, medical and railways. besides offering coaching for students from class 8. The startup has also been investing aggressively and acquiring other startups like MockBank and OnlineTyari over the last few quarters to bulk up the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-to-infuse-rs-500cr-in-ed-tech-biz/articleshow/75018028.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Gir Somnath cops turn ‘Corona Vir’ for hapless people||Rajkot: While big cities enjoy the privilege of home delivery of essential commodities, Veraval town was not so advanced. Looking at the inconveniences, the Gir Somnath police took up the initiative and formed a team of 70 volunteers with the title, ‘Corona Vir’. These people are now moving across the city delivering essentials wearing T shirts with the prized moniker from Sunday onwards. While two people so far have tested Covid-19 positive in Veraval town, cops are in no mood to take chances of its spread. Superintendent of police, Gir Somnath district Rahul Tripathi said, “While essential commodities are exempted from lockdown, yet we are trying to ensure that people do not need to come out as far as possible. Veraval being a small and congested place, we don’t want to take any chance.” The police have engaged 70 volunteers from the community who will pick the essential items and deliver at the residences. The numbers of volunteers and helpline number is widely published on social media and police are also distributing pamphlets in residential societies. The police have also tied up with retailers and wholesalers to provide commodities at reasonable prices to the customers which will be then delivered by the ‘Corona Vir’ volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gir-somnath-cops-turn-corona-vir-for-hapless-people/articleshow/75017672.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Many defy social distancing norms at vegetable markets in Patna||PATNA: In a complete violation of social distancing norms amid the coronavirus lockdown, a large number of people are gathering at different vegetable markets in the city. Vendors claim they are “helpless” as ‘sabzi mandis’ lack space and there is no scope for maintaining social distancing. The Mithapur vegetable market, for instance, has approximately 150 vendors and remains chock-a-block with customers from 7am to 10am in the morning and from 4pm to 6pm in the evening. Vinod Yadav, a vendor, told this newspaper on Monday, “We are asking people to maintain distance and have also stopped giving plastic bags to them.” Raj Kishore, a fruit seller at Bazaar Samiti, asked, “What can we do? Isn’t it the responsibility of the administration to take action against people, who are not maintaining social distance?” Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Himanshu Sharma claimed that the civic body was decongesting crowded markets and shifting vendors to nearby places. “Some vendors have been shifted to the area near Gandhi Maidan, Ashok Rajpath, Buddh Marg and Gardanibagh,” Sharma said. Meanwhile, several grocers in the city have claimed that they are strictly following the social distancing norms. One of them, Md Sonu, whose shop in Sabzibagh area remains open from 6am to 9am and from 3pm to 6pm, said, “I have put up a board that clearly states the timings. Also, there are police personnel in the area, who make sure that people maintain distance.” Saguna Mor resident Preeti Singh rued that grocery shops were operating for lesser time than before and lacked several essential commodities. S K Puri resident Snighdha Suman said, “The grocery shop near my house is shut as it has run out of all essential items. Online stores are also not delivering anything.” When divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who is also the transport secretary, was told about the non-delivery of essential commodities to people’s houses, he said, “All the transport officers have been asked to ensure smooth movement of heavy vehicles carrying essential items. This problem will soon be sorted out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-defy-social-distancing-norms-at-vegetable-markets/articleshow/75016712.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Paramedics face wrath of coronavirus suspects||PATNA: Apart from battling the coronavirus, healthcare professionals in the state are having to face the wrath of suspected patients who are refusing to follow mandatory quarantine orders. Two youths got into a verbal duel with doctors and paramedics at the Saharsa sadar hospital on Monday demanding that they be released from the isolation facility as they do not have the symptoms. Saharsa SDPO Prabhakar Tiwari along with town police station SHO R K Singh had to intervene to bring the situation under control before it escalated. “Those trying to create a scene at the isolation ward were asked to follow the diktats of the doctors attending to them. They were pressuring the doctors to release them despite the fact that their reports are still awaited,” SDPO Tiwari said. This is not an isolated case. Last Saturday, a group of people created ruckus at an isolation centre in Siwan district ransacking the quarantine centre at government middle school, Rajpur. An FIR was lodged against four of the detainees on Sunday under the National Disaster Management Act and other sections of IPC. Raghunathpur BDO Santosh Kumar Mishra said, “The detainees at the isolation centre were demanding their immediate release from the facility as medical test reports declared them negative.” He added: “The doctors and paramedical staff tried to convince them that they will be released after the completion of the 14-day quarantine period, which they refused and turned violent.” Altogether 78 migrant labourers were kept at the facility and provided food and lodging free of cost. “The matter turned for the worse when they started hurling abuses at the doctors and para-medical staff. The situation would have taken an ugly turn had the administrative and police officials not timely intervened,” an eyewitness said. The eyewitness, who did not wish to be named, claimed that the furniture and utensils in the school were badly damaged by the protesters, who also shouted slogans against the BDO. Earlier, a similar incident was reported from Munger district where coronavirus suspects damaged furniture at Goenka Dharmashala, which has been turned into a shelter. Altogether 35 suspects were kept at the facility. Munger district welfare officer H N Das, who is also the nodal officer for Covid19, said, “They were demanding immediate release from the facility. How can we release them when there is no order from the district authorities?” he asked. Other such incidents were reported from Narkatiaganj in West Champaran, Nalanda and Sheikhpura districts. Taking a strong exception to rising incidents of protests at shelter-cum-isolation camps, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said instructions have been issued to SSPs and SPs to lodge FIRs against such people and take legal recourse against them. Referring to the Siwan incident, the DGP said, “FIRs have been lodged and the accused will be sent to jail after completion of mandatory 14-day quarantine period. The message is loud and clear and nobody involved in such actions will be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medics-face-wrath-of-corona-suspects/articleshow/75016305.cms||Ramashankar
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: School counsellors set up e-help portal for kids||KOLKATA: Eighteen counsellors from some of the city’s leading schools on Sunday evening launched free telephone- and online-based counselling services for students confined to their homes for the past three weeks. The psychological support group to help reduce panic attacks during the lockdown mainly include counsellors from La Martiniere for Girls, New Town School, Mahadevi Birla World Academy, DPS Ruby Park, Laxmipat Singhania, Calcutta Public School and other institutions. The free sessions, launched at 9pm, will be available from 9am to 11pm every day. The service is focused on managing stress, anxiety and fear in the student community by providing “guidance for parents in handling difficult kids and gadget dependency of children during lockdown”. The psychological intervention is also open to adults. “Some our patients suffer from chronic depression due to the barrage of bad news. In-person sessions are not possible, so free online counselling is being provided to them as well,” said clinical psychologist and school counsellor Gunjan Tiwari. Ria Das, counsellor of New Town school, said, “The schools are not directly involved. We want to help as mental health professionals, in public interest.” The counsellors have created a web portal, titled ‘Let’s win this battle’, that provides their phone numbers. “Each one of us is available at different hours of the day. One can connect through WhatsApp, video-conference, Skype or other online media,” said Das. The portal has a page for parents too. “We are pooling in external links on how they can deal with their kids’ hysteria,” she added. There is special counselling offered through power point presentations for students of classes X and XII. “Those due to appear for boards in 2021 are going through anxiety related to curtailed academics,” said Tiwari. Paromita Sengupta (name changed) agreed, “My son needs help. In a state of stupor, he has cocooned himself with his cellphone and his routine has gone haywire since the lockdown. I can see he is missing his classmates, the games and all the things linked to physically going to school.” Tiwari explained, “Not all adults understand their angst. Mothers and other adult members of the family may have gone through prolonged homestay, for delivery or other medical issues, and know how to make use of the time. But the kids are clueless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-counsellors-set-up-e-help-portal-for-kids/articleshow/75017897.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 7, 2020||Business||Companies use halted plants’ kitchens to feed migrants||MUMBAI/KOLKATA: Factories are shut and workers are sitting idle. What better use could corporates have made of their factory kitchens in these unprecedented times, other than to throw them open to feed the migrant population and daily wage earners left to fend for themselves. Radha Goenka, director of RPG Foundation, decided to do just that. From the beginning of last week, RPG Foundation is serving pre-cooked meals to migrant workers through the company’s staff kitchens at RPG Group factories in Nagpur, Mumbai, Nashik, Jabalpur, Jaipur and Vadodara. RPG Foundation is dishing out 3,500 meals a day collectively from all its factory locations. Other corporates like the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, Luxmi Group and Merlin Group in West Bengal too are extending a helping hand for the sustenance of migrant workers. Goenka said, “While on the first front, our healthcare professionals going to work everyday need to be provided with protective gear, on the second, because of the lockdown and economic crisis, migrants do not have food to eat. We took special permissions from local authorities to throw open our factory kitchens to cook and provide food to these workers and others in need.” The ongoing lockdown, forming part of the Covid-19 containment measures, has forced rural migrants to head back to their homes after jobs in the cities dried up. This has also left the supply chain of essential products high and dry. When the thought first occurred to Goenka, she asked volunteers among factory workers to come forward and assist in meal preparations. “In 24 hours, we had the kitchen operations up and running and we began serving meals on Monday,” said Goenka, who added that the foundation would continue these efforts so long as there’s a necessity. “Cultural solidarity is essential for companies while dealing with workers. When we asked for volunteers, several of our employees willingly came forward to continue this project. More importantly, we have trained our entire staff on criticality of maintaining social distancing,” said Goenka. Luxmi Group, which owns the iconic Darjeeling tea garden ‘Makaibari’, has set up a quarantine centre for migrant labourers in the hill districts of West Bengal. Rudra Chatterjee, the MD of Luxmi Group, which is a family run enterprise, said it has already taken necessary permissions from district administration. “We have created isolation wards for migrants coming back with food and lodging for 15 days,” said Chatterjee. Interestingly, family members of a lot of tea garden workers are employed in different states. “They are now coming back as their families stay in the gardens only. So we are arranging for this facility,” said Chatterjee. The construction sector alone employs 45 million workers, which forms a sizable chunk of the nation’s migrant labour force. The Shapoorji Pallonji Group, which employs over 70,000 migrant workers at its 430 sites in India, has ensured all provisions at worker camps so that they stay put at their respective places and do not need to return to their homes. Food and water are provided at the camps, which have lodging, medical and recreation facilities. Isolation facilities are also created for special medical care. Keystone Realtors (Rustomjee) formed a team (selected members who stayed close to its site in Virar) to collect information on workers living in the labour camp and their daily requirements. After understanding their demands, Keystone started distributing essentials such as grain, pulses and vegetables to them. The real estate developer also distributed soaps and other personal care items and explained to them the importance of hygiene in this critical situation. “The company will also be paying the electricity and water charges of the labour camp during this period,” said Udhayan Nair, manager at Keystone Realtors. Merlin Group, a family owned real estate firm, under its CSR arm ‘I Am Kolkata’, is providing foodgrain to local people living below poverty line in areas like Tangra, Rajarhat, Behala, Gopalpur and Jawgacha. “We are also feeding migrant construction workers across various projects at Tollygunge, Dumdum,” said Saket Mohta, founder of ‘I am Kolkata’ and MD of Merlin Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-use-halted-plants-kitchens-to-feed-migrants/articleshow/75017901.cms||Namrata Singh
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: With no new cases, south heaves sigh of relief||MADURAI: In a welcome respite, no positive Covid-19 cases were reported in any of the southern districts even as cases continued to rise across the state on Monday. The total number of cases in south Tamil Nadu remained stagnant at 160. Containment measures also continued to be intensified in all areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported across all southern districts. Dindigul district has the most number of cases so far with 45. Behambur locality in Dindigul Corporation is the centre of focus for health and police officials as 20 cases are from there. The entire area has been sealed and outsiders have been prevented from entering. Residents from the area are allowed outside their houses only to purchase essential items. Similarly, other areas like Kottaimedu Street and Neikarapatti in Palani and Kodanginayakkanpatti near Nilakottai, from where people had tested positive, are also under the watch of officials. Positive cases and suspected people are kept at the Karur medical college hospital for treatment. All the 45 positive cases from the district are linked to Tablighi Jamaat conference. In Tirunelveli district, 38 Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded so far of which a majority are from Melapalyam. As per protocol, the area in and around Melapayalam has been completely sealed and health officials continue to monitor residents as well. Police are also cracking down on those violating home quarantine in the district. At present, all the patients are undergoing treatment at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, a total of 29 patients are undergoing treatment. The patients include 19 from Madurai and 10 from Virudhunagar district. Twenty more patients have also been admitted with symptoms of Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for testing, said hospital sources. Meanwhile, the Madurai Medical College (MMC) has started performing confirmatory tests for Covid-19, which was initially being done only in Theni or Tirunelveli. Around 40-50 samples per day from Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai districts are being tested here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-no-new-cases-south-heaves-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75018398.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Of 126 Markaz attendees, 8 tested positive: DGP Jha||Ahmedabad: DGP Shivanand Jha on Monday said that eight of the 126 persons who attended the Tabligh Jamaat Nizamuddin Markaz congregations in Delhi and were put under home quarantine, eight have tested positive for Covid-19. They have been shifted to hospital, he added. Jha said city crime branch and ATS are searching for more persons who attended the congregations. “The chief minister has passed on instructions to implement the lockdown strictly and deal firmly with anyone violating it,” he said. Jha said he had spoken to the Ahmedabad police commissioner and told him to seize vehicles found on the road without valid reason. The DGP urged the people to ride single on two-wheelers unless absolutely necessary for two persons to go. “This will help maintain social distancing ,” he added. Referring to the Surat incident, in which a woman doctor from the Civil Hospital was humiliated by a local resident, Jha said such behaviour with health workers will not be tolerated. Using drone surveillance, cops have so far registered 365 cases in which 438 persons were arrested. “On Sunday 178 cases were registered using drones,” Jha added. Through social media surveillance, 113 cases were registered in the state and 198 persons arrested. “On Sunday, 12 such cases were registered across the state,” Jha added. “The heat is increasing and everybody should keep cool to avoid trouble,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/of-126-markaz-attendees-8-tested-positive-dgp-jha/articleshow/75017872.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers in crisis again as lockdown halts purchases||Nagpur: Farmers are staring at a fresh crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. The outbreak has brought cotton purchases to a standstill across the region as even textile industries are closed. Sales of pulses like tur and chana (gram) are also slow, say farmers. By April, farmers usually clear most of the cotton produce. Hoping for better rates ahead, they are reported to have withheld 20% to 40% of their produce only to face the lockdown now. The rates were low in February because the Covid-19 outbreak in China had hit the demand for the commodity there. In February when Covid-19 was still not a major scare in India, cotton rates were in the range of Rs 5200-5300 a quintal as against the MSP of Rs 5500 due to China factor. “Prices are expected to touch Rs 4300 to 4200 a quintal when the markets reopen,” said Sudhir Kothari, a director of the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) at Hinganghat, a cotton procurement centre. Kothari said APMC was getting calls form anxious famers asking when the markets will reopen. Cotton purchases have been stopped since March 12, he said. The government should intervene and start purchases at MSP, said Kothari. Rajesh Padalkar, the former sarpanch of Kharad village in Yavatmal district, said farmers must be having as much as 30% of the cotton. “Had the government purchases been faster, much of the stock would have been cleared by now. Farmers are also having stock of tur and chana,” he said. Tur which is a Kharif crop is harvested in January and chana, a rabi crop, is harvested in March. Farmers said harvests are over but they were waiting for government to start MSP procurement of tur and chana too before lockdown. Now as buying of the two commodities continues at a snail’s pace the rates are below MSP. Tur has a MSP of Rs 5800 a quintal. The market rates are around Rs 5000 to 5200. Chana is at Rs 3800 to 4000 as against the MSP of Rs 4875 a quintal. This year farmers had a good harvest of chana but the lockdown has led to a crisis, said Kishor Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM). Roshan Kothari of the APMC at Wani said by this time the farmers could have cleared at least 25% of their pulses’ stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-in-crisis-again-as-lockdown-halts-purchases/articleshow/75017867.cms||Shishir Arya
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Ensure total lockdown in Madhya Pradesh, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tells collectors & SPs||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Monday, directed all collectors and superintendents of police to ensure total lockdown in their respective districts to stem Covid-19 transmission. Chouhan said that strict action should be taken against those who violate prohibitory orders. "If someone hides corona infection or does not cooperate with the investigation, it will be a serious crime and the authorities should register FIR against such persons and send them to jail,” said Chouhan during a video conference of district collectors and SPs, here at Mantralaya. Chouhan said farmers were on the priority list of the state and government should make all possible arrangements for the procurement of the Rabi crops, availability of harvesters, tractors and repairing and servicing of machines. The officials should also ensure proper power supply during harvesting and sowing season, he said. “We have asked to prepare district disaster management groups and a second line of team. Arrangements should be made to provide ration and food to workers and labourers apart from Ayush medicines. Take action against all those private hospitals that refuse to treat Covid-19 patients," said Chouhan. The chief minister further instructed to identify government hospitals as Covid-19 hospital. Divisional commissioner of Indore, Akash Tripathi informed that samples of 11 corona patients in the district have come negative and they have been discharged. He said 116 patients were in good condition and 12 to 15 people will be discharged daily from Tuesday onward. Collector Bhopal Tarun Pithode informed that the state capital has been completely locked down and action has been taken against 630 people who violated the orders. It was also informed that during lockdown in Ujjain, arrangements have been made to deliver vegetables, milk and ration up to door to door. Out of eight cases of corona positive, six cases belong to the same family and situation is under control. In Jabalpur district, out of eight corona patients, three have been discharged while the condition of the remaining three is under control. In Gwalior district, of the two patients one has been discharged and the other too is likely to be discharged in a day or two. In Morena, 12 people belonging to the same family were infected. All are well. In Shivpuri a patient has been discharged while report of the others is awaited. The state government has also directed to ensure proper supply of essential commodities during total lockdown. It was also stressed that cargo vehicles and vehicles transporting online supplies should not be stopped, said the officials. Chouhan praises health workers: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan also praised and expressed gratitude towards the corona warriors and spoke to some of the dedicated Asha and ASM workers on telephone for their service.  "The entire state is grateful to you for your dedication and service to the society day and night. The struggle with corona is a symbol of your indomitable ability and strong will power. Do communicate my wishes to your colleagues and other workers too," said Chouhan while talking to staff nurses Jyotika Chaturvedi, Deepshikha Gangrade (Indore) and Asha worker Binu Sonu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ensure-total-lockdown-in-mp-shivraj-tells-collectors-sps/articleshow/75017877.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||DLW makes kits, equipment for hospitals in fight against corona||Varanasi: Contributing to the battle against Covid-19, Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW), a production unit of Indian Railways, and Varanasi division of North Eastern Railway (NER) is manufacturing medical kits, masks, sanitizer, medicine table, IV stand etc. As the production of electric engines at the DLW has been stopped due to the lockdown, it has channelized its energy and expertise in manufacturing and supplying medical kits. “We have started manufacturing medical equipment including IV stand, bedside bowl stand, patient food table and medicine table for DLW hospital,” said DLW spokesperson Nitin Mehrotra adding that the equipment have been designed by the Plant and Tool Design office, and were being manufactured at the mechanical workshop. “Besides, under the ‘break the chain campaign’ a unique foot-operated handwash kiosk has also been made,” he said adding that three kiosks have been installed at DLW’s RPF barrack while two more kiosks will be installed installed in the DLW premises, he added. The Varanasi division of NER is also manufacturing masks, gloves and other articles. “We are manufacturing and supplying goods like face mask, sanitizer, gloves, head cover and alcohol/sodium hypochlorite-based sanitizer with the available resources,” said NER Varanasi spokesperson Ashok Kumar adding that daily supply is being made to various railway stations and units of the division. The sanitizer is being produced at the DEMU shade of Aurihar railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dlw-makes-kits-equipment-for-hospitals-in-fight-against-corona/articleshow/75016494.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown affects app cab drivers’ livelihood||Visakhapatnam: The 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) has affected the livelihood of almost 3,500 app cab owners and drivers in the state. With only little help from a few NGOs, the cab owners and drivers are having a tough time making ends meet. “There has been no income since the lockdown was announced. My savings are almost exhausted and it is now becoming difficult to meet daily expenses,” said K Raju, a cab driver from Madhurawada. There are around 2,000 app cab owners and drivers in the city and around 1,500 in Vijayawada. “Only a few NGOs have come forward to provide them with essential commodities. But their efforts are not enough considering the number of drivers in need of support. A huge number of drivers in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada hail from adjacent districts. They got stuck in the lockdown and have to pay their monthly rents,” said B Jagan, president of Vizag Cab Workers’ Union. The only solace for these owners and drivers are that most financial institutions have agreed to offer three-month moratorium on car loan EMIs. But the owners are worried that they have to foot a huge interest in the end of the third month. “For now I am relaxed that i do not have to pay EMI on my car loan, but the financial institution which gave the loan has told me that they are going to charge accumulative interest from the fourth month itself,” said M Suresh, a cab owner. Meanwhile, automobile engineers have laid down guidelines to ensure that car batteries do not lose charge and tyres do not get deflated. “Ensure to start and drive your car for at least 50 metres once or twice a week during the lockdown period. Most owners are not driving their cars nowadays and this may affect the batteries and engine. The engine should remain switched on for 5 minutes as this will help your car battery from getting drained. Even your car tyres won’t go flat,” Surath Sarkar, an automobile engineer, told TOI. After the nation announced a 21-day lockdown, several automobile majors began sending advisories to their clients to help them keep their cars in working condition. Maruti Suzuki, the country’s largest carmaker, has been sending maintenance tips to its customers. “Start your vehicle and keep the engine running for 15 minutes. For SHVS vehicles, start and keep the engine running with headlights on for 30 minutes,” a message by Maruti Suzuki said. Other companies have also posted advisories on their websites and apps. “Sometimes I fear that the car may not work in emergency. We don’t know how long the lockdown will continue. Even, post lockdown, the car may develop issues. These advisories are extremely helpful for us,” said K Pravakar, a Madhurwada resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-affects-app-cab-drivers-livelihood/articleshow/75016097.cms||Arpit Basu
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Two Jabalpur, 1 Gwalior patients test negative||Bhopal/Jabalpur: Three patients — two in Jabalpur and one in Gwalior — tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, three patients in Jabalpur and one in Gwalior were discharged after complete recovery. Third sample of the fourth among the first positive patients and one another positive patient was found to be negative. The former would be discharged from hospital on Tuesday while the second sample of the latter would be sent for laboratory tests on Tuesday and if tested negative, then he would also be discharged,” dean of the Netaji Subhash Medical College and Hospital, Dr PK Kasar told TOI. Apart from it, while one of the two patients in Gwalior has already been discharged from the hospital while, report of another patient from Gwalior — who is a BSF official — is also negative. He would also be released if his second sample also tests negative, said sources. His wife had a travel history and had returned from UK on March 13, the official was tested positive on March 28, said sources. It is noteworthy that so far a total of 11 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the state. All these patients who are being discharged from the hospitals are sent for home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-jabalpur-1-gwalior-patients-test-negative/articleshow/75017885.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Youth sent to jail on nurses’ complaint||VARANASI: A youth who had returned from the UAE and tested COVID-19 negative, was arrested and sent to jail on Sunday night for allegedly misbehaving with nursing staff and violating quarantine norms in the isolation ward of DDU district hospital. The nurses took up the matter of the youth, a resident of Machhodari locality, who was kept in the isolation ward while his test report was pending, with divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary on Sunday when they were on an inspection tour of the hospital. The nurses alleged that the youth was not staying in his bed and meeting other patients of the ward and was even insisting on having specific food and fruits. When the DM tried to convince the youth to follow the instructions of the doctors and nursing staff, he started arguing with the officials. When he did not see reason, the officials asked Inspector Cantt to lodge an FIR against him. Inspector Cantt Ashwini Chaturvedi said that an FIR was lodged against him after which he was sent to an isolated barrack of the Central jail. The DM said that this youth had been quarantined in an isolated barrack, which away from other barracks housing prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-sent-to-jail-on-nurses-plaint/articleshow/75016552.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||A WhatsApp group that forwards only happiness||Nagpur: While one end of the lockdown spectrum has people comfortably cooped up at their home, the other has migrants and poor people struggling to make ends meet. Though a slew of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) across the city are charging ahead to alleviate the present condition, ‘the duplication of help’ remained a challenge. To make sure they cater to all those in distress and not just a section of people, city NGOs have joined hands courtesy social network. A WhatsApp group — Nagpur Covid-19 Relief Group — which has around 60 participants of 10 NGOs, apart from social workers, is working selflessly and providing essentials to poor and migrants. From personal care materials like sanitary pads to women in shelter homes, to dry ration, food packets and milk for children, the NGOs are doing everything possible to ease troubles of the needy. “Times are such that every NGO wanted to contribute but since there was little coordination between us, we were not sure if we were providing essentials to everyone or just focusing on the same set of people. To overcome this, we decided to come on a common platform,” says Gargi Vairagare of NGO Rise. The group now comprises several members who have not met each other. “I have never met Gargi but that doesn’t matter. Whatever orders are posted in the group, we contribute,” says Leena Dixit of Native Chef, an online platform for home-chefs. Leena says her start-up has pooled in money meant for its marketing and is providing around 400 food packets. “The packets go to shelter homes and police stations. Whoever comes to know that someone needs help, posts it on our WhatsApp group and we deliver,” she adds. NGO Parindey Youth Foundation, which is also helping individually by sourcing food from Gurdwaras to slums, has founded a WhatsApp group called ‘Together We Can’ and helping others. “We are providing kits to people residing in slums,” says Avi Agrawal, founder of Parindey. Devendra Kumar Kshirsagar from Live Well Foundation, who is the shelter home coordinator of the group, says the process has been streamlined because of this common platform. “There are kids in shelter home who require boiled milk. There are elders who are diabetic and need proper food. Every day in the morning, we post our requirements on the group and the group admins arrange for help,” he says. “The best part is that there is no personal agenda here to get mileage and no one wants to click photos with the distressed. The NGOs have showed the whole is greater than sum of its parts,” Kshirsagar adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-whatsapp-group-that-forwards-only-happiness/articleshow/75017882.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||BHU V-C reviews preparedness for Covid-19||Varanasi: Vice chancellor of Banaras Hindu University Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar, on Monday, held a high-level meeting and reviewed the measures being taken on BHU campus to in light of Covid-19 outbreak. The meeting was attended by rector Prof VK Shukla, IMS director Prof RK Jain, medical superintendent Prof SK Mathur, nodal officer Covid-19 Prof Jaya Chakravarty, registrar Dr Neeraj Tripathi, finance officer Abhay Thakur, professor in-charge of Trauma Centre Prof SK Gupta, and head of microbiology department Prof Gopal Nath. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said that the VC also reviewed the patient cure facilities available at Sir Sunderlal Hospital, Superspeciality Block and Trauma Centre. He also inquired about the facilities provided to doctors, resident doctors, health care workers, sanitation staff and nurses. Arrangements for keeping the quarantined patients are being made in the New Nursing Hostel, university guest house and faculty guest house. The VC said that it must be ensured that emergency services are functioning smoothly. The VC directed IMS director and microbiology head to ensure there is no scarcity of funds for health care services to Covid-19 patients. The VC also inquired about the status of telemedicine facilities and was told that two doctors are providing consultancy and two contact numbers are operational for the purpose. As per the VC’s directions, the number of doctors is being increased to five while three more contact numbers are being made available for the ease of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-v-c-reviews-preparedness-for-covid-19/articleshow/75016527.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||City zoo on alert after tiger in US tests +ve||Visakhapatnam: All zoological parks across the country as well as the state have been asked to remain on high alert by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) following reports of a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 in New York’s Bronx zoo. A circular issued by the CZA to wildlife wardens of all states and union territories on Monday has advised zoos to remain alert 24X7, monitor animal behaviour/symptoms through CCTVs. It has also stated that keepers/handlers are not to be allowed near animals without safety gear and PPE, they should minimise contact while feeding animals, isolate and quarantine sick animals, zoo personnel should adhere to the safety and disinfection protocol as issued by the government. Further, mammals or carnivores are to be monitored and fortnightly samples of suspected cases are to be sent to the designated animal health institutes to test for Covid-19 while following all bio-containment and safety measures. Speaking to TOI, curator of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park R Yesoda Bai said, “We have been taking precautions to prevent human-to-animal spread of infection by reducing the number of zoo staff from 150 to 60. Only healthy animal keepers using masks and sanitisers can feed the animals without touching them. Preventive therapeutic medicines have been already administered to the mammals since the last two months. Zoo veterinary doctors are also available round the clock. Besides, hydrating diet, water sprays and shades have been provided to keep the animals cool and comfortable in summer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-zoo-on-alert-after-tiger-in-us-tests-ve/articleshow/75016160.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: No curfew, screening of all in 4 ‘red zones’||VARANASI: After Sunday’s announcement of imposing curfew in four localities where COVID-19 positive cases had come to light, the district administration took a U-turn on Monday by terming these isolated localities as ‘red zones’. However, all residents of the localities will be screened for the virus. The administration has now started screening of all residents of these localities after sealing all entry points. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Monday said, ”Four localities including Madanpura under the limits of Dashaswamedh police station, Bajardiha under Bhelupur, Gangapur under Mirzamurad and Lohta under the same police station area, have been declared red zone after sealing of all their entry points for 72 hours on Sunday.” He said screening of each member of all families in the areas declared red zone was in progress and any decision for extending the people of sealing the entry points and restricting all kind of movement will be taken after the end of screening process and knowing its outcome. However, he skipped the quarries whether order for clamping curfew had been withdrawn. After a 55-year-old trader of Gangapur town returned from Kolkata on April 3, his test report on April 4 came out COVID-19 positive. Besides, a woman from Bajardiha and two Tablighi Jamaat attendees in Madanpura and a youth in Lohta area were tested COVID-19 positive in past three days. In view of this, the DM on Sunday had announced that curfew had been clamped in these four localities, clarifying that curfew was not effective in other localities of the same four police station areas. He said till the process of screening of all the persons of these localities is completed, all restrictions will remain in place. He said that movement of police in narrow streets of infected areas has also not been allowed due to which drone cameras are being utilised for monitoring the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-curfew-screening-of-all-in-4-red-zones/articleshow/75016574.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Police ‘Corona War Room’ distributing ration kits||Nagpur: City police’s ‘Corona War Room’ has been instrumental in meeting the multi-pronged challenge of providing food to around 50,000 people every day, coordinating security arrangements, intelligence gathering and conducting raids on the hoarders and traders resorting to unfair practices. Created in the crime branch, under Addl CP (Crime) Nilesh Bharne, the war room operates as the ‘call centre’ and manages helpline for citizens seeking help. The war room, under two officers of asst PI rank and seven constables, is constantly working on the information and data received through the cyber cell unit and police control room. Several raids on hoarders and traders engaged in black-marketing have been conducted by the joint flying squads of police and other government agencies following tip-offs received through the ‘helpline’ numbers (0712-2560214). Addl CP Bharne said that the war room was formed taking manpower from his office and also cyber cell to ensure there is prompt response in any matter, whether its food distribution, keeping tab on quarantined persons, security of patients at government hospitals and conducting raids on traders. “Senior inspectors of each police station have been given responsibility to distribute ration kits collected from various NGOs and other individuals. This will help in reducing duplication, hoarding and misuse,” he said. Bharne also claimed that around 3.59 lakh needy people have been provided food or ration kit through social media group which the war room team is managing. He said around 84 NGOs and other groups are engaged in food distribution. “We are coordinating citywide food distribution network through social media platform and ensuring through volunteers that a sizeable population gets food in every nook and corner of the city,” he said. Continuing its action against section 144 violators, the city police on Sunday seized 59 vehicles including 55 bikes and three cars. Around 126 offences were registered. Another 63 persons were detained for stepping out of home without exempted reasons or police permissions. Around 84 traffic violators were also fined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-corona-war-room-distributing-ration-kits/articleshow/75017895.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Citizens left high and dry as BMC veg supply service goes offline||Bhopal: The total lockdown of Bhopal, ordered by the district administration, has affected ‘Aapki Ki Sabzi Aap Ki Dwar’, the vegetable delivery service of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). City residents, who kept calling the BMC call centre for assistance, were disappointed. Responding to this, BMC additional commissioner, Mayank Verma, said, “Bringing vegetables to designated routes was being assisted by the BMC. Since the mandi has been placed under lockdown, vegetable supply assistance of the BMC, ‘Aapki KI Sabzi Aap Ki Dwar’, is not functional. Only milk and pharmacy are allowed to function.”In need of basic amenities, many residents from across the state capital called the BMC helpline. Adding to the confusion, BMC vehicles kept playing its announcements ‘Aapki Ki Sabzi Aap Ki Dwar’. “We called the BMC service for getting milk and essential supplies. There was no response from the call centre,” said a resident of Arera Colony. The entire colony was declared a quarantine zone after one of the residents tested positive.Meanwhile, BMC officials said vegetable supply would only be resumed on the orders of the district administration. Many residents are running low on basic essentials, including milk. A BMC press release claimed it has resolved over 10,000 complaints through its call centre. It includes helping people in need of medicine and over two dozen senior citizens who were in need of essential supplies. Vegetable and fruit sellers were rarely seen on the streets of the state capital on Monday. Mandi officials have initiated a quarantine of the facility in Karond. Private sellers have also been directed to do the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/citizens-left-high-and-dry-as-bmc-veg-supply-service-goes-offline/articleshow/75017907.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Allahabad||FIRs against three for objectionable posts||Prayagraj: Three men were booked on Monday for allegedly hurting the sentiments of two different communities with an objectionable post about the novel coronavirus outbreak on social media. In the first case, Colonelganj police booked the accused Shailendra under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295 A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feeling of any class insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 188 (violating orders) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 of the IT Act. The accused had uploaded an objectionable video which targeted a Hindu caste and the Muslim community. In the second case, Colonelganj police booked two persons for allegedly using derogatory and objectionable language to target a community in a social media post. The accused had also uploaded objectionable photographs of Hindu deities. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Police have been maintaining a strict vigil on social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/firs-against-three-for-objectionable-posts/articleshow/75016637.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Seven held for pelting stones at police in Savli at 9pm||Vadodara: Cops of Savli police station were attacked by miscreants during the 9pm lamp lighting campaign on Sunday. Six persons were arrested on Sunday late night while another, who was on the run, was nabbed on Monday.According to the police, the rioters pelted stones at the cops from their terraces at a bandobust point in Khadiya Bazaar. Police said that due to the campaign, the streetlights in Khadiya Bazaar and lights in residents’ houses were switched off. “Five minutes after the lights went off, miscreants took advantage of darkness and threw a brick at our staff,” said sub-inspector J A Barot of Savli police station. Within a few minutes more stones were thrown at the cops who used their mobile phones’ flashlights and called for reinforcement suspecting the situation may go out of the control.When more policemen arrived, the terrace was cordoned off and six persons were arrested while one managed to flee. “The seventh accused was also nabbed on Monday,” said cops, adding that the accused have been identified as Zakir Khan Pathan, Sajid Pathan, Mohsin Khan Pathan, Sohel Pathan, Ehsaan Pathan, Javid Khan Pathan and Wasim Khan Pathan. Police also found a pile of stones stored on the terrace. When questioned, the accused said they wanted to harm the police, but had no reason for the attack. “None of them have any criminal history nor were any booked for violating lockdown guidelines until now. They pelted stones without any reason,” Barot said.An offence was registered against them for unlawful assembly, assaulting and obstructing public servant to deter him from performing his duty and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-held-for-pelting-stones-at-police-in-savli-at-9pm/articleshow/75015725.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||63 essential-item firms on Centre’s e-pass list to states||KOLKATA: The Union consumer affairs ministry on Sunday wrote to all state chief secretaries to issue e-passes to companies dealing in essential items, including food, grocery, personal care products, retail and battery, to ensure the supply chain wasn’t hampered during lockdown. Some states, including Bengal, have already been issuing e-passes to essential commodity suppliers. Bengal government was likely to hold a meeting with these companies soon, a senior official said. The representatives of the companies held videoconferencing with the ministry officials on Monday for three hours, following which the ministry asked the state governments to designate a nodal officer to issue authorization letters to the companies. The list, which names 63 firms with nationwide presence, includes Britannia, HUL, ITC, Parle Agro, Emami, Eveready Industries, Pepsico, Adani Wilmar, Ruchi Soya, Marico, Colgate-Palmolive and Godrej Consumer. “...Several companies have reported difficulties in getting labour for their operations. Local administration may be advised to facilitate availability of labour in factories, warehouses and transportation and distribution operation of essential food and groceries by appealing to societies and villagers,” Union consumers affairs secretary P K Agarwal wrote. The ministry has clarified that food and grocery would mean every item usually consumed daily. The list also includes Dabur India, Emami Agrotech, Nirma, Haldiram, Johnson and Johnson, Himalaya, Nestlé India, P&G, Tata Consumer, Reckitt & Benckiser, Wipro Consumer Care, L'Oréal, Metro Cash & Carry, Spencer’s, Mother Dairy and Vishal Mega Mart.  Welcoming the move, the representative of one of the companies that participated in the meeting told TOI, “We have told the state governments about acute shortage of labourers at some plants. We hope the problem would be sorted. Some of the states have already taken initiative.”An FMCG expert said personal care and home care items that some of the companies on the list made were also included on the expanded list of food and grocery. “If the lockdown is extended, this would come handy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/63-essential-item-firms-on-centres-e-pass-list-to-states/articleshow/75017909.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Collect fees only after May, DM orders schools||Kanpur: The district magistrate has directed all the schools, affiliated to ICSE or CBSE, not to collect fees from students or their parents at this moment and instead collect the same after the month of May. In normal course, schools charge fees on a quarterly basis. The fees for the month of April to June had to be taken from the students but due to the ongoing lockdown, the fees could not be collected. Also, the schools and educational institutions are closed. District magistrate Brahm Ramdev Tiwari has also instructed the school owners and principals to collect fees for this quarter in installments so that the parents could pay without any difficulty. He said that following the lockdown all offices, establishments and institutions are closed and hence, arranging fees for children is a tough task for the people. The schools should therefore cooperate with the parents and ensure that no students' name is struck off from the school, he said. Balvinder Singh, city coordinator for CBSE told TOI that he has urged all the CBSE schools in the city to follow the instructions of the district magistrate. "Many parents are asking me when they have to deposit the fees. Also, school owners and principals have asked me what would be the fee policy. I request all the parents, principals and school owners to abide by the district magistrate's instructions and not collect fee during the lockdown", Singh said. After the lockdown, once the situation eases, a committee of principals and school owners will meet the DM to formulate fee policy for the first quarter- - April to June, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/collect-fees-only-after-may-dm-orders-schools/articleshow/75017050.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Indore||Demand for health insurance increases due to pandemic||Indore: To brace oneself in fight against the pandemic COVID 19, enquiries and sale of health insurance policies by customers have gone up by over 20 per cent, claimed insurers. Insurers said low penetration in the health insurance sector is still a challenge but there is a lot of potential in tier 2 cities like Indore due to presence of large companies and salary class employees. Share of tier 2-3 cities in total demand has increased by almost 20 per cent in the last 2-3 weeks, said industry experts. With increasing cases of COVID 19 across the country, insurance companies claimed a jump in traffic of customers in the post lock down period. Amit Chhabra, business head, health insurance at PolicyBazaar said, “Enquiries and sale of health insurance policies have gone up by around 20 per cent. Customers are increasingly becoming aware about having a health insurance policy after the outbreak of Corona virus and also getting more health conscious.” Insurers said, COVID 19 is covered in almost all health policies and is treated as other any disease. Ashish Mehrotra, MD & CEO, Max Bupa Health Insurance, “The growth in health insurance policies can be attributed to increasing awareness amongst consumers about the varied benefits of health insurance. We have seen about 22 per cent growth in traffic in the past couple of weeks.” In the lock down period, to facilitate customers buy health insurance policy, insurers have also offered tele-medical facility where customers can now buy policy without visiting a diagnostic center. “In past 10 days, 95 per cent policies were sold was through tele-medical facility. There will a doctor on the other side that will ask some basic questions to understand the health situation of the customers and based on that health insurance policy is offered to the customer. There is no need to physically visit a diagnostic center,” said Chhabra. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/demand-for-health-insurance-increases-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/75017914.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Seven areas where residents tested Covid-19 positive sealed in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), along with the police department, has sealed seven areas from where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. The areas were sealed in Aref Colony, Satara Parisar, Cidco N-4, Jawahar Colony, Kiradpura, Roshan Gate and Padegaon have been sealed. Currently, there are nine confirmed patients in the city while 72 tested negative at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) till Monday. Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said on Monday that as part of the cluster containment plan of the state government, the AMC was sealing the localities from where confirmed coronavirus cases are being reported. “The cluster plan aims at preventing the infection from spreading from those who have come in contact with positive patients. Police are helping us in sealing 100-metre areas around the residences of the patients,” she said. Teams comprising health workers, ASHA volunteers and AMC’s teaching staff are carrying out door-to-door screening in the sealed areas, and will keep a close watch on the residents for a fortnight to check for any Covid-19 symptoms. “So far, 2,500 to 3,000 people have been screened by our teams,” said Padalkar. The GMCH male nurse, who was detected with Covid-19 on Sunday night, is a resident of Padegaon, which is one of the areas sealed by the AMC. “Swabs of nine of his family members and close contacts were collected on Monday,” said Padalkar. According to the GMCH, 72 of the swabs sent for testing at the Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory were negative till Monday. These include the samples of the family members of the man who tested positive in Aref Colony. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele said that as many as 8,000 people have reportedly entered the city in private vehicles in the last 24 hours. “They were screened at the checkpoints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-areas-whereresidents-testedcovid-19-vesealed-in-city/articleshow/75017192.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Don’t treat recovered patients, families as criminals’||AURANGABAD: The district administration and health authorities have appealed to the citizens not to nourish any misconceptions about Covid-19 and strictly avoid boycotting the suspected and positive patients as well as their families. The appeal has come on the backdrop of certain incidents faced by a section of locals while relocating the recovered patients after completing their isolation / quarantine period. Aurangabad district disaster management officer Ajay Chaudhari on Monday said that lack of awareness related to the spread of Covid-19 has been leading to the phobia in minds of the public. “Even if Covid-19 has achieved the state of a global pandemic, the disease is curable in the majority of cases. Its spread can be prevented by following etiquettes related to sneezing and coughing and by following social distancing. Therefore, people should shed all misconceptions associated with the infection,” he said. In the latest case, a person with a travel history of Pune was asked to remain home quarantine for 14 days after returning to Aurangabad recently. The resident, who is in his mid-30s, had developed minor health issues, but his neighbours insisted on his shifting to the isolation ward at the state-run facility. “The locals contacted police, health authorities and corporator asking him to shift at any cost. The authorities had to convince people that the man does not pose any health risk to the surrounding,” said an acquaintance of the home quarantined person, preferring anonymity. Notably, several localities in the city have already banned the entry of people and vehicles by putting up temporary obstructions. Nita Padalkar, health officer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has appealed to the citizens not to cause any discrimination against suspected and confirmed patients as well as their families. “It is wrong to treat such individuals or families as if they are criminals. We appeal for community support for such cases. Also, we appeal to citizens to come for screening voluntarily if they have symptoms such as cough, fever, cold and sore throat. At our end, we are visiting homes of citizens as mass health monitoring,” she said. The local civic body has also set up helpline 8956306007 to deal with the situation arising out of Covid-19. The authorities concerned can be also reached upon coronaabdamc@gmail.com, it was said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dont-treat-recovered-patients-families-as-criminals/articleshow/75017213.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Dad-daughter beat coronavirus with poems and Rig Veda||BHOPAL: Father and daughter drew strength from each other – and goddess Durga – as they fought Covid-19 together at AIIMS-Bhopal. They walked out two days ago, cured of the virus, holding on to the special bond they acquired over a fortnight, and clutching a sheaf of poems she wrote in her hospital bed. “Jwalamukhi sa tez mera, athak rahungi mein khadi… (I have the energy of a volcano, I will stand determined),” goes one of her poems. “We never allowed negative thoughts to overwhelm us,” they told TOI over phone on Monday. The daughter, an LLM student, was Bhopal’s first coronavirus patient, having tested positive on March 22. She had returned from London on March 17 and was screened at Delhi airport. She says that when she had left London, she took “utmost care” throughout her journey. “Once I reached India, I wanted to quarantine myself,” she said. For the first three days at AIIMS-Bhopal, as the city’s first covid-19 patient, she stayed alone in a hospital room. And then, her father, a journalist, tested positive. She was then shifted to a bigger room with her father. “I was a little disturbed when Papa’s report came corona-positive. I thought he suffered because of me,” she said. Her father said: “When I joined my daughter, it was relaxing to see her. Spending time with each other gave us a lot of strength.” In her lonely days in quarantine, she had begun reading the Rig Veda. It became a ritual for the father and daughter. “I had always wanted to read the Rig Veda,” she told TOI. “Every day, throughout my quarantine period at AIIMS, which was also Navratra, I also worshipped the Goddess by reading Durga Saptashati.” “And all the time, I was always sure that I will overcome. There were no negative thoughts,” she added.. Besides reading Saptashati in the morning and Rigveda for most of the day, she would attend online lectures of her university and write poems. “I like to paint but without a canvas, I wanted to express my emotions somehow, so I started writing poems,” she told TOI. Her father also remained positive and “never allowed Corona scare to dominate”, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dad-daughter-beat-corona-with-poems-rig-veda/articleshow/75017923.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 7, 2020||Indore||Sale of packet milk down, surplus woes for Sanchi||Indore: Covid-19 induced lockdown has cast a shadow on sale of packaged milk marketed by Sanchi, escalating surplus to over a lakh litre per day and raising concerns over storage. The corporation is contemplating on curtailing purchases from farmers, a move seen hitting farmers and escalating trouble for government. Surplus milk with Indore Cooperative Dugdh Sangh has gone up to 1.25 lakh litre per day post lockdown after collection from farmers grew significantly and powder plants purchasing milk from Sanchi dishonoured purchases. AN Dwivedi, chief executive officer, Indore Cooperative Dugdh Sangh said, “Sale of packaged milk has gone down. Powder plants have stopped buying milk from us and milk collection from farmers has gone up. We are struggling.” According to Indore Cooperative Dugdh Sangh, sale of packaged milk has dropped to 1.60 lakh litre per day as against 2.40 lakh litre per day pre-lockdown. Daily milk collection by the corporation has also surged to 4.27 lakh litre per day as against an average of 3-3.50 lakh litre per day earlier. Dwivedi said, “If sales resume, it will resolve our problem but as our counters are not opening and sales from shops have reduced to zero, surplus is piling up. We may have to limit purchases from farmers.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sale-of-packet-milk-down-surplus-woes-for-sanchi/articleshow/75017924.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Indore||Residents of containment areas restrict outsiders||Indore: Understanding the gravity of the situation, people of several residential localities falling within the containment areas have come out with self-imposed restrictions on their own to prevent entry of outsiders in their respective areas. Some have restricted entry of outsiders by using barricades or ropes at the main entry points while others have gone a step further by installing signage boards cautioning visitors about coronavirus pandemic. This trend is seen in areas like Ganga Nagar, Rana Colony, Nandan Nagar, Ramanand Nagar and residents in most of these colonies have blocked entry of visitors using cloth, ropes and bamboo sticks. “There is a sudden increase in number of positive cases in Chandan Nagar and things are getting scary. We don’t want to catch the infection. So, we decided to restrict entry of outsiders,” said Rajesh Chelawat, a resident of Rana Colony. “Social distancing seems to be the only possible solution available now,” he added. Not only men, but the women too have placed bamboo sticks on main entry point of Ganga Nagar and are restricting outsiders from entering in their locality. “Though there is police deployment in our area, but they are not present all the time. In their absence, outsiders used to visit our locality. So we decided to block the entry for all outsiders,” said Rajni Chouhan, a resident of Nandan Nagar. At Raj Nagar, residents have even installed hoardings with slogans like ‘Look! There is corona on streets’ to warn those being carelessly strolling in their area.  At Pardeshipura, locals have also pasted posters stating ‘Outsiders’ entry is not allowed’. “This is in view to safeguard residents of our colony,” said Mohit Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/residents-of-containment-areas-restrict-outsiders/articleshow/75017921.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Rishabh, Sanchita win online chess championship||Kanpur: Rishabh Nishad and Sanchita Yadav won the men and women group titles respectively of the online chess championship held here on Monday. Rishabh of Kanpur collected 28 points from 11 rounds while Sanchita of Allahabad earned 17 points in 11 rounds. Around 29 players took part in the event. Anupam Datta and and Sakshi Verma won the boys and girls group events respectively in the student online blitz championships. As many as 50 players took part in the event which was played in 10 rounds. Results: Men-1. Rishabh Nishad (28 pts), 2. Sarthak Dutta ( Vns-24 pts), 3.Chandal Mandal (Delhi-23 pts), 4. Dinesh Sharma (IM-22 pts), 5. Sunny Mathew (Knp-22 pts), 6. Ashish (Rae Bareli-22 pts), 7. Mazsd Iqbal (Knp-21 pts). Women-1. Sanchita Yadav (Allahabad-17 pts),2. Sumuhi Shukla (Knp-16pts). Student event boys: 1. Anupam, 2. Utkarsh Jha, 3. Shivansh Sharma Girls-1. Sakshi Verma, 2, Tanya Verma 3. Ananya Srivastava||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rishabh-sanchita-win-online-chess-championship/articleshow/75017142.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Footballers may be left without salaries as clubs initiate ‘Force Majeure’||PANAJI: Clubs have started activating the ‘Force Majeure’ clause in player contracts and some have been served with termination notices as the coronavirus pandemic brings football to a standstill. The Indian Super League (ISL) concluded last month and there are no competitive engagements remaining for the season, so players employed with all the 10 franchises are safe, for now. However, the same cannot be said about I-League players with a minimum of four rounds still left to be played. The last I-League match was played on March 14, and with talks now that the I-League could be cancelled, clubs are bracing to cut their losses. Some clubs have activated the ‘Force Majeure’ clause in player contracts. It’s clause 5.6 in Schedule 2 of the general provisions of the Standard Contract which states that “failure by a party to fulfill any of its obligations under the agreement shall not be considered to be a breach of, or a default under, the agreement in so far as the inability arises from an event of Force Majeure.” “We are forced to take this step. The players will not like this, they will protest, but we are left with no choice,” a club owner told TOI on Monday. Other clubs have clauses in their contracts that the players will be paid till their last competitive match. With the last game being played early March for most clubs, players will have to bid goodbye to salaries for April and May, unless the I-League resumes. “I know of some clubs who are not even paying March salaries, but we will not do that. We played games in March, so will respect our commitment. The players know that they cannot demand for salaries beyond that, if the AIFF decides to cancel the league,” said Gokulam Kerala FC owner VC Praveen. Some players, particularly foreigners, whose contracts run out in May, 2020 when the season ends, are in danger of losing more than the others. They have already been served with termination notices with “great regret and sadness.” According to one termination notice in possession of TOI, dues will be cleared before July 31, 2020, or “at the time when the situation gets normal, whichever is later.” According to the standard contract, ‘Force Majeure’ means an event or circumstance which is beyond the reasonable control of a party and which makes a party’s performance of its obligations impossible and includes but is not limited to wars, acts of terrorism, civil riots, hostilities, public disorder, epidemics, fires, acts of God, Court orders or governmental restrictions and actions, acts and decisions of regulatory and sports authorities. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) is expected to take a decision next week on the future of the I-League. With Mohun Bagan already crowned champions and the federation in favour of a no relegation policy, there is increasing belief that the last match has already been played. That doesn’t seem good news, either for fans, or the players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/footballers-may-be-left-without-salaries-as-clubs-initiate-force-majeure/articleshow/75018825.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 7, 2020||Indore||People aged 31-50 are most affected||Indore: Indore reported 135 positive Covid-19 cases till April 5. The virus has infected people of all ages, right from children to elderly. Maximum infected persons are in age group 31 to 50, followed by those above 50. According to official list of positive cases, 51 people were found infected with Covid-19 in age group 31 to 50. The most susceptible age groups — above 50 and below 10 — witnessed 49 and 3 positive cases respectively. The young adult age group between 19 and 30 recorded 26 infected people. The age group including teenagers between 10 and 18 recorded six cases of infection. Dr Salil Sakalya, head of community medicine department of MGM and nodal officer in charge of Covid-19 said, “The virus is spreading in all age groups. There is no disposition about spreading.” But, the age group from 31-50 is the group of most active population. This disease has been spreading across the globe by coming in contact with infected persons. So, this group is most infected by the Covid-19 virus infection, said Sakalya. The movement of people in age group below 10 or above 50 has very restricted movement so chances of getting infected gets lower. But, the above 50 age group is prone to infection, added Sakalya while talking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/people-aged-31-50-are-most-affected/articleshow/75017929.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 7, 2020||Allahabad||56 held for flouting lockdown rules||Prayagraj: Police intensified patrolling in Old City localities and stepped up efforts to maintain law and order during the lockdown on Monday, a day after a man was shot dead in Kareli as an argument between two communities over the Covid-19 contagion turned violent. Police tightened security in areas like Shahganj, Kareli, Attarsuiya, Colonelganj, Meerapur, Karelabagh and Dhoomanganj on Monday. Police also booked 56 persons in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating rules of lockdown. On Monday, 27 persons were arrested and 15 FIRs were lodged under section 188 of the IPC. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “About 15 FIRs were registered in different parts of the city like Attarsuiya, Georgetown, Shahagnj, Civil Lines,Cantt, Mutthiganj, Colonelganj, Holagarh ,Sarayinayat, Handia, Naini, Meja and Lalapur in the past 24 hours and 27 persons were arrested.” Meanwhile, health department officials said that all suspected cases of Covid-19 would be admitted to MDI hospial, while those testing postive for novel coronavirus would undergo treatment at the special Covid-19 hospital near Kotwa. Divisional commissioner (Prayagraj) R Ramesh Kumar on Monday convened a meeting with health, police and other departments to review the situation in view of Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/56-held-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75016730.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Min: Dole given to 80% card holders||Tiruvarur: As many as 80% of the cardholders have been disbursed Covid-19 relief assistance across the state, food minister R Kamaraj said in Tiruvarur. The remaining beneficiaries would be covered within a day, he said. He has also said that no one would be left from disbursing the relief as people can collect the assistance till April 30. “A total of 79.48% beneficiaries of Covid-19 have been distributed either the relief or the tokens across the state. The remaining cardholders would get the assistance by tomorrow,” the minister said while speaking to reporters here on Monday. Cardholders who are away from their native places and apprehensive of the duration of distribution need not worry, as they can get the benefits till the end of April. So, the beneficiaries need not turn up at the ration shops and disturb the social distancing norms, he said. “Moreover, we have asked the ration shop employees to hand over the token as well as the cash assistance at doorsteps. So, cardholders need not worry about their benefits. That will come to your doorsteps,” the minister said. Responding to a question that people who have been contained by the health department were not properly looked after by the district administration, the minister said that he would take every step to make sure that all of them get all the required essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/min-dole-given-to-80-card-holders/articleshow/75018436.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Unmanned bakery a boon for GH patients||Thanjavur: A baker from Papanasam in Thanjavur district has started operating an unmanned counter to sell bread and other baked items in front of his bakery in order to maintain social distancing and yet serve people in need. Since the bakery is located in front of a government hospital, patients and their attenders have been benefiting immensely. Anbu Bakery, located in front of a government hospital, is being run by G Srinivasan, 50, a resident of Papanasam, for the last 19 years. Though the shop was closed when the government announced lockdown, he witnessed people coming to the hospital from surrounding villages struggling to get anything to feed the patients as there are no hotels and eateries nearby, Srinivasan said. “I decided to sell varieties of bread and rusk items to help the patients as well as their attenders. So, I opened an unmanned counter in front of the closed shutters without anyone to even receive money, since April 3. I was firm that my business should in no way discourage social distancing and the shop should not be overcrowded,” he added. The counter has all the items along with a notice board mentioning the price besides explaining the mode of payment, Srinivasan said. Customers have been asked to drop the exact amount into the cash box kept there. The initiative has been received well among the patients as well as their attenders. If the stock runs out, customers can contact a number written on the notice board and inform their needs. “I started this initiative on humanitarian grounds. I should thank the public for their honesty. The items sold and the money put in the cash box are tallying perfectly. For the first two days, the business was ok. Now, it has picked up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unmanned-bakery-a-boon-for-gh-patients/articleshow/75018442.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Governor hands over Nagpur University charge to Amravati VC||Nagpur: Ending days of suspense, chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari finally handed over the charge of Nagpur University (NU) to Amravati University VC Murlidhar Chandekar. He would be taking over the charge from SP Kane on Tuesday evening after video conferencing with the chancellor. Koshiyari has invited VCs of all traditional universities to discuss the future course of action regarding conduct of examinations which were indefinitely deferred in wake of coronavirus outbreak in the state. Other issues like starting of new academic calendar would also be discussed. “I will be demitting the office after video conferencing event with chancellor. He has granted me consent to attend the event. It was a satisfying tenure of five years,” Kane, who took over NU’s charge on April 7, 2015, told TOI. With him, the term of pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande would also come to an end. Chandekar said he had received a letter from the chancellor on Sunday and he would take over in the evening after the VCs’ meet. “I will first attend the event at collector’s office in Amravati and then ask Kane on suitable timing. It’s just a formality,” he told TOI. It would be the second time Chandekar would be taking the charge as NU VC. Earlier, when Kane went abroad for a month’s vacation, then chancellor hand handed over the charge to Chandekar even as then pro-VC Pramod Yeole (now VC of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, Aurangabad), was present. The chancellor could have handed over the charge to Deshpande, like last time, but since he was one of the frontrunners for the VC’s post, he wasn’t considered, NU officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/governor-hands-over-nagpur-university-charge-to-amravati-vc/articleshow/75017939.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||MLA persuades Markaz returnees for quarantine||Ahmedabad: Dariapur MLA, Gyasuddin Shaikh, along with other community leaders, have begun an exercise to identify people who had gone to attend the congregation at the NIzamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Gyasuddin claims that along with community leaders Master Arif and Mufti Adul Kayyum, he has begun taking rounds in the areas including mosques, and the trio are persuading people to get themselves treated. Shaikh said that on Monday, 22 persons who had attended the congregation came forward and were quarantined by the corporation. He said that they first held meetings and if the community members agreed corporation officials were called in and the members put in quarantine. “We tell them that it is in the interest of not just individuals, but the community at large is put at risk by their presence.” Talking to TOI he said that the members are then persuaded for treatment. So far, according Gyasuddin, 61 persons from Kalupur, 30 from Juhapura, 28 from Dariapur and 38 from Shahpur including the 22 quarantined on Monday were identified and were sent to corporation facilities. Shaikh said that there are still seven to eight people in Bapunagar, Dhalgarwad and Jamalpur who are yet to be quarantined. Shaikh claimed that the community only has one problem and that is the reporting which is done by the authorities. “The authorities were projecting as if they were caught by the police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mla-persuades-markaz-returnees-for-quarantine/articleshow/75017941.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Agra||5 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Agra, active cases now 45||Agra: Five more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra on Monday. Of these, two of them were related to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. With the five new cases, the total number of Covid-19 infected individuals in Agra has gone up to 45. Monday’s cases included two staffers of a private hospital in the city. They tested positive for Covid-19, just days after the hospital owner and his son, both doctors, were found infected at a hospital in Gurugram. Meanwhile, one of the cases is related to an individual who took part in the Jamaat event, and the other is a contact. Besides, a businessman who had recently returned from Dubai was also found positive. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the five people have been shifted to quarantine facility. A team of doctors is taking care of them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and places they had visited. Their contacts are also being identified. We will be conducting a health check of all these individuals.” Out of the 45 active Covid-19 cases in Agra, 33 are related to people who had attended the Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. Health department teams have shifted 137 people from eight city mosques to three quarantine centres. The police have sealed the area around these mosques. Drone-mounted cameras are being used to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown in densely populated areas. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 53 Covid-19 cases have surfaced in Agra, out of these eight people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. The places where the infected individuals were staying are being sanitised. Everyone should fill up and submit a self-assessment form available on Agra Smart city website. Stepping out of the house should be strictly avoided, and legal action will be taken against those violating the lockdown.” The DM also released a list of 25 Covid-19 hotspots in the city on Monday. All these places will be “sealed” by police to prevent any further spread of the disease. Meanwhile, the district administration has been unable to find the reason behind a 40-year-old man, who was suffering from tuberculosis, and was infected with the virus. The man, a resident of Jaghishpura locality, has no recent travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-agra-active-cases-now-45/articleshow/75017243.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 7, 2020||Allahabad||Cops stop fight over outbreak, 4 arrested||Prayagraj: A day after a man was killed as a debate over Covid-19 between two camps turned violent in Kareli, two families from different communities were allegedly stopped from sparring by police before an argument over the outbreak could escalate in Soraon’s Sarsa village on Sunday night. According to police, the two families were arguing over “who was responsible for the novel coronavirus outbreak”. However, cops managed to control the situation. Four men from both the families were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the violation of the section 144 of CrPC. ASP Ashok Venket K said the accused were idenitified as Agsar Ali, Akbar Ali, Ram Vishal and Vivek Vishwakarma — all residents of Sarsa village. “The two families were neighbours and were arguing over the spread of the novel coronavirus. They accused each other of using slogans like ‘corona ja raha hai’ (corona is going),” said the ASP. When police caught them outside their houses, the two families started accusing each other of using derogatory language. However, police managed to bring things under control, after being alerted about the situation by local residents. The four accused were sent behind bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-stop-fight-over-outbreak-4-arrested/articleshow/75016706.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||BDU launches portal for students, staff||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has launched an exclusive web page and portal for for its staff, students and stakeholders to keep them engaged with the help of digital activities during the lockdown period. The web page has numerous digital resources for learning and teaching, providing links to many tools, books, mobile applications, video lectures and other audio-visual materials which will be available through digital library services on the university website. Vice-chancellor P Manisankar has instructed all the faculty and students to make use of these online resources to teach and train students. “Tools such as Zoom, Google Classroom, Hangout and Skype should be leveraged to implement online classes as some of the university departments such as bio-informatics and library sciences have been conducting such online classes,” he said. “The university has custom tailored a mobile app called uLektz which is a learners’ management system through which students are being delivered video lectures, presentations and other learning materials. Professors are conducting online exams also through this mobile app,” said registrar G Gopinath. A short-term online course on Intellectual Property Rights and patent filing was also launched for the benefit of students and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-launches-portal-for-students-staff/articleshow/75018447.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||‘Diwali’ effect: Kolkata air quality dipped sharply after 9pm fireworks||KOLKATA: At 9.05pm on Sunday—when the country switched off their lights and lit torches or candles on their balcony to express their unity in fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic, as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi—the first call came to the Lalbazar control room, complaining about relentless bursting of fire-crackers in Phoolbagan. That was just the beginning. By the time people finished their “show of solidarity”, the air-quality index, which had shown remarkable improvement since lockdown, spiralled downwards.  The city’s ambient air quality, which had been ‘satisfactory’ earlier, deteriorated to being ‘moderate’ in those few minutes. The real time air quality index (AQI) of PM 2.5 recorded sudden decline at 9pm. While the PM2.5 level recorded at 5pm on Sunday ranged between 74 to 99, the figures shot up to 134-166 around 9pm. Even at 4am on Monday, the PM2.5 AQI ranged from 83 to 100. “Bursting of fire-crackers was a mindless act. Thanks to the lockdown, the PM2.5 count had gone down significantly. But the fireworks on Sunday night spiked the AQI to an abnormal height,” said a pollution control board scientist. The cops were initially not quite prepared but they swung into action. “Before Diwali, we take pre-emptive steps, especially around some high-rises and slums. On Sunday, we did have more nakas and patrol vehicles than usual but when the fireworks continued, more personnel, including all the OCs, were told to pitch in. We continued a crackdown for the next two hours,” said an officer, who was at the control room on Sunday. Even as hundreds of people trooped down on the roads, 176 were arrested in the two hours. Of them, 126 were booked for bursting crackers and the rest for breaking the lockdown. Cops seized 41.4kg of fireworks. But since the crackdown was not planned, many violators escaped. The Bidhannagar police arrested 21 people. “We caught a few red-handed. Based on tip-offs, we arrested many who had hoarded firecrackers at home,” said an officer in north Kolkata. Cops are certain “fresh stocks of fireworks” had arrived. “In some places, we found people burning over 3-5 kg of crackers. Local distributors must be involved. A probe is on,” said an officer from south suburban division. The firecracker sellers’ associations said Rs 6 crore-worth stock might have been used. “Many believe the novel coronavirus dies in the toxic fumes,” said a cop. “Anyone who could not explain their reason for being out so late was picked up,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diwali-effect-kolkata-air-quality-dipped-sharply-after-9pm-fireworks/articleshow/75017955.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||City’s first corona patient discharged||Kanpur: A 70-year-old man, who had returned from the United States, and who was the city's first coronavirus patient being treated at the Ursula Horseman hospital, was discharged on Monday. The decision to discharge him was taken by the hospital’s chief medical superintendent Dr Shailesh Tiwari and district pandemic scientist Dr Deo Singh, after they found his report negative for the second time, said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The 70-year-old had been undergoing treatment in isolation ward of the Ursula Horseman Hospital since his return from the United States last month. "The health condition of the elderly patient was satisfactory. The first test result of his throat and nasal swab sample, sent to the KGMU in Lucknow on April 1, was declared negative on April 2. Similarly, the second sample which was sent on April 3 to the SGPGI, Lucknow, was also declared negative on April 4," the CMO said. Profusely thanking the entire medical staff, the patient said that he was thankful to the doctors and the entire medical staff who had taken good care of him. "I was very tense during the treatment but the doctors and the para medical staff counselled me tactfully. I do not have words to express my gratitude to the staff who extracted me from the clutches of the deadly virus", the patient said. The US-returned man was admitted to the Ursula hospital's isolation ward on March 23 and the tests later confirmed that he had contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/citys-first-corona-patient-discharged/articleshow/75017118.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 7, 2020||Varanasi||5 arrested in murder over Covid debate||Prayagraj: A day after a man was shot dead after a discussion between two rival groups turned violent in Kareli, five of the key accused were arrested in connection with the murder on Monday. As per reports, Lotan Nishad (24) was shot dead after an arguemnent over the novel coronavirus outbreak between two rival different communities turned violent on Sunday morning. The men who were arrested on Monday were identified as Mohammad Sona, Sebu, Sadiq, Naushad and Farhan — all residents of Kareli. The victim’s family had named 10 persons and seven unidentified men in their complaint. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “The remaining accused would be arrested soon.” Police are also probing the role of the victim’s brother Birju who had allegedly opened fire on the attackers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/5-arrested-in-murder-over-covid-debate/articleshow/75016695.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Customers told to be wary of EMI fraud||Trichy: Both nationalized and private banks have been alerting customers not to fall prey to fraudsters offering equated monthly moratorium (EMI) moratorium as they may ask for valid credentials to postpone loan EMIs. A WhatsApp message received by a customer on Sunday cautioned its customer - Do not fall prey to EMI Moratorium Frauds. The cybercrime police across the state has been dealing with thousands of such cases. A source from the cybercrime police in Trichy said their unit also received a couple of calls from the district stating that fraudsters attempted to trick them under the guise of helping them opt for EMI moratorium for three months. None of them lost their money as they were aware of such deceitful gangs operating from other states. Customers have also been receiving genuine calls from the banks asking for their option to avail of the EMI moratorium. TOI has learnt that most customers prefer to continue with their EMI payment as per schedule to avoid paying additional charges. A private banker on condition of anonymity said that bankers still have no clarity and not debiting the amount. In case of such issue, the customers can call up the banks and get the EMI cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/customers-told-to-be-wary-of-emi-fraud/articleshow/75018445.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for spreading hatred||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Sunday booked a person holding a Twitter handle in the name of Irshad Saiyed for uploading objectionable comments on his Twitter account. He has been booked under the stringent Disaster Management Act, Section 54 and Section 153A, 505(2) and 505(1)B, which means that the person is attempting to create enmity and differences between two communities or castes or sub-castes.Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said that as instructed by the senior to keep a watch on social media to nab rumour-mongers, they noticed that a Twitter handle by the name of Irshad Saiyed, in a reply to another Twitter handle had written some objectionable comments. Gohil said the person has been booked. “We are yet to arrest him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-spreading-hatred/articleshow/75017954.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Two more test positive for corona||Kanpur: Two more persons tested positive for the coronavirus in the district on Monday, taking the total number of confirmed cases of the deadly infection to 10. One infected person is a 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member while the other is a 53-year-old resident of Baripal village of Sajeti area of the district who allegedly contracted the virus after coming in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat member, who had visited his village and later tested corona positive. "We have received the reports of 35 people from SGPGI Lucknow on Monday morning in which two more persons, including a 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member and a 53 year-old-man of Baripal village of Sajeti, have been stated positive for the virus. The latter had contracted the disease from a member of the Tablighi Jamaat. Both of them have been quarantined and soon will be shifted to the Covid-19 ward of LLR hospital," the CMO said. All necessary arrangements are being made for their treatment, he added. To recall, the city's first Corona -positive case was reported from a NRI on March 23, wherein a 70-year-old had contracted the deadly virus. Later, on April 3, six members of the Tablighi Jamaat , including two Afghan nationals, were tested positive for Covid-19. The 70-year-old had returned from the US, and his report, which came on April 3, declared him negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-more-test-positive-for-corona/articleshow/75017157.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Vaishali eatery owner donates Rs 1 crore||PUNE: The owner of Vaishali restaurant, Jagannath Shetty, has donated Rs1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in Maharashtra to fight against coronavirus infection. The donation was made through Jagannath Shetty Foundation. “Our foundation supports various activities in the community and therefore, we thought to contribute to the CM’s relief fund,” a member of the foundation, Vishwajit Jadhav, said. The state government had recently opened a new bank account to receive coronavirus-related donations. The government had earlier started a Covid-19 relief fund under the CM’s office. A bank account has been opened for the same and CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed for donations. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The assistance provided by Jagannath Shetty Foundation will boost the morale of the administration. If help from the community increases, our strength will increase. Charitable trusts in Pune district should stand behind the government to strengthen the battle against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaishali-eatery-owner-donates-rs-1cr/articleshow/75017961.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune family tries to bring back body of son from UK||MUMBAI: A Pune-based family has been negotiating, without much success, the current restrictions on foreign air travel as they try to bring back the body of their 23-year old son, who was found dead along the banks of a river in UK on April 2, about 18 days after he went missing from his university campus hostel. Siddharth Murkumbi, the deceased, had flown to the UK in September 2019 to pursue MBA in the University of Central Lancashire, located in Preston. After the Covid-led suspension of classes, Murkumbi along with 5-6 Indians had been staying in a hostel within the campus. “They would go out for dinner together and on March 15, when his Indian friends called him up in the evening, he said that he had decided to head out alone and was having dinner at a restaurant,” said his father Shankar. Later in the night when he didn’t turn up, his friends informed the campus security, who lodged a police complaint. The police tracked his mobile phone to the banks of River Ribble. But search operations failed till this week when his body was recovered. “The autopsy report is awaited. The police said the cause of death was drowning. There is no foul play. He was under stress over a breakup,’’ said his father. “We saw him last in December when he was here for the winter break. My family is in shock,” said Shankar. “Adding to our sorrows is the timing. With no flights bringing in passengers, I cannot fly out to bring my son’s body,” he said. “I make an appeal to the government... we want to carry out his last rites here,” he said. To keep the Covid-19 outbreak under check, the Centre had suspended international flights from March 23. Currently, the only international flights operated are relief flights ferrying stranded foreigners back to their countries. Among the relief flights is an Air India Mumbai-London repatriation flight chartered by the British government. “My family is hoping that my son’s body can be brought home on this flight. The British government is okay with this, but the Air India officials in the UK said the Centre might have restrictions,” he said. The family is hoping that their case would be considered on humanitarian grounds. An Air India official said that human remains are classified as cargo and the government should allow them to bring back the body. There is currently no ban on cargo flights. Siddharth was an alumni of Symbiosis in Pune and worked in the Pune office of a German finance company for two years before deciding to pursue his MBA. “I wanted him to do his MBA studies in India, but he wanted to do it abroad. He was very particular about pursuing it in the UK,” his father added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-family-tries-to-bring-back-body-of-son-from-uk/articleshow/75017951.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Complete lockdown in city after spike in Covid-19 cases||Kanpur: After spike in number of coronavirus positive cases, which has reached to ten, the district administration, in an attempt to break the chain of the deadly virus, has imposed complete lockdown from Tuesday. Kanpur Nagar and its Ghatampur tehsil has been put under the total lock down. The restriction which came into force from 11 am on Monday itself, will continue till further orders. "There will be a total ban on venturing out of homes," said district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari in his order released on late Sunday night. Under the new measures, all non-essential businesses will remain closed but hospitals and other medical facilities will continue to function. The employees of various departments and institutions, who have been roped in to prevent spread of the deadly virus, besides the units producing essential commodities, will be allowed to move with their identity cards and passes issued by the district authorities. All other institutions will, however, remain shut, and all public gatherings have been completely banned. Clinics, medicine shops, dairy and milk shops will remain open. Vehicles transporting food related items and essential commodities have been allowed to move. The grocery shopkeepers are allowed to do only doorstep delivery services. "Even supply of milk and bread would be done by provision store owners through home delivery," the DM said and added that wholesale vegetable markets at Naubasta Mandi and Chakkarpur Mandi will remain open. The district authorities gave time to the residents of the city to make purchases on Monday itself so that they could not feel problem during the total lockdown. They had made it clear that the lockdown would remain in force in the city till next orders. The DM stated in his order that since ten persons have been identified as corona positive, therefore, in order to break the chain of Covid-19 virus and to control its spread, a total lockdown was the only wayout. Anyone found flouting the new orders may attract two years imprisonment and a heavy fine, he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/complete-lockdown-in-city-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75017092.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Med college adopts safe method to collect swab||Trichy: Taking cue from foreign countries, Pudukottai government medical college has come up with a safe method for taking nasopharyngeal swab from suspected Covid-19 positive patients by making use of a separate cabin. Nasopharyngeal swab is collected from the surface of inner nose of the patient by inserting a flexible swab. Doctors wear complete protective apron including goggle and helmet to prevent themselves from getting infected. Doctors need to change their protective gears every time nasopharyngeal swab is collected from a patient. This may lead to shortage of the protective gears as it happened in a few western countries. While protective gear costs around Rs 2,000 to 3,000 thereby making it an expensive affair, this process reduces the consumption of personal protective equipment by doctors, said Dr A L Meenakshisundaram, dean, Pudukottai government medical college hospital. The idea of the cabin was first evolved in South Korea where testing kiosk were created in public places calling people to volunteer for the test. It was adopted in Kerala by doctors, and now has been adopted by Pudukottai government medical college hospital. The adoption of this technique will ensure zero-infection possibility to doctors, he said. Doctors can collect the nasopharyngeal swab by extending their hands through two holes in the glass wall between them. Even if the patients sneeze or coughs during the process, it will not go inside the cabin, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/med-college-adopts-safe-method-to-collect-swab/articleshow/75018452.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Two held for circulating messages against PM Narendra Modi||VADODARA: A principal of government school in Sejakuva village of Padra taluka and a labourer were arrested on Monday for circulating a TikTok video against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The duo had also circulated a photo with text against media on WhatsApp. The accused principal Noor Mohammed Malek was booked under the Disaster Management Act and for provocation with intent to cause riot and making statements to create or promote enmity at Padra police station. They were arrested based on complaint by farmer Yogesh Adhyaru. On investigating the principal’s phone, police found that the video was forwarded to him by a labourer named Pyaare Nooruddin Lal Miya. “Earlier, we were under the impression that Malek had made the video, in which only a voice is heard. But after arresting him and checking his phone, we learnt that it was Lal Miya who had received the video from somewhere else and forwarded it in a WhatsApp group in which Malek is also a member,” said sub-inspector A P Gadhvi of Padra police station. Malek had then forwarded the video to others and the Sejakuva principal’s group on WhatsApp. In the video, the unknown person is heard making sarcastic comments against the PM. Malek had also circulated a fake photo message with a text that the media was most dangerous virus. The video and photo were also received by the taluka primary education officer Mahesh Prajapati. Prajapati had shown the video and photo to Adhyaru on Sunday at the latter’s home in Padra town. Police said that since Adhyaru found the video and photo to be provocative and encouraging enmity between communities, he submitted a complaint against Malek. Malek has been working as the school principal in Sejakuva for last 13 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-circulating-messages-against-pm/articleshow/75015745.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Follow social distancing norms: Admin||Kanpur: District magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari on Monday inspected the Patara village quarantine centre made at Patara primary school. He was informed that all the persons, who have been kept in the centre, belong to Patara village, and had returned from Bhilwara in Rajasthan. The DM asked the quarantined persons to contact him or SDM Varun Pandey in case of any problem. The DM and DIG Anant Deo thereafter visited Ghatampur tehsil and held a meeting with members of all the communities and asked them to maintain social distancing. They informed the residents that during the lockdown all essential items would be delivered through 22 listed shops. The DIG said, “If anybody is suffering from coryza, cold and cough and had a travel history, he should immediately inform the administration.” The officers visited Baripal village and later inspected the Kanpur district jail. Jail superintendent Ashish Tiwari told the officials about the measures taken by the jail authorities. The food security and drug administration department inspected 13 government community kitchens and 74 kitchens run by voluntary organizations. According to Vijay Pratap Singh, the designated said that the community kitchens were providing about one lakh meals per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/follow-social-distancing-norms-admin/articleshow/75017106.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman police inspector performs garba, suspended||AHMEDABAD: An inspector with Ahmedabad rural police was suspended by the district superintendent of police on Monday after a video showing her performing garba at a housing society went viral on Sunday. Inspector Anila Brahmbhatt of Bopal police was seen performing the garba along with a few others at a housing society in Bopal. The video was shot by someone in the gathering. Ahmedabad SP Rajendra Asari said that Brahmbhatt was suspended to set an example to ensure that cops also follow social distancing. An official of Ahmedabad rural police said that Brahmbhatt tried to keep people under the jurisdiction of Bopal police station happy by bringing a music system to an apartment complex. “When the DJ was playing music, someone insisted that she perform garba,” said the police official. “Her mistake was that she performed the garba in khaki which gave people a chance to troll cops on social media.” The charge of the Bopal police station has been given to inspector R R Rathwa, who was the inspector at Ahmedabad rural mahila police station, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-pi-performs-garba-suspended/articleshow/75017970.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cops keep a close eye on messages spreading hate||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police have started keeping a close watch on messages, especially those propagating hate, on social media in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and a particular community being blamed for the sudden surge. The police believe that such messages can trigger a law and order issue and needed to be dealt with sternly. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam told TOI, “The cybercrime police are keeping an eye on the messages spreading hate. We are aware that many people are circulating communal messages, which may cause law and order situation. The police are deleting such messages from the social media sites. If the uploader or circulator of such messages is from Pune and its surrounding areas, we will book him/her.” He said the police were also trying to trace the origin of these hate messages and the cases were being referred to the police unit concerned for action. “Many people are circulating fake and fabricated messages targeting a particular community, following the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and the subsequent spread of Covid-19 infection,” Kadam said. When contacted, Pimpri Chinchwad’s deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said, “We have taken a tough stance against persons creating and circulating hate messages. We have filed two cases, one each with Nigdi and Bhosari police stations. We will not tolerate hate messages on the social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-keep-a-close-eye-on-messages-spreading-hate/articleshow/75017972.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Avoid visiting Khuldabad, mark Hanuman anniversary at home: Admin||AURANGABAD: The district administration has warned devotees against visiting Khuldabad on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti on Wednesday, as the nationwide lockdown is in force and violation of the order will mean legal action. Khuldabad, which has the idol of Hanuman in a sleeping posture, attracts a large number of devotees on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti every year while a section of devotees from the city undertakes a 30-km journey on foot on the occasion. “The government has announced lockdown in the country till April 14 to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, we appeal to the devotees not to visit Khuldabad this year for Hanuman Jayanti,” said Khuldabad tehsildar Rahul Gaikwad. The government authorities highlighted that Section 144 of IPC was in place, which bans assembly of five or more people. Also, the Disaster Management Act 2005 is in place during the current lockdown. “We appeal to the devotees to pray from their homes on the occasion. It will help in avoiding crowding the place and put a check on the spread of coronavirus,” said the authorities. Mahavir Jayanti sees low-key celebrationMahavir Jayanti witnessed toned down celebrations in the city, with majority of Jain temples remaining closed for devotees in view of the lockdown. Tansukh Zambad, national vice-president of All India Jain Conference, said that the organisation has donated Rs 31 lakh to the PM Cares Fund. “The Jain community is committed to the cause of fighting the pandemic. As a social responsibility, we have offered money for relief work and are also followed the lockdown norms on Mahavir Jayanti,” he said. Among other celebrations, the Jain community carries out processions every year to mark the birth of Mahavir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/avoid-visiting-khuldabad-mark-hanuman-anniv-at-home-admin/articleshow/75017268.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Agra||DVVNL records 29% fall in power consumption||Agra: The 21-day Covid-19 lockdown has significantly reduced power consumption. After the shutdown of industries and factories, Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) has recorded an average of 29 per cent fall in the power consumption. Before the lockdown, the average consumption of power was 92.57 million units per day. State government-owned discom, DVVNL, looks after power supply in 21 districts of UP. In these districts, the discom has a total of 53.40 lakh household and commercial connections. Out of these 41 lakh are rural consumers and 11 lakh are urban. Following the lockdown, the discom has recorded 29 per cent decrease in average power consumption every day. From 92.57 million units, it has reduced to 65.63 million per day. According to data by Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), in the 75 districts of UP, the power consumption has reduced from 24,300 megawatts to 13,400 megawatts. On Monday, DVVNL staff officer SK Baghel said, “Since the Janata curfew called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, the power consumption has significantly decreased. Industries, factories and business are closed due to the lockdown now. The overall power consumption per day in the areas under the jurisdiction of DVVNL has reduced by 26.44 million units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dvvnl-records-29-fall-in-power-consumption/articleshow/75017272.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Conservancy workers miffed over PPE reuse||MUMBAI: While the BMC has provided personal protective equipment (PPE) to conservancy labourers who collect garbage from homes of suspected Covid-19 patients in “sealed” areas, the workers are unhappy. This is because the labourers were initially told each PPE was meant for single use but later asked to return the suits for wash and reuse. “Is it safe to reuse PPEs?” asked one worker. Without offering proper training or instructions, the civic body has asked contract labourers who work as sweepers to wear PPE suits and collect garbage from the homes of Covid-19 patients and quarantined persons. This followed the death of a BMC sweeper due to Covid-19 last week. Immediately, the civic body made available 150-odd PPE kits for those working in sealed zones. “We doubt the PPE will provide safety to us against the virus,” said a contract labourer with the BMC. He planned to skip work as he felt uncomfortable in PPEs. The waste collected from Covid-19 patients’ residence was to be collected in a yellow bag and from others in a black bag. “We do our job honestly but there is fear of contracting this disease. I just remove the PPE after my duty and throw it in the garbage vehicle,” he said. Ashok Khaire, deputy municipal commissioner and in-charge of solid waste management, said, “Even I am working, media is working, health workers are on duty. So, each one has to do their jobs,” Milind Ranade, contract labourers’ leader, alleged the BMC is deploying only contract labourers for the job, not permanent staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/conservancy-workers-miffed-over-ppe-reuse/articleshow/75017278.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai jackfruits left to perish as demand dips||Pudukottai: Poor demand and lack of workers have forced jackfruits farmers in Pudukottai district to bear the brunt of the lockdown. The fruits have been left to perish on trees. While April and May is the season for jackfruit cultivation, farmers are unable to get workers to harvest the fruits apart from the lack of demand in the market and poor returns. If the fruits are not harvested on time, they start perishing on trees. Furthermore, they cannot be stored for more than four days after harvest. Farmers are opting not to take risk by harvesting it. “A jackfruit that was sold for Rs 500 is sold for Rs 100 this season. There are very few takers for jackfruits this year. People want to buy essential commodities rather than jackfruits during lockdown,” said T Kannan, a jackfruit farmer from Senthangudi. S Kamaraj, a farmer from Avanam Kaikatti, said the fruits that were reaching Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring Karnataka have no takers this year. “A few fruits that were taken to markets in Madurai were being sold for peanuts.” While Banruti in Cuddalore is known for jackfruit cultivation, Pudukottai farmers took it up much later. They adopted this horticulture crop to sustain agriculture activities about three decades back, after they were affected by successive droughts. They adopted intercropping by planting jackfruit trees, mango trees, teak and red sanders in between coconut farms. After cyclone Thane had significantly affected cultivation in 2012 in Banruti, the demand for jackfruits from Pudukottai and Thanjavur shot up. The jackfruits of Pudukottai are smaller in size and are known for their unique taste which is popular even in Mumbai markets. Gaja cyclone in 2018 had damaged about 60% of trees in Pudukottai, affecting the yield last year. This year the yield has been good but farmers are unable to find market for these fruits. “Jackfruit trees could be seen in every house in this region,” said T Kannan. Farmers plant it on the bunds of their farmland. A farmer who own 4-5 jackfruit trees in Pudukkottai earns not less than Rs 80,000 per year. According to farmers, there could be roughly two lakh jackfruit trees in Pudukkottai district, mainly in Vadakadu, Maangudi, Keeramangalam and Avanam Kaikatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-jackfruits-left-to-perish-as-demand-dips/articleshow/75018458.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 7, 2020||Trichy||TJ cluster adds 13 more to Covid +ve cases||Trichy: Two days after recording 17 Covid-19 positive cases for the first time, Trichy on Monday took its count to 30, which include 13 new Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) delegates. The number of Covid positive patients in the central region of the state also went up to 88 with Thanjavur and Ariyalur reporting three and one cases each on Monday. Among the samples of 28 patients including TJ delegates tested at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), 13 tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A media bulletin from the state health and family welfare confirmed that those who tested positive on Monday in Trichy had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. As many as 30 Covid-19 positive patients, all TJ congregation attendees, are undergoing treatment at MGMGH. According to the Trichy district administration, the hospital has to release the result of nine more patients on Monday. The administration said that a total of 69 TJ delegates tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday and Sunday and 15 on Monday. As many as 12 patients who tested negative were discharged with an advice of home quarantine on Monday. The hospital administration and district collector S Sivarasu shifted 69 TJ delegates to Jamal Mohammed College (JMC) in Trichy on Sunday night as they asked the authorities to discharge them or provide them better accommodation. Policemen are employed at JMC to prevent them from stepping out of the quarantine facility. A couple of doctors and nurses have been posted at the college to monitor their health condition. The district administration was very firm that they will be discharged only after 28 days of quarantine provided they tested negative in the blood tests. A 70-year-old man lodged in the college vomited and had giddiness following which he was shifted to MGMGH on Monday morning. A total of 867 medical teams from the public health and preventive medicine and corporation have tested 2,46,886 people in 58,494 residences in 110 areas in Trichy district. Thanjavur also reported three more cases taking the tally to eight. A 40-year old man from Athirampattinam and a 46-year-old man from Neivasal in Orathanadu taluk are TJ delegate. The third case was a journalist of a web television channel in Delhi. He had returned from Delhi by flight. They were being treated at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. The positive case in Ariyalur was a 47-year-old man, also a TJ delegate, from Sendurai. He was shifted to MGMGH. Five of his family members have been home quarantined after taking their blood samples at the government hospital in Ariyalur. The district administration has marked containment zone around the Sendurai town to prevent public movement. Four other men from Ariyalur district with a travel history to New Delhi tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday. ( With inputs from D Vincent Arockiaraj, S Deepak Karthik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tj-cluster-adds-13-more-to-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/75018463.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hopes soar: Two flights to fly back US citizens home this week||HYDERABAD: Several US citizens, many of whom are Telugu, can now hope to return home as the US Mission to India announced two flights from Mumbai to Atlanta this week. The first flight will be this Tuesday (April 7) and the other on Friday (April 10). Asking citizens to make the best of the opportunity, an alert read: “Now is the time to act if you want to return to the United States. The US Mission India is facilitating a series of flights to the United States this week.” The Consulate in Mumbai has been coordinating with the consulates in Hyderabad and Chennai to ensure citizens living here can make their way to Mumbai from where they can catch their flights. Those in the north can avail similar facilities from Delhi. After several queries regarding how people would be able to make their way to Mumbai from Hyderabad, the US Mission to India also clarified that it is arranging domestic charter flights from Chennai (April 7 and 10) and Hyderabad (April 7 and 10) to allow US citizens to reach Mumbai in time for onward flights to the US. The flights from Delhi were scheduled for San Francisco on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile, US citizens stuck in Hyderabad continued to raise doubts regarding why they haven’t been contacted yet. Waseem Ansari (@westansari7806) tweeted: “We are waiting for the confirmation of the seats for 7th April flight from Mumbai to Atlanta. We are currently staying in Hyderabad.” Some even had trouble sending their particulars by mail, Malavika Divakaran (@mallu09) said: “I’m trying to email indiaevac account with the required information for the repatriation flight to Atlanta; however, it says my email is undeliverable.” The US Consulate in Mumbai has asked citizens to monitor their mails closely and check their spam and junk folders. While trying to assuage their anxiety, it mentioned that “seats on US government repatriation flights are allocated based on established evacuation guidelines that prioritise passengers using a variety of criteria, including age and certain medical conditions. Some passengers who meet priority criteria have already received invitations to submit additional information. Confirmed passengers must sign an evacuation loan repayment agreement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hopes-soar-two-flights-to-fly-back-us-citizens-home-this-week/articleshow/75018461.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||56-yr old kills self at quarantine facility||Rudrapur: A 56-year-old man, who was admitted to the quarantine facility at Uttarakhand Institute of Rural Development (UIRD) in Rudrapur last week, committed suicide by hanging from a hook in the ceiling on Monday. The incident came to light when the staff at UIRD went to give him dinner but the man did not open the door. The victim was a resident of Pilibhit in UP and was admitted to the quarantine facility on March 31 by Khatima police after he showed symptoms of novel coronavirus. Police officials said that they are investigating and matter and trying to ascertain if there were any other reasons behind the suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/56-yr-old-kills-self-at-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75017284.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pollution level drops in industrial estates||Ahmedabad: The janata curfew and the lockdown is having a dramatic impact on particulate matter pollution in Gujarat’s three most polluted zones of Vatva in Ahmedabad, Ankleshwar and Vapi in south Gujarat. The Gujarat pollution control board’s regional offices near these industrial estates have notices pollution levels plunge to record low levels during March month alone. In Vatva, for instance in the days following the janata curfew on March 22 and the lockdown the PM 2.5 (2.5 microns or less) reduced by 29.85%, carbon monoxide has reduced by 17.80%, while sulphur dioxide reduced by a 87 % while NO2 has reduced 23%. The particulate matter pollution PM 2.5 (2.5 microns or less) had dropped in Vatva from 82.83 micrograms per cubic meter to 31 on March 31 In Vapi industrial estate which is considered one of the most polluted industrial estates in the country, the particulate matter pollution PM 2.5 levels dropped from 136.7 microcram per cubic metre on March 18 to 52.7 micrograms per cubic metre on March 31. While in case of Ankleshwar town PM10 (dust particles of 10 microns or less) has reduced by 12.85%, while PM2.5 has reduced by 14.1%, sulphur dioxide has reduced by 24.15% while nitrogen dioxide has reduced 30.69%. “There have not been such occasions when pollution levels have been within limits consistently for some days in the three industrial estates of Gujarat,” admits a senior GPCB official at a regional office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pollution-level-drops-in-industrial-estates/articleshow/75017987.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Trichy||Two convicts escaped from Papanasam sub-jail arrested||Thanjavur: Police arrested two convicts who escaped from Papanasam sub-jail on Sunday. The convicts ran away from the prison by scaling the boundary wall of the prison, when they were let out from their cells for lunch, police said. According to police, the accused have been identified as Veerappan, 20, of Papanasam and Kannan, 45, a native of Aaduthurai near Kumbakonam. Several cases including theft, chain snatching have been pending against them in a few police stations in and around Papanasam. On Sunday at 3.30 pm, all the prisoners including the two were let out from their cells for lunch. After lunch, prison superintendent Diwan who took the roll call realized that that two accused were missing. Prison officials, who searched them in and around the prison, could not find them. Subsequently, they lodged a complaint with Papanasam police. Based on the complaint, police conducted a search in and around their native and picked them up within six hours, police said. Police registered a case and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-convicts-escaped-from-papanasam-sub-jail-arrested/articleshow/75018467.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Agra||Vendor quarantined in Mathura after locals complain he was ‘contaminating’ fruits||Agra: A fruit vendor in Mathura was quarantined in a government facility on Monday after local residents complained that they saw him “licking” fruits from his cart. The man was taken to a hospital in Vrindavan for a Covid-19 test and will remain in quarantine in a facility there until his test results are out, said SP (city) Ashok K Meena. The SP said that no case has been filed against the 25 year old yet. “We will take action after ascertaining facts of the case,” he told TOI.Meanwhile, a video shot by a local resident showed the fruit seller, Bunty, son of Ajmeri (who only uses his first name), denying allegations. Another video showed a fruit seller nearby running away at the commotion.Residents, however, claimed that they saw Bunty licking fruits and when they confronted him, he tried to run away and fell down. He was taken away by police and medical staff. Earlier, a fruit seller in Madhya Pradesh's Raisen district was arrested on April 3 after the police authorities took cognisance of a viral video that showed him licking his fingers and touching fruits. Some media websites reported that the video dates back to February. Police have booked him under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/vendor-quarantined-in-mathura-after-locals-complain-he-was-contaminating-fruits/articleshow/75017285.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal cops to stay at hotels as three more test positive for Covid-19||BHOPAL: Three cops posted at Jehangirabad police station tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Apart from them two women — both wives of policemen — and a 7-year-old son of a policeman too tested positive. Police suspects that the common cause of infection in them was a constable, who tested positive two days back. Now police have acquired hotels for three police station including Aishbagh, Jehangirabad and TT Nagar police station so that the staff of these police stations stays away from their families and perform their duties. DIG Irshad Wali said that the hotels will be acquired for police stations in Zone-3 areas till Tuesday so that the families of policemen do not get infected. DIG Wali said that 48 samples of policemen and their families were sent for examination on Sunday. Report of some samples is still awaited. Six of them including three cops posted at Jehangirabad police station tested positive. DIG Wali said that the common factor in all these people is that one of them resides in TT Nagar police lines. Another cop too resides in the same premises and the driver of a cop who too tested positive also resides in the same building. DIG Wali said that in order to stop the infection from spreading into their families, police have acquired hotels for staff of TT Nagar, Jehangirabad and Aishbagh police station, will stay in hotels. Two policemen will share a room. Two hotels have been acquired in TT Nagar, three hotels in Aishbagh for their staff and two hotels in MP Nagar have been acquired for Jehangirabad police. DIG Wali said that similarly the policemen deployed at police stations of Zone-3 in the city including Talaiya, Shyamla Hills, Kotwali, Shahjehanabad, Hanumanganj, Mangalwara and others will also stay at hotels for the safety of their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-to-stay-at-hotels-as-three-more-test-ve/articleshow/75017974.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman loses Rs 55,000 to home delivery fraud||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Navrangpura area of city on Sunday filed a complaint with police alleging that she had lost Rs 55,000 to some online fraudster who duped her when she opted for home delivery of bread in the time of lockdown. In her FIR with Navrangpura police, Birwa Broker, 30, a resident of Lal Bungalow on CG road in Navrangpura, said that the incident took place on March 30. Broker said that she had dialled a telephone number provider forum and sought the number of a bakery which could provide home delivery of bread. She got the number of a bakery shop on which she called and put an order for bread. She said that the person who reieved the call for the bakery, told her that the shop was closed but he would provide bread to her doorstep. For this, the person told her to pay Rs 10 using a payment application. She first hesitated to pay the money but as she needed bread and the caller insisted, she paid Rs 10 through the payment application. After a while, she found that Rs 50,000 had been debited from her account. Later, she received another message of Rs 5,000 transaction from her bank account. Thus she ended up paying Rs 55,000 to unknown fraudster, states the FIR. The woman had then blocked her bank account and approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-loses-rs-55k-to-home-delivery-fraud/articleshow/75017978.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Agra||Hindu Mahasabha leader booked for controversial remark||Agra: Aligarh police on Sunday booked a Hindu Mahasabha leader, Puja Shakun Pandey, for allegedly making a controversial statement against Tablighi Jammat (TJ) members for putting at risk a large number of people to Covid-19.According to police, Pandey has been booked under IPC sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc.) and 505 (2) (statement promoting enmity between classes).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hindu-mahasabha-leader-booked-for-controversial-remark/articleshow/75017280.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian missions in Canada deploy AI tool to address queries||Hyderabad: The High Commission of India (HCI) in Canada and consulates in Toronto and Vancouver have been flooded with queries over the coronavirus pandemic by Persons of Indian Origin (PIO). Currently, the country has a PIO population of over 1.6 million and as many as 2,00,000 Indian students are enrolled in various Canadian institutions. To address the large number of queries, the HCI has put in place an artificial intelligence-based chat service, the CANbot. With the number of calls increasing every day, the HCI decided to get in touch with conversation platform, Verloop.io and Portea Medical, a home healthcare company, to develop the automated multilingual chatbot. Accessible from HCI’s website, the bot will be a one-stop source of information for Indian nationals, students and PIOs in Canada. The information will be provided via WhatsApp in English, Hindi and Punjabi. The chat can also be transferred to respective consulates for better resolution of queries if needed. Speaking on the launch, High Commissioner of India to Canada, Ajay Bisaria, said that HCI wanted to create a service that can assist people in this emergency. “We empathise with people’s concerns in these troubled times and the need to receive immediate and accurate information wherever they are,” the high commissioner said. “CANbot has the ability to quickly respond to the user’s questions relating to Covid-19, public safety measures taken in India and Canada and restrictions on international travel,” said CEO and MD of Portea Medical, Meena Ganesh. Elaborating on the functions of CANbot, Verloop founder Gaurav Singh said: “The CANBot will help in managing the sudden spike in conversations around travel and visa restrictions. It is a true example of how technology can be used to manage so many queries comprehensively. The automated platform will enable the HCI to handle the increased volume of calls with minimal need for human intervention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-missions-in-canada-deploy-ai-tool-to-address-queries/articleshow/75018466.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Masks must in sealed Peth areas, Kondhwa||PUNE: Barring vehicles plying for essential services and people on emergency duty, nobody would be allowed to enter the city’s Peth areas and Kondhwa from Monday midnight till further order following the spike in Covid-19 cases in these places. Wearing masks would be mandatory for the residents of these areas. The civic administration has appealed to people to stock up essentials for around a week’s time, as more areas might be sealed, depending on the number of cases. The Pune municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad, issued an order to seal the Peth areas and Kondhwa after 34 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the city on Monday — the maximum in a day. Most of these cases were from the old central city areas known as Peths. “The spurt in the number of positive cases in these areas prompted this action. It has been taken to control the spread. We don’t want people to venture out without any emergency reasons,” said Gaikwad. The residents of Peth areas and Kondhwa would not be allowed to step out of their respective places. Barring people and vehicles engaged in essential services, nobody would be allowed to enter those places. Gaikwad said residents of other parts of the city would not be allowed to commute through the sealed areas for reaching their destinations. His order stated that all Peth areas (core city areas) starting from Maharshinagar to RTO and Kondhwa would be sealed for entry-exit of people. The order would be effective from the midnight of Monday till the further order was issued. The work on erecting barricades and guarding the boundaries along all roads and by lanes leading to the old central Pune was in process on Monday night. Ravindra Shisve, the joint commissioner of the Pune police, said, “We are working out an elaborate plan to seal the old parts of the city and Gultekdi areas with the civic authorities to contain the spread of coronavirus. All roads leading to these areas would be under the police scanner.” Gaikwad said, “The trade in the Market Yard, and inflow as well as outflow of vegetables would be allowed.” Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol appealed to the residents of Peth areas and Kondhwa to cooperate with the administration and not to panic. The citizens would continue to get essential services and medicines, he said. Also, police and civic authorities would ensure that supply of essential commodities remained regular to these areas, he said. Shisve said people should not spread mischievous and fake messages on the lockdown and about Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masks-must-in-sealed-peth-areas-kondhwa/articleshow/75018479.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly stuck in Delhi seek early return to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: There seems to be no respite in sight for the city’s senior citizens, who are quarantined in Delhi hotels after returning from the US. Even though, they have all tested negative for Covid-19, they are still stuck in Delhi. While they have recently been shifted to new hotels, from the star facilities that they were initially housed in, they say that the bills are still mounting — over Rs 1 lakh in some cases — and many are fast running out of medicines. On Monday, some of the family members made a fresh appeal to the state and central government asking them to arrange for their return to the city as soon as possible. “Since my parents were over 60 years, they were sent to the quarantine facility on landing in India, from San Francisco on March 22. Now, they have completed their 14-day period and have tested negative for coronavirus. I sincerely hope the authorities help them return to Hyderabad as I fear, they might slip into depression otherwise,” said Raju Puppala and added that the ordeal is draining his parents emotionally and monetarily. “They have limited stock of medicine and cannot speak any other language but Telugu, which makes communication difficult. Also, we have already paid Rs 70,000 for the previous hotel and the new one will cost us another Rs 40,000...there are at least 60 other families sailing in the same boat,” he said. Making a similar appeal — to airlift the elderly stranded in Delhi — Naveen Amaravadi, whose parents flew in from New Jersey, said that it would benefit people if the government extends financial support to them. “They still have no idea when they will be able to return home. I think thats making them more anxious. Thankfully my father has medical supplies till the end of the month,” Amaravadi said from Toronto. His parents are paying Rs 4,600 per day for their quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-stuck-in-delhi-seek-early-return-to-city/articleshow/75018473.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 7, 2020||Pune||Most requests for ‘Dial an Auto’ for non-essential reasons||PUNE: The prevailing lockdown has pushed many people into desperation; from seeking transport to a place with better internet connectivity to the need for urgent relocation, the ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ service has been inundated by such requests. However, as most calls are for non-essential services, they are turned down, said Rahul Shitole, CEO of CityGlide Auto, which is offering the service under the guidance of the city traffic police. Shitole said they receive close to 1,000 phone calls and around 500 requests on WhatsApp and Twitter. “We do not entertain many of these requests, but the trend is a reflection of the kind of desperation and difficulty faced by people during the lockdown,” Shitole said. ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ caters to only essential services covered by the government notification. “”This includes mainly transportation for medical services and transport for those engaged in essential services,” Shitole said. “We, however, get a whole range of requests — more than 50% of the calls we get are important, but as they don’t come under ‘essential services’, they are being rejected” Shitole said. Citing examples of important but ‘non-essential’ request, Shitole said, “Many calls are from people working from home and facing internet connectivity issues — they say they are facing flak from their managers and need to shift to a colleague’s place. They seem very desperate.” Shitole added there were also calls from people in need of urgent relocation. “There was this person who had a major argument with his landlord and was evicted.” Then, there are calls from people who would like to bring home their relatives, mostly elderly people who live in a different part of town. “We have approved the request of a Koregaon Park resident who has a permit from the police to bring food to her mother, who lives alone elsewhere. There was another call from a couple — the woman was pregnant and sought to bring her mother from Nashik to look after her,” he said. The biggest irritant, Shitole said, were prank calls. “The callers list an essential service and get the request approved. But when the autorickshaw reaches the location, they don’t answer the call or switch off their phones. We have blocked these numbers and reported them to the police. People should know better than to play pranks in these dire times,” Shitole said. ACP (traffic) Surendra Deshmukh of Pune police told TOI they take a dim view of such prank calls. “This is a service for people with urgent needs. We will take the details from CityGlide Auto — the number, the time of the call and the emergency cited and decide what action to take,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-requests-for-dial-an-auto-for-non-essential-reasons/articleshow/75017994.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 7, 2020||Goa||Free LPG refills for 1,082 beneficiaries||VASCO: A total of 1,082 Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana beneficiaries in Goa will be entitled to free 14.2kg LPG cylinders for the next three months. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the central government has announced free refills for all Ujjwala Yojana consumers for the next three months. Each beneficiary is entitled for one cylinder a month. Meanwhile, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd has announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh to its staff, if any of them pass away due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/free-lpg-refills-for-1082-beneficiaries/articleshow/75018487.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||City, Sakkarbaug zoos activated Covid plan fortnight ago||Ahmedabad: The central zoo authority issued an advisory after a tiger in Bronx zoo, in New York City, tested positive for coronavirus, on Monday. However, Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh and Kamla Nehru zoo in Ahmedabad had a fortnight ago directed all animal keepers to wear gloves and masks.Deputy conservator of forests Dr Abhishek Kumar said: “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, we had asked the older staff members, especially those from areas far from the zoo, to stay away.” Kumar said: “The zoo is being managed by staff who live in a colony near the zoo. We also have given masks, gloves, and sanitizers to our staff.”Kumar said that the staff has been asked to take all precautions. Meat is served to the big cats after several checks. The staff has been asked to clean utensils twice a day and disinfect them before food is served to the animals.The staff, in line with protocol, has to undergo medical checks.In Kamla Nehru zoo, all cages were disinfected and veterinary doctors examined all animals. Bharatsinh Vivol, in-charge zoo superintendent, said: “These precautions were taken when the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Ahmedabad. Even in the past, cages were disinfected regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-sakkarbaug-zoos-activated-covid-plan-fortnight-ago/articleshow/75018012.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Day after DGP warns of strict action, over 200 people, including Tablighi Jamaat members, surrender to police||Dehradun: A day after Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Anil Raturi gave a stern warning, asking all Jamaat members to surrender before authorities by April 6 or be ready to face the law, over 200 people, including the members of Tablighi Jamaat along with people who came in contact with them, showed up before police on Monday. Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) of law and order, told TOI, “In Haridwar, about 160 people, mostly members of the Jamaat, have identified themselves before police. While in Dehradun, 64 people who recently came in contact with Jamaat members have contacted police.” Kumar added that all of them are going to be quarantined after noting down their details such as travel history and the identity of the Jamaat member whom they came in contact with. Meanwhile, police on Monday launched a helpline number for public to report about suspicious Jamaat followers who have not come forward and are believed to be hiding. “Police have an operational helpline number of 0135-2722100 for Covid-19 and we are appealing to everyone to report on the number if they find any suspicious follower of Jamaat who is hiding his participation in any of its recent religious congregation,” Kumar said. To recall, in a video message released by police headquarters on Sunday, DGP Anil Raturi had asked those Jamaat members, who attended any religious congregation recently and had not got themselves tested, to show up before the authorities by April 6 or be ready to face strict action. Raturi had added that from April 6 onwards, police would register a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the Jamaat member who is hiding and may end up infecting someone else, while in case a member infects someone with the deadly virus resulting in his/her death, police would book that member under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Kumar added that state police have booked as many as 36 followers of Jamaat in five districts of the state on charges of hiding from authorities despite repeated pleas of identifying themselves. As per police officials, 681 members of Tablighi Jamaat in Uttarakhand have been quarantined by the authorities till date and the exercise to identify more is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/day-after-dgp-warns-of-strict-action-over-200-people-including-tablighi-jamaat-members-surrender-to-police/articleshow/75017301.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||‘Mini labour room’ set up at district women hospital for child birth||Bareilly: As a precautionary measure, the authorities at district women hospital here have set up a separate “mini labour room” in old maternity ward for deliveries of patients with acute respiratory illness or for those who have come in contact with suspected cases of novel coronavirus.According to officials, nearly 11 to 15 deliveries take place at the hospital daily.Chief medical superintendent of district women hospital, Dr Alka Sharma said, “We are taking history of patients at the time of their admission here. We have set up a separate labour room in the backyard of the hospital for deliveries of women with acute respiratory illness or for those who have come in contact with suspected Covid-19 cases. The step was taken as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the disease. The doctor and staff who will conduct deliveries here will wear personal protective equipment (PPE).”According to sources, a woman who is a native of Subhash Nagar area-- from where six positive cases of a family were recently reported-- was admitted to district women hospital for child birth recently. However, as the woman and new-born did not show any symptoms and were not in contact with positive or suspected cases, their samples for Covid-19 test were not collected.Meanwhile, 54 people whose samples were taken earlier have tested negative for the disease. The report of 21 cases is awaited and they have been quarantined at a building of 300-bed government hospital at Khurram Gotiya locality.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The condition of Covid-19 patients is stable. 192 teams have conducted active-case surveillance in containment zone (6-kms radius from patients’ house) and have screened 19,368 houses so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mini-labour-room-set-up-at-district-women-hospital-for-child-birth/articleshow/75017305.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Now, mobile app to check cops’ health||AHMEDABAD: City police has developed an application compiling data of all deployed in the city to implement the lockdown. Commissioner of police Ashish Bhatia said that the mobile application works on nine parameters of illnesses, such as coughing, fever, diarrhoea etc. “If a cop has symptoms he will be treated and if needed to be shifted to hospital for treatment. The application is being tested in Zone 5 of the city, said Bhatia Bhatia said that till date they registered 1,282 Covid-19 and lockdown related violations, in which 3,766 accused have been arrested. “In cases of rioting in Gomtipur and Saraspur, a total of 15 people were arrested,” Bhatia said. He said that using 25 drones in various parts of the city, a total of 16 cases were registered and 61 accused were arrested. “On Sunday, of 1,743 persons quarantined, police checked the presence of 762 persons. Of 3,000 senior citizens registered with city police, 207 were checked on by by ‘She’ teams and provided food items and medicines,” added Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-police-develop-mobile-app-to-check-on-forces-health/articleshow/75017997.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A stitch in time, sewing tirelessly to protect poor||NEW DELHI: For the last 23 days, Neelam has spent most of her time sewing. As a part of a group of 12 women who work with an NGO, Goonj, she sews nearly 100 face masks every day for people in need. Neelam, a migrant worker from Bihar, had settled in Delhi over 10 years ago. “When I saw thousands of people, including children, leaving for their villages, I could not stop crying. They did not have food, water or any safety kit. This is my way of contributing a little to their safety in the time of corona,” she said. Goonj has been distributing relief kits to families of daily wage workers and migrant labourers. Beside food and essentials, the kits carry masks and sanitary napkins. These are manufactured in a unit in Delhi’s Madanpur Khader where Neelam works. Every day at 9am, Neelam reaches the factory and supervises the other women. Together, they make nearly 1,000 three-layered face masks daily. The NGO also has similar manufacturing units in Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. “I live close to the factory. Once we get there, we sanitise our hands properly before starting the work. We take all the precautions that have been advised to check the spread of the virus. We maintain social distancing and wear gloves and masks,” she said. According to Goonj founder, Anshu Gupta, the manufacturing started on a priority basis on March 15. “We anticipated that the situation may get worse, so we started manufacturing masks from the bales of fresh cotton cloth that we had," Gupta said, adding that the mask was being supplied to people in need, including policemen, municipality workers and daily wage workers’ families. The NGO also provides cooked meals to people in need. But Gupta is apprehensive that the resources may run out. “For the first time, I feel we may not have enough funds to help people. This nationwide lockdown triggered a chain of reaction that was disastrous for thousands of people. Every country prospers because of its migrant population, but we failed to do anything for them when they needed it,” he said. Magsaysay award winner Gupta added that the NGO was looking to provide long-term interventions since the “impact of this lockdown would only get worse.” “People have lost their jobs and soon, they will not have anything to eat,” he said, adding that relief kits will become instrumental for their survival. “We had come to Delhi for food and shelter. We managed to get those. But many people lost everything because of the lockdown. Had we not got a stable job here, me and my family could have been out on the street as well,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-stitch-in-time-sewing-tirelessly-to-protect-poor/articleshow/75018879.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Goan swimmer feels safe in Phuket, trains on his own||PANAJI: Goan swimmer Sayed Abdul Zidane would have loved to be at home with his parents. Instead, the 16-year-old Mapusa resident is stuck in Thailand. Son of former Goa Swimming Association secretary Sayed Abdul, Zidane is now studying and training at the British International High School in Phuket. He was expected to return home for the summer vacations but lockdowns in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic forced him to stay put in Phuket. “His flight was cancelled on March 18. We were really worried for him,” said his mother Zarine. Once the Phuket-Goa flight was cancelled, the Sayeds tried to book alternative flights to bring their son home. “We booked Phuket to Singapore, Singapore to Chennai, Chennai to Hyderabad and Hyderabad to Goa. Zidane would have to change four flights. However, we came to know from a fellow trainee Rihana Shreshta that Zidane would be quarantined for 14 days,” said Zarine. Rihana and Zidane, a Khelo India scholarship winner in 2017, were trying to return home after finishing school. “It was sheer luck that Rihana’s mother went to Bengaluru airport and inquired about the status quo. Zidane and Rihana would have had to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine period since they were arriving in Chennai,” Abdul said. The Sayeds are now not sure how soon they will get to see Zidane, although they are secure in the knowledge that he is completely safe in Phuket “He is safe in the school and we talk to him every day. He has been away for more than two years. But in normal circumstances, it is a different story. In such times, we would have liked him to be home,” said Abdul. Zidane is training on his own and focussing on his fitness after the authorities stopped swimming activities. “I can’t train in the water. I am keeping my regular fitness regime on, training on my own. I can’t even imagine what I would have done in India (if quarantined). At least, here I am safe and sound. I guess my parents took the right call by asking us to stay in our school,” said Zidane. Zidane is climbing up the ranks at the national level after winning a Khelo India scholarship in 2017. He secured admission at the British International School after successful interviews with the principal and coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-swimmer-feels-safe-in-phuket-trains-on-his-own/articleshow/75018873.cms||Paresh Mokani
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||Two food vehicles flagged off in Jhansi||Jhansi : Police on Monday flagged off two vehicles carrying ration packets for distributing them among the poor and the needy throughout the district. The initiative had been taken by the Jhansi police following problems being faced by the people due to the lockdown. The vehicles, containing the dry ration packets enough to suffice for a week for a family ,were flagged off from the Elite crossing by SSP Jhansi, D Pradeep Kumar. Each packet contains 10 kg flour, 5 kg rice, 5 kg pulses, 5 kg potato, 2 kg onion, 1 kg sugar, one litre of cooking oil and 1 kg of salt. “While one vehicle will take rounds of the rural area, the other one will cover the city limits”, the SSP said. He said some social organizations have also come forward to donate mostly in kind. Police have also issued a local helpline so that donors and the needy both can contact each other to get the ration, he added. The SSP himself had distributed 25 packets in Bhattagaon while SP (city) Rahul Srivastava went to village Murari in Babina block, a tribal settlement, and distributed 50 packets. Talking to TOI, the SSP said, “We have a target to distribute around 100 packets per day, and have a buffer stock of ten days”. More and more donors are coming forward with ration packets, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-food-vehicles-flagged-off-in-jhansi/articleshow/75017173.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||State to provide counseling to people in quarantine||DEHRADUN: The state health department on Monday decided to organise regular psychiatric session for people living in sealed areas or are under institutional quarantine since weeks. The move comes after the Centre issued guidelines on March 28 to form a helpline to address psychological concerns of people in quarantine. National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) would anchor the helpline and provide psychological help to the people placed in self quarantine or in the hospitals. The Uttarakhand health department on Monday got out a list of eight doctors who would provide psychological counseling to people in quarantine in Dehradun. The doctors will be visiting the areas suggested by the district administration and will have to submit a detailed report of session to the health department on the same day. A health department official said, “Stress, fear, lonliness, uncertainty and other psychological disorders are very normal in today’s time as we have deviated a lot from our daily routine. Keeping this in mind, Centre announced to provide counseling.” He added that not just people in quarantine but special counseling would also be provided to farmers and daily wagers who have lost their source of income and are under a lot of stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-to-provide-counseling-to-people-in-quarantine/articleshow/75017313.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune-based NGOs look for sponsors to feed strays||PUNE: The city-based NGOs RESQ Charitable Trust and Karma Foundation are looking for donors to sponsor over 30,000kg dog food for stray animals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as well as for other animal emergency-related works during the ongoing national lockdown. Restaurants, street-side eateries, food stalls and meat markets have closed their shutters, leaving strays without meals. “Till now, over 15,000 dogs have been fed across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. We have taken permission from the Pune police for four large vehicles that are handing over food to feeders across the city. We need more corporate houses and high net worth individuals to step in and help us as there is still a deficit of dog food,” Priya Kailad, the founder of Karma Foundation, said. Neha Panchamiya, the president of RESQ Charitable, said following the national lockdown and social distancing protocols, the team had been operating at a bare minimum. “We want to purchase enough dog food to provide over 50,000 meals for the volunteer network to feed these hungry animals,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngos-look-for-sponsors-to-feed-strays/articleshow/75018003.cms||Neha Madaan
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Chegur case: Migrant tests Covid-19 positive||HYDERABAD: Nearly a week after a 55-year-old grocer from Chegur in Rangareddy district succumbing to Covid-19, a migrant worker from Bihar, also her tenant, has tested positive for coronavirus. Now, health authorities have clarity on the infection trail in the woman’s case. After the death of the grocery store owner on April 1, police cordoned off the village and authorities placed 34 people, including immediate family members and four migrants staying as tenants at her house, in quarantine. As the four workers from Bihar went to Uttarakhand on March 8 and returned to the city on March 19 by Sampark Kranti train from Nizamuddin, the authorities had suspected that some of them might have been infected during the journey. Police sent them to quarantine on Friday and their samples were collected on Saturday for testing. “Of the four workers, one has tested positive for Covid-19, two others tested negative, while test result of the fourth person is yet to come,” a Rangareddy district official said. State government officials have collected details of all the passengers who travelled to Telangana from Nizamuddin by train and flights between March 16 and March 22. “Passengers who travelled by Sampark Kranti, Rajdhani and Telangana Express have been identified,” a police official said. Not taking any chances, police were matching cell numbers gathered from cell phone tower dump of Nizamuddin Markaz area with details of train passenger cell phone numbers and trying to isolate them. “Put together, the train passengers and flight passengers are over 10,000. District-wise details have been disseminated for verification,” a police source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chegur-casemigrant-tests-covid-19ve/articleshow/75018486.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||20-year-old youth from Mumbai tests positive for Covid-19 in Budaun||Bareilly: Budaun recorded its first novel coronavirus positive case on Monday — a 20-year-old Mumbai resident who has been living at a mosque in Sahaswan area since February 14. He was quarantined at the district hospital on April 2.Though the youth is a Tablighi Jamaat follower, said district magistrate Kumar Prashant, he had not attended the Nizamuddin congregation. “The youth reached Budaun on February 14 and had been living at the mosque since then. On April 2, we evacuated 21 people from Sahaswan area, and five of the evacuees were living with the youth at the mosque. Although all 20 other people have already been tested negative for Covid-19, we will again send the samples of the five housemates of the patient,” said the DM. After the evacuation, all 21 people were shifted to the quarantine ward at the district hospital, but the youth was moved to the isolation ward on Monday after he was tested positive. Health department officials said they were tracing the people who came in his contact in Budaun. “We are examining the call history of the patient to know about his travel history and the people whom he came in contact with. Their samples will be collected. We are ensuring proper lockdown in Budaun district, which has been divided into different sectors,” said the DM. Officials said as per the directions of the higher authorities, if a district recorded one or two cases, then the patients would be shifted to a division-level government hospital, but if a district reported higher number of patients, then they would be treated there. Additional director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey said, “The Budaun patient will be shifted to Bareilly for treatment, while a positive case from Shahjahanpur district will also be brought to Bareilly on Tuesday.”“Besides, one of the two positive cases reported in Pilibhit has been tested negative, while the second patient is also showing signs of improvement. We believe they will be recovered and discharged soon. So, they don’t need to be shifted to Bareilly,” added Dr Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-youth-from-mumbai-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-budaun/articleshow/75017326.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 7, 2020||Pune||Close watch on Laxminagar, Kasewadi slums after two deaths||PUNE: The civic body has traced the close contacts of the 40-year-old woman from the Laxminagar slum in Yerawada and the 52-year old man from Kasewadi in Bhavani Peth, who succumbed to Covid-19-associated complications on Sunday. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials on Monday said they have identified 16 people, including 12 family members, who had helped the woman to get hospitalized. The family members of the Kasewadi slum resident have been told to undergo institutional quarantine at the PMC facility. The officials said search was on to identify more people, including relatives, who came in contact with the two persons. The police have, in the meantime, sealed both the slum pockets and directed people living there to stay indoors. The administration has also started checking the health, particularly symptoms such as fever, cold and sneezing, of the Laxminagar and Kasewadi slum residents. Laxminagar is located in the Yerawada goathan area and is surrounded by two other slum pockets. The entire area is densely populated. Local corporators said they were closely monitoring the situation and urged the administration to take quick steps to check the virus spread. A PMC official said, “We have identified the high-risk contacts of the woman who died on Sunday. Her neighbours are also under a close watch. We will shift all those people in quarantine facilities of the PMC as per requirements.” Local corporator Sanjay Bhosale said, “We are appealing to people to not spread any false messages that could create more panic. People should stay at home. Though the area has been sealed, there will not be any shortage of foodgrain supply.” An official from the PMC’s Bhavani Peth ward office said the administration has identified the close relatives and family members of the Kasewadi man who died. “We told them to be in institutional quarantine at Naidu hospital. Some more people in close contact with the deceased in the recent past will be quarantined as well”. Bhvani Peth ward officer Somnath Bankar, “We are tackling the situation in a delicate way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-watch-on-laxminagar-kasewadi-slums-after-2-deaths/articleshow/75018488.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus suspect sends officials in a tizzy||HYDERABAD: A person who was suspected to have contracted coronavirus sent officials in Gandhi Hospital into a tizzy after they thought he had escaped. Hours later, he was traced on another floor. The confusion was owing to the patient moving to different bed from what was assigned to him. “There was some confusion over a patient’s case sheet and taken to different floor. The patient did not make any effort to escape,” DCP (north zone) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said. Sources said a patient from Gadwal was admitted as Covid-19 suspect. “He moved to a different bed on Sunday instead of the allocated bed. He also switched off his mobile phone leading to confusion for some time,” sources said. The hospital staff found him sleeping on different bed. In fact, rumours were doing the rounds on Monday of a patient gone missing till police cleared the air that he was traced within the hospital block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virus-suspect-sends-officials-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/75018491.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Mob attacks Bhopal cops in containment zone, two hurt||BHOPAL: A mob of 15-16 people attacked around a dozen policemen when they stopped them from violating the lockdown in Bhopal’s Talaiyya area late Monday night. Two constables have suffered knife wounds in their hands and shoulders. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has warned that anyone violating the lockdown or hindering coronavirus fight will be booked under NSA. Barely six days ago, a team of health officials was attacked in Indore, triggering countrywide condemnation and NSA charges on four of the accused. Talaiyya was declared a containment zone on Sunday, and a police team was out enforcing it at night. SHO D P Singh said that around 11.15pm, cops found a group of youngsters loitering on a narrow street. When police ordered them to go home, they allegedly attacked the cops with with sticks and knives. Constables Laxman Yadav and Satish Singh were injured. Senior cops rushed to the area with reinforcements but the attackers escaped under the cover of darkness. SHO Singh said police have identified three of the accused, including historysheeter Shahid Kabootar, Majid Mamu and Mohsin Kachori. Teams are out looking for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mob-attacks-bhopal-cops-in-containment-zone-2-hurt/articleshow/75018503.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Surgeons association raises Rs 70 lakh to supply PPE to doctors||HYDERABAD: The Association of Surgeons of India (ASI) has raised Rs 70 lakh for purchasing personal protection equipment (PPE) for healthcare workers and contributed another Rs 23 lakh to the PM-CARES Fund. Of the Rs 70 lakh raised, the association has spent Rs 20 lakh to procure PPE and N95 masks, which will be delivered to the workers by ASI representatives soon. “Within 10 days, the PPE sets will be delivered to the representatives of ASI in every state which, in turn, will be hand delivered to the healthcare workers in the front line,” Dr P Raghu Ram, president, ASI, said. He said ASI representatives would be in touch with health authorities to figure out which public sector hospitals were having a shortage of PPE and deliver them to doctors themselves to cut out middlemen. “There is an acute shortage of PPE, which is endangering the lives of healthcare professionals,” he added. The association has also urged each member to adopt a homeless family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surgeons-assn-raises-rs-70l-to-supply-ppe-to-doctors/articleshow/75018505.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Officials inspect Cutbona jetty for illegal activity||MARGAO: Taking cognizance of the TOI report on April 6 that highlighted the sale of fish at makeshift fish markets and illegal offloading of fish by trawlers, a team of district administration officials and police on Monday visited Cutbona jetty and other fish vending points across the coastal belt of Salcete and took stock of the situation. Deputy collector, Salcete, Shankar Gaonkar told TOI while no violations were observed at the fishing jetty, all persons concerned have been instructed to strictly adhere to the instructions of the fisheries department. “While sale of fish through traditional means and door-to-door is allowed, strict action will be taken against non-traditional fish vendors selling fish at unauthorized places,” Gaonkar said, Fisheries secretary P S Reddy, in a letter addressed to the trawler owners association and fishermen’s societies, had asked them contact the processing units in the state and work out (a mechanism) for sale of fish to various panchayats and municipal areas through insulated trucks or mobile vans. An advisory issued to fishermen on Monday by director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro states that “proper hygiene and sanitary precautions shall be taken into consideration by the respective society while sale of fish is condnucted.” However, the ban on “open” sale of fish by retailers has led to confusion among stakeholders. “There’s ambiguity over how fish is to be sold. While the government has permitted retail sale of fish, the latest advisory by fisheries department says it’s not to be sold in the open,” a wholesale fish trading agent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-inspect-cutbona-jetty-for-illegal-activity/articleshow/75018518.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Beggars, street urchins to be tested||Vadodara: Detection of three COVID-19 cases in Nagarwada has sent alarm bells ringing in health department of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The cases have no known history of travel to a COVID-19 affected place. Such is the sense of urgency that VMC has for the first time begun mass testing of residents of the area for COVID-19. It was during this testing that two positive cases, including the 54-year-old man’s son and a neighbour, were detected. VMC officials said around 70 tests had been conduced and more will be conducted. Eight people from Nagarwada are in quarantine facility on Ajwa Road. Ten others were discharged from the facility after their tests turned negative. Even they have been advised home quarantine. A major concern is the fact that the 54-year-old Nagarwada resident was a part of a group that used to distribute food to poor patients, their relatives, beggars and urchins around SSG Hospital. In the wake of the situation, the civic body has decided to get all beggars and urchins, who used to eat food served by the man, tested. These beggars were shown photograph of the man and asked if they were served food by him. Sources said in all, the samples of 47 urchins and beggars will be collected. Meanwhile, 85 people from Nagarwada-Machhipith areas have been sent to Gotri COVID-19 hospital. These include close contacts of those who have tested positive and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/beggars-street-urchins-to-be-tested/articleshow/75015759.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Where social distancing cramps lives||NEW DELHI: Policemen wearing masks keep a hawkish vigil on residents trying to violate the lockdown. The serpentine lanes, bereft of chaos and crowds, appear lengthier than normal as they cut through the mesh of shanties. But if there is emptiness outside, the homes in the densely populated slum are the antithesis of social distancing. Families with a minimum of five members and up to 10 have a hard time figuring how to maintain a gap among themselves. Holed up in 10ft x10ft rooms, many on rent, without a source of livelihood, they can only worry about what lies ahead. The Indira Kalyan Vihar Camp in Okhla Phase-1 is one of the most congested slums. It is located on the fringe of south Delhi’s upscale and middle-income habitats and normally buzzes with activity with its populace providing cheap labour to the businesses that crowd the Okhla Industrial Area. Its story is also one about the 675-odd slums across Delhi that around 30 lakh people call home. Residents of Indira Kalyan Vihar Camp shared with TOI their wish not to dishonour the lockdown and said they had been washing their hands and squatting in different corners of their rooms in an effort at social distancing. The children have been kept busy with ludo, carrom and television shows. The slum dwellers fully recognise the danger of the novel coronavirus and the heavy price they would have to pay if the infection spread to their shanties. Savita Devi, 35, points to the visuals of Dharavi in Mumbai playing on the TV screen and expresses anxiety. She lives with her husband and four children in one room. It is very hard to convince the younger children to stay cooped up inside all day. But outside, it is a jumble of densely packed single-room matchbox structures where infection can wreak havoc. It’s not all silent in the lanes. Every now and then, a worried resident tries to sneak out to the road in the hope of finding buyers for his vegetables or to reach out to an employer who is withholding wages. However, police are up to such tricks and mostly foil them. Savita Devi candidly reveals that she and husband tried to put up their vegetable stall when things became financially tough. “We tried to sell them on the main road but my husband was thrashed by police for violating the lockdown. We are now managing with whatever we can,” she mumbled. She added that they do sell vegetables to neighbours and make Rs 100-200 a day, but it’s hardly enough to sustain a family. For most slum dwellers, the biggest hassles are visits to the community toilets and the points where they collect water for their daily needs. Some informal rules regarding toilets and community water pipes now allow only four families to fill water from one pipe from 7am to 9am. However, these social distancing efforts flounder given the population numbers. The women wait in their white chalk circles for their turn to fill their 10-litre cans, but often enough patience wears thin and it is only the watchful presence of police that keeps order intact. For many, the lockdown means a daily fight against hunger. In her 30s, Akhtari Khatoon has six children. Her husband is a helper at a factory but is yet to be paid his wages. The family is surviving on the dry rations donated by some good Samaritans. The situation is worse for people like 55-year-old Shiv Janam, who is disabled and is stranded at the camp with his nephew. His children live in Ghazipur in UP. Hopping around on one foot, he works as a factory hand to make ends meet. But with his employer leaving for Rajasthan due to the lockdown, Janam, who lost his ration card when his bag was stolen in a train, will have problems getting foodgrain, though Delhi government has offered rations even to those without a ration card. He is surviving at the mercy of other slum residents and can only ask, “For how long?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/where-social-distancing-cramps-lives/articleshow/75018017.cms||Ambika Pandit
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Complete shutdown in Khadki Bazaar||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) on Monday enforced a total shutdown in Khadki Bazaar till Wednesday after an autorickshaw driver from the area tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. Only milk and medical shops will remain open. As a precautionary step, the board has restricted access to areas within the 3km radius of the patient’s house. The board has started spraying disinfectant in the area and conducting house-to-house surveys to find people who might be showing symptoms of infection, chief executive officer of KCB Pramod Kumar Singh said. A total of 14 people, including four members from the patient’s family, tested negative for the contagion. They will be in home quarantine for two weeks, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/complete-shutdown-in-khadki-bazaar/articleshow/75018497.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||34 new cases in Pune, most close contacts of patients||PUNE: Thirty-four fresh cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, most of which are the family members or close contacts of people found infected earlier. Some of them are low-income group residents of the Peth areas while others are slum dwellers. Currently, condition of four infected patients undergoing treatment at different hospitals is critical. “We are observing a pattern in positive cases these days. Most of them are family members or close contacts of positive patients, which is a good sign as we can now trace the source of infection. Again, most of them are people from low-income category or slum dwellers and that is a concern,” said a civic health official. The 34 infected individuals are mainly the residents of Laxminagar slum (Yerawada), Natawadi slum (Shivajinagar), Budhwar Peth, Ghorpadigaon, Guruwar Peth and Kondhwa. “Almost all of them are people from the lower socio-economic strata,” another health official said. Of the 34 people, seven are admitted at Sassoon General Hospital for treatment. With teh fresh cases, the total number of positive cases in PMC limits has surged to 96, out of which 15 have recovered and discharged. A total of 21 people have tested positive in PCMC limits and 24 patients are undergoing treatment at the Sasooon General Hospital. The 42 quarantined surgeons and resident doctors of a hospital tested negative for Covid-19 infection on Monday. The test reports of hospital’s 52 quarantined paramedics are awaited. A total 94 healthcare staffers of the hospital were quarantined after a trauma-patient they performed an emergency surgery on turned positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night. “Our 42 residents doctors and surgeons have tested negative after their throat swab samples were analysed at the NIV. The reports of our paramedic staffers are awaited,” the hospital’s dean said. The patient, an autorickshaw driver from Khadki, was he was rushed to hospital on March 31 after he met with an accident. Doctors performed an emergency surgery on him. He later developed fever and tested positive for the contagion. There was no increase in number of Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Monday. “The total number of positive patients found in PCMC limits remains 21,” Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner, said, adding that 12 patients had been discharged after recovery. Field surveillance teams have completed survey of 2.45 lakh homes in PCMC limits so far. Swabs of 529 persons were collected and sent for analysis to NIV so far. Out of these, negative reports of 445 persons have been received. Reports of 64 persons are still awaited. Till now, 1,795 persons have been home-quarantined in the municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-new-cases-in-pune-most-close-contacts-of-patients/articleshow/75018506.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 7, 2020||Pune||Cops in Pune help in evacuation of 60 US citizens||PUNE: Police facilitated transportation of about 60 US nationals, mostly people of Indian origin stranded in the city following the nationwide lockdown, to the Mumbai airport late on Saturday night.  The US government has started evacuating stranded US citizens. Senior inspector Ashok Kadam of Warje Malwadi police said, “On Saturday, US Embassy officials informed the city police about the evacuation of 60 of its stranded citizens in Pune. We alerted them to gather at Warje.” A US embassy official was travelling with three buses carrying 82 US nationals from Goa. The buses were to reach Warje at 6pm to pick up the US citiznes, but they got late. “We arranged for their tea and snacks. A place was demarcated for them to sit in accordance with social distancing norms,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-help-in-evacuation-of-60-us-citizens/articleshow/75018521.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Cops issues advisory for EMI deferment||AURANGABAD: The city cybercell has warned of necessary precautions to the masses on the backdrop of the banks warning of a possible cyber attack in wake of the EMI moratorium announced a few days back. As per the communication made by the banks with customers, a new modus operandi of cybercrime has been started by fraudsters to exploit the ongoing crisis due to Covid-19. “In such frauds, customers get calls asking them to share OTP to postpone their loan EMIs. Once the OTP is shared, the amount is immediately siphoned away by fraudsters,” the communication reads, requesting customers not to share OTP. The officers attached with the cybercell of Aurangabad police said people with existing loans must be extra careful to avoid any trouble. “The fraudsters constantly search new tricks to fool their targets. The EMI deferment has served as an opportunity for these criminal elements to deceive bank customers. Customers must not fall prey such tactics,” a senior police official said. The cyber sleuths have also appealed not to share any bank account details and confidential information such as PIN, CVV or credit/debit card number to anyone on the phone. “The online phishing rackets plant their numbers posing as official numbers to trap people. The contact numbers of leading banks and different online and offline services, including LPG gas agencies, found to have made a target by the fraudsters to deceive people by devising improvised and sophisticated modus operandi,” authorities said. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, some of the leading banks have announced moratorium period by which borrowers need not have to pay EMI towards a loan for a stipulated period||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-issues-advisory-for-emi-deferment/articleshow/75017333.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Expedite steel bridge work: Telangana minister KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: GHMC is widening the road adjacent to the Punjagutta graveyard for construction of the steel bridge. Officials have said that 80% of the foundation of the Rs 23 crore steel bridge has been completed so far. On Monday, KT Rama Rao, minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) inspected the bridge and directed officials to expedite the bridge construction and work during the day as well. Usually, the work is executed only in the night to avoid traffic congestion. Road widening and rectification of black spots on the Punjagutta —Chutneys stretch is costing around Rs 595 lakh. “We are planning to complete the construction of the bridge by May 31,” said Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expedite-steel-bridge-work-says-ktr/articleshow/75018516.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||IIT R professor develops app to track Covid-19 suspects, positive cases||Roorkee: An IIT Roorkee professor has developed a mobile application to keep track of all Covid-19 suspects and positive cases, during and after their quarantine period. The app sends out an alert in case a person steps out of quarantine. “The surveillance system developed by civil engineering professor Kamal Jain will greatly help in tracking Covid-19 patients and suspects,” said Ajit K Chaturvedi, director of IIT-Roorkee. The app, named “Covid-tracer”, will create a geo-fence around a coronavirus positive patient or a suspect. If the geo-fencing is violated by the quarantined person, the app will send out an alert. In case a device doesn’t receive GPS signal, the location will be obtained automatically through triangulation of mobile towers. If internet is not working in a certain area, the app will let a device detect the location of a suspect or an infected person through an SMS. If the application stops working on a device, an alert will be received immediately. The app allows the sharing of photographs of quarantined persons and places using Google maps and uploading a geotag image to a server. Furthermore, administrators can view all reports on a map. “To get this application functional, a user, preferably the head of an isolation centre, can approach us and we will get him registered to our webpage with an ID and a password. Once he downloads the tracking application on his mobile, it can be shared with devices of suspects and positive cases,” Jain told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-professor-develops-app-to-track-covid-19-suspects-positive-cases/articleshow/75017332.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||With 44 cases, E Ward’s Mum Central, Byculla 2nd worst hit||Mumbai: The BMC’s E-Ward, which comprises areas such as Byculla and Mumbai Central, is turning out to be a hotbed of Covid-19 cases in the city. From 19 positive cases on Saturday, the number spiked to 44 on Sunday, and more were reported on Monday. E Ward only trails G-South with areas such as Worli and Prabhadevi that lead with 68 cases, up from 58 on Saturday. Local Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav said E Ward has seen a spurt in cases as several nurses from Wockhardt Hospital tested positive. He said, “We are aware people are being inconvenienced and therefore, wherever possible, we are trying to reach out with food to those in need of it.” Another local corporator from the area, Samajwadi party’s Rais Shaikh, blamed the surge on poor monitoring of the areas. “Maharashtra’s chief minister should take cognizance of how lightly the officials of the ward took tracing of high risk contacts. Nor was there any proper mechanism in place to mark out containment zones. Strict action should be taken against those responsible for the rise,” said Shaikh, pointing to a 52-year-old’s death in his ward at Sankli Street. Meanwhile, G-South Ward has the most cases in the city at 68. — Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-44-cases-e-wards-mum-central-byculla-2nd-worst-hit/articleshow/75017344.cms||Richa Pinto
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lions monitored by forest department||AHMEDABAD: A running nose, fever, severe body ache, fatigue and other flu-like symptoms have become a cause of worry not only for humans but animals as well. After a tiger at the Bronx zoo in New York tested positive for respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus, the Gujarat forest department sounded a high alert with regard to the disease spreading in Asiatic lions in Gujarat. Symptoms of flu are well displayed in big cats, experts say. Wildlife experts and officials working on lion conservation in Gir and its proximity, point out that the recent deaths of 8-12 lions in the Dhari area is likely due to a disease. “The exact cause of the deaths is not yet known and investigations are on,” they said. The deaths of as many as 29 lions due to tick-borne babesiosis and the canine distemper virus (CDV) in two months in 2018 had become a major concern for the authorities and wildlife experts. With the tiger at Bronx zoo becoming the first case recorded instance of a human infecting an animal and making it sick, Gujarat forest department authorities are making all-round efforts to ensure the lions are protected from this highly contagious disease. The chances of Gujarat lions being infected with Covid-19 are very low as they live in the wild, unlike the tiger at the New York zoo, said a forest official. “There is little scope for any close encounter between humans and the lions. As far as animals in captivity are concerned, all Central Zoo Authorities (CZA) guidelines will be strictly followed. The caretaker of the tiger in Bronx zoo was infected with Covid-19,” a state forest official said. “Apart from precautions at Sakarbaug Zoo in Junagadh, the forest department team involved in the monitoring and surveillance of Asiatic lions have been put on an alert. We have asked them to keep close watch on animals found to be coughing or having a running nose or fever,” said D Vasavada, chief conservator of forests, Junagadh. If a lion is unwell or suffering from a cold or fever, it will isolate itself and sit still, he explained. Like humans, lions also give up their food when sick, indicating that something is wrong with their health, Vasavada added. A senior forest official involved in surveillance said that by Tuesday evening a total check of all the animals in the wild is likely to be completed and animals will be brought in for treatment if required. He said that usually, on seeing a beat guard, the animal tries to intimidate him, but when it is sick it behaves differently, allowing the guard to inspect it. Their skin colour also changes and turns pale when a big cat is unwell, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lions-monitored-by-forest-department/articleshow/75018020.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Disinfectant shower to help keep men in khaki safe||PUNE: The city police’s motor transport (MT) department has commissioned a modified mobile sanitisation van, which will spray a shower of disinfectants on police personnel to help them stay safe in time of Covid-19. "One of the modified mobile police vans started providing service on Monday and another was expected to be commissioned on Tuesday," MT officer Tarshu Bawaskar told TOI on Monday. He said, "The van is fitted with a tank that can hold up to 400 litres of disinfectant liquid, besides, plastic curtains and a pipeline of sprinklers fitted on the ceiling and the entrance of the rear carriage. Once the sprinklers are turned on, the police personnel can simply walk into the rear carriage and take a shower of disinfectants before coming out. The vehicle has a capacity to sanitise 1,000 policemen following which the tank needs to be replenished for the next round of service." Additional commissioner of police (administration) Sanjay Shinde had mooted the proposal for protecting police personnel engaged in execution of directives by government agencies during the lockdown. Police commissioner K Venkatesham and joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve approved the same and the MT department took merely three days to modify police vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disinfectant-shower-to-help-keep-men-in-khaki-safe/articleshow/75018517.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 7, 2020||India||KCR suggests lockdown be extended, UP too hints at it||HYDERABAD/LUCKNOW: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday suggested that the nationwide lockdown should be extended for a couple of weeks to contain the spread of coronavirus. He has sent his suggestion to PM Narendra Modi even as Uttar Pradesh hinted that the lockdown could be extended. “In the past few days, the number of cases in UP has gone up because of Tablighi Jamaat attendees, who are more than half the total cases in the state. It would be premature to presume at this point that lockdown will be lifted on April 14,” said UP’s additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. KCR suggested the curbs should be lifted after June 3. “To the best of my knowledge and experience, a lockdown is the only weapon to contain the spread of coronavirus cases in the country. It should continue for the next one or two weeks to deal with the situation,” he told reporters. Referring to a report by Boston Consulting Group, he said for countries like India, lockdown was the only mantra to deal with the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kcr-suggests-lockdown-be-extended-up-too-hints-at-it/articleshow/75018869.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi doctors have PPE kits to last 10 days||NEW DELHI: Days after the Aam Aadmi Party government asked the Union government to provide 50,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for the protection of the healthcare workers engaged with Covid-19 patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the Centre for allotting 27,000 sets of the protective gear which, he added, would be available in Delhi hospitals in a day or two. Sources said these PPE kits would meet requirements for 9-10 days. Meanwhile, East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir also announced on Monday that he had procured 1,000 PPE kits for Delhi. Gambhir offered Rs50 lakh from his MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund to help Delhi government buy PPE gear and masks for the health workers. He also asked the CM where he should send 1,000 PPE sets he had procured. Kejriwal responded to say that the problem was not money but the availability of protective medical kits. Addressing a digital press conference on Monday evening, Kejriwal appreciated the Centre’s move to provide 27,000 PPE sets for Delhi. “Delhi government, central government and the people are collectively fighting the battle against coronavirus. I hope we overcome it very soon,” the CM said. Government officials said the Centre has sent the PPE for disinfection to Defence Research and Development Organisation and would be available at the state-run hospitals in a day or two. Each PPE kit comprises a surgeon’s gown, face mask, gloves, preventive eyewear, hood cap and shoe covers. According to officials, Delhi requires 3,000 PPE sets every day, but the state had just 4,000 left on Monday, apart from a few hundred available in three state-run hospitals designated to treat Covid-19 patients. In addition to the central allocation, Delhi government itself has placed orders for a cumulative 1.2 lakh sets, which is delivered in small batches of 3,000-4,000 every other day. Apart from this, some individuals and corporates have also pledged around 4,000 sets, which, would arrive in a day or two. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had worried on Saturday that Delhi’s stock of PPE had reduced to around 7,500, adequate for just 2-3 days and urged the Centre to provide 50,000 immediately. Jain described the local supply of PPE kits as “scarce”. On Monday, the east Delhi MP alleged that Delhi government had refused to take money from his funds. Gambhir’s tweet said, “Though their massive egos didn't allow them to take 50 L from my LAD fund earlier, I pledge 50 L more so that innocents don't suffer! 1 CR would at least solve urgent need for masks & PPE kits for days Hope they prioritize Delhi.” To this, Kejriwal responded that the problem was not availability of money to buy the gear, but the availability of PPE. The MP, citing deputy CM Manish Sisodia claiming “shortage” of funds for PPE, retorted, “Arvind ji, first ur deputy claims shortage of funds. Now u contradict him & say there is shortage of kits. Anyway, procured 1,000 PPE kits. Please let me know where they can be delivered. Time for talks is over, it is time to ACT. Eagerly waiting for ur response #DelhiNeedsHonesty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-docs-have-kits-to-last-10-days/articleshow/75018054.cms||Atul Mathur
April 7, 2020||Goa||One held for illegal transport of fish||MARGAO: Cuncolim police on Sunday night arrested a driver of a Kerala-registered truck, Abdul Matiz, who was engaged in transportation of fish from Mobor. President of Cutbona Boat Owners Association Savio D’Silva, who stopped the truck and complained to the police, was also arrested for violating lockdown restrictions. Both were arrested under sections 269 and 188 of the IPC. D’Silva was released on bail on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-held-for-illegal-transport-of-fish/articleshow/75018534.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to cut MLA salaries: Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: With the Union government proposing an ordinance to slash the salaries of the Prime Minister, Union cabinet ministers and members of Parliament in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, Gujarat government has decided to bring in an ordinance to cut the salaries of MLAs. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Monday that all MLAs will face a 30% cut in salaries with effect from April 1, and an ordinance to this effect will be issued shortly. In 2018, the salaries and perks of Gujarat MLAs had been raised by around 65%. Prior to the 2018 hike, the salaries and allowances of MLAs had been last revised in 2005. Dy CM and finance minister Nitin Patel said, “It is obvious that after the central government’s move, we will have to implement the step in Gujarat as well. We have decided today to bring an ordinance to implement similar 30% cut in salaries of all Gujarat assembly members with immediate effect from April 1. The ordinance will be issued shortly.’’ The Salaries and Allowances of Members, Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Gujarat Legislative Assembly, Ministers and Leader of Opposition Laws (Amendment) Bill 2018, was passed in September 2018 with support from both ruling party and opposition MLAs in the assembly. It was a windfall for 182 Gujarat MLAs, who got a whopping 65% hike in their monthly salaries. The salary of every MLA was raised from just over Rs 70,000 to Rs 1.16 lakh per month. Ministers and those in key posts in the state assembly are now drawing a monthly package including salary and perks of over Rs 1.32 lakh. Paresh Dhanani, leader of opposition (LOP) when asked, said, “Congress was the first party to announce a donation from its MLAs to fight Covid-19. Congress has always stood with the people in any crisis. We will support any pro-people decision.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-to-cut-mla-salaries/articleshow/75018026.cms||Kapil Dave
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Posters, audio clips in policeman’s arsenal against coronavirus fight||PUNE: As soon as the lockdown was announced, people made a beeline to shops selling vegetables and groceries in Rasta Peth, Somwar Peth and Nana Peth. Sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure of Samarth police station realised the danger of people gathering in large numbers at shops and convinced the owners to pull down the shutters. He announced that the shops would open the next morning. Kapure along with the shopowners drew boxes on the road to help customers maintain social distancing. He also made some awareness posters, urging people to remain indoors and follow the principles of social distancing. "One of our constables, Sonal Makar, came up with idea of audio clips. Makar herself narrated the awareness messages, which were recorded. Then we hired four autorickshaws and installed speakers on them. The audio clips were played regularly in different areas," Kapure said. Then naka bandi points were installed at the different chowks and roads in the Peth areas. "We identified two-wheelers and cars which were out on the road without any valid reason. At first, we decided to shame the drivers by asking them to hold printouts stating, ‘I am enemy of the society’ but the motorists continued to neglect the law and kept driving on the road. In the last few days we seized 352 motorcycles and scooters and issued warnings and notices to over 100 people," he said. About four days ago, the police station received information that the around 10 to 12 families of construction workers had no food with them. We rushed to the site with food. Later, we contacted the builder and asked him to take care of their food requirements," he said. On his way home, he calls his wife to switch on the geyser. "I remove my shoes after parking my motorcycle. My wife keeps the door open for me and I directly go to the bathroom and take a shower. I do not allow my two children to even come near me. I have to keep them away from me to ensure their safety," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/posters-audio-clips-in-policemans-arsenal-against-coronavirus-fight/articleshow/75018523.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 infected woman tests negative after 2 weeks of treatment||Pilibhit: A 73-year-old woman who returned to Pilibhit from Saudi Arabia last month carrying Covid-19 infection, has tested negative after undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of district government hospital for the past two weeks.The recovery is a minor miracle, considering the age of the patient, when the immune system is expected to weaken drastically. Her test report from the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) was received by the health department on Sunday night.However, the 33-year-old son of the elderly woman continues to fight with the infection, after his second test report confirmed him to be still positive.“We’ve sent a third sample of the elderly woman to KGMU on Monday, and if it too tests negative, she will be released,” said Dr C M Chaturvedi, the additional chief medical officer in Pilibhit.Her son will be tested again next week to gauge the degree of improvement in his condition. Chaturvedi said he hoped the son, whose health was showing signs of improvement, will test negative in the next test.Besides the woman and her son, seven other people suspected of carrying the infection, who had returned to Pilibhit from Delhi on March 21, have also tested negative for the virus. Elsewhere, a health department team shifted four residents of Punjabiyan locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station with the help of police, to the government quarantine facility on Monday.The administration was alerted about them by neighbours, as they had concealed their travel history information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-infected-woman-tests-negative-after-2-weeks-of-treatment/articleshow/75017358.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IMA: Give govt hospitals more testing equipment||Visakhapatnam: Doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Vizag, have pointed out that given the rapidly increasing Covid-19 cases in the district and state, four PCR (polymerase chain reaction) machines which are available with major private diagnostic labs in the city can be put to use for enhanced testing facilities. The IMA is seeking permission from ICMR to shift these machines to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) and Gitam Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) for more testing per day. The IMA has also asked the government for separate and secured accommodation for doctors directly dealing with Covid-19 patients. Speaking to TOI, IMA president Dr PA Ramani said, “Vizag should be prepared for more number of positive cases and suspected cases in the coming days. One of the ways to control the spread is testing of public with cough and cold or even mild fever. It is advisable to be ready with more testing centres and kits right away.” “Currently we have one virology lab at King George Hospita. Apart from it, there are a few private labs which have PCR machines. We have submitted a representation to ICMR to either allow private labs to conduct tests or borrow the machines,” added Dr Ramani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ima-give-govt-hospitals-more-testing-equipment/articleshow/75016260.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: He gets dirty to keep your area spick and span||SECUNDERABAD: The streets of residential colonies in Bowenpally, Secunderabad Cantonment, are swept clean every morning despite the lockdown, thanks to the safaiwalas (cleaning staff) of the Cantonment Board. G Laxman, a safaiwala, arrives at the SCB office by 6.30 am on his bicycle and works for nearly eight hours. Along with him, arrive 15 other workers, who clean a stretch of five to eight kilometres everyday. They collect nearly one tonne of garbage a day and dump it in bins. “I am determined to keep my city clean,” Laxman told TOI, adding that he also tends to underground drainage (UGD) work in addition to sweeping. “I also tend to complaints regarding blockage of underground drainage because I know how to clear it,” said the 56-year-old. In his tenure of 33 years, Laxman said he never applied for leaves and completed his duties even when the weather did not favour him. “I started working in 1987 with a salary of Rs 900. I believe it is the broomstick that has been feeding my family for years now,” said Laxman, who recently bought a house in Kothapet on loan. According to him, although he has not received any recognition for his work from the higher-ups, it is the compliments of the residents of this city that is a prize for him. Few residents who spoke to TOI said that they treat Laxman as their family because of his dedication towards work. “All of us residents need to salute safaiwalas like Laxman who work to keep our areas clean throughout the year,” said Bhaskar Reddy, a resident of Soujanya Colony at Bowenpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/he-gets-dirty-to-keep-your-area-spick-and-span/articleshow/75018525.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Help poor during lockdown: Najaf Ali||Hyderabad: Mir Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Mir Osman Ali Khan, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, urged people to combat the spread of Covid-19 while observing the 134th birth anniversary of Osman Ali Khan on Monday. He said that people in the lower income group and daily-wage workers have been affected the most during the lockdown. “Let us take care of those who are not privileged like us, and donate essentials like rice, milk, and other groceries to those in your locality. It doesn’t make a lot of difference to us when we donate, but it does to the ones who receive. Help them by easing their worries about how to get their next meal without their daily jobs. Take the initiative and help them not with money but with basic necessities,” said Khan. He said that the last Nizam is still remembered as a highly benevolent ruler who always thought of providing the best modern facilities to his people irrespective of caste or religion. “In view of the present situation, I have decided not to visit the grave of my grandfather Mir Osman Ali Khan so that all of us become responsible citizens and practice social distancing to curb the spread of the virus,” he said. He said that the Nizam’s government had set up a separate quarantine facility for patients suffering from cholera and the gramophone was used to spread awareness among the public on hygiene. “People were vaccinated in a mass vaccination drive,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-poor-during-lockdown-najaf-ali/articleshow/75018531.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||1 arrested for spreading hate||Ahmedabad: Two complaints of uploading abusive material on social media were registered at cybercrime police station on Sunday. In one of the complaints, cyber cell sleuths arrested a man named Umar Khan for uploading abusive material on his Facebook account while the other, who is yet to be arrested had posted similar abusive material from a Facebook account named Bhura kaka laptop. According to cyber cell officials both have been booked under Section 294(a) of IPC and sections of IT act. In the first case, Umar Khan had uploaded the objectionable messages on April 1. “We got his IP log address and arrested him from Walled City area. In the other case, abusive language against a community was posted from the account Bhura kaka laptop,on March 28, twice on March 30, on March 31 and on April 1,” said Inspector V B Barad of cyber cell. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-arrested-for-spreading-hate/articleshow/75018031.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Consumers complain of essentials’ shortage in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Thirteen days into the lockdown, certain areas in the city are faced with a shortage of basic supplies — bread, eggs and milk. There’s also a thin inflow of pulses and wheat at some local kirana shops, say residents. While online stores are better stocked, the high demand has made it difficult for them to get a delivery slot, they add. “The general stores in our area that open for two-three hours each day do not have any fresh supply of milk,” said Saira Ahmed, a resident of Kundanbagh in Begumpet. “Even the curd and buttermilk stock is mostly expired. It is clear that they haven’t received any stock lately,” she added. For residents of Toli Chowki, it was essentials such as pulses, wheat and flour that were in short supply on Monday. “Most of the shelves were empty at the local stores. I could not get even half the things that were on my list,” said Nasreen F, a resident of Arvind Nagar Colony in Toli Chowki. In supermarkets of Somajiguda, buyers were seen queuing up for eggs that was available only in limited quantity. While many turned to online retail stores, hoping to find stocks, they failed to find a delivery slot owing to a massive backlog of orders. “One has to be really luck to find a slot. Most of the times there aren’t available,” said Anushka, an app developer based in Gachibowli. Grocery items apart, some medical shop owners in places such as Somajiguda reported a shortage of masks, sanitisers and handwashes. Also hard to get is pet food with most products out of stock, especially in online stores, said pet owners who are now scanning local pet shops for supplies. “I have two pets. I always stock up on their food when I order online, but this time I could not get an available slot, so I had to look at local stores, but even they were mostly out of wet food. I could only get my hands on some dry food products,” said Megha S, a resident of Road No 87, Jubilee Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumers-complain-of-essentials-shortage-in-city/articleshow/75018540.cms||Arya Sharan
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Viral video shows doctor ask deceased’s face be shown to kin, raises protocol worries||MUMBAI: Following the death of a 52-year-old man at St George Hospital from coronavirus, allegations about staffers being unaware of protocols involved in disposing of bodies and a doctor demanding that the deceased’s face be shown to family members, have come forth on Monday. A video making all these allegations went viral. In the video, a nurse is seen saying how after the man’s death, doctors were unwilling to extubate (remove tube). She claimed nurses had to persuade them for at least an hour. The nurse was also heard saying the staffers did not know how to wear or remove PPEs. One of the staffers removed the hazmat suit and almost flung it. There were no attempts to isolate staffers who came in contact with the patient admitted on April 1 with fever and breathlessness. His positive report came on April 4. The staffer alleged one of the doctors demanded the family be allowed to see the man’s face for the last time. The nurse, though, is heard saying they took four hours to wrap the body as per the bio-hazard safety protocols and refused to heed the demand. Dr T P Lahane who heads Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) called the nurses’ allegations baseless. “How can a patient be declared dead without extubating? We have found it was the first Covid-19 case for the hospital and they were taken by surprise,” he said. Lahane added staffers at St George have been trained thrice in PPE use. TOI has verified NGO United Way trained 60 nurses but not other staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/viral-video-shows-doc-ask-deceaseds-face-be-shown-to-kin-raises-protocol-worries/articleshow/75018060.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Extensive screening of GMCH-Aurangabad doctors and staff after nurse tests positive||AURANGABAD: Doctors, nurses and the support staff of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad were screened for coronavirus after a 38-year-old male nurse, posted in the casualty department, tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday night. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar confirmed on Monday morning that the nurse was Covid-19-positive with mild symptoms. He is currently being treated at the Covid-19 management facility in the cardiovascular thoracic surgery (CVTS) building of the GMCH. Earlier, several GMCH resident doctors had raised concerns about the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) and N-95 masks for the medical staff working in the emergency services and Covid-19 management ward. On Sunday, the GMCH administration had assured the doctors that the necessary protective gear will be provided. On Monday, the representatives of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (Mard), GMCH, said the protective gear had been provided. Since the affected nurse was not posted in the Covid-19 management ward, but still got infected, the doctors and nurses working in the emergency services and in OPD sought screening to rule out the infection’s spread. The hospital’s medicine department carried out the screening of 115 resident doctors and medical staff who came in contact with the affected nurse in the OPD building on Monday. Based on the duty hours of the nursing staff, the hospital made two lists — a high-risk contacts list comprising those who came in close contact with the infected nurse, and a low-risk contact list with names of those who were on duty with the infected nurse but had not come in close contact. “Throat swab samples of seven high-risk contacts have been collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis. As many as 25 of the doctors have been sent on three-day home quarantine and 88 low-risk contacts are on prophylaxis i.e. they are advised hydroxychloroquine tablet to prevent infection or reduce its severity,” dean Yelikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/extensive-screening-of-gmch-docs-and-staff-asger-nurse-tests-positive/articleshow/75017390.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad girl tests negative for Covid-19, to be discharged soon||Bareilly: The Moradabad health department has confirmed that the first Covid-19 case in the district — a resident of Mundha Pande in Moradabad who had tested positive in March — has tested negative for the infection on Sunday. The sample of the girl, a student, was sent to Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh earlier this month. Another sample will be sent for examination. If that too tests negative, she will be discharged, said officials. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr M C Garg said, “An earlier sample, which tested positive, was collected on March 28. However, a recent sample report has found her negative for Covid-19. One more sample will be collected and sent for examination. If that too reports negative, she will be discharged following due process.” The 19-year old, who had travelled to France, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21. Since then, she has been admitted in the isolation ward of district hospital for treatment. She had returned from France, where she studies, to Delhi on March 15, and was later diagnosed with Covid-19 in Moradabad, after the district administration tracked residents with recent foreign travel history, collected their samples and sent them for testing to JNMC. The CMO added, “The final sample will be sent for testing shortly. This will decide further course of action. If the second report is negative, hopefully, she will be discharged. Her family was also home quarantined soon after their daughter returned from France, but no one has complained of flu-like symptoms in the 14-day quarantine period, which they have completed. Yet, we’ll ask them to take adequate precautionary measures and follow routine checkups once the patient is discharged.” Moradabad district administration in March tracked down around 200 locals with recent travel history to foreign countries, of which only one Covid-19 positive case was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-girl-tests-negative-for-covid-19-to-be-discharged-soon/articleshow/75017396.cms||Maria Khan
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Officials reach out to seniors in Salt Lake, New Town||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) officials have reached out to senior citizens living in the sparsely populated township, where some areas are still evolving. The elderly residents said they had been receiving calls from NKDA officials, asking about their health and requirement of essentials. The state panchayat and rural development department officials have also stepped in to help senior citizens in New Town. They have sought the help of police and NKDA to identify the homes of elderly people, whom they contacted to take orders for grocery, vegetables, fish and meat that are being delivered to their doorsteps. The officials of West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, an autonomous agency under the panchayat department, are offering similar services following the minister Subrata Mukherjee’s suggestion. The NKDA has distributed masks to the elderly so that they can wear it while stepping out of their homes. But the shortage of medicine at pharmacies in the township remains a sore point. A medicine retailer said that the shops in New Town were trying to tie up with retailers in Kolkata to pick up the deliveries from wholesale agents and later supply them to the shops. Nearly all medicine shops have stopped offering discounts, citing additional expense on transportation. Some senior citizens also pointed at the difficulty they faced in getting medicines from the central government’s health scheme dispensary in Salt Lake. NKDA officials have assured them that they will take up the issue with the competent authority and check whether some local medicines shops can be tagged with the Salt Lake dispensary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/officials-reach-out-to-seniors-in-salt-lake-new-town/articleshow/75018033.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Brace for more +ve cases in next few days, says CM||Hyderabad: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said the state could see 100-110 more Covid-19 cases in the next few days, even as the state reported 30 new positive ones, taking the total count to 364 in the state. Authorities said except one or two cases, all the new Covid-19 positives patients were returnees from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin. “As of now, 308 patients are being treated in Gandhi hospital. We are expecting another 100 to 110 cases, as 600 coronavirus test results are expected in a day or two,” KCR said. On Monday, 10 cases were reported from Nizamabad district and six from Suryapet. So far, 45 people have been discharged from various hospitals after they tested negative for the virus, with 12 more sent home on Monday. Another 15 more will be discharged in the next two days, said KCR. “In our state we have two phases of coronavirus positive cases. The first phase cases were those, who had come to the state from various countries and their contacts. Of the 25,937 people who returned from foreign countries, only 50 tested positive for Covid 19. The second phase was related to participants of Tablighi Jamaat at Markaz Nizamuddin in Delhi,” chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao told the media. “The first phase is expected to be closed in a day or two, while the second phase is expected to continue for few more days,” He said. According to their reports 1,089 people attended the religious meeting in Delhi and 30 more people were untraceable and believed to be in Delhi due to lockdown. Of these Tablighis participants, 172 were infected with the virus and 93 more got the disease as they were the primary contacts of the positive cases, the chief minister said and added another 3,105 people, who had travelled or contacted with these positive cases are either home quarantined or isolated. He said about 18,000 beds and a pool of 25,000 doctors, paramedical staff, nurses and laboratory technicians has been kept ready and would join duties over a phone, if required. He appealed to the participants of the religious programme in Delhi to come forward voluntarily and get them tested for the deadly virus. “Initially at some places, people did not cooperate, but now they are cooperating with the health officials. Once again, I appeal the people to cooperate with the government authorities,” the CM said. In the wake of some private hospitals treating coronavirus cases in this district, CM said only eight designated hospitals can test Covid 19 cases and only Gandhi hospital can treat positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brace-for-more-ve-cases-in-next-few-days-says-cm/articleshow/75018043.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||Seven-year-old raped, accused arrested||Bareilly: A seven-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a 28-year-old man, a farmer, in Hafizganj area of Bareilly district on Monday morning. He has been arrested. This is the second case of a sexual crime against a minor in Bareilly district since the lockdown was enforced. Earlier, an eight-year-old girl was killed after a failed rape attempt in Fatehganj West area on March 29. According to the survivor's mother, the girl had gone to deliver food to her father and uncle who were harvesting wheat, when a local farmer, Jhabbu Das, 28, allegedly accosted her, pressed her mouth and dragged her into a sugarcane field, where he raped her. After the assault, girl returned home and narrated her ordeal to her mother. Her mother immediately called police and an FIR was registered at Hafizganj police station. The accused, who fled after the assault, was found hiding in a sugarcane field outside the village. He was arrested Mahendra Singh Yadav, SHO, told TOI, “We immediately registered an FIR under IPC section 376 (rape) and provisions of POCSO Act against Das." The accused is unmarried and he will be sent to jail on Tuesday, SHO Yadav said . The girl's statement was recorded in the presence of a woman constable after she was provided medical treatment at a community health centre, the SHO added. "We have also recorded the statements of a few locals and found that the girl was not known to the accused," Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-year-old-raped-accused-arrested/articleshow/75017421.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO aids 2,000 families in Beed with grocery kits||AURANGABAD: An NGO in Beed is giving out vegetables and grocery kits to 2,000 families and has set a target of helping 1,000 more as long as long as the lockdown is in effect. On any given day, the Khidmat-e-Khalq and Welfare Trust of Beed coordinates with the vegetable sellers in Adat Market, collects the leftovers, sorts the vegetables in good condition and gives them to the needy families for free. The NGO also collects leftover food in weddings and distributes it among those in need. It also provides clothes to poor people during festive occasions like Eid and Diwali. However, with the lockdown in place, many offices and establishments are shut that has rendered thousands of people jobless. In wake of this crisis, the NGO has decided to change its strategy of helping. According to president of the NGO Maulana Abdul Baqi, the organisation has a list of 2,000 people who have been divided in three categories—people with disabilities who are unable to earn a livelihood, women who are left to fend for themselves in the absence of a male breadwinner and those who had jobs but are now in a survival crisis due to the lockdown. “We started planning as soon as the lockdown was announced on March 24. We are providing grocery kits comprising 5kg rice, 5kg flour, oil, spices and tea to 200 to 300 families every day. Now, we have also started providing them raw materials to cook khichdi at home,” said Baqi. 15 volunteers are working day in and day out to pack the kits and deliver them at the doorstep of the poor people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-aids-2000-families-in-beed-with-grocery-kits/articleshow/75017417.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||200 patients shifted to other hospitals as MR Bangur gears up for corona battle||KOLKATA: MR Bangur Hospital has shifted over 200 patients, including those in critical care, neo-natal and burn unit, to several other hospitals in the city as it is set to become an exclusive hospital to treat Covid-19 patients. By Monday evening, only 56 patients, including 26 in the burn ward, remained in the hospital. They will also be shifted soon. Till the last report came in, only 26 patients in the burn unit were left to be relocated along with a few others in the critical care unit and two newborns in the neonatal intensive care unit. “After discharging around 50-odd non-critical patients, we started shifting other patients to various hospitals like Sambhunath Pandit Hospital and SSKM Hospital from Sunday night. By Monday evening, we have relocated over 200 patients, including 40-plus critical patients in the burn unit. Disinfected ambulances were used to move the latter. We believe all patients will be moved out by Tuesday evening and both the buildings of MR Bangur Hospital can operate as a full fledged Covid-19 hospital. We are already admitting Covid-19 patients and treating them in the superspeciality building,” said the hospital superintendent Sisir Naskar. All patients admitted in the surgery, general medicine, ENT and eye departments have been relocated along with some others from the burn unit. “We didn’t have any patient on ventilation support in the burn unit. That helped us as we didn’t need specialised ambulances for their relocation. All that was required was oxygen support and ensuring that the patients did not get exposed to open environment to prevent infection,” said a senior official of the hospital. For most critical burn patients, SSKM is the first choice. Less severe patients are being admitted to the burn units at RG Kar and Calcutta Medical College & Hospital. MR Bangur Hospital had a dedicated 70-bed burn unit where patients from multiple districts used to get admitted. Till 2016, the facility had only 30 beds. Leading doctors from SSKM and CMCH regularly checked the patients at this unit. Experts said though burn patients are susceptible to infections, shifting them from one hospital to another is not a difficult task provided that the patient’s condition is stable. “In such case, all one needs to see is that the ambulance used in ferrying such patient is properly sanitised,” said Gaurab Chaudhury, plastic and vascular surgeon at RG Kar Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-patients-shifted-to-other-hospitals-as-mr-bangur-gears-up-for-corona-battle/articleshow/75018062.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||CM’s gift: Incentive for docs, medical staff||Hyderabad: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday announced a cash incentive for for all the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff working tirelessly to save Covid-19 patients. They would get 10% of their basic salary as an incentive in the form of ‘CM’s gift, ’ KCR said. The CM also announced that sanitation workers in GHMC and other parts of Telangana would be paid full salary. He had earlier announced a 10% cut in the salaries of class IV employees, including the sanitation staff. The government later said health and police department staff would get complete salary. KCR on Monday announced that even sanitation workers would get full pay. Since 90% of the salary had already been paid, the balance would given immediately, he said. The CM said doctors and health workers have been working day and night risking their lives to save the coronavirus patients. “I bow my head to them. As a recognition of their services, they will be given 10% of their basic salary as an incentive,” the CM said. GHMC sanitation workers and Water Board workers would get Rs 7,500, while Rs 5,000 was announced to workers in municipalities and gram panchayats. The CM said district collectors would be vested with some fund, which would be given to the staff of other departments who are also working tirelessly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-gift-incentive-for-docs-medical-staff/articleshow/75018067.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Process initiated to bring back seafarers: Sawant||MARGAO: Two representatives of Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI), its president Frank Viegas and secretary Michael Beny DaCosta, met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday and urged him to take urgent steps to bring back all the seafarers stranded overseas and on ships. Commissioner of NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar was also present. Viegas said that Sawant reassured them that steps have already been initiated in that regard. “The chief minister said that the ministry of external affairs, the office of the prime minister and the Indian embassies abroad are already working over the matter, and that decisions in that regard will soon be conveyed to the state government,” Viegas told TOI. As regards the state’s preparedness to quarantine the large number of seafarers who would be arriving in the state, Viegas said that the chief minister told them that many hotels have already been taken over by the government under the Disaster Management Act and that many more may be taken over if the situation so warrants. “Preparations are also underway to use the NUSI hospital at Cuncolim for the purpose, we were told by the chief minister,” he said. In the representation given to Sawant, the GSAI said, “The best time to evacuate our seafarers is during the lockdown period. Once the state borders are open and movement of people begin, it will be a difficult task to monitor the spread of Covid-19.” The issue about ex-gratia payment for seafarers was also raised with the chief minister by the GSAI. “There are many elderly seafarers who subsist on the monthly ex-gratia payment. He has promised us of positive action,” Viegas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/process-initiated-to-bring-back-seafarers-sawant/articleshow/75018556.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Meerut||3 arrested for falsely accusing man of ‘spitting on them to spread coronavirus’||MEERUT: Police in UP’s Meerut have booked and arrested a local shopkeeper, his brother and his friend for allegedly trying to frame a man from minority community, hours after they got involved in a minor argument with him. According to police, the shopkeeper, Arun Kumar and the victim, Naimuddin had a fight on Sunday morning over price of bidi. A police complaint was also filed by Naimuddin after Kumar attacked him. But, hours later, Kumar reached Kankarkhera police station and alleged that Naimuddin spitted on him and also bit him with an intention to spread novel coronavirus. He claimed that Naimuddin “was sent from people of his community to spread coronavirus”. A preliminary probe on Monday spilled the beans and Kumar confessed that he was trying to frame Naimuddin. “Kumar confessed that he got the injury inflicted on his arm to use it as evidence against Naimuddin,” a police officer said, adding that this was done to settle score. “A fight erupted on Sunday morning at Kumar’s shop over the price of bidi. Kumar had attacked Naimuddin, who went straight to police station and got a case registered,” he said. Ajay Sahni, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Meerut, said, “After recent incidents, people are trying to settle old scores by spreading rumours against a community. FIR has been registered and all the three accused have been arrested.” According to sources, several allegations, mostly false, against Tablighi Jamaat attendees have turned the situation volatile in many pockets of the region, and police are taking all precautions to quell the rumours. Apart from Kumar, his brother Manoj Kumar and friend Tarun Gurjar, all residents of Lakhwaya village, have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-arrested-for-falsely-accusing-man-of-spitting-on-them-to-spread-coronavirus/articleshow/75017454.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Khichdi-kadhi replaced by sev-usal for a change||Vadodara: When a group of volunteers realized that several persons in areas inhabited by the poor had been surviving on khichdi-kadhi for days together, they decided to serve them what a diehard Barodian cannot survive without. These people were served sev-usal for a change by the volunteers. ‘Team Revolution’ – a group of young volunteers from Gorwa-Subhanpura area – has been providing both meals and ration in poor localities. The prepared meals served by most groups in the city comprise khichdi-kadhi and this group was no exception. “We realized that for days together, the only thing that the people had been eating was khichdi. We asked them if they would like to eat something else. And the most common request was if we could provide them sev-usal,” said Shwejal Vyas, who heads the group. Sev-usal is something that most ranging from a daily wage worker to the influential relish in the city. On every street, one can find handcarts or even shops serving the dish that has a spicy curry of peas to which ‘sev’ is added. It is then consumed with buns. “We managed around 4,000 buns from five different bakeries. They varied in shape and size. These were served along with sev-usal to the poor,” said Vyas. He added that they were now looking to include other items in food served to the people in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khichdi-kadhi-replaced-by-sev-usal-for-a-change/articleshow/75015786.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad: Quarantined doctors offer telemedicine||KOZHIKODE: The telemedicine project launched in Wayanad to provide services of super-speciality doctors during Covid-19 lockdown has proved to be a boon with over 200 patients utilising its services within just four days. More significantly, doctors from the district hospital at Mananthavady, who are undergoing mandatory house quarantine after undertaking duty in Covid-19 wards in the hospital, are using the facility to provide telemedicine services to their regular non-Covid-19 patients. The telemedicine project is being implemented in Wayanad, which lacks adequate tertiary healthcare facilities, in association with Sree Chitra Tele Health Unit (SeTHU) of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology and the state health department. “Around 200 people have called the telemedicine helpline number and we have managed to connect them to their doctors in hospitals outside the district or doctors who have been treating them through the telemedicine project. Many of the patients were under treatment in super-specialty institutions like Kozhikode Government Medical College, Regional Cancer Centre (RCC), Thiruvananthapuram, Malabar Cancer Centre and other hospitals were struck after the lockdown,” said Dr K K Muhammed Aslam, nodal officer for the project. He added that even doctors who are in home quarantine after serving in Covid-19 wards are also providing telemedicine service using the facility. “I am currently in home quarantine after serving in Mananthavady district hospital, a designated Covid care centre. Even while on quarantine, I am providing telemedicine services to regular patients who need follow-up treatment,” said Dr Divya C K, paediatrician at Mananthavady district hospital. Dr Aslam said that the project was utilizing SeTHU’s two telemedicine units with video conferencing and modern diagnostic facilities. “We have four doctors attached to the telemedicine unit and they assess the patient’s situation by interacting with them over phone and also with other doctors, including from specialty hospitals, who have been treating the patients. In most cases, the patients are given medical advice and medicines are being made available to them using the health volunteer system,” he added. Patients who need videoconferencing with specialty doctors in hospitals outside the district will be brought to the telemedicine unit. The doctors are attending to calls routed to them through the telemedicine helpline number in the district. SeTHU is a collaborative effort of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Union department of science and technology, directorate of health services, Kerala and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/quarantined-docs-offer-telemedicine/articleshow/75016310.cms||K R Rajeev
April 7, 2020||Meerut||No time to grieve: Kin in quarantine as family patriarch, 72, gets lonely funeral||Meerut: A 72-year-old, whose son-in-law was the first Covid-19 patient in Meerut and who passed away on April 1 after suffering from novel coronavirus, had a lonely funeral last week. His family of 18, including his sons, daughters, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, are all quarantined. All they could do was helplessly watch and wail from a ‘distance’ as health workers took his body away for a quiet burial with Covid-19 safety protocol in place. According to sources, four of his distant relatives lowered his body into the grave during his last rites. Nobody cried nor hugged one another. They stood at a distance and watched solemnly. A police team was also present at a distance to monitor the law and order situation. The deceased’s 50-year-old son-in-law who travelled from Amravati to Meerut last month, stayed in three localities, attended a wedding and prayed in two mosques ended up infecting 17 others. “Not even a single family member could attend his funeral. He has a wife, four sons, four daughters-in-law, seven daughters and six sons-in-law. But not even a single person could see his body one last time. Even those admitted to the same hospital saw his remains from at least 10 feet away. We couldn’t even grieve for him properly,” the 37-year-old daughter of the deceased said. “We do not even know who attended the funeral of my father-in-law. We pleaded with the government authorities many times to at least allow our family members, who are not infected and not in Meerut, to attend the funeral. But the permission was denied. Nobody could see him on his last day and this will haunt us forever,” she said. According to the Meerut CMO Dr. Raj Kumar, the man had travelled from Amravati to Meerut in two trains, namely, Amravati Jabalpur Superfast Express and Chhattisgarh Express, had reached the city on March 19. He stayed at three locations in the city -- Shastrinagar, Humayun Nagar and Sohrab Gate area -- for two days each. No foreign travel history or contact could be traced until now.” Three kilometre radius of these areas was sealed and disinfected. The health department officials said that the best way to break the chain of his contacts is to stay home and inform about any symptoms related withcoronavirus on the district’s helpline number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-time-to-grieve-kin-in-quarantine-as-family-patriarch-72-gets-lonely-funeral/articleshow/75017463.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||Trap set up to catch Bareilly rubber factory tigress, but it is yet to bite bait||Bareilly: The elusive tigress that has been living in a defunct rubber factory, 18 km from Bareilly city, for the past one month has been spotted near a room with an auto-closing door. It has been observed that the big cat visits the spot almost every second day. However, it is yet to step into the room, say foresters keeping a tab on its movements.Forest department officials said they have been waiting to trap the tigress in the room to tranquilize it and shift it away from the social forestry zone.They said they will wait for another couple of days but if the big cat does not enter the room, they will have to change their strategy to tranquilize it. A goat has been kept as bait but to no avail. Divisional forest officer Bharat Lal said, “The tigress has been coming near the room every alternate day. It will enter the room only when it is confidant enough that it safe. The big cat has been captured either sitting or moving outside the room several timeskBy by the camera traps installed around it."Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma, said, “After discussing with experts, we have decided that we will wait for another two days. If the tigress still avoids stepping into the room, we will make a few changes in our strategy.He added, “We used a drone camera to locate its movement but were unsuccessful as the rubber factory has dense vegetation and abandoned building structures.”The abandoned factory has old tunnels, trenches and tanks, and so, it is difficult to tranquilize the tigress elsewhere, said the official.The Synthetics and Chemicals Limited - known as the rubber factory here - spans across 1,200 acres and has remained shut since 1999. Over the years, it has turned into a mini-forest providing a haven for big cats due to easy availability of prey, plenty of water in large tanks, dense forest cover, soft grass and suitable places to hide.A sub-adult tiger was tranquilised in the factory in 2018. A leopard spent two years there before it was run over on the road outside the factory campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/trap-set-up-to-catch-bareilly-rubber-factory-tigress-but-it-is-yet-to-bite-bait/articleshow/75017474.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||District collectors ask Nizamuddin visitors to disclose travel history||AURANGABAD: District collectors from across Marathwada on Monday appealed to the members of Tablighi Jamaat to voluntarily disclose if they recently visited Markaz Nizamuddin in Delhi, failing to which strict action will be initiated. Authorities said that a fresh appeal had to be made after it came to fore that a person from Tablighi Jamaat, who did not show any symptoms for over a fortnight after his return from Delhi, suddenly tested positive on Sunday in Aurangabad. As a precautionary measure, the family members and those who came in contact with this person have also been taken for screening. Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary said, “Tablighi Jamaat members who recently visited Nizamuddin Markaz should not be scared. We request them to voluntarily come forward and disclose their travel history.” The district administration has even started a helpline number (0240-2331077) for the Jamaat members to contact the authorities and brief them about their travel history. Choudhary even warned of action against those found hiding their travel history. Medical sources said that as precautionary measure, the health department wants to screen all the people who traveled to Delhi so that the spread of Covid-19 can be stopped. Beed district has also started a helpline number (02442-222604) and appealed to the people with recent travel history to Nizamuddin Markaz to come forward and voluntarily disclose the same in the next 24 hours. “Those failing to disclose the information will face action in the form of FIRs under relevant sections of IPC and National Disaster Management Act,” collector Rahul Rekhawar said. Sources in the administration informed that measures are being taken to ensure that a check is brought on the spread of this deadly disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dist-collectors-ask-nizamuddim-visitors-to-disclose-travel-history/articleshow/75017471.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||13 new cases in state, nine in Kasaragod||Thiruvananthapuram: More Covid-19 cases are being reported from Kasaragod, with nine more persons testing positive on Monday. The total number of patients in the district now stands at 128. The total number of Covid-19 patients in state rose to 266 and 1,52, 804 are presently under observation; 795 in isolation wards. On Monday alone 122 people were hospitalised with symptoms. Of the 10,716 samples that were sent for testing, 9,607 samples tested negative. Thirteen positive cases were reported in Kerala on Monday, of which two had attended the Nizamuddin meet. Apart from the nine cases in Kasaragod, the other cases were reported from Malappuram (2), Kollam (1) and Pathanamthitta (1). Of this, eight people came from abroad [Kasaragod (6), Malappuram (1) and Pathanamthitta (1)]; three are direct contacts. The person who tested positive in Pathanamthitta is a 60-year-old who arrived from Dubai. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Covid special hospital in Kasaragod has started functioning and it would cater to the healthcare needs of the patients there. The expert team from Thiruvananthapuram has reached the district and taken over the medical college which has become the Covid special hospital. In Kasaragod, Tata group has informed the government that it will set up a facility that can quarantine 450 persons. An expert team from the group will be reaching the district on Tuesday. Vijayan said that to meet an emergency, 10,813 isolation beds are ready in state and in 517 corona care centres 17,461 isolation beds are ready. At present, 38 corona care centres are functioning in the state. A decision on conducting rapid tests in the community will be taken in a day or two and the expert committee is preparing guidelines for the same. The tests, which were conducted in Pothencode in Thiruvananthapuram, were not conventional rapid antibody tests, said Vijayan. Karnataka government has agreed to allow patients (other than those with Covid-19 symptoms) to go to Mangaluru through Thalappady checkpost. However, a medical team from Karnataka will be stationed at the checkpost to certify patients. The chief minister expressed concern over Malayali nurses contracting Covid-19 in Maharashtra and Delhi as they are working in an environment without protective gear. A decision was taken to contact the chief ministers of both states and express Kerala’s concern. Already, the Prime Minister has been informed, added Vijayan. Meanwhile, a 65-year-old Tripunithura resident, who was admitted to the isolation ward of Ernakulam medical college, died on Sunday night. The man, who had arrived from abroad last month had completed his 28-day home quarantine, but suffered a heart attack on Sunday, following which he was rushed to the hospital. The test results of his swabs are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/13-new-cases-in-state-nine-in-kasaragod/articleshow/75016314.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s date with Pink Super Moon on Wednesday||KOLKATA: Get set for gazing Pink Super Moon on the Kolkata sky around 6.17pm on Wednesday. Though the huge moon is slated to set around 6.19am the next morning, its visibility in the city is behind the schedule a bit. Around 8.05am on Thursday, Kolkatans can see the biggest and brightest moon that will not be lost in the morning sky. Astronomers in the city said that the delay of a few hours would affect just one per cent of the spectacle both in size and brightness. Though it is called “pink”, it will have no bearing on the colour of the moon. This time the Pink Moon is coinciding with the Super Moon, so the celestial phenomenon is called the Pink Super Moon, said Debiprosad Duari, director of the MP Birla Planetarium. “After 100,000 years the moon will be gravitationally locked to one side of the earth,” said Ramachandran, director of the Birla Industrial and Technological Museum. As the museum is shut due to the lockdown, it will live cast the celestial phenomenon on its website from 7pm to 8.30 pm. Scientists will also answer questions to be sent via SMS on 7980893019 during the live session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-date-with-pink-super-moon-tomorrow/articleshow/75018075.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||Upset over police action during lockdown, mob attacks cops, several hurt; 42 arrested||Bareilly: An angry mob of around 200 people surrounded a police outpost in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly district and started pelting stones at the cops on Monday. The men were protesting against an earlier police action during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Several cops had suffered minor injuries in the incident. At least 42 people have been arrested and FIR has been registered against them. There was tension in Karampur Chaudhary village ever since a police team had allegedly thrashed a few locals while trying to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown. Defying social distancing norms, several locals were said to be loitering on the streets. After the stone pelting incident, three women among 42 were arrested. The police also conducted raids in the area. An FIR under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) along with the sections of rioting and section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act has been registered. SP (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “A mobile team was on a routine patrol in Karampur Chaudhary where a few youngsters had assembled. They were not following social distancing orders. Police had to take action against them to enforce the lockdown. Soon, they gathered at the police outpost in Izzatnagar. After a while, around 80 people arrived along with an unconscious person. They claimed that he was thrashed by police. SHO of Izzatnagar police station immediately took the unconscious person to a hospital where a doctor found that he had not sustained any injury and was only pretending to be unconscious.” Kumar further said, “Later, we received information that around 200 people had gathered at the police outpost and had started creating a ruckus. Some of them were even ransacking the place. ASP Abhishek Verma then rushed to the spot and bought the situation under control. A videography of the incident was done by police and support staff. It would be used as evidence against the accused.” Meanwhile, SSP Shailesh Pandey told TOI, “We have identified around 50 people so far. They were part of the mob that attacked the police outpost and injured a few of our men on duty. IPS officer Abhishek Verma has also sustained minor injuries as he slipped while confronting the mob. We have arrested 42 people, including the village head, who was leading them. An FIR has been registered. People who misguided the crowd and attacked policemen will also be identified and NSA is likely to be slapped against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upset-over-police-action-during-lockdown-mob-attacks-cops-several-hurt-42-arrested/articleshow/75017496.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Allow us to take fees: Schools’ body to CM||Dehradun: Days after Uttarakhand government issued a notice directing schools to not ask for fees until the lockdown is lifted, the Principal Progressive Schools Association (PPSA), a body representing school principals, has requested the CM to reconsider the decision. The association said that there are many cases in which a school has to collect arrears of previous financial years and it is getting difficult for the institutions to manage their daily affairs. “In order to run schools, we want the parents to submit the fees as early as possible. The schools have to pay salaries, electricity and other bills too. Therefore, it is important that the schools are not deprived of fees,” said Prem Kashyap, president of PPSA. Meanwhile, PPSA has also requested the state government to support them in completing the mandatory 220 working days in academic year 2020-21. “The PPSA has suggested to reduce public holidays or summer/winter vacation days in order to make sure that the schools are able to complete the school syllabus before the end of the academic year,” Kashyap said. “Most of the schools which are registered with PPSA have started with online classes for students. The students are being given daily assignments and it is made sure that they are in tune with their syllabus,” he added. “There are 170 unaided private schools in the state which are part of PPSA and most of them have started online classes. We are sending worksheets to the students daily. Also, contacts of subject teachers have been provided to the parents so that their wards can clear their doubts pertaining to the subject. Further, topic writing assignments in both Hindi and English are being given to students up to Class IX. Online sessions for students of Class XI haven’t started as yet as they still have a few board papers left,” Kashyap told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/allow-us-to-take-fees-schools-body-to-cm/articleshow/75017478.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Three Juhu buildings declared containment zones||BMC marked three buildings in Juhu as containment zones on Monday after a few residents tested positive for Covid-19. Juhu comes under the K-West Ward, which also includes Andheri West. The ward recorded seven new cases on Monday, said a senior officer. As on Sunday, there were 37 patients in the ward. The BMC has marked 25 areas and buildings in the ward as containment zones to restrict movement of people. The local ward officer was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-juhu-bldgs-declared-containment-zones/articleshow/75017489.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Telemedicine industry picks up amid lockdown||PUNE: Vimannagar resident Sushmita Sinha’s two-year old son developed a runny nose last week. With the lockdown in place, she could not visit her usual paediatrician and hesitantly decided to consult a doctor over a video call. When treated with the prescribed medicine, the child was fine in three days. Sinha is not alone. More people not in need of emergency care are warming up to the idea of consulting doctors via video calls or chats, aka telemedicine, in the wake of the nationwide lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 scare. “Telemedicine reduces the probability of infection. Antenatal cases have increased risk of infection. They also need to go to the clinic to ensure proper growth of the child. In infants, symptoms of disease other than the present epidemic also need to be addressed. Teleconsultation can help both,” general physician Aniket Joshi, who has been attending nearly 30 patients a day through online mode, said. President of Indian Medical Association, Pune chapter, Sanjay Patil said, “Almost 600 doctors in Pune taken to telemedicine in the wake of the lockdown and to keep a tab on their patients. There are guidelines by the health ministry to conduct telemedicine and every doctor is following them.” Diabetologist Madan Phadnis said he had been attending 15-20 calls each day and spending almost four to five hours in consultation from home. “Apart from my regular patients, I have been receiving calls from those complaining about general flu symptoms. I assess their condition and symptoms and prescribe medication accordingly. If required, I send them to the nearest hospital for better care,” Phadnis, who had been practising for over 40 years, said. The Motherhood Hospitals is also using telemedicine technology to provide continuity of care to women and children. It has also launched an integrated online teleconsultation service for gynaecology, obstetrics and pediatrics. Motherhood Hospitals CEO Vijayarathna Venkatraman said, “Teleconsultation has created a new model of hospital-based patient care. At this point of time, anxiety levels, particularly with expectant mothers and children, are high. Having access to their doctors gives such people extreme comfort and confidence.” The Cloudnine Group of Hospitals also launched its teleconsultation service. “Doctors will advise and follow up with patients according to their conditions and symptoms. People can use this service for follow-up consultation on their ongoing treatment as well. This value-added health service shall be available on cellphones through “It’s our Baby” app,” Raviganesh Venkataraman, CEO, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/telemedicine-industry-picks-up-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75018568.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||BJP leaders observe fast, express gratitude towards coronavirus warriors||BHOPAL: The state BJP leaders observed fast and expressed their gratitude towards corona warriors while celebrating the party's 40th foundation day, on Monday. The main programme was organised at the state party head office where BJP president VD Sharma hoisted party's flag and paid tributes to party's ideologues and founder members. State organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat and district president, Vikas Virani were also present among others. The BJP leaders maintained social distancing during the event. "We thank the corona warriors who are serving the nation during COVID-19 crisis. BJP workers salute their dedication and observed one day's fast as a mark of respect on the foundation day of the party," said Sharma. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also observed the foundation day at his official residence and paid tributes to founder members of BJP. Several BJP leaders also observed the day at their residence and hoisted party's flag. the BJP has asked the workers contact 40 persons on telephone urging them to contribute for the PM's relief fund. The party will also reach every family to donate two masks made at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-leaders-observe-fast-express-gratitude-towards-corona-warriors/articleshow/75018086.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||‘Decision on seafarers, others today’||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the government will take a decision on Tuesday regarding getting the 8,000 seafarers and others working aboard to Goa. Earlier in the day, Sawant held a meeting with members of the seafarers’ association and NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar. Sawant said that he had also spoken to the Union government over the issue. On April 1, the CM had written a letter to PM Narendra Modi to help the state evacuate 8,000 seafarers and others who are working aboard. Sawant had said that once Goans are brought to the state they will not be allowed to interact with their family members as well as public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-seafarers-others-today/articleshow/75018571.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 outbreak: Uttarkhand govt extends time for farmers to repay loans by three months||DEHRADUN: In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Uttarakhand government on Monday decided to provide an additional three months time to farmers to repay their loans to the state’s cooperative banks. There are around 3.50 lakh farmers who have taken such loans in the state for agricultural purposes. Besides, with the aim to double the farmers’ income in 2022, the Uttarakhand government had earlier announced to provide an interest-free loan of up to Rs 1 lakh for farmers and up to Rs 5 lakh for self-help groups. Until February this year, 2.68 lakh farmers had taken loans to the tune of Rs 1,388 crore in the state. Owing to the Rabi crop, more number of farmers availed the facility in the past few months. To help the farmers during this difficult period of Covid-19 and the nationwide lockdown, the state government has decided to give them an additional time till July, this year. Meanwhile, state cooperative bank and district cooperative banks collectively contributed Rs 1.21 crore to the CM Relief Fund to help fight Covid-19. Cooperative minister Dhan Singh Rawat handed over the cheque to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-extends-time-for-farmers-to-repay-loans-by-three-months/articleshow/75017502.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Be cautious in handling animals||KANNUR: Even though there is no conclusive evidence to prove that the animals including pets can be infected with SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, it is better to be prudent, say experts. The advice comes in the wake of a tiger testing positive for the virus at Bronx Zoo in New York City, and six other big cats showing the symptoms. Veterinary surgeon and microbiologist Arun T Ramesh has advised avoiding contact with unfamiliar animals. “Since there are reports about the possibility of pets like cats, and even ferrets, getting infected, it is better to have some precautions. Those who are infected or undergoing home quarantine, should not have direct contact with animals in their household,” said Arun T Ramesh. He has, however, urged people to not refrain from feeding their pet animals. Dr George Chandy, director in-charge, Centre for Wildlife Studies, in Wayanad said it is important to be careful as 75 percent of the emerging infectious diseases are spread to humans from animals. “In case of the traditional infectious diseases, only 60 percent were of animal origin and hence we should also make sure that no such infections are contracted from the animals,” he said. Researcher Arjun CP has asked to maintain social distancing with animals. “We should worry about the Indian situation and take adequate measures ... we have lots of free-roaming animals like stray dogs, cats, cattle, and donkeys, and also wild animals like nilgai, wild boar and monkeys living along with humans so we should maintain social distancing with animals too,” he said. Arjun also feels there should be a multidisciplinary approach in handling the studies, including collaboration among researches from different fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/be-cautious-in-handling-animals/articleshow/75016399.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Submit report on measures to ensure food and medicine: HC tells Telangana||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday directed the state government to furnish an interim report by April 9 on the arrangements being made to ensure availability of essential commodities like food and medicines, etc., to the people during the lockdown period. The court also asked the government to explain its preparedness if the coronavirus cases continue to rise in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by professor PL Visweswara Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and Cheruku Sudhakar, a doctor from Nalgonda district. The bench held a virtual court and heard Chikkudu Prabhakar, counsel for the petitioners, advocate general BS Prasad and assistant solicitor general Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao in a video-conferencing. “Provide us the details of sanitisers , ventilators, testing facilities, etc., that you have. Also, furnish to us details on how you are planning to deal with the problem that struck us suddenly. Tell us how you are supplying protective equipment like N95 masks etc to medical staff,” the bench sought to know. The bench also sought to know the veracity of the allegations that milk packets were not available in certain areas. Further, it wanted to know about medical facilities and treatment available in rural areas. “Give us an interim report by April 9 and a comprehensive report by April 15,” the bench said. The petitioners, in their plea, said a huge number of people were stranded on roads due to the sudden lockdown and said the government had failed in reaching out to those stranded. The petitioners also complained about the sudden closure of hostels in Hyderabad. The bench told the petitioners that it cannot pass any interim orders without first looking at the arrangements being made by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/submit-report-on-measures-to-ensure-food-and-medicine-hc-tells-telangana/articleshow/75018088.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Giving food at subsidized rates ‘unfeasible’: Fuel station owners||AURANGABAD: Fuel stations of some petrol companies, which fall along the national or state highways, have been directed to provide packed food at subsidised rates to the drivers plying the vehicles of the essential services. The decision has not gone down well with fuel station operators, who have expressed serious apprehensions over the feasibility of implementing the idea. Citing lack of infrastructure at the fuel stations, operators said that it was difficult for them to provide packed food at subsidised rates and more so if the lockdown gets extended. “Neither do we have the infrastructure, nor the manpower or expertise for catering to commuters,” said a petrol pump owner. Owners of fuel stations unanimously maintained that the idea was feasible only for those pumping stations which have a dhaba or hotels in their premises. Secretary of Aurangabad petroleum dealers association Aqil Abbas said, “The idea is good. However, it is not a feasible idea for fuel stations which are already struggling during thr ongoing lockdown.” As per the communication received, for now, only the petrol stations at Sharnapur, Nipani, Sillod, Nagad, Demni, Sultanpur, Sunderwadi, Ladsawngi and Hatnoor have been directed to provide packed food to the drivers involved in the essential services Another fuel station owner, who did not wished to be named fearing backlash from the petroleum company, said, “It is not feasible for us to hire a cook for catering to drivers. With summer almost in, we cannot ensure the quality of the food. The moment we refuse to take this responsibility, we will face pressure and punishment from the company officials.” Another fuel station owner said, “Giving subsidized food means we will have to shell out from our pockets. The fuel stations are already suffering given the low customer count due to the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/giving-food-at-subsidized-rates-unfeasible-fuel-stn-owners/articleshow/75017522.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 7, 2020||Noida||Delhi: Within 2 hours, crackers doubled pollution levels||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the National Capital Region had been enjoying the cleanest spell of air so far this year, with Delhi’s neighbouring cities recording the rare “good air days” too. However on Sunday, during the Prime Minister’s call to light earthen lamps and candles to show solidarity in the fight against novel coronavirus, people even started bursting firecrackers. The hourly PM2.5 concentration almost doubled in a matter of two hours. At 9pm, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration was 48.6 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), but with firecrackers going off every second in parts of the capital, it touched 90.9 µg/m3 by 10pm. It rose further in the next hour to touch 101 µg/m3. Similar spikes were seen across the NCR with the highest pollution levels recorded at Ghaziabad, where the PM 2.5 concentration touched 131.3 µg/m3 at 10pm. By 6am on Monday, it touched 186.8 µg/m3, three times the Indian standard. In a two-hour period between 9pm and 11pm, the hourly PM 2.5 concentration spike in Faridabad was by nearly 20 µg/m3, increasing from 51.4 to 70.3 µg/m3 at 11pm. The spike was 17 µg/m3 in Gurugram and 29 µg/m3 in Noida. With no significant background emissions occurring, owing to industries being shut and vehicular emissions at its lowest, the impact of firecrackers also reflected on the daily Air Quality Index (AQI) values for NCR cities, each recording a spike on Monday. The 24-hour average by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s AQI increased from 102 (moderate) on Sunday to 142 (moderate) on Monday. The highest spike was recorded at Ghaziabad, increasing from 124 (moderate) on Sunday to 181 (moderate) on Monday. Air quality in both Gurugram and Noida, meanwhile, deteriorated from “satisfactory” to “moderate” in the last 24 hours. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the spike was significant in terms of air quality and in parts was comparable to the increase recorded during Diwali. “At that time of the year, the background emissions and baseline are already high. Added to that is low temperature during October and November. However, the temperature is quite high right now. The spikes recorded can tell you exactly how much the impact of firecrackers can be with practically no background emissions taking place,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/within-2-hours-crackers-doubled-pollution-levels/articleshow/75020939.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi: Within 2 hours, crackers doubled pollution levels||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the National Capital Region had been enjoying the cleanest spell of air so far this year, with Delhi’s neighbouring cities recording the rare “good air days” too. However on Sunday, during the Prime Minister’s call to light earthen lamps and candles to show solidarity in the fight against novel coronavirus, people even started bursting firecrackers. The hourly PM2.5 concentration almost doubled in a matter of two hours. At 9pm, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration was 48.6 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), but with firecrackers going off every second in parts of the capital, it touched 90.9 µg/m3 by 10pm. It rose further in the next hour to touch 101 µg/m3. Similar spikes were seen across the NCR with the highest pollution levels recorded at Ghaziabad, where the PM 2.5 concentration touched 131.3 µg/m3 at 10pm. By 6am on Monday, it touched 186.8 µg/m3, three times the Indian standard. In a two-hour period between 9pm and 11pm, the hourly PM 2.5 concentration spike in Faridabad was by nearly 20 µg/m3, increasing from 51.4 to 70.3 µg/m3 at 11pm. The spike was 17 µg/m3 in Gurugram and 29 µg/m3 in Noida. With no significant background emissions occurring, owing to industries being shut and vehicular emissions at its lowest, the impact of firecrackers also reflected on the daily Air Quality Index (AQI) values for NCR cities, each recording a spike on Monday. The 24-hour average by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s AQI increased from 102 (moderate) on Sunday to 142 (moderate) on Monday. The highest spike was recorded at Ghaziabad, increasing from 124 (moderate) on Sunday to 181 (moderate) on Monday. Air quality in both Gurugram and Noida, meanwhile, deteriorated from “satisfactory” to “moderate” in the last 24 hours. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the spike was significant in terms of air quality and in parts was comparable to the increase recorded during Diwali. “At that time of the year, the background emissions and baseline are already high. Added to that is low temperature during October and November. However, the temperature is quite high right now. The spikes recorded can tell you exactly how much the impact of firecrackers can be with practically no background emissions taking place,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/within-2-hours-crackers-doubled-pollution-levels/articleshow/75020938.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Within 2 hours, crackers doubled pollution levels||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the National Capital Region had been enjoying the cleanest spell of air so far this year, with Delhi’s neighbouring cities recording the rare “good air days” too. However on Sunday, during the Prime Minister’s call to light earthen lamps and candles to show solidarity in the fight against novel coronavirus, people even started bursting firecrackers. The hourly PM2.5 concentration almost doubled in a matter of two hours. At 9pm, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration was 48.6 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), but with firecrackers going off every second in parts of the capital, it touched 90.9 µg/m3 by 10pm. It rose further in the next hour to touch 101 µg/m3. Similar spikes were seen across the NCR with the highest pollution levels recorded at Ghaziabad, where the PM 2.5 concentration touched 131.3 µg/m3 at 10pm. By 6am on Monday, it touched 186.8 µg/m3, three times the Indian standard. In a two-hour period between 9pm and 11pm, the hourly PM 2.5 concentration spike in Faridabad was by nearly 20 µg/m3, increasing from 51.4 to 70.3 µg/m3 at 11pm. The spike was 17 µg/m3 in Gurugram and 29 µg/m3 in Noida. With no significant background emissions occurring, owing to industries being shut and vehicular emissions at its lowest, the impact of firecrackers also reflected on the daily Air Quality Index (AQI) values for NCR cities, each recording a spike on Monday. The 24-hour average by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s AQI increased from 102 (moderate) on Sunday to 142 (moderate) on Monday. The highest spike was recorded at Ghaziabad, increasing from 124 (moderate) on Sunday to 181 (moderate) on Monday. Air quality in both Gurugram and Noida, meanwhile, deteriorated from “satisfactory” to “moderate” in the last 24 hours. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the spike was significant in terms of air quality and in parts was comparable to the increase recorded during Diwali. “At that time of the year, the background emissions and baseline are already high. Added to that is low temperature during October and November. However, the temperature is quite high right now. The spikes recorded can tell you exactly how much the impact of firecrackers can be with practically no background emissions taking place,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/within-2-hours-crackers-doubled-pollution-levels/articleshow/75018106.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Malappuram’s two new cases linked to Tablighi event||Malappuram: Two persons in the district, who attended Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday.This brings the total number of positive cases reported in the district to 13. District collector said that both 63-year-old man from Kooriyad in Vengara and 33-year-old man from Bypass Road in Chemmad were part of a same group that attended the conference on March 11 and 12. The 14-member team left Malappuram on February 14. They boarded Amritsar Express train to Nizamuddin from Kozhikode railway station on February 5. They returned to Kozhikode on March 15. Health authorities have said that they had visited markets in Chemmad and mosques. Meanwhile, giving special focus on the preventive measures to check spread of Covid-19 in Keezhattur and surrounding areas in the district, the district administration has opened a Covid Special Care Centre at Keezhattur. Extensive travel of a 45-year-old spiritual healer at Poonthanam near Keezhattur who returned recently from Jeddah after Umrah pilgrimage, had triggered panic among people in the region after his 85-year-old father was tested positive for coronavirus infection. The 85-year-old man will be shifted to new Covid Care Centre in Keezhattur soon. Authorities have already collected swab samples from 76 persons, including the samples from wife and children of the spiritual healer, in the region for testing. District medical officer K Sakeena said that the 15 samples collected from Keezhattur region tested negative. Stringent prevention activities would also be taken in Vettathur, Melattur and Anakkayam regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/malappurams-two-new-cases-linked-to-tablighi-event/articleshow/75016388.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Flu patients to be treated at community clinics based on Lonand model||PUNE: Lonand, a small town in Satara district, is showing the rest of the state a streamlined way to contain the spread of Covid-19. The model is set to be replicated in the city, with Pune Municipal Corporation agreeing to provide school premises for clinics. In Lonand, team of 60 doctors have — with the use of minimal infrastructure and safety equipment — set up a ‘Rakshak Clinic’. “This clinic is a one-stop destination to screen and treat patients showing symptoms of cough, cold and fever,” Nitin Sawant from Lonand Medical Association said. He said the initiative didn’t get off to a smooth start. “Initially, our proposal was denied as the existing primary health centres and other buildings had already been converted into isolation wards. Later, they provided us with infrastructure and necessary equipment to set up a dedicated outpatient department. The clinic started on March 29,” Sawant said. Sawant said the main idea behind the clinic was to prevent transmission of the virus. “For instance, earlier, one or two patients would visit 10 different doctors. If even some of those patients were Covid-19 positive, the doctor be infected and pass it on to many other patients suffering from other ailments. The clinic also balances out the consumption of safety equipment like personal protection equipment kits and other resources that are already short in supply,” Sawant said. Similar clinics have been set up in Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane, said Sanjay Patil, vice-president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra. “We have suggested to PMC and the divisional commissioner to open similar centres in government schools. Private practitioners from Pune will volunteer at such clinics to take some load off the already-burdened medical facilities. Also, these clinics need to be ready as a contingency if needed for the future,” Patil said. IMA Pune president Aarti Nimkar said they have identified schools close to government hospitals for the purpose. “Three doctors will visit the clinics every day in three-shift rotations,” Nimkar sad. the IMA has further proposed setting up community clinics in government buildings, Rakshak Clinics at private hospitals and mobile clinics in ambulances across the state. “At community clinics, doctors can separate patients with respiratory problems and tell them to visit the clinics set up by the government,” IMA Maharashtra president Avinash Bhondwe said. Bhondwe said Rakshak Clinics, similar to the one in Lonand — which are actually Covid-19 clinics — will be the first line of defence against Covid-19. “Meanwhile, mobile clinics with a doctor and a medical assistant in an ambulance will go to each area to treat patients,” he added. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said they would extend all support to the IMA “once a decision about setting up community clinics is taken at the higher level”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flu-patients-to-be-treated-at-community-clinics-based-on-lonand-model/articleshow/75018577.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi: Within 2 hours, crackers doubled pollution levels||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the National Capital Region had been enjoying the cleanest spell of air so far this year, with Delhi’s neighbouring cities recording the rare “good air days” too. However on Sunday, during the Prime Minister’s call to light earthen lamps and candles to show solidarity in the fight against novel coronavirus, people even started bursting firecrackers. The hourly PM2.5 concentration almost doubled in a matter of two hours. At 9pm, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration was 48.6 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), but with firecrackers going off every second in parts of the capital, it touched 90.9 µg/m3 by 10pm. It rose further in the next hour to touch 101 µg/m3. Similar spikes were seen across the NCR with the highest pollution levels recorded at Ghaziabad, where the PM 2.5 concentration touched 131.3 µg/m3 at 10pm. By 6am on Monday, it touched 186.8 µg/m3, three times the Indian standard. In a two-hour period between 9pm and 11pm, the hourly PM 2.5 concentration spike in Faridabad was by nearly 20 µg/m3, increasing from 51.4 to 70.3 µg/m3 at 11pm. The spike was 17 µg/m3 in Gurugram and 29 µg/m3 in Noida. With no significant background emissions occurring, owing to industries being shut and vehicular emissions at its lowest, the impact of firecrackers also reflected on the daily Air Quality Index (AQI) values for NCR cities, each recording a spike on Monday. The 24-hour average by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s AQI increased from 102 (moderate) on Sunday to 142 (moderate) on Monday. The highest spike was recorded at Ghaziabad, increasing from 124 (moderate) on Sunday to 181 (moderate) on Monday. Air quality in both Gurugram and Noida, meanwhile, deteriorated from “satisfactory” to “moderate” in the last 24 hours. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the spike was significant in terms of air quality and in parts was comparable to the increase recorded during Diwali. “At that time of the year, the background emissions and baseline are already high. Added to that is low temperature during October and November. However, the temperature is quite high right now. The spikes recorded can tell you exactly how much the impact of firecrackers can be with practically no background emissions taking place,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/within-2-hours-crackers-doubled-pollution-levels/articleshow/75020941.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 7, 2020||Faridabad||Delhi: Within 2 hours, crackers doubled pollution levels||NEW DELHI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect, the National Capital Region had been enjoying the cleanest spell of air so far this year, with Delhi’s neighbouring cities recording the rare “good air days” too. However on Sunday, during the Prime Minister’s call to light earthen lamps and candles to show solidarity in the fight against novel coronavirus, people even started bursting firecrackers. The hourly PM2.5 concentration almost doubled in a matter of two hours. At 9pm, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration was 48.6 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), but with firecrackers going off every second in parts of the capital, it touched 90.9 µg/m3 by 10pm. It rose further in the next hour to touch 101 µg/m3. Similar spikes were seen across the NCR with the highest pollution levels recorded at Ghaziabad, where the PM 2.5 concentration touched 131.3 µg/m3 at 10pm. By 6am on Monday, it touched 186.8 µg/m3, three times the Indian standard. In a two-hour period between 9pm and 11pm, the hourly PM 2.5 concentration spike in Faridabad was by nearly 20 µg/m3, increasing from 51.4 to 70.3 µg/m3 at 11pm. The spike was 17 µg/m3 in Gurugram and 29 µg/m3 in Noida. With no significant background emissions occurring, owing to industries being shut and vehicular emissions at its lowest, the impact of firecrackers also reflected on the daily Air Quality Index (AQI) values for NCR cities, each recording a spike on Monday. The 24-hour average by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s AQI increased from 102 (moderate) on Sunday to 142 (moderate) on Monday. The highest spike was recorded at Ghaziabad, increasing from 124 (moderate) on Sunday to 181 (moderate) on Monday. Air quality in both Gurugram and Noida, meanwhile, deteriorated from “satisfactory” to “moderate” in the last 24 hours. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the spike was significant in terms of air quality and in parts was comparable to the increase recorded during Diwali. “At that time of the year, the background emissions and baseline are already high. Added to that is low temperature during October and November. However, the temperature is quite high right now. The spikes recorded can tell you exactly how much the impact of firecrackers can be with practically no background emissions taking place,” said Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/within-2-hours-crackers-doubled-pollution-levels/articleshow/75020944.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 7, 2020||Pune||Shopowners in Pune booked for selling goods at exorbitant rates||PUNE: The city police crime branch on Sunday raided two shops at Model Colony and Khadki for selling goods at higher rates and lodged cases against their owners. Inspector Anjum Bagwan from the crime branch (unit IV) received information that the two shops — one on Gokhale Road at Model Colony and the other at Khadki — were selling goods at exorbitant rates though they were available in plenty. During the verification, police found that certain goods like coconut, peanuts and jaggery, among others, were being sold at higher rates. A police team led by Bagwan raided the shops and booked the shopowners on the charge of black-marketing goods. Two cases under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Essential Commodities Act were registered against the shopowners with the Chatushrungi and Khadki police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopowners-booked-for-selling-goods-at-exorbitant-rates/articleshow/75018589.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Only eggs with ‘safe’ certificate to be allowed in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has allowed the entry and transportation of eggs in Goa from areas in the neighbouring states not affected by Avian Influenza (bird flu) provided that a certificate from the competent authority of government departments concerned is carried along with the consignment. The certificate must declare the eggs being “free from disease and fit for human consumption”, the order from the North and South Goa collectorate read. An order was issued by the department of animal husbandry and veternary Services (AHVS) on April 1 requesting for chicken, either live or dressed, to be banned from entering Goa checkposts . On March 21, the North Goa magistrate had banned transportation and entry of birds from Karnataka and Kerala in the district in view of the bird flu outbreak in the two states. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday had said that a decision on the chicken supply will be taken soon, while the supply of eggs from other states will be permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-eggs-with-safe-certificate-to-be-allowed/articleshow/75018594.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Jain body launches 3 mobile clinics||NASHIK: On the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti, the Sakal Jain Organisation, in association with the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), launched three mobile dispensaries. Since the community is observing an embargo on processions, the community extended a helping hand to the district administration. Satish Hiran, the chief secretary of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) said, “Several small clinics are closed in the city and the patients suffering from various diseases cannot reach the doctors. They also cannot go to nearby hospitals as public transport is shut due to lockdown.” The dispensaries will have one doctor, one nurse, one assistant and all necessary medical facilities for the primary medical assistance. “The NMC has agreed to provide the medical staff and medicines while the management will be governed by us,” added Hiran. Apart from this, the organisation has identified 274 rooms in various areas of the city where over 800 homeless people can stay,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jain-body-launches-3-mobile-clinics/articleshow/75017534.cms||pragya jain
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Officials deny charges, say elaborate plan put in place||New Delhi: Delhi government officials said on Monday that they have been working on improving the facilities at the Narela quarantine centre to ensure that residents do not face any inconvenience. The number of people deployed for sanitation, food, maintenance and security has been increased, they said. More than 500 employees of different government departments – district administration, health, civil defence, corporations, DJB, PWD and DDA – apart from personnel of Delhi Police and central armed forces are posted there. Apart from providing food four times a day – breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner – in their rooms, the district administration is also supplying packaged drinking water. A caterer delivers food packets at the central disbursal point of each tower from where the civil defence volunteers carry them in a trolley to each floor. It is the responsibility of the nursing orderlies to deliver the food in the rooms. “Serving food in each room takes time but some inmates don’t have patience and sometimes they come down at the disbursal point to collect the packets despite strict instructions that they should not come out of their rooms,” another official, who looks after the arrangements at the quarantine centre, said. “For about 1,200 residents, we get about 1,700 food packets and some of them also take two helpings. There is no question of any shortage of food and water,” said the official said, adding that quality and quantity of food is ensured by the administration. The government has currently taken over eight towers and divided them into three blocks. Each tower has the capacity to accommodate 170-190 residents. Each housing unit has two rooms, one for each resident, and a common bathroom-cum-toilet and residents are provided with soaps, sanitizers and other amenities on a regular basis. The centre is monitored by 250 CCTV cameras, mostly outside the buildings and people entering or coming out of the building are watched. “In the towers where the first two batches of people were brought, we have CCTV cameras in the corridors. But we could not install cameras in the corridors of other towers where people from the Markaz have been staying,” an official said. According to the officials, each housing unit and bathroom is cleaned and sanitised twice a day apart from rooms and corridors being fumigated regularly. There are separate teams for electrical and plumbing units available round the clock in three shifts to attend to maintenance issues. “Maintenance issues can crop up in any house or building and that is why we have teams available to attend to such problems,” the second official said reacting to a question on complaints of poor sanitation The health department of Delhi government has also deployed eight to ten teams of doctors, nursing orderlies and paramedics, which are being helped by four teams of the Army deputed recently by the government. Apart from the regular tests to monitor any symptom of Covid-19, the health workers also provide medicines and treatment for any other medical issues. The district authorities, however, said some residents had not been cooperating in giving swabs for testing, forcing the officials to give them stern warnings. “We had to tell them that they will not be given food if they don’t stop being difficult and cooperate with the health teams,” said an official. A day after a case was registered against two members of Tablighi Jamaat for defecating in the corridor of the centre, senior district officials said the action was taken to send across the message that such activities would not be tolerated. They said earlier too they received reports about Jamat members spitting and urinating in public, which were initially ignored and only warnings were issued. “We are now making regular announcements that such acts would not be tolerated and strict action would be taken under the provisions of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officials-deny-charges-say-elaborate-plan-put-in-place/articleshow/75037278.cms||Atul Mathur
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Officials deny charges, say elaborate plan put in place||New Delhi: Delhi government officials said on Monday that they have been working on improving the facilities at the Narela quarantine centre to ensure that residents do not face any inconvenience. The number of people deployed for sanitation, food, maintenance and security has been increased, they said. More than 500 employees of different government departments – district administration, health, civil defence, corporations, DJB, PWD and DDA – apart from personnel of Delhi Police and central armed forces are posted there. Apart from providing food four times a day – breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner – in their rooms, the district administration is also supplying packaged drinking water. A caterer delivers food packets at the central disbursal point of each tower from where the civil defence volunteers carry them in a trolley to each floor. It is the responsibility of the nursing orderlies to deliver the food in the rooms. “Serving food in each room takes time but some inmates don’t have patience and sometimes they come down at the disbursal point to collect the packets despite strict instructions that they should not come out of their rooms,” another official, who looks after the arrangements at the quarantine centre, said. “For about 1,200 residents, we get about 1,700 food packets and some of them also take two helpings. There is no question of any shortage of food and water,” said the official said, adding that quality and quantity of food is ensured by the administration. The government has currently taken over eight towers and divided them into three blocks. Each tower has the capacity to accommodate 170-190 residents. Each housing unit has two rooms, one for each resident, and a common bathroom-cum-toilet and residents are provided with soaps, sanitizers and other amenities on a regular basis. The centre is monitored by 250 CCTV cameras, mostly outside the buildings and people entering or coming out of the building are watched. “In the towers where the first two batches of people were brought, we have CCTV cameras in the corridors. But we could not install cameras in the corridors of other towers where people from the Markaz have been staying,” an official said. According to the officials, each housing unit and bathroom is cleaned and sanitised twice a day apart from rooms and corridors being fumigated regularly. There are separate teams for electrical and plumbing units available round the clock in three shifts to attend to maintenance issues. “Maintenance issues can crop up in any house or building and that is why we have teams available to attend to such problems,” the second official said reacting to a question on complaints of poor sanitation The health department of Delhi government has also deployed eight to ten teams of doctors, nursing orderlies and paramedics, which are being helped by four teams of the Army deputed recently by the government. Apart from the regular tests to monitor any symptom of Covid-19, the health workers also provide medicines and treatment for any other medical issues. The district authorities, however, said some residents had not been cooperating in giving swabs for testing, forcing the officials to give them stern warnings. “We had to tell them that they will not be given food if they don’t stop being difficult and cooperate with the health teams,” said an official. A day after a case was registered against two members of Tablighi Jamaat for defecating in the corridor of the centre, senior district officials said the action was taken to send across the message that such activities would not be tolerated. They said earlier too they received reports about Jamat members spitting and urinating in public, which were initially ignored and only warnings were issued. “We are now making regular announcements that such acts would not be tolerated and strict action would be taken under the provisions of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officials-deny-charges-say-elaborate-plan-put-in-place/articleshow/75037283.cms||Atul Mathur
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||7-year-old boy gets crushed under water tanker in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A seven-year-old boy was crushed under a water tanker in Sillekhana area of the city on Monday morning. According to police, the driver did not know that the child was behind the vehicle. “When he (the driver) reversed the vehicle, the child came under the rear wheel of the tanker,” a police officer said. The deceased has been identified as Affan Aleem Qureshi, a resident of Sillekhana area. Following the incident, the driver of the private water tanker – identified as Badu Bhujang Berche of Milindnagar in Osmanpura area – was caught by the locals from the spot and handed over to the police. A case in this regard has been registered at Kranti Chowk police station. As per preliminary reports, the tanker reached the area at around 9.30 am and the locals started gathering around the vehicle to collect water. “Affan was sitting outside his home along with his grandfather. Out of nowhere, he got up and went on the road where the driver was trying to turn the vehicle,” the officer said. “The boy was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. We are checking if the driver had a valid driving license, and also if all the documents of the tanker are in place,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-yr-old-boy-gets-crushed-under-water-tanker/articleshow/75017537.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 7, 2020||Rajkot||Onion shortage likely as lockdown affects harvesting||RAJKOT: Household staple onion is likely to send home budgets haywire again in the next few months. Farmers in Mahuva and Amreli, the two highest onion producing districts in Gujarat, are staring at a loss of nearly 30% standing crop due to the prevailing lockdown. Nearly 75% of onion crop is awaiting harvesting for the last 15 days in both districts and farmers have about 20,000 bags (each of 50kg) harvested onion lying in the fields due to lack of transportation facilities. Farmers have filled up their fields with water so that the crop doesn’t spoil for at least 20 days. Moreover, harvesting doesn’t make sense as agriculture market produce committees (APMC) are shut due to lockdown and there is no trading. Farmers say the sowing season started two months late this year (in January) because of prolonged monsoon and when the harvesting time arrived, the lockdown came into force. The two districts produce both red and white onions and the former is mostly sold in Gujarat. According to the state agriculture department figures, the total estimated production of onions is 11.24 lakh tons out of which red onion is three tons this year. This Rabi season, Gujarat farmers cultivated onion in 42,000 hectares with the hope of getting good price. The area under onion cultivation was 28,000 hectare in last Rabi season. Chetan Malani, a farmer and sarpanch of Khadasli village of Savarkundla taluka in Amreli district, has harvested onion crop from 10 acre land. “The onion is cultivated in 250 acre land in our village, but we are waiting for this lockdown to end so that the crop can be harvested and transported.” “We fear a loss of 25-30% crop this year,” added Malani. However, there is some respite for farmers growing white onion as dehydration units in Mahua got conditional nod to start operations two days ago. But they are also facing severe labour shortage. Past president of All India Dehydration Vegetables Association, Vitthal Koradia, said “We have received conditional permission to open our units to save the white onion from damage. Out of 100 units only 6-7 are open because of labour shortage and transportation problem.” Nearly 90% dehydrated onion is exported and there is huge uncertainty over the exports with coronavirus pandemic spreading to over 200 countries. Ghanshyam Patel, secretary of Mahuva marketing yard, said, “The APMC can’t function because it’s not possible to maintain social distancing and that’s why we have made arrangement for direct sale of white onion to dehydration units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/onion-shortage-likely-as-lockdownaffects-harvesting/articleshow/75018095.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 7, 2020||Hubballi||Corona fears: Residents near Karwar port oppose trucks’ entry||Karwar: Residents near the commercial port in Karwar on Monday protested the entry of trucks carrying petroleum and edible oil from other states into their area. Fearing the spread of Covid-19 in their locality, women blocked the entry of trucks and demanded that the drivers undergo medical test. Police arrived pacified the protesters and asked the petroleum company officials not to allow the entry of truck drivers into the locality. “Since there is no bar on transporting essential commodities like petrol, we requested the company concerned not to bring in huge number of trucks to the area. We asked them to transport in small quantities. But trucks with registration numbers of Punjab, Delhi and Maharashtra are arriving at Baithkhol area. These trucks pass through the residential areas and we fear that the drivers may spread coronavirus in our locality,” said Vinayak Harikantra, a fishermen leader. Other fishermen said that the truck drivers prepare food in the area and dine in groups without maintaining social distancing. Some private companies have storage point of petrol and edible oil at Baithkhol where the port is located. These items are imported and unloaded at Karwar port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/corona-fears-residents-near-karwar-port-oppose-trucks-entry/articleshow/75008452.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||40 coaches modified for quarantine purpose||Vadodara: The Vadodara railway division of Western Railway is modifying 40 coaches for the purpose of quarantine or isolation of Covid-19 patients. These modified coaches can accommodate nearly 320 possible beds for isolation needs. Nationally, the Indian Railways (IR) is trying to stay prepared for any eventuality and has decided to modify 20,000 coaches into isolation coaches to augment the quarantine facilities being created in the country. “A total of eight coaches have already been modified. While 20 coaches are being modified at the Pratapnagar coaching depot, 20 others are being modified at the railway workshop, Pratapnagar,” said Khemraj Meena, public relations officer of Vadodara railway division. The eight coaches which are ready have been stationed near platform number six of Vadodara railway station for easy movement of the train whenever required. “Coaches which are 20 years old are being utilized for this purpose. General sitting and sleeper coaches are being modified,” he said, adding that each coach is being modified to suffice eight beds for isolation needs. Each modified coach has eight separate coupés for which middle berths, bottle holder and three peg coat hook are removed. Such coaches have one bathroom with all fittings, mosquito net on outer windows, plastic transparent curtains on both ends, three dustbins and mobile/laptop points in each coupé. “The first coupé, which is meant for medical staff and equipment, has provision of chain securing arrangement for oxygen cylinders and is separated by plastic transparent curtains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/40-coaches-modified-for-quarantine-purpose/articleshow/75015801.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Marginal rise in wholesale price of onion & potato||PUNE: The wholesale market recorded slight increase in onion and potato prices on Monday. Onion was sold in open auction for Rs14-17 per kg compared to the last auction’s price of Rs7-16. Similarly, potato was auctioned for Rs15-23 per kg as against Rs12-22 per kg last time. “Some traders from Kerala and Tamil Nadu supplied the produce to neighbouring states. Also, police are not restricting goods transport. Thus, traders from other cities, too, are coming to the market. As a result, there was better demand for onion today,” said Dattatray Kalamkar, the head of the onion and potato division of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard, adding that a bulk of the produce came from Baramati, Daund and Shirur tehsils. In the fruit market, the supply of mango increased significantly. So, its price came down to the range of Rs1,000-3,000 per box of four dozen of mangoes. Last time, mango was auctioned for Rs3,500-7,000 per box. “The market received maximum mangoes from Ratnagiri and some from Karnataka on Monday. Since mango growers are permitted to carry their produce to the market, we expect the similar arrival in the coming days,” said Babasaheb Bibave, the head of the fruit division of the market. The price of apple and grapes increased marginally. A kg apple was sold for Rs90-160 as against the previous bazaar rate of Rs80-140 per kg. Grapes were sold in the range of Rs50-70 per kg. “However, rates of summer fruits like orange, watermelon and musk melon have remained stable,” Bibave added. Edible oil price fallThe price of edible oil dropped on Monday after the wholesale grocery market received its surplus intake of edible oil on Monday. Its price came down to the range of Rs1,250-1,500 per can of 15 litres. In the last bazaar, the prices were in the range of Rs1,100-Rs2,400 per can. “We received 27 vehicles of oil from different places on Monday and so there was immediate impact on the rates. This increased intake will ensure stable prices of the oil in the coming days in the city,” said Nitin Raskar, the head of the grocery division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/marginal-rise-in-wholesale-price-of-onion-potato/articleshow/75018581.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra government assures food for migrants if lockdown goes on||PUNE: Food and supplies department officials have said supplies will be allotted to those with ration cards under the National Security Act and the 3.5 lakh migrant workers spread across various camps in the state will continue to get food under the Relief Act. “No one will go without food and the respective district collectors will ensure that the migrant workers in camps get adequate supply,” the food supplies department officers said. Distribution of ration supplies commenced in the state from the 52,000 fair prices shops. There was no shortfall of food grain or pulses and supplies would stretch for six to seven months,officials said. Supply department officials said they had already distributed ration to over to 2.25 crore card holders. State labour minister Dilip Walse Patil had told TOI that all collectors would ensure that migrant workers are taken care of. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI there were nearly 91,909 workers in shelters and at construction sites. These included sugar cane workers. In Pune, 20 schools were helping shelter migrant workers. Officials from the administration said if the lockdown is extended, they would be under tremendous pressure to restrain the migrants for a longer time. “The state government will have to decide about them,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-assures-food-for-migrants-if-lockdown-goes-on/articleshow/75018595.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 7, 2020||Meerut||UP: Nine Covid-19 positive cases found in Meerut zone||MEERUT/BIJNOR: There were reports of several Covid-19 positive cases in parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Three Amroha residents and one from Bijnor were tested positive. All four individuals had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz recently. They were traced from Haldwani and Kanpur. Three others were found positive in Shamli, two in Bulandshahr and four in Saharanpur. The tests for all the nine cases - in Saharanpur, Bulandshahr and Shamli - were conducted by a microbiology laboratory at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut on Monday. With the fresh cases in place, the number of cases in Saharanpur is now 17 - out of which 12 are hospitalised in Lucknow. The tally in Bulandshahr is five, and the total number in Shamli reached 17, out of which two are admitted in Agra while three are in Auraiyya. Dr Amit Garg, microbiology head, LLRM Medical College, said, “Four people tested positive in Saharanpur, two in Bulandshahr and three in Shamli on Monday.” Notably, all 71 samples from Meerut were found negative. Confirming this, Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “No individual has tested positive in Meerut on Monday. All the 71 samples sent for testing have been found negative.” Meanwhile, contact tracing has begun in the districts of Bijnor and Amroha. Officials said that the men with Covid-19 infection had left Amroha on March 6 and Bijnor on March 8. Sources said 11 Amroha-based individuals who had attended the Delhi event were found in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani and were kept under isolation in a hospital. Out of them, three have been tested Covid-19 positive. Amroha district magistrate Umesh Mishra said, “The three belong to Bachhraon police station limits. They had left Amroha on March 6. We approached their family who were placed under quarantine. They informed us that the infected individuals did not return home. However, we are still trying to trace their contacts to know if they had come back or not.” A fresh case was reported from Kanpur, and the person is said to be a resident of Bijnor’s Chandpur. Bijnor’s chief medical officer Vijay Yadav said, “A resident of Bijnor’s Chandpur was tested Covid-19 positive. He had left Bijnor on March 8 and is still in Kanpur. He took part in the Delhi event and then went to Kanpur. We are trying to trace his family to ascertain whether he returned to Bijnor or not. Probe is currently on.” In Bijnor, samples of 54 people were sent to Meerut for testing on Monday. Results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/9-covid-19-positive-cases-found-in-meerut-zone/articleshow/75017545.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala high court allows cat owner to go out to buy food for pets||KOCHI: The high court on Monday avoided a ‘CATastrophe’ at the home of a cat owner by allowing his plea to go out during the lockdown to buy pet food. A division bench of Justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P Chaly, while allowing the plea, also noted that the lockdown has shown that the high court cannot remain shut. “The enforcement of a lockdown… has brought with it a fair share of litigation before this court, reminding us, once again, that there can never be a lockdown of the judicial institution…,” the judgment said. The court then allowed N Prakash of Ayini Nada Road at Maradu in Kochi to travel to the pet shop at Kadavanthra to buy food for the three cats at his home during a hearing held through videoconferencing. The petitioner can carry the required affidavit and a copy of the judgment for hassle-free travel. The court, which is considering only urgent cases, said that it was happy to have come to the aid of the felines and “we are also certain that our directions will help avert a ‘CATastrophe’ in the petitioner’s home”. During the hearing, additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan submitted that animal feed is included in the list of essential items. Prakash had stated that an application in this regard, filed by him through the recently introduced e-pass system, was rejected by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-allows-cat-owner-to-go-out-to-buy-food-for-pets/articleshow/75016469.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Seven powerloom unit owners booked for violating orders||NASHIK: The rural police have booked seven powerloom owners over the past week. The owners were found operating their powerloom units despite the lockdown order. They have been booked under section 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.  Senior officials of the Nashik rural police said that three to four people were working on the powerlooms when they were spotted by the police patrolling teams. Malegaon is known for its powerloom industries. The police said that they are taking strict measures to ensure that the lockdown orders are not violated. There were three to four people or even less in the powerloom units who were working at the time of the police checks, said a senior officer of Malegaon. The officer said that compared to handloom workers, the requirement in a powerloom is much less. A senior police officer said that when all other establishments, including the roadside food sellers, have been told not to operate during the lockdown period, there was no reason for the powerloom unit owners to continue their business. Arti Singh, superintendent of police, Nashik Rural, said: “The police are maintaining strict vigilance across the rural district to ensure there is no violation of lockdown. Similarly, even in Malegaon, the police are continuously patrolling the town to ensure that no powerloom unit or establishment other than those under the essential services category is functioning.” Two workers of a powerloom unit were allegedly beaten up by a team of policemen in Malegaon. After the news spread and reached senior officials, the team concerned — comprising a sub-inspector and two constables — was asked to give an explanation. The team should have registered an offence against the powerloom workers or brought the matter to the notice of their seniors, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-powerloom-unit-owners-booked-for-violating-orders/articleshow/75017549.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||18 Keralites die of Covid-19 abroad||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 18 non-resident Keralites (NRKs) have fallen victims to Covid-19 outside the state — 17 of them abroad, with the US registering eight deaths, the maximum as per the initial reports received by the state government. Providing the details of NRKs who died abroad due to Covid-19 and offering condolence, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said during his routine media briefing here on Monday that the death toll could be finalized only after receiving official figures from all regions across the globe. According to the chief minister, Monday witnessed four deaths in the US — Oommen Kurien hailing from Kottarakkara, Eliamma Kuriakose, a native of Piravom, and Shilpa Nair and Joseph Thomas, both natives of Chengannur. Haris from Alanchery died in Ajman (UAE) while Indira (Kollam) and Shinto George (Iritty, Kannur) succumbed to the virus infection in the UK. On Sunday, the death toll was four, and they are Shaun S Abraham (Thiruvalla) and Thankachan Inchanadu (Thodupuzha), both residing in the US, Beena George (Kuruppanthara, Kottayam) in Ireland and Soufan (Tirurangady, Malappuram) in Saudi Arabia. Two other Saudi residents, Shabanas, a native of Panur in Kannur district, and Joseph K Thomas (Kottayam) lost their lives on April 4. Two people who died in London on April 2 included Kunjamma Samuel hailing from Ramamangalam in Ernakulam district and Hamsa, a native of Perinthalmanna in Malappuram district. Asokan, a native of Kathirur in Kannur, died in Mumbai on April 1, besides Pareeth (Kaippamangalam, Thrissur) in Dubai. Covid-19 had started taking a toll on NRKs on March 31, with the death of Pathanamthitta native Thomas David in the US, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/18-keralites-die-of-covid-19-abroad/articleshow/75016428.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bareilly||PM’s candle call: 9-year-old sustains 80% burn injury||Pilibhit: A nine-year-old boy, Ritesh, of Murgavan village under Bilsanda police station sustained 80% burn injuries after his cloth accidently caught fire when he was trying to light a candle at 9 PM on Sunday, following a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to express solidarity with the officials and people who are trying to contain novel coronavirus spread. The boy was shifted to the Pilibhit district government hospital, where chief medical superintendent Dr RP Singh stated that the boy was critical. Boy’s father Nekpal said his thatched house, entire household material, foodgrain, Rs 35,000 cash and clothes were also reduced to ashes.In a separate incident, a 60-year-old farmer, Thhakan Lal, burnt to death after a fire engulfed him. The farmer was burning sugarcane residue — a practice banned by the government — in his farm at Deohana village under Barkhera police station on Monday morning when the fire engulfed him, too. Bisalpur circle SDM Chandra Bhan Sing said, “Since the incidents were not a natural calamity, there would be no ex gratia payment. “As a revenue team is preparing a report on the damage, we will see what can be done on the humanitarian grounds,” added the SDM..I|���<||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pms-candle-call-9-year-old-sustains-80-burn-injury/articleshow/75017544.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops on frontline face greater risk of getting infected||AURANGABAD: Doctors and nurses working overtime for treating the Covid-19 positive patients and suspects are not the only one at risk of contracting the virus, the policemen – working round-the-clock for effective implementation of the ongoing 21-day lockdown – are also at equal risk of getting infected. This problem has unanimously acknowledged by one and all in the force and the men in khaki lack special training and safety gear in dealing with the disease. Keeping this in mind, the state police headquarters has already started supplying face masks and hand sanitiser to police units across Maharashtra. In Aurangabad city, as a precautionary measure, the policemen posted at barricades set-up at colonies where people have been quarantined due to Covid-19 positive patients found there, are found using surgical gloves and masks. “Wearing hand gloves and surgical masks will not shield us from this deadly disease,” a police constable posted at a quarantined colony said, adding that gloves are a luxury that not all policemen have access to. “Considering the nature of our job, all precautions being recommended for us can only narrow down the risk but cannot guarantee complete safety of our men,” a police inspector said. Echoing similar views, a police sub-inspector from Parbhani said, “Despite lockdown, several vehicles from different districts as well as states are passing from our check posts. We don’t know if the people we are interacting with are already infected with Covid-19. We should be ready to get infected.” Much to the awe of the lower-ranked cops, the department is yet to design a foolproof and uniform mechanism to keep a track on the health of the policemen. The current and only mechanism is daily collection of date by the DGP office from all commissioners and superintendents of police of all personnel developing symptoms. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “Wearing PPE is neither practical nor possible for police while performing duty. Effective application of common sense, social distancing as well as self-hygiene is the key to winning the war against this disease.” The officer added that specially-stitched cloth masks are being sourced in large quantity and being supplied to the policemen in the city. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said, “We have decided that no policeman above the age of 52 would work on the frontline or be posted at any check points or places of high footfall. In addition to this, circulatory duty system is being followed, so that those being deputed at high-risk areas, get some breather before they get posted again at the same place.” Aurangabad rural police, headed by Mokshada Patil, have already started collecting health data of the policemen on daily basis and snyone found with even slightest of symptoms are being referred for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-on-frontline-face-greater-risk-of-getting-infected/articleshow/75017548.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 7, 2020||Pune||Jogging, walks in societies in Pune on police radar||PUNE: Warning people against going out for walks and jogging in housing societies, the city police said action would be taken against the rule violators. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisave, said, “We have not acted against any housing societies till now, but people should remain indoors. They can do many exercises indoors to stay fit. The office-bearers of housing societies need to take initiative and explain the lockdown rules to the residents.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham also said the onus was on the housing society committees. Concerns were raised by some residents of a housing society in Kondhwa after they spotted people, particularly youngsters, jogging and brisk walking on its premises. “We posted messages about it in the society WhatsApp group. What is the point of lockdown then?” asked a resident. Shisave said strict enforcement of the lockdown was necessary at present. “The security guards should be told to check people coming in or going out right at the gate. We are going to hold talks with the societies and tell them to follow the regulations. Only people in need of essentials should go out. People wanting to exercise can stay at home and do some push-ups, stretching or sit-ups,” he said. An office-bearer of a housing society at Fatimanagar told TOI, “The lockdown has disturbed fitness schedules, but we cannot compromise on health. We have advised all society members to stay at home and do indoor exercises. At times it gets difficult for sure, especially with children getting frustrated by staying indoors.” Residents stressed these were hard days for them. “I have been a regular at the gym for three years. Though stretching and push-ups are good, what people need is brisk walking and jogging. I can feel my weight is increasing now,” said Sudhir Kamat, working from home at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jogging-walks-in-hsg-socs-to-invite-police-action/articleshow/75018600.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Tech leg up helps Hyderabad police enforce lockdown||HYDERABAD: In a bid to strictly enforce the lockdown rules and also maintain social distancing norms in the state, the police, apart from the Automatic Number Plate Recognition System (ANPR), are also using crowd analytics software and drone cameras. The traffic enforcement system in the Hyderabad Commissionerate is issuing challans under Section 179 of the MV Act to those who are for violating the lockdown rules by travelling for more than three kilometres without a valid permission or reason. The police in three commissionerates are making use of the crowd analytics software. They are sifting through video feed from 335 cameras to alert the local police about gatherings of five or more people at a given location. “The software raises an alarm about the crowd gathering at a particular place based on camera feed and the nearest police patrolling vehicle gets an alert,” DSP Srinath Reddy said. Cyberabad and Rachakonda police have started using drones, embedded with cameras and mikes, to identify mob gatherings inside the cordoned off localities where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected. “Some localities near Balapur, Moulali and Pahadesharif have been cordoned off due to Covid-19 cases. To ensure that people do not gather in big numbers, we are going to use drones. Once we spot a group of people through drone surveillance video feed, we can ask them, through the mike installed on the drone, to disperse. We can also identify if any shops are open beyond the permitted time through drone surveillance,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said. Police of Karimnagar and Cyberabad commissionerates have been using drones to keep a watch on the movement of people and the activities during the lockdown period. “We have been using the drones at certain localities in Rajendranagar, Qutbullapur, Jagadgirigutta which have been cordoned off after Covid-19 positive cases. The drone camera helps the patrolling team to monitor the movement of people in the bylanes of the cordoned area from outside,” V C Sajjanar, Cyberabad commissioner of police, said. Bhupalapally district revenue authorities are using drone for surveillance as well as for spraying of Sodium Hypochlorite in virus-hit localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-leg-up-helps-hyderabad-police-enforce-lockdown/articleshow/75018115.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 7, 2020||Nashik||CBD distributes mid-day meal ration among students’ parents||NASHIK: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has completed the distribution of the mid-day meal ration in one day to all the 778 students of the Cantonment Board Deolali High School. Ajay Kumar, the chief executive officer of CBD, said: “We called the students’ parents in small batches and completed the distribution in one day while maintaining social distancing. We did not want to prolong the process. Some parents could not come. We will give them the ration as per their convenience.” The CBD runs one primary and one high school. These schools instruct students in English, Marathi and Urdu. The mid-day meal ration was given to 778 students of all three sections. Nalini Lokhande, the principal of the schools, said “We had called the parents between 8 am and 6 pm in small batches. We had been calling the parents and informing them about the ration distribution activity over the past week.” The parents came to the school carrying their children’s identity cards, added Lokhande. Members of the school management committee comprising few parents were also present to supervise the distribution of ration packets. Apart from the two schools, the CBD also has a school for people with disabilities in the hospital premises called ‘Ankur’. “Parents of three students from Ankur could come to the school to collect the ration packets on Monday. The others may come later,” Lokhande added. The CBD has also distributed 600 packets of grocery to the poor in the cantonment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-distributes-mid-day-meal-ration-among-students-parents/articleshow/75017559.cms||pragya jain
April 7, 2020||Goa||Help cashew farmers: Vishwajit Rane to CM||PANAJI: Owing to the limitations the lockdown may have, minister for industries, trade and commerce Vishwajit Rane has requested chief minister Pramod Sawant to come to the aid of cashew farmers in the state. Maintaining social distance himself, he has appealed to Sawant in a tweet posted on Monday to have the cashew purchased by Goa Bhagayatdar to help them recover their money. "It is my humble request to the Hon'ble CM @DrPramodPSawant, that in this crucial stage, Cashew should be purchased by Goa Bhagayatdar at a fixed market rate in order to protect the interest of the farming community in the state of Goa which will help them recover their money." he tweeted. This is the peak season for cashew plucking in Goa and being a cash crop, the Goan cashew brings income to farmers from the dry fruit industry through its nut and the feni and urrak industry through its apple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/help-cashew-farmers-rane-to-cm/articleshow/75018605.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Pune||Don’t expect lockdown to totally end after April 15; all patients may go to 4 hospitals: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: Given the high incidence of Covid-19 positive patients in Mumbai and Pune, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said, “No one should assume that the lockdown will be entirely lifted after April 15.” Tope said the government will minutely monitor the situation between April 10 and April 15. “The state government will take a decision on lifting the lockdown depending on the situation, Central government advisory and WHO guidelines.” Tope further said the state is actively considering shifting all patients in Mumbai to Kasturba, Seven Hills, Saifee and Nanavati hospitals. With civic employees striking work at V N Desai Hospital in Santacruz and Trauma Care Hospital at Jogeshwari and nurses’ unions demanding personal protective equipment, the state seems to have decided not to exacerbate the situation. “All Covid-19 patients will be shifted to these hospitals,” he said. These hospitals have about 2,300 beds in all. The state government has sought 3.25 lakh PPE kits, nine lakh N-95 masks, 99 lakh triple layer masks and 1,200 ventilators from the Centre, said Tope. “Though there are adequate resources available at the state level, as a precautionary measure and in the event of an emergency, the state has asked for additional equipment from the Centre,” added the health minister. The Central government has asked all states not to purchase any type of equipment related to Covid-19 that will be supplied by the Centre. Currently, the state has 35,000 PPE kits, three lakh N-95 masks, 1,300 ventilators and 20 lakh triple layer masks, he said. On Sunday, Tope met heads of Hazrat Nizamuddin Tabligi sect, seeking help to urge those who attended the Markaz in Delhi to cooperate with authorities. The leaders urged community members to ignore false messages and maintain harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dont-expect-lockdown-to-totally-end-after-apr-15-all-patients-may-go-to-4-hosps-tope/articleshow/75017562.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VZM admin calls for med volunteers to battle Covid||Visakhapatnam: The Vizianagaram district authorities have urged people to volunteer for free medical service to deal with the rising cases of coronavirus. Close to 10,000 trained people are needed in the district to deal with the current situation. The collector held a review meet over the prevailing situation in Vizianagaram on Monday. He said there is a need for an additional 339 doctors, 4,600 staff nurses, 54 lab technicians, 64 pharmacists, 4,600 health workers and 18 microbioligists. Clarifying on the minimum required qualifications, the district collector M Hari Jawhar Lal said, “Those volunteering as doctors must be at least MBBS qualified, while those volunteering as staff nurses must have either General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) or BSc degrees and should be qualified in ICU training. Lab technicians should be DMLT holders, while microbiologists should be post graduate degree holders in microbiology.” Field health workers must have a MPHW diploma and counselors should at least be graduates. Sources in the district administration pointed out that the appeal for volunteers is being made because of the increasing number of isolation and quarantine wards being set up and and tests being done. Regarding the manner in which the testing base can be increased, Jawahar Lal said measures must be taken to ensure that people come forward voluntarily. Interested candidates can apply by sending their details to dmhovzm@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-admin-calls-for-med-volunteers-to-battle-covid/articleshow/75016453.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Tablighi Jamaat visit: Indonesians and two agents booked||HYDERABAD: Karimnagar police on Monday registered a case against Indonesians who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin and later tested positive for Covid-19 after they landed in Telangana. While the Indonesians were booked for violation of the provisions of Foreigners Act, four local hosts from Karimnagar and two agents, who accompanied them from Delhi, were charged under the Epedemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made yet. I Town police of Karimnagar commissionerate registered a suo motu case under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Sections 188, 269, 270 and 420 of the IPC. A group of 10 Indonesians reached Delhi in March second week. After attending the Nizamuddin Markaz conclave, they reached Karimnagar via Ramagundam in AP Sampark Kranti Express on March 14. On March 16, the group was quarantined at Gandhi Hospital after one of them tested positive for Covid-19. Later, all of them tested positive for coronavirus. After undergoing treatment, they tested negative. However, they are still kept under quarantine in the hospital. The two persons, who accompanied the Indonesians from Delhi as guides, and four locals from Karimnagar were booked for not immediately informing the authorities about the presence of the foreigners and their health condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tj-visit-indonesians-2-agents-booked/articleshow/75018116.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Test samples from drains: Yamuna panel to agencies||NEW DELHI: After TOI highlighted on Sunday how the Yamuna appears visibly cleaner in parts owing to no industries operating during the lockdown, the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has written to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to collect samples from the river and the drains to determine the impact of reduction in industrial effluents. “TOI report suggests that there is improvement in water quality of Yamuna. Though you have decided to undertake sample testing of Yamuna, you may also consider simultaneously to collect samples of waste water from major drains like Najafgarh, Shahdara and Barapullah to name a few, so that in the event of improvement, you could link it with quality of waste water in the major drains,” read the letter sent to the CPCB member secretary on Sunday. “This will help you and DPCC analyse the results better,” it added. Experts say this is also the ideal time to gather data on the river. “At present, the water is clearly visible and we are seeing this for the first time in several decades. The departments concerned should take samples and check the quality of water for record and research work. Currently, there is no pollution going into the river except for some untreated domestic sewage,” said Vikrant Tongad, an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-samples-from-drains-yamuna-panel-to-agencies/articleshow/75018120.cms||---
April 7, 2020||India||Covid-19: Bhilwara model may become template for other badly-hit states||JAIPUR: The "ruthless" Covid-19 containment model adopted by Rajasthan's Bhilwara since detecting the first of its 27 positive cases on March 19 has been acknowledged by the Centre as a potential template for states battling a spurt in infections. At a video-conference with the chief secretaries of all states on Sunday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said in his concluding remarks that there were two key takeaways from the review of strategies to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic – aggressive containment like in Bhilwara and preparation in terms of scaling up hospitals and quarantine facilities. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh, who has been driving the containment campaign in the textile city along with district collector Rajendra Bhatt, said on Monday that health department teams screened 28 lakh people in the first 14 days since a doctor in a private hospital there tested positive. The decision to implement a massive containment protocol was hastened by the background of the first case. The source of infection was unknown, and the fact that the patient was a doctor led health officials to fear a runaway spread of the virus through a long list of primary and secondary contacts.  "The strategy to combat a cluster spread was three-pronged. The first step was effective implementation of the curfew, sealing the borders of containment zones and ensuring zero vehicular movement," Singh said. "Second, we set out to identify potential clusters and carry out intensive mapping of contacts, besides isolating high-risk people and collecting samples for tests quickly. The third step was a massive screening exercise covering the entire population to detect influenza-like symptoms." The district administration constituted around 2,000 teams that went door-to-door screening a population of 28 lakh residents. Although 17 members of the hospital staff identified as the epicentre of the outbreak have since tested positive along with a few primary contacts, including their family members, the containment strategy seems to have prevented a full-blown spread so far. The last Covid-19 case in Bhilwara was reported on Saturday – after a gap of four days without any new infections. Health officials are also relieved that there has been no positive case among the 7,000-odd patients who had visited the private hospital between March 1 and 20. For collector Bhatt, the battle is far from over, but Bhilwara's strategy being talked about as a model for others to follow is a big fillip. "The Centre has appreciated our containment model and advocated that every district in the country should take such measures to deal with the pandemic. It's a proud moment for us," he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-bhilwara-model-may-become-template-for-other-badly-hit-states/articleshow/75018887.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||City startup’s app monitoring virus||Hyderabad: As the world races against time to find solutions to fight COVID-19, an eight-month-old Hyderabad-based startup, Vera Smart Healthcare, has developed an automated `COVID-19 Monitoring System’ in three days flat. The centralised system, which can be accessed through a super lite mobile app, has been deployed by Telangana’s public health and family welfare department to identify, carry out live surveillance, track, monitor, and provide real-time analytics to the chief minister’s office and health department. It also uses chatbots to interact daily with symptomatic or confirmed positive patients and enables each health-caller to handle over 1500 calls to remind patients to self-administer the prescribed treatment. “One of the key features is Geotagging and GPS tracking of the home quarantined person, to ensure that they are not breaching the quarantine. In case of any breach, accurate information is pushed to the authorities. Every detail reported reaches the CMO through various updaters like ASHA workers, doctors, police and the concerned bureaucrat,” said Dharma Teja Nukarapu, founder & CEO, Vera Smart Healthcare. Telangana’s director of public health Dr G Srinivas Rao said the system has helped the government track and monitor foreign returnees as well as community spread. It has also helped track those who were hospitalised for SARS earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-startups-app-monitoring-virus/articleshow/75018122.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Give students of classes IX, XI a second chance, says CBSE||NEW DELHI: With the Union human resource development ministry announcing that the students of classes IX and XI should also be promoted, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has been receiving queries from the students kept in the same class. The board has asked the principals to provide remedial interventions and give these students another chance to appear for online/offline tests. CBSE has also decided to give 10 days’ notice before starting the board examinations postponed due to the 21-day lockdown. In a note sent to the principals, the board has said the students should be promoted on the basis of school-based assessments, including project work, periodic tests and term exams. In case a student fails to clear this, he should get another opportunity, CBSE has said. For Delhi government school students in these two classes, the exams were yet to be completed. Education minister Manish Sisodia has already announced they would be promoted on the basis of the results of previous exams and internal assessment. Many students are also confused about the board exams. On April 4, CBSE announced that it would conduct examinations only for the remaining main subjects. While CBSE has said it’s difficult to release a revised schedule at this point, it will take a decision only after consulting the higher education authorities. The board will also keep in mind all aspects related to entrance exams and admission dates, it has assured students. The final exams have also been cancelled in 250 schools affiliated to CBSE abroad. The board will devise an objective criteria to asses students in these schools. “The schools have been closed for a long period in west Asian countries till August 3. The schools in Iran, Japan, Nigeria etc are also closed,” the board has said, adding that conducting exams requires time to deliver papers, transport and evaluate them and process results. “If the exams are conducted after August 3, college admissions of all these students will be at stake,” it has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-students-of-classes-ix-xi-a-second-chance-cbse/articleshow/75018130.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||First positive case in Khammam dist||Hyderabad: More than a month after first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, Khammam on Monday reported its first positive case. Khammam district, which has a population of 17 lakh and four lakhs alone in Khammam municipal corporation did not have any positive case till Monday. Interestingly, neighbouring districts-Bhadradri-Kothagudem has four cases, Suryapet district has eight positive cases Mahbubabad district recorded one case in the past one month. The district had 580 foreign returnees and of them 565 people were home quarantined. Suspects were kept in isolation wards of a government hospital and private medical college. “While 120 coronavirus test results were sent to Hyderabad, 119 tests were negative and only one is positive,” official said. “The first case was reported on Monday. The person travelled to Delhi, but not to Tablighi Jamaat at Markaz Nizamuddin. He belongs to Pedda Thanda near Khammam town. The person went to Delhi on March 12 and attended a meeting. While coming back on March 18, he travelled with participants of Jamaat,” Khammam collector RV Karnan told TOI. Though Khammam town is junction for various districts including Kothagudem, the district administration has taken measures to contain the spread of virus. “We have improved sanitation in all the localities apart from implementing lockdown totally,” the district collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-positive-case-in-khammam-dist/articleshow/75018119.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Plummeting shrimp prices put industry under strain||Visakhapatnam: The lockdown to contain Covid-19 has hit the shrimp industry in the state. A decline in exports, non-availability of feed and transportation have combined to bring about a fall in prices from Rs 150 per kilogram before March 23 to Rs 80 per kg at present. While the government has fixed the price at Rs 180 per kg, neither traders nor factories are purchasing at this price. “Even if traders or factories purchase shrimp at Rs 140 or Rs 150, we are happy, but we are not getting the price. The feed supply has come down and so have exports,” said Satyanarayana Raju, a farmer from Bhimavaram. Most farmers, however, prefer selling to traders as factories pay two months after the stock is supplied, but “now traders also fear dip in prices and are lowering the price. Shrimp cultivation is sensitive and severe weather conditions would damage farmers’ futures,” said K Bangarraju, a farmer from Ravulapalem in East Godavari. “The target to achieve over $10 billion export by 2022 under the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) will not become a reality as the shrimp industry is facing an uphill task due to various reasons, including the corona effect,” said G Raju, an exporter from the state. The industry is also plagued by the lack of cold storage and “even though AP has a major share in shrimp exports, there is no cold storage facility by the government,” said G Muralikrishna Rao, member of the shrimp farmers joint action committee, and demanded the government set up cold storage units and announce a package to farmers whose livelihoods will be hit on account of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/plummeting-shrimp-prices-put-industry-under-strain/articleshow/75016475.cms||Siva G
April 7, 2020||Meerut||Two minors fined for faking ex-DM’s leave letter as pass to commute during lockdown||Meerut: Two minors were fined and their motorcycle was impounded after the duo allegedly used a leave application letter of Noida's former DM BN Singh, in a bid to hoodwink the cops into believing that it was some kind of ‘authorisation letter’ to travel during the lockdown. The incident occurred near Raiwala Crossing when the two minors tried to pass through a barricade.“From a distance, the letter appeared like a pass with appropriate signatures, but the format looked a bit different from the regular permits issued to essential services-designated vehicles. A closer look unearthed their mischief,” said Mandi police station in-charge, Adesh Tyagi.“The bike they were riding in has been seized and they have been challaned under Indian Motor Vehicles Act Sec 207 (detention of vehicle without registration or permit) and 3 (181) (one-month imprisonment and fine),” he added.SSP, Saharanpur, Dinesh Kumar P said, “The two minors have been let off, but their parents will have to face the consequences for this violation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-minors-fined-for-faking-ex-dms-leave-letter-as-pass-to-commute-during-lockdown/articleshow/75017569.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for setting forest fire that killed 2 women||BAGESHWAR: A 64-year-old man was held on Monday by police for allegedly sparking a forest fire that killed two women on Saturday evening. The arrest of the accused Dharam Singh, a native of Padkuni village, comes after Madan Ram, the husband of one of the deceased, Nandi Devi, registered a case against him for setting fire to the forest near Chachai village under Kapkot block of the district. Ganga Devi ,32, the woman who accompanied the two victims to the forest and survived the accident, had alleged that Singh set the fire which killed the women. “On Saturday evening, three women went to the forest to collect fodder where the accused person was also grazing goats. He set a fire there which went out of control and spread in the forest. The two victims — Nandi Devi (40) and Indra Devi (36) — were killed after getting trapped in this forest fire,” TR Verma, station house officer (SHO), Kapkot Police Station, told TOI. The official added that the accused was arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-setting-forest-fire-that-killed-2-women/articleshow/75017574.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 7, 2020||Meerut||UP Police resort to public shaming of lockdown violators||Muzaffarnagar: After pasting copies of FIRs on their doors, police in UP’s Muzaffarnagar are now publicly shaming those found violating lockdown in the district by announcing their names over loudspeakers. On Sunday night, scores of policemen using the public address system announced name of a man who has been accused of roaming on streets. “A man, Ravi (name changed) living in your area is flouting lockdown. We have registered a case against him and an FIR copy has been pasted on his house’s wall. He is creating a nuisance which is harmful for the society,” a policeman announced in New-Mandi area. A police officer said that it is being done to ensure that “the entire neighbourhood gets to know about his irresponsible behaviour.” Interestingly, some locals recorded the public announcement over their phones and put it on social media platforms. On Sunday, local police “home-delivered” the copies of 63 FIRs at the door steps of 275 people booked for violating lockdown. Upping the ante against the lockdown violators, local police has now decided to not only register but also home-deliver FIRs to offenders based on video footage and CCTV surveillance. As many as 1,800 people who were caught breaking lockdown here have been booked. SSP Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said, “We want to make people stay at their homes. There is a complete lockdown, but some people are being spotted on streets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-resort-to-public-shaming-of-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75017573.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kochi||Special flight evacuates 189 Maldivians||KOCHI: A special charter flight airlifted 189 Maldivians, who had reached Kerala before the lockdown, from the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) Monday evening. Many had reached Kerala for treatment purposes while there were also tourists that were taken home in an M/s Island Aviation aircraft that landed at CIAL around 4 pm and departed at 5.55 pm. The passengers included newborns and cancer patients and were evacuated after the Maldivian Consulate made a priority list at the orders of the Maldivian government. The officials said that more than 100 Maldivians are still stuck in various parts of Kerala and will be evacuated later. “Most of the passengers reached Ernakulam for treatment at various hospitals here. Many of them were supposed to return before the lockdown started but their air tickets were cancelled multiple times due to travel restrictions. Since then they have been staying in various lodges in Ernakulam. The Maldivian government asked the Consul here to make a list of them and make the arrangements. The special flight got approval from the DGCA for the relief operation as no passenger operations are allowed during the lockdown,” said a Consulate official. The health department has already conducted the medical check-up on these people and certified them asymptomatic. They were brought to the airport on Monday evening in buses arranged by the Consulate. CIAL followed the COVID-19 protocol during the boarding of the Maldivian passengers. The baggages were disinfected and passengers were provided with hand sanitizers. They also underwent mandatory health-screening at the terminal. The passengers were given a special seating area arranged towards the east side of the check-in counters. Social distancing protocol was also maintained. The check-in was completed in small groups with a maximum of five persons in a line at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/special-flight-evacuates-189-maldivians/articleshow/75016487.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hubballi||Working long shifts, healthcare personnel battle hunger, thirst and fatigue||Hubballi: Those who venture out by disobeying lockdown orders should understand the risk that doctors and healthcare professionals who are treating Covid-19 patients are taking. Donning personal protection equipment(PPE) in high temperatures, doctors sweat it out in isolation wards, not caring for hunger and thirst, and controlling nature’s call, in working 6-hour shifts at a stretch. Once they wear the PPE, they will not remove it until their shift gets over. One of the reasons for doing so is that there are limited numbers of the same, and once it is removed, one has to wear a new one. Without air conditioning, wearing a two-layered PPE on top of ones clothes, and putting on an apron, is not an easy task to perform. It is not at all easy to work wearing safety footwear without laces, with disposable slippers, gloves taped to the wrists, and a helmet-like hood. A doctor who treats Covid-19 patients said, “It is a highly contagious disease, we know that PPEs are safe, but we are maintaining social distancing with our family members at home, after performing our duties in the hospital. It is been weeks since I have mingled with my children. We have to be very careful and take all the necessary precautions. Social distancing is very important in keeping infection at bay,” he said. He said, “We prepare mentally to work a 6-hour shift in such challenging conditions. We use sign language to communicate with other doctors and staff, as we get completely covered under the PPE,” he said. Another doctor who works in the ENT department said that throat swabs play an important role in detecting infection, and hence the role of ENT doctors is important. “We take 5 minutes to take the swab. We have to be very careful while collecting it, as it is a very contagious disease,” he said. One of the doctors who treats patients at the isolation ward said that he is living in a separate room in his house from the last one week. “This is an extra precaution I am taking. We have to be careful. Though we use safety equipment, our seniors have advised us to additional precautions. When we come out of the isolation ward, we first immerse our clothes in hypochlorite solution, and shower after reaching home,” he said. “Covid-19 is a new disease. Most doctors are not used to working under such conditions. Since we opted for this noble profession, we are doing our duty with utmost passion and zeal. Many doctors have opted to remain in hostel rooms, who are on regular duty in the isolation wing,” he said. KIMS is giving continuous training to doctors, staff and paramedical staff on handling Covid-19 patients. They are preparing more staff if in case more Covid-19 patients are admitted to the hospital. Doctors said that they feel bad when they see people roaming on the roads by disobeying lockdown orders. “Peope should remain indoors taking into consideration the sacrifices made by doctors and healthcare workers, which is no less than an Army man fighting at the border,” said doctors. They requested the people to follow the direction of the government to break the chain of infection. aption: KIMS doctors enter the Covid ward wearing the PPE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/working-long-shifts-healthcare-personnel-battle-hunger-thirst-and-fatigue/articleshow/75016267.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Worker killed after mound of mud caves in||Rudrapur: A 28-year-old man died on Sunday evening after a mound of mud caved in on him, police said. The victim was working at a mining site near Kosi river in Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar. The deceased, identified as Mohammad Akram, was a resident of Cotton Mill Colony. He got trapped as mud started sliding and though he was rescued, he was declared brought dead at the Civil Hospital, SHO Kuldeep Adhikari said, while adding that he died due to suffocation. The other labourers, who were working on top of the pit, escaped as soon as they noticed the mound of mud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/worker-killed-after-mound-of-mud-caves-in/articleshow/75017580.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||No clues to how Godhra man got infected||Vadodara: How did the elderly man from Godhra got infected with COVID-19? This remains a mystery as the family insists that the deceased man never went out of station and did not have any visitors from outside the town too. Sources in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) as well as the hospital where he was treated said the patient was not in a condition to talk. Most of the history was narrated by family members of the victim who kept insisting that he did not have any contact with persons outside Godhra. After his death, officials of Panchmahal district health department too have been trying to find out clues that could explain how the man got infected. An official said a major surveillance drive to examine those staying around the victim’s residence has been taken up. Officials believe that the family may either be hiding something or may be missing out on some important detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-clues-to-how-godhra-man-got-infected/articleshow/75015816.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Allow private labs to conduct tests: Congress||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy has lashed out at the state government for not allowing private laboratories to conduct diagnostic tests for Covid-19. Reddy said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved nine private laboratories in Hyderabad to conduct coronavirus tests. The ICMR has already framed guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for collection of samples, packaging and transportation. Although the approval was granted a week ago, the state government did not frame the mandatory local guidelines to facilitate the private labs. Narayana Reddy said that each private diagnostic facility has the capacity to conduct anywhere between 50 and 100 tests in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-allow-pvt-labs-to-conduct-tests/articleshow/75018134.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents’ body asks Telangana to intervene in fee row||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) on Monday alleged that several schools were asking parents to clear the first term fee of the 2020-21 academic year by the second week of April. They requested the state to intervene and direct schools to extend the deadline till at least June. They added that schools should also be asked not to hike the fee for the coming academic year. “Every year, we have to clear the first term fee by March 31. But, this year, due to the lockdown, my business has been shut and I have no income. Schools should give us a little more time during this unprecedented crisis,” said the parent of a Class 10 child studying at a top school. Parents said that apart from asking to pay the fee for the first term (April, May, and June) in advance, schools are threatening to impose fine if there is any delay in payment. A few parents also complained that schools are threatening to detain students if they fail to attend online classes regularly. Officials from the education department said that schools cannot demand the fee until April 14. “After April 14, we will be discussing on all these issues. Until then, no school, irrespective of which board it is affiliated to, can demand fee,” said Hyderabad district education officer Venkata Narassamma. Reacting on schools threatening to detain students, she said that no school has the right to detain students up to class 8. Telangana Recognised School Managements Association, however, said it is hard for them to survive without collecting fee dues. “Some parents are yet to clear dues for the current academic year itself. Just because we sent a mail or message, doesn’t mean they are going to pay immediately,” said S Srinivas Reddy of TRSMA. He said that it’s not fair on the state’s part to ask them to pay 100% salaries and insist that they don’t collect fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-body-asks-t-to-intervene-in-fee-row/articleshow/75018163.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad zoo told to increase inmates’ protection||HYDERABAD: After reports of a tiger testing positive for the coronavirus in New York’s Bronx Zoo, one of the largest zoos in the United States, the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad has been put on high alert with zoo authorities taking precautionary measures to protect its inmates from contracting the virus. The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) also advised all zoos in the country to keep a close watch on animals using CCTV cameras for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms related to Covid-19. CZA also passed instructions to the zoo authorities not to allow keepers in the vicinity without any personal protective equipment and safety gear, to isolate and quarantine sick animals and to have least contact while providing feed to the animals. According to Nehru zoo officials, preventive measures were already taken up in the entire zoo including its pathways and animal enclosures. “The entire zoo is being sprayed with sodium hypochlorite, anti-viral liquid and bleaching powder regularly since the first week of March. We are taking all necessary measured to ensure good health of about 1,700 animals housed in the zoo,” said zoo curator N Kshitija. “We have also asked the staff to practice social distancing and provided masks and sanitisers,” she said. The Nehru Zoological Park with nearly 1,700 specimens has been closed to visitors since March 15, following orders from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoo-told-to-increase-inmates-protection/articleshow/75018148.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Visually-challenged man struggles to make his way home to Nalgonda||HYDERABAD: A visually-challenged person is struggling to return home to his family in Miryalaguda in Nalgonda. He was found by activists living on a street in L B Nagar. “I started losing my vision due to exposure to sodium dichromate that the factory I was working in deals with. I came to the city to get treated, but my vision deteriorated,” said Govind Reddy. The 41-year-old said his company used to pay for his treatment, but with no hope left, they have stopped paying and he has been left to fend for himself. “I wanted to leave for my village before the lockdown, but now it is impossible ,” he said. Reddy is among the 30 to 35 homeless people near the LB Nagar Ring Road depending on others for food. Mostly migrants, these people came to the city for work and for other reasons, but are now living on the streets. Activist Vinil Reddy, who has been feeding people in the area with other volunteers, said, “Govind just keeps an ear out for my car. When people ask him how he manages, he shows them my visiting card. Before I came, he depended on strangers to get him to go to the hospital.” Vinil says he hopes to get him medication and work, but due to lockdown, everything is on hold. For now, Govind, wants to see his siblings in Nalgonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/visually-challenged-man-struggles-to-make-his-way-home-to-nalgonda/articleshow/75018128.cms||Uttara Varma
April 7, 2020||Delhi||How these homemakers are stitching together a survival story||NEW DELHI: Bhagwati Jetley had some spare cotton cloth lying in her sewing kit. It struck her that this could be put to use at a time of dire need for face masks. The 81-year-old retired school principal decided to turn the leftover cloth into three-ply face masks and distribute them among people, especially the Covid-susceptible elderly folk in Sarita Vihar, where she lives. “If everyone buys surgical masks, nothing will be left for our corona warriors,” she reasoned. “It’s not so difficult to make masks at home.” Two things have become clear as the novel coronavirus continues its insidious foray into Indian society: surgical masks are in short supply and wearing masks is becoming an important part of protection against infection for everyone, not just those engaged in the fight against Covid-19. That is why Jetley’s advice that medical masks should be left for health workers while the masses should adopt home-made masks resonates with many other individuals in the city. Reeta Aggarwal, a homemaker in South Anarkali Extension in Krishna Nagar, is one of them. The 56-year-old has taken up the challenge of making masks and distributing them to needy people. After her brother, homoeopathy practitioner Dr Pankaj Aggarwal, agreed that he would give them out to patients visiting his clinic, she started making face mask from waste cloth pieces from March 21, long before Prime Minister Narendra Modi endorsed such masks for common people. Aggarwal fashioned 100 masks overnight for distribution to clinic staff and people participating in her brother's medical camp organised the following day. She then approached others for taking up the initiative. As Sulbha Gupta, member of the Narmada Apartments RWA in south Delhi’s Alaknanda, said, “These home-made masks can be used by people who are not infected by coronavirus. We desperately needed masks for bulk distribution to guards and hawkers in the locality but the lockdown made it impossible to procure them. So we requested Reeta Aggarwal to tell us how to get them made.” Aggarwal, who went online to learn how to sew masks out of scraps, said, “Unlike ready-made masks, these should first be washed before use but they can then be washed and reused many times.” She plans to make more and distribute them in economically disadvantaged areas. Sonia Vohra, a resident of Krishna Nagar in east Delhi, too makes washable, reusable masks from cotton cloth. As a fashion designer, she had a lot of material lying in her house, and she first sewed some masks to while away time during the lockdown. Then, she realised they could actually save people from infections. “Earlier, the government said masks were not necessary, and only medical professionals and infected or symptomatic people should wear them. But now the opinion has changed. Even the PM has asked everyone to cover their faces with homemade masks when they are outside their houses,” Vohra said. The 45-year-old is making more to distribute them for free among the daily-wage workers living in the under-construction buildings in her neighbourhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-these-homemakers-are-stitching-together-a-survival-story/articleshow/75037328.cms||Paras Singh
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No revenue in 2 wks, but IRCTC kitchens stay open to feed poor||Visakhapatnam: In the wake of the nationwide lockdown, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) Limited has taken up an initiative to prepare and distribute meals to weaker sections of society. The food is distributed free of cost, at a time when the corporation has not been earning any revenue since March 23, the first time in its history of over 20 years. “We have modern kitchen facilities at several stations across the country. So at this hour of crisis, we decided to prepare meals for the poor. We are distributing these meals through a few NGOs and through jawans of the Railway Protection Force,” D Narsinga Rao, group general manager of IRCTC (South Central Zone) told TOI. Up until Monday, IRCTC had served 37,050 meals from Vijayawada railway station and 4,750 meals from Visakhapatnam railway station. “We have roped in three NGOs in Visakhapatnam. Through them we are serving the meals. Even RPF jawans are distributing meals near the vicinity of the railway station,” said Chandra Mohan Bisa, area officer (Visakhapatnam), IRCTC. The initiative will continue for the length of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-revenue-in-2-wks-but-irctc-kitchens-stay-open-to-feed-poor/articleshow/75016512.cms||Arpit Basu
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Coastal police quarantine 300 fishermen||Thiruvananthapuram: After the state borders have been sealed barring interstate movement of citizens as part of the nationwide lockdown, the coastal police manning the state’s coast are having a tough time. Fishermen who had gone to other neighbouring as well as far off states for fishing for days together have unknowingly made them one of the most vulnerable and potential carriers of the Coronavirus. And they have been returning by boats and landing at state coast, violating the lockdown norm to stay put at where ever one had stranded on March 24. As many as 300 such persons have been intercepted and home quarantined by the coastal police since the day one of lockdown. The interceptions were made mainly by the coastal police at Vizhinjam, Poovar, Arthungal, Neendakara and Thalassery coastal police limits. Vizhinjam police alone have intercepted 251 fishermen and, after informing Disha and health workers, sent them on quarantine. “We received information from our intelligence division as well as coastal population that many fishing boats that had gone towards far off coasts from are returning. If they land here and mix with the local population, it would be extremely difficult for us to locate them as well as trace their route maps. So the safest option was to send all of them on quarantine by intercepting them the moment they land at the coast,” ADGP (coastal police) K Padmakumar said. But for the coastal police, it was easily said than done. Unlike on the roads that could be closed and the travellers intercepted, the fishing boats could land anywhere along the 560-km long coast. The 18 coastal police stations along the coast each with an approximate jurisdiction of 30km coastline, were pressed into action both day and night. “The only option available to us was to keep a round-the-clock vigil and rely on the information that was being shared by our intelligence units, coastal wardens and the Kadalora Jagratha Samithis,” Padmakumar said. The coastal wardens, 180 of them from the local fishermen community who were inducted to the force and distributed among 14 coastal police stations, acted as force multipliers for the police in obtaining information from the local community about those who are returning to the state. These fishermen travelled back after touching the coasts and mingling with the local population in several states. “When we intercepted them and spoke to them, many of them had come back after months and some even forayed as far as to the Gulf coasts. Also, on their way back, they had touched several coasts, including Gujarat and Maharashtra, and mingled with the local population for food and fuel,” Vizhinjam coastal police CI H Anil Kumar said. The police also had more difficulty in intercepting them as most of them landed in the night time. “We had put our men on duty at the main landing points. Also, we observed that most of them come and land during the night time,” Anil Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/coastal-police-quarantine-300-fishermen/articleshow/75016535.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Surat||Begumpura Hathi Faliya under mass quarantine||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) placed Hathi Faliya of Begumpura locality in the Walled City under mass quarantine after a 65-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday.This is the second mass quarantined area after Rander where two Covid-19 positive cases were detected. The SMC officials said that the entire area was sanitized and disinfected on Sunday. “There are about 1,147 houses in the area with the population of more than 6,000 people. All the residents have been asked to stay indoors,” said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/begumpura-hathi-faliya-under-mass-quarantine/articleshow/75018129.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Containment measures on in M’patnam municipal area||Vijayawada: The Krishna district administration is on the alert following the death of Covid-19 positive person in Machilipatnam. Machilipatnam municipality has declared the city a containment (‘red’) zone and restricted the movement of locals. Health and municipal authorities at Machilipatnam are tracing the persons the deceased came into contact with and sending them to quarantine. The family of the deceased has already been sent to quarantine. Officials have learnt that the deceased, a 55-year-old male patient, had ignored the early symptoms of the disease and received treatment for only four days at a local nursing home. As his condition deteriorated, the management of the nursing home shifted him to Machilipatnam government hospital. He later tested positive for Covid-19. Health officials have also sent a doctor at the nursing home to quarantine while police are following the travel history of the deceased who visited One Town in Vijayawada on March 19. Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers and ward volunteers are carrying out a door-to-door survey in Chilakalapudi in Machilipatnam and have requested locals to dial 104 if they come across a person displaying Covid-19 symptoms. Transport minister Perni Venkata Ramaiah inspected the containment zones and requested residents not to step out of their homes. The minister directed officials to arrange for doorstep delivery of essential commodities in these zones. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is continuing with containment zones at Rajarajeswaripet, Krishna Lanka, Gayathrinagar, Bhavanipuram and other areas. Doctors have confirmed that all Covid-19 positive cases registered in city are stable and recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/containment-measures-on-in-mpatnam-municipal-area/articleshow/75015573.cms||Venu Lanka
April 7, 2020||Meerut||UP village puts up notice announcing 5k fine on outsiders, removed after cops intervene||Meerut: A village in UP's Hapur district put up a notice on Monday, announcing that it would slap a fine of Rs 5,000 on any outsider who enters the hamlet without informing the pradhan. The warning, however, did not go down well with police, who said village authorities did not have the power to impose fines during lockdown and got the notice removed later in the day. The notice was pasted at the entry of Bachlota village whose pradhan, Jasveer (who only uses his first name), said the move was meant to keep tabs on outsiders — friends or relatives of residents — entering the village. Earlier, residents had put up logs as makeshift barricades to prevent entry to the village. Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (Hapur), told TOI that the notice was removed after local police contacted the pradhan. “Village pradhans cannot impose fine on lockdown violators,” he said. At present, three people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-village-puts-up-notice-announcing-5k-fine-on-outsiders-removed-after-cops-intervene/articleshow/75017579.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||CPM demands all-party meet on coronavirus||Hyderabad: The CPM has demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should conduct an all-party teleconference on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s teleconference with all-party leaders on April 8. “The need of the hour in this time of crisis is to fight unitedly against coronavirus. CM KCR should take suggestions of all the political parties whose cadre are giving feedback from the field about the gaps and requirements to effectively prevent the spread of coronavirus,” CPM state secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said in a letter addressed to the CM. He said the state government has taken up several measures to effectively fight against the spread of coronavirus. However, some sections are trying to give a communal colour to the spread of coronavirus. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cpm-demands-all-party-meet-on-coronavirus/articleshow/75018179.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Legislators ask locals to stay home||Hyderabad: As part of their efforts to spread awareness on Covid-19, the state government has released videos by AIMIM legislators appealing locals to stay at home and observe lockdown rules. In the one to two minute-long videos, Karwan MLA Kausar Mohiuddin and Malakpet MLA Ahmed Balala appealed to the people in the city to stay at home so as to break the chain of coronavirus and curb its spread. “The government is doing its part but that is not enough (in itself). All of you should also follow the lockdown rules by staying at home and keeping your families safe,” Balala said.  A similar appeal was made by MIM MLC Mirza Riyaz who explained the arrangements made by the government for the Old City. Apart from these, the government also released another video of person who stayed at Gandhi hospital for 15 days. “ I felt very secure at the hospital...the situation there was good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/legislators-ask-locals-to-stay-home/articleshow/75018156.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||City constable tests positive for Covid-19||Hyderabad: A city constable tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The 55-year-old constable, attached to the Saifabad police station, reportedly has been a regular visitor to a place of worship at Mallepally, where Tablighi Jamaat members have been put up. The constable, who has been suffering with cold and other health problems was declared Covid-19 positive at Gandhi hospital. Senior officials have asked other policemen from the Saifabad police station who came in contact with the constable to undergo tests and recommended self-quarantine. “He might have contracted it while performing duties during lockdown or after he went to the place of worship. We are still ascertaining it,’’ said a senior police officer, who requested anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75018133.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana DCA nod to six new units to make Hydroxychloroquine||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Drugs Control Association (DCA) has issued licences to six new pharma units to manufacture Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) on war footing. According to the DCA, 17 units are already making the formulation besides the six that were issued licences on Monday. Only one company is producing the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) of the product in Telangana. Drug control authorities are pulling down stocks of the anti-malarial drug from forwarding agents and in some cases retailers too. “The local drug controller took away all the stocks of HCQ. But depending on needs of malaria patients, we are getting them on a case-to-case basis,” Venkatapathy, a pharmacist from Miryalaguda told TOI. Drug officials said there was a ban on exports and that they had collected stock for prophylactic use for doctors and other staff treating Covid 19 cases. On April 4, Director General of Foreign Trade while amending export policy of HCQ stated: “The export of Hydroxychloroquine and formulations is no longer allowed from SEZs and export-oriented units. Without any exception Hydroxychloroquine is prohibited.” In a circular to all pharma units, distributors and retail shops, DCA director Dr Preeti Meena said: “Manufacturing activity of medicines, medical equipment and ancillary products and entire related supply chain, transportation, shall remain in operation...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dca-nod-to-six-new-units-to-make-hcq/articleshow/75018172.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Biker taking wife to work dies in accident near checkpost||NASHIK: A 58-year-old motorcyclist died in the Peth Road area of Panchavati after his vehicle got entangled in a rope strung across the road at a checkpoint — causing him to fall — in the wee hours of Monday. His wife, who was riding pillion, also was seriously injured. She is being treated at a private hospital. The deceased has been identified as Kishor Samant Chavan, a resident of the Swarganga Society, behind Nashik RTO in Panchavati. The Panchavati police said Chavan’s wife, Raghuben, works as a sanitation worker in the Raviwar Karanja area. Chavan was on his way to drop Raghuben to her workplace at 5am. As a part of the lockdown, the police had put up barricades and ropes across the road at the junction near the Shani temple on Peth Road. The couple’s motorcycle got caught in the rope and they fell. Chavan, who was not wearing a helmet, suffered serious head injuries. Police present on at spot initially shifted him to a private hospital and then to the Nashik civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He too was a sanitation worker in the Nashik Municipal Corporation and had taken voluntary retirement four months ago. The police have registered a case of accidental death. Against the backdrop of people violating the lockdown orders, police have put up checkpoints at over 80 junctions in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/biker-taking-wife-to-work-dies-in-accident-near-checkpost/articleshow/75017587.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: TDP MLA takes up cycle yatra, stopped midway||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP MLA from Palakollu Nimmala Ramanaidu took up a 100 km ride on a bicycle from his constituency to district headquarters to raise issues faced by the people and farmers. However, cops stopped him midway citing lockdown rules and escorted him home, following which the MLA began a 24-hour hunger strike. Ramanaidu took up a cycle yatra from his constituency to Eluru to meet the collector and the superintendent of police as he could not contact them over phone. He put up placards urging the government to purchase products directly from aqua farmers, provide maximum prices to farmers as well as irrigation water. He started his yatra from Palakollu on Monday, but cops stopped him in Bhimavaram Ramanaidu explained that he was maintaining social distancing norms as he was travelling alone and also wearing a mask. “I tried to contact the collector and superintendent of police several times to speak about the issues faced by fardmers as well as the general public. But, the officials did not reply to my calls. I took up the yatra to visit the district headquarters,” Ramanaidu told TOI. “Our men stopped him as it was against the lockdown regulations, ” Eluru Range DIG KV Mohana Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-mla-takes-up-cycle-yatra-stopped-midway/articleshow/75016543.cms||Samson Raj
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Government door-delivers mid-day meals, but rush on at schools in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: While social welfare hostels have been shut in as part of the lockdown, there has been a huge rush of students for dry ration under the mid-day meal scheme in Vijayawada. Social distancing has gone for a toss, as daily wage workers and other labourers started coming in huge numbers for the ration. According to officials, around three lakh beneficiaries studying in 45,723 schools in the state have received egg, rice and chikkis under the first phase. With the government extending the closure of schools from March 31 to April 23, the officials have started the second phase of distribution of the ration. After which, the government decided to deliver the ration through volunteers, non-teaching staff and even teachers directly at the people’s doorstep. Regardless of this decision, family members of the students have been reaching out to the school gates to take it with them. Officials said that each primary section students gets one kg of rice, eight eggs and four packets of chikkis, while each student of upper primary section will get one-and-half kg of rice, eight eggs and four packets of chikkis. Dal and cooking oil are not given since the agency that provides the essentials has not decided on them. While the schools have been shut, the demand for shelter across childcare institutions has witnessed an unprecedented attendance rate. Uma Rani, project director, women and child welfare, in Krishna district, said “Government-run childcare institutions have essential supplies for the next three months. Precautionary measures against Covid-19 like masks and sanitisers are provided for these institutions,” Rani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-door-delivers-mid-day-meals-but-rush-on-at-schools/articleshow/75015588.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Start-ups come up with innovative solutions to meet Covid challenge||Hyderabad: With the novel coronavirus cases rising, focus is on providing medical care and making it affordable to Covid-19 patients. Some individuals have come up with innovative solutions and brought them to the notice of IT minister KT Rama Rao who has asked officials to look how best they can be utilised. Here are some. 1. Krishna Ganji and Tarini Puglia, who run Nexbyte Innovations Pvt Ltd, said since the need would be more for ventilators, they have come up with a low-cost ventilator. “Not only is it affordable, but also easy to operate,” Krishna said on the low-cost ventilator they have developed. It costs from Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000, while those available in the market cost Rs 40,000. Krishna completed his engineering last year and his start-up had decided to speed up the process following escalation in Covid-19 cases. The low-cost ventilator has a solution to operate the manual Ambu bag in order to pump oxygen into the patient’s body with two variable parameters. “Our solutions give flexibility to control the volume of air pumped and number of breaths per second,” he said. While it runs on power, it also has a two to three-hour battery backup. 2. Bhairav Shankar of Avantari Technologies Pvt Ltd has come up with a 3D printed ventilator. “While medical care and equipment is available is urban areas, the scene is different in rural areas. That is where the need arises to come up with ventilators that can be used easily and serve the need,” Shankar said. His five-member team came together and designed the 3D printed ventilator. “It is so easy that anyone can operate it,” he said. The team has built a working prototype which is capable of delivering a rate of 0-30 BPM and a tidal volume to 200-800 ml. The team is also working on a 3D printed PEEP value with minimum assembly. It has an alarm in case of a failure. It works on a 12V DC supply, which means it can be powered by a car battery in a worst scenario, Shankar said. “Visualising a situation where there are not enough hospital beds and people will have to be treated at home, the 3D printed ventilator will serve the purpose,” Shankar said. 3. Mohammed Abdul Ahad of Daavagroup, an engineering graduate, has designed 3D printed face shields and eye covering glasses for medical personnel and relief works. His start-up along with other engineering graduates — Mohammed Abdul Shakoor, Chiluka Karan and Talha Adial — came up with the idea when they were still in college last year. “The goggles will need to measure up to the standards for medical purposes but the 3D printed face shields that we have designed will be a protective equipment,” Abdul (21) said. While this is what they have to offer during a critical situation arising out of Covid-19, he said they were equipped to render their services for undertaking maintenance of related equipment. “The full face shield is a simple forehead clamp shield which acts as an additional barrier, to be worn upon the ordinary mask. This is especially meant for those who work in affected environment,” Abdul said. “At a time when Covid-19 is spreading fast and there is a shortage of equipment for healthcare and social relief workers, we explored some ideas to contribute in our own way. We could finally prototype a few designs,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/start-ups-come-up-with-innovative-solutions-to-meet-covid-challenge/articleshow/75018141.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Refusal to treat can cost licence, collector warns private hospitals||Vijayawada: Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has warned off cancelling the licences of doctors and paramedical staff who deny treatment to patients, in response to complaints against private hospitals refusing to treat patients for fear of acquiring Covid-19. Referring to the recent death of a patient from the city who was denied treatment at some corporate hospitals in the city, Imtiaz said, “The patient was in urgent need of dialysis and no doctor or paramedical staff came forward for treatment. The patient died and it was pure negligence of the hospitals.” “Stringent action will be initiated against the private hospitals that deny treatment to emergency cases,” the collector said, calling upon doctors and paramedical staff in private hospitals to come forward to help those in need. The collector said that Liberty Hospitals at Kanuru, Ayush Hospitals at Ramavarappadu Ring, Andhra Hospital, Gollapudi and Nimra Hospital at Ibrahimpatnam will soon treat Covid-19 cases. Personal protective equipment (PPE kits) will be provided to private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, he said. Imtiaz said special duty passes will be given to staff treating Covid-19 cases at corporate hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/refusal-to-treat-can-cost-licence-collector-warns-private-hospitals/articleshow/75015581.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, blood can be collected at doorstep in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to fight the impending shortage of blood across banks, Drugs Control Administration (DCA) of Telangana has issued orders that blood bank vans can move door-to-door to collect blood. In an order issued to all the drug inspectors and assistant directors across the state, DCA director Dr Preeti Meena said, “As blood is an essential commodity, its collection should not be hampered. Government had permitted all blood banks to be operational even during the lockdown. However, instructions are issued to all blood banks to not encourage blood donation camps at this moment. Blood bank vans can be used for collection. Blood banks shall be informed that voluntary blood donation at the banks may be encouraged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-blood-can-be-collected-at-doorstep/articleshow/75018144.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Plan in works to verify cluster spread||Thiruvananthapuram: With seven districts in the state being identified as hotspots and Kasaragod recording high number of cases, the state is set to have a strategy for ascertaining community spread. Rapid test kits will be used mostly to identify the transmission dynamics of Covid-19 and pattern of spread within the community. The team entrusted with the preparation of strategy has been considering different aspects before finalizing the protocol for determining community spread. The advisory on rapid diagnostic kits by the state government has mentioned that antibody tests need not be used as a primary diagnostic test. The main use would be to study the incidence and prevalence of disease and local outbreak by well-designed studies and by setting up surveillance centres. The advisory has cited that antibody based rapid tests may be used sparingly and to test contacts for epidemiological purpose. The focus of strategy will be on identifying prevalence of antibodies among persons in the community, but there are concerns. “Rapid test doesn't give information about current infection, it only tells us about the presence of antibodies that a person had an infection at some point in the past. It gives an idea about an infection that might have happened in the last 2-3 weeks,” an official associated with the preparation of strategy said. The government has ordered for 2 lakh test kits. It is assessed that 20,000-25,000 kits will be used for sentinel surveillance in which data are collected from a restricted network of reporting areas/hospitals to gauge the trends in a larger community. The rest of the kits are being planned for health workers, policemen and those who have interacted closely with infected persons. The use of an antibody test depends a lot on type of infection and how soon antibodies are formed. In case of dengue infection, by 4th day antibodies are formed which can be detected using antibody test. The issue in Covid is that it will take at least up to seven days to form antibodies after developing symptoms. `` Practically this cannot be used as confirmatory test for diagnosis since already seven days may have lapsed during which the person would have spread infection,'' the official said. The team is considering the fact that in antibody tests, only the test is rapid and the information it gives is about a past infection, sometimes one week or two weeks ago. The strategy will revolve around use of antibody based rapid test kits to get an idea of pattern of spread in a community. High risk communities, people who have completed quarantine, people who are health workers could be subjected to community screening using antibody test kits to ascertain community spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/plan-in-works-to-verify-cluster-spread/articleshow/75016579.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE asks principals to reinvent edu, explore online resources||Nagpur: In an 8-page letter to principals, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) chairperson Anita Karwal has advised them to think of reinventing the education process and engaging stakeholders. Karwal said it was natural for principals to be anxious given the state of things, but it also opens up a window of opportunity. “You can, in fact, reinvent the education processes of your school, devise creative methods to engage with your stakeholders, and perhaps even set examples to follow for the entire education system. We believe that this is the time to not just deal with the current emergency, but also build foundations of resilience to face such difficult events in the future,” Karwal wrote. To get them started, she has given them a few suggestions, which schools may take up voluntarily. First concern was about the possibility of losing academic time and how schools will catch up once the country overcomes the present situation. “Don’t let this pressure and disquiet consume you. Rather, use this time to leverage certain untapped resources. What about getting in touch with those enthusiasts in civil society who are constantly working on some or the other intervention for ensuring quality in education? Can the home be engaged by the school for some lateral solutions? Can outfits that have built high credibility around integrating education with art, music, cinema, quizzes, gardening, informal set-ups and so on, be summoned for preparing handy toolboxes?” she wrote. Karwal suggested schools use these resources and communities to develop creative and innovative teaching and learning material, such as activity-based worksheets; projects that can be done at home; activities that can generate a flood of curiosity; art, sport and music-integrated learning modules; online classes to build capacities of your teachers to open up their minds to creativity etc. The CBSE chairperson suggested that it is time for a paradigm shift in thinking. “Therefore, how about considering this challenge as an opportunity to shift focus from ‘schooling only at schools’ to ‘School-Home collaboration for learning,” she wrote. Schools have been asked to explore and use the online resource developed courtesy HRD ministry, of which many are also available on YouTube and in other visual formats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-asks-principals-to-reinvent-edu-explore-online-resources/articleshow/75014710.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Book Bakers baking online literature fest cake||Nagpur: A knowledge treat is on offer for literature and book lovers across the country as renowned writers, poets, journalists and experts from different walks of life are seen in action in a first-of-its-kind ‘Online Literature Festival’ by The Book Bakers. This is the first season of this mindful and enriching festival began on April 6 and will end on April 12 from 10am until 9.20pm every day. The festival encompasses 91 sessions that will feature more than 600 authors. The Nagpur flavour will be provided by authors like Aparna Sanyal and Dr Amruta Khandurwar. Discussions, interactions and literature sessions are being streamed live on their official Facebook page.The decorated panel comprises best-selling writers, Iskcon gurus, Bollywood personalities, cricketers, journalists, business magnates, army and police personnel and stand up comidians. Suhail Mathur, co-founder of ‘The Book Bakers’ literary agency and the author of two best-selling and award winning books — The Bhairav Putras & The Hunt For Rama’s Bow, shared some insights about the festival. “It’s a great opportunity for us to serve literature lovers with an online lit fest amid the lockdown. We will have multiple sessions with renowned authors. People can have the pleasure of such a treat from the comforts of their homes,” he said. City’s Sanyal, who loves poetry and short stories, said, “It’s a great way to establish communication with readers from all over the country. Short stories and poems have always been my area of interest and I’m looking forward to the experience. It’s great to know that authors from our city are also part of the panel.” Writers of children’s books will add charm to the event with topics ranging from horror to biographies. Dr Amruta Khandurwar, a dental surgeon from the city, would also grace the panel. She is very excited and feels that the lit fest is a perfect platform during lockdown to communicate with readers. She will be talking about her debut novel, ‘Little Mis Misfit’. “I will be talking about my debut novel. I will also speak on why chic literature is still so popular.” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/book-bakers-baking-online-literature-fest-cake/articleshow/75018147.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown fails to check traffic violations in state||Vijayawada: Despite the lockdown, many are violating traffic rules across the state. On average, police penalise 6,000 to 8,000 motorists in the state every day for traffic violations including violating prohibitory orders for the past few days. In Vijayawada city, the police are registering at least 700 cases against motorists in a day under Motor Vehicle (MV) Act for various violations and defying the lockdown norms and collecting Rs 3.5 lakh in fines. In Vizag city, at least 300 to 500 motorists are penalized a day for defying the lockdown norms and traffic violations. Apart from the fines, the police have been seizing at least 100 to 150 vehicles in Vizag every day. “Some motorists are taking the lockdown very lightly and they also did not bother to follow traffic norms. When it comes to traffic violations, the highest number of motorists were penalized for not wearing helmets followed by using mobile phones while driving,” said Adinarayana, a senior traffic cop in Vizag. “Though we have fanned out on various roads across the city and put up barricades for the enforcement of the lockdown, some motorists are finding alternative roads for roaming. Riding triple seat was one of the violations on some stretches in various parts of the state,” a senior officer said. Driving vehicles without mandatory documents was also one of the common violations, he added. “At many locations, traffic police are stopping vehicles during the lockdown. If the motorist is found to have come on the road without any valid reason, we are registering cases against them and seizing their vehicles,” said Vizag city police chief RK Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-fails-to-check-traffic-violations-in-state/articleshow/75015604.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||DRDO pools in all partners to manufacture equipment to battle pandemic||Hyderabad: With the country fighting the coronavirus pandemic, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has now joined the battle. The ordnance manufacturer has developed equipment medical professionals and others would require in the field. The production is being carried out with the help of industry partners in various parts of the country. For instance, a personnel sanitisation enclosure (PSE) has been developed by the Vehicle Research Development Establishment (VRDE) in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar. On entering the PSE chamber, an electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo-sodium chloride for disinfecting. According to the DRDO, the mist spray is calibrated for an operation of 25 seconds and stops automatically indicating completion of operation. Meanwhile, a full face mask (FFM) has been developed at the Research Centre Imarat (RCI) in Hyderabad and the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) in Chandigarh. “Its lightweight construction makes it convenient for comfortable wear for long duration,” the DRDO said. As many as 1,000 face shields are being produced daily at the TBRL and provided to Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. Similarly, 100 masks are produced by RCI and handed over to Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Hyderabad. According to DRDO, a demand of 10,000 shields has been received from PGIMER and ESIC based on successful user trials. The Centre for Fire Explosive & Environment Safety (CFEES) in Delhi has developed two configurations of sanitising equipment. The portable system can be mounted as a backpack and can be carried by operations personnel. Meanwhile, another trolley-mounted large area Sanitisation equipment can be used to disinfect an area of 3,000 square metre. Two of these systems have been provided to the Delhi Police for immediate use and will be made available to others. DRDO has also developed a bio-suit to keep medical, paramedical and other personnel engaged in dealing with COVID-19 cases safe from the virus. The current production capacity is 7,000 suits per day. Another vendor, with experience in garment technology, is being brought in and efforts are on to ramp up the capacity to 15,000 suits per day. As bio-suit production by DRDO industry partners and other industries was being hampered due to non-availability of seam sealing tapes, the ordnance body has prepared a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape based on the sealant used in submarine applications. It has also developed a number of products and technologies for defence against Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) agents. The Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE) Gwalior, a laboratory of DRDO, has developed Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Permeable Suit Mk V with 53,000 suits already supplied to Army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams. For first responders attending to radiological emergencies, a reusable suit has been developed by Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) Delhi. Meanwhile, the Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment (ADRDE) Agra has developed various types of parachutes with fabrics similar to protective technical textiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-pools-in-all-partners-to-manufacture-equipment-to-battle-pandemic/articleshow/75018149.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Surat||Surat couple held for threatening psychiatrist||SURAT: She has been counselling hundreds of patients suffering from anxiety and aggravated mental disorders in the New Civil Hospital following coronavirus outbreak. But this woman psychiatrist has herself been a victim of mental agony for the last fortnight after being subjected to discrimination and harassment from her neighbours. In a video that has gone viral, a couple living in Rajhans View apartment in Adajan, is seen blasting Dr Sanjibani Panigrahi and preventing her from going to the NCH. On Monday, police made preventive arrests of Chetan Mehta and his wife Bhavna after the doctor submitted an application of complaint to the police. Talking to TOI, Panigrahi said, “Chetan pushed me inside the house and when I started recording his misbehaviour, he tried to snatch away my mobile phone. He threatened me with dire consequences and asked me to vacate the flat.” “When I returned from duty on April 4, Chetan asked whether I was infected with corona and why was I going to the hospital. When I took out my mobile phone to record his statement, he left. On April 5 morning, I was going out with my pet dog and he was standing in front of my door. He started screaming that my dog tried to attack him,” said Panigrahi, who lives with her husband and a three-yearold son in the rented apartment. Doctor was warned not to go outEarlier on March 23, some residents of housing society issued her a stern warning against going out of the complex and threatened they would force her to vacate the rented apartment. The doctor immediately tweeted about the incident to the PMO and sought help from BJP MLA Harsh Sanghavi. After MLA’s intervention and the local police, the residents stopped harassing her, but the Mehta couple did not relent. Adajan police inspector JB Bubadiya said, “The pleaded us to not to take action against them, but we arrested the duo to set an example.” They were booked under section 151 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-couple-arrested-for-threatening-psychiatrist/articleshow/75018154.cms||Melvyn Thomas
April 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar provides financial help to 1.3 lakh stranded migrant workers||PATNA: Bihar has became the first state to provide financial assistance of Rs1,000 to its lakhs of migrant workers stranded in other parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown. A total sum of Rs10.35 crore was transferred on Monday directly in the bank accounts of over 1.03 lakh migrant workers of Bihar outside the state. CM Nitish Kumar initiated the process under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Vishesh Sahayata Yojana’ from the CM Relief Fund. “Within minutes of the clicking of the ‘mouse’ by the CM, Rs1,000 per person was transferred in the bank accounts of 1,03,579 migrant workers through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system,” disaster management department (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit told TOI. Acting swiftly on the CM’s wish on April 1 to provide Rs1,000 to each stranded migrant worker of Bihar, the DMD uploaded a link to its official website and launched an app on April 3. The department asked the stranded workers to apply for the assistance either through the link or the app. The link was also sent to the phone numbers of all those who dialled Bihar government’s different helpline numbers for assistance, Pratyaya said. More than 3.10 lakh migrants from Bihar have so far applied for the financial help in just three working days. “More applications are still pouring in on the department website,” he said. “Out of the total applications received by this afternoon, a maximum 55,264 came from Delhi, followed by 41,050 from Haryana, 30,576 from Maharashtra and 25,638 from Gujarat,” an official at the CM office said. Eight applications were received from Lakshadweep as well. Of the total 1.03 lakh migrants who were provided assistance on Monday, 7,281 originally hailed from Saran, followed by 6,821 from Muzaffarpur and 6,792 from Madhubani districts. Minimum 469 beneficiaries belonged to Arwal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-provides-financial-help-to-1-3l-stranded-migrant-workers/articleshow/75016572.cms||Madan Kumar
April 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Masks, sanitizers given out on Mahavir Jayanti||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Jain community observed and celebrated Mahavir Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Lord Mahavir, the 24th and last Tirthankara, here on Monday. The festival is marked with religious processions, spiritual gatherings and other rituals. This year, the community adhered to government rules and norms of social distancing. While most from the community marked the day by observing fasts at home, Jain organisations served those in need. The Mahavir International (MI) club distributed sanitizers to police personnel and the vendors in various rythu bazaars on Monday morning. Around 400 bottles of sanitizers were distributed to people working at the frontlines to contain the disease. The Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO), which is involved in community development and social service, marked the day by reaching out to various government departments. JITO, Visakhapatnam chapter donated 11,000 masks to the police department and 5,000 masks each to GVMC sanitation staff and district administration staff. JITO Visakhapatnam and Mahavir International have also been distributing 2,000 food packets everyday since the lockdown was announced. The food is prepared at Bothra Charitable Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/masks-sanitizers-given-out-on-mahavir-jayanti/articleshow/75016565.cms||Reshma Jain
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||NRI doctor’s 2-year-old son first kid in Lucknow to test positive for Covid-19||LUCKNOW: The city recorded its first Covid-19 child patient on Monday when a two-and-a-half-year-old boy tested positive to the virus. He has been quarantined at KGMU. He is the son of the 35-year-old lady doctor who was the city’s first coronavirus patient. The boy is the fourth member of the family to test positive after his mother and grandparents. The woman doctor was discharged from KGMU recently after she recovered, but she was back in the medical university’s isolation ward on Monday to take care of her son. Doctors allowed her because the boy is too small to be kept alone. The child’s condition is stable, said doctors. The woman survivor’s 75-year-old father-in-law, a retired colonel, and his wife (73) are under treatment at the Central Command Base Hospital after they tested positive on March 30-31. On Monday, the former army officer’s test report came negative, but his wife’s was still positive. Doctors said the elderly couple was stable and added that they were braving the situation with courage, for which Army personnel and their families are known. The survivor’s husband, sister-in-law and two domestic helps had tested negative and were discharged from the hospital with the advice to remain quarantined in the home for 14 days. The survivor and her husband, both doctors based in Toronto, along their son had arrived in Lucknow on March 8 on a vacation, but it went awry, with four members having tested positive to coronavirus. “The boy was tested for coronavirus last Tuesday but the result was “equivocal”, meaning that viral load was at the borderline. He was tested again after 2-3 days and the report came positive,” said CMO, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal. “The relief is that the child is asymptomatic, that is, the virus has been found in the body but it has not caused much harm. There are no symptoms such as cough, fever or breathlessness associated with the disease,” said in charge, isolation unit of KGMU, Dr Abhishek Bahadur Singh . The boy’s mother tested positive on March 10 and was admitted to KGMU on March 11. She recovered within 11 days and was discharged on March 21. Tests done on other family members on March 13 came negative, but they were advised self isolation for 2-3 weeks. However, the woman’s mother-in-law was admitted to Base Hospital where she tested positive on March 31. Her father-in-law was tested the next day and found positive to Covid-19. Thereafter, the entire family was shifted to isolation in SPM Hospital and underwent tests again. All, including the survivor, were found negative except the kid. Doctors said though the kid is asymptomatic, he has been kept in the hospital for round-the-clock monitioring. Also, an infected person may be asymptomatic, but sheds virus and may infect others. “His mother has already been treated, which means antibodies against the virus have developed in her body. The immunity will last upto two-three years preventing recurrence. Worldwide, hardly any case of recurrence has been reported so far,” said Prof Jyotsna Agarwal of RMLIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nri-doctors-2-year-old-son-first-kid-in-city-to-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75018631.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Markaz returnees to be booked if they don’t get tested on their own||Nagpur: Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar has warned that cases will be registered against those people who do not inform the administration of their visit to Nizamuddin Markaz and get tested for Covid-19 on their own. In a press release, Kumar said, “Based on the information provided by the Centre, we have already quarantined those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat. Now it is mandatory on all those who were not on this list too to get a coronavirus test done. They should call control rooms of all six districts of Nagpur division. All facilities are being provided in institutional quarantine. If they fail to inform, an offence under section 188 of IPC will be registered.”Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel had told TOI that only seven from city had officially attended while three had gone without informing him. After receiving information from the government, the NMC had quarantined 197 people who had left digital footprints in a 3km radius of the congregation site. This also includes 60 Tablighi Jamaats who were not residents of the city.Meanwhile, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is facing problems in its door-to-door containment drive at Takia Deewanshah slum in Mominpura. After a cap seller here tested positive a couple of days ago, the civic body had launched the drive. The NMC and police had cordoned off the area in which at least 40,000 reside.NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that some unidentified people threw small stones on the teams during the survey. “The building has been identified and action will be taken against the culprits. On Sunday, water was poured and vegetables thrown too. We are doing our best to convince the people and make them realize the importance of the survey,” he said.Over 50% residents have denied information, according to Gantawar. “The survey is important to identify suspected or high-risk patients and control Covid-19. It will work in favour of the people residing in that area,” he added.NMC officials said that people are being allowed to come out for buying essential products. “Even vegetable and fruit vendors are allowed in the area. We are taking care of all needs of the people,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/markaz-returnees-to-be-booked-if-they-dont-get-tested-on-their-own/articleshow/75018160.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Shortage of testing kits at Dhule lab||NASHIK: The Dhule based Shri Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College and Hospital (SBHGMCH) returned 29 throat swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients sent by the Nashik district administration as it has a shortage of testing kits. The samples sent from Nashik district on Saturday were supposed to be tested at the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) set up by the hospital, which was operational from March 31. Highly placed hospital sources said that a decision has been taken to use the swab test kits carefully till the arrival of the new kits by April 10. “We have returned the 29 samples as we have to ensure that the present testing kits are not get exhausted before the arrival of the new stock,” a senior functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shortage-of-testing-kits-at-dhule-lab/articleshow/75017619.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl DSO yet to procure PDS rice for PM’s food security scheme||Yavatmal: Despite government instructions to launch Prime Minister’s Food Security Scheme in view of the national lockdown, the Yavatmal district supply office (DSO) is yet to procure food grains to be distributed under public distribution system (PDS).The government, through a notification on March 30, has made it mandatory for the DSO to provide adequate supply of rice under PDS to enable shopkeepers to distribute 5kg rice free of cost to every beneficiary in the district.According to district president of Minority Peace and Justice (MPJ) Association Prof Sayed Mohsin, the district supply office is yet to procure rice though the circular has stipulated to start distribution for a period of April to June. “When contacted, the DSO informed that the required quantity of rice would be procured from Gondia shortly and distribution would start thereafter,” said Mohsin.Mohsin has urged district collector to order the DSO to expedite the rice procurement process so that needy would not be denied the benefits of the central government’s welfare scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-dso-yet-to-procure-pds-rice-for-pms-food-security-scheme/articleshow/75018162.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||2 cops skip visiting their newborns||Hyderabad: Two traffic police personnel chose to refrain from visiting their newborns as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. G Naresh Kumar and G Avinash have been working round-the-clock to ensure citizens are not violating the lockdown norms Naresh of Begumpet traffic police station said, “My wife gave birth to a baby boy on Monday. I spoke to my wife and saw the baby through a video call, but decided not to visit them during the lockdown period. Avinash, whose wife gave birth to a baby girl in Vijayawada, also decided not to go and visit his child. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-cops-skip-visiting-their-newborns/articleshow/75018175.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Patna||Thalassemia patients suffer as shortage hits blood banks in Bihar||PATNA: With no blood donation camps held in the state for nearly two weeks due to the nationwide lockdown, blood banks have started running dry. And thalassemia patients, who need regular transfusions, are the worst sufferers. For 26-year-old Brajesh Kumar, arranging blood for thalassemia patients has become difficult since the lockdown began. Brajesh, who himself suffers from this blood disorder, arranges blood not only for himself, but many others like him. “People are calling and asking for help to arrange blood for them. I am avoiding taking their calls because I am helpless. Even Sadar hospital and Red Cross here are not in a position to provide all types of blood,” said Brajesh, a Sipahi Tola resident in Purnia, who used to arrange blood for over 50 such patients in the district. Brajesh explained that thalassemia patients need at least one unit of blood within a maximum of 20 days, and if this situation continues, their condition will deteriorate. He pointed out that lack of transportation was the biggest hurdle in the current situation. “Some volunteers are ready to donate blood, but cannot travel due to lockdown,” said Brajesh. Similar is the situation for Pramod Kumar, a resident of Jamo Bazaar in Siwan. He had to run from pillar to post to get blood for his five-year-old son Ayush Kumar, who suffers from thalassemia. Pramod’s son needed blood transfusion on March 24, but because of the lockdown they could not take him anywhere. He then sought help from the local police station on Sunday where he was asked to write an application. “I am an illiterate, I can’t write, so had to take help of a villager to get the application written,” said Pramod, adding, that Ayush got blood on Monday after an activist came forward to help. An 18-year-old Hajipur girl had to travel all the way to Patna on Saturday on her cousin’s two-wheeler to get blood transfusion. Her cousin Dr Priyandu Suman who accompanied her said, “Since we did not get any vehicle, we had to take out the Scootie. First we went to Jayaprabha hospital, but blood did not match there. Then we went to PMCH and after much hardship got one unit of blood transfused,” said Dr Suman. Blood bank owners in Patna admit that their stocks have declined. Red Cross chairman Dr BB Sinha said, “This shortage is because of camps not being held. Normally, there are at least seven to eight camps in Patna and we can easily manage 300 to 400 units of blood.” He added, “But now only regular donors are coming. We would request people to come forward individually and our organisation is ready for doorstep collection.” The Red Cross in Patna normally gets at least 300 units of blood in a day at their blood bank in Patna, even on the worst day they could maintain at least 250 units. But now this has dropped to 60 unit, Dr Sinha revealed. Social activist Mukesh Hissariya raised this issue with Rajya Sabha member Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe recently. “Sahasrabuddhe Ji had a video conference with civil society members on the hardship being faced during lockdown. We raised the issue of blood needed for thalassemia patients. He has taken up this matter with the Centre and the state health ministers. We have been told that state health minister Mangal Pandey has said thalassemia card can be used as a pass to travel during lockdown,” Hissariya said. Patna: With no blood donation camp being held in the state for almost two weeks owing to the 21- day nationwide lockdown, blood banks have now started drying up. And in this crisis, thalassemia patients are the worst sufferers. For a 26 year old Brajesh Kumar, arranging blood for thalassemia patients has become a tedious task now. Brajesh, who also suffers from this blood disorder used to arrange blood not only for himself, but many others like him. "People are calling me, asking for help to arrange blood for them. I am not receiving many calls because I am helpless. Even Sadar hospital and Red Cross here are not in the position to provide all types of blood," said Brajesh, a Sipahi Tola resident in Purnea, who used to arrange blood for over 50 such patients in his district. Brajesh said thalassemia patient at least need one unit of blood in maximum 20 days and if this situation continues, their condition will deteriorate. Brajesh pointed out lack of transportation was the biggest hurdle in present situation. "Few volunteers are ready, but cannot travel amidst lock down," said Brajesh. Even Pramod Kumar, a resident of Jamo Bazaar in Siwan had to run from pillar to post to get blood for his five year old son Ayush Kumar who suffers from thalassemia. Pramod said his son had to be transfused blood on March 24, but because of lock down they could not take him anywhere. When he went to local thana on Sunday, he was asked for an application. But writing an application was the toughest job for Pramod who is illiterate. He had to take help of a villager and get the application written. Ayush was transfused blood on Monday after an activist came forward and helped them. Another 18 year old Hajipur girl had to travel all the way to Patna on Saturday on her cousin's scootie to get blood transfused. Her cousin Dr Priyandu Suman who accompanied her said, "Since we did not get any vehicle, we came by scootie. First we went to Jayaprabha hospital, but blood did not match there. Then we went to Patna Medical College and Hospital and after much hardship got one unit of blood transfused," said Dr Suman. Owners of blood bank in Patna admitted their stock has declined in recent times. Red Cross chairman Dr BB Sinha said this shortage was because of camps not being held. Dr Sinha said in normal days they used to organise at least seven to eight camps in Patna and could easily manage 300 to 400 units of blood. "But now only regular donors are coming. We would request people to come forward individually," said Dr Sinha, adding his organisation was ready to even go to door step and collect blood. Sharing data, Dr Sinha said there used to be at least 300 unit of blood in a day at their blood bank in Patna, and in worst case they used to maintain at least 250 units. But now this has dropped down to 60 unit. Social activist Mukesh Hissariya, who is helping needy at the moment raised this issue in front of Rajya Sabha member Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe on Friday. " Sahasrabuddhe Ji had a video conference with civil society members on hardship being faced in this lock down. We raised the issue of blood needed for thalassemia patient and problem in travelling. He has taken this matter to union health minister and state health minister. We have been told that state health minister Mangal Pandey has said that thalassemia card can be used as a pass in lock down scenario," said Hissariya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thalassemia-patients-suffer-as-shortage-hits-blood-banks/articleshow/75016633.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Cop among two held for liquor smuggling in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police officer and a bootlegger were arrested for transporting illicit liquor across the capital in two separate incidents over the past 48 hours, cops said on Monday. The policeman, Jangjeet Singh, was apprehended in outer Delhi’s Nangloi on Sunday for carrying around 29 cartons of liquor bottles from Haryana during the 21-day anti-coronavirus lockdown. assistant SI Singh, posted at Paschim Vihar police station, was carrying the liquor bottles in the boot of his car, which were seized by the police. In another incident, police arrested a bootlegger on Monday for carrying illicit liquor bottles in milk cans. The man, hailing from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, was trying to pose as a milkman. According to police, the accused Bobby Chaudhary was asked to stop for checking at a picket. He, however, tried to flee. Cops gave a chase and nabbed him near South Avenue. A total of seven liquor bottles were found in his possession. Both the assistant sub inspector and the bootlegger have been booked under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code and Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-among-two-held-for-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75018164.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Man attacked by village volunteer in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: Police have launched a manhunt in Bandavaddipalli, Chittoor district, on Monday for a village volunteer who attacked a 39-year-old man for confronting him about alleged irregularities in distribution of financial aid to white ration cardholders. After the government announced Rs 1,000 financial assistant to below poverty line families, village volunteers began distributing the aid in the mandal, KV Palli sub-inspector K Ram Mohan said. On Sunday, village volunteer Pasupuleti Srinivasulu (28), was distributing the aid to BPL families in Bandavaddipalli when Pasupuleti Viswanath, who received the financial aid for his family, confronted him for denying the said amount to his brother’s family, who also holds a white ration card. Srinivasulu had refused to give Viswanath’s brother the aid as his family was found to be working in Dubai. This led to a heated argument between the two and Vishwanath threatened to lodge a complaint with the MRO regarding the issue. On Monday morning when Viswanath was on way to the MRO’s office, Srinivasulu attacked him with a knife and flet the spot. Viswanath sustained injuries on his neck and was rushed to SVRR Government Hospital in Tirupati. His condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-attacked-by-village-volunteer/articleshow/75015625.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Doctors find ‘jugaad’ to monitor ‘unruly’ corona suspects||LUCKNOW: After healthcare staff accused 14 Tablighi Jamaat attendees, who are being quarantined at Balrampur Hospital, of misbehaviour and following unhygienic practices, doctors have found a way to deal with the situation. Earlier, several persons were brought to the hospital of 14 were put in quarantine at the hospital for a few days. However, the hospital staff tending to them alleged that they were misbehaving with them and were spitting at every nook and corner increasing the possibility of infection for others. To deal with the situation, the doctors got all the windows of the ward sealed and left only two holes in a window open – the smaller one for thermal screening and the bigger for blood pressure monitoring. According to doctors, the suspected corona patients are first asked to come close to the smaller hole through which their temperature is recorded. They are then asked to put their hand in the bigger hole, to which a cloth is attached, to get their blood pressure checked. “We devised the arrangement to minimise contact with suspected patients as some of our employees expressed reluctance to attend them,” said director, Balrampur Hospital, Dr Rajiv Lochan. He said an 11-member team had been deployed for isolation wards. “Two sanitation workers clean wards twice daily. A team of two – a ward boy and a sanitation worker – puts food outside wards in trolleys twice a day. Their health check-up is done by a doctor once daily. Besides, four doctors call each one in the ward on phone to inquire about their health four times a day,” Dr Lochan said. As compared to Balrampur Hospital, KGMU has a dedicated 21-member staff for isolation ward which is divided into three teams – one each for three shifts. Each team has a doctor, a nurse, two ward boys and three cleaners. They report to a consultant who keeps the ward’s in charge updated. Two doctors are also there for swab sampling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/docs-find-jugaad-to-monitor-unruly-corona-suspects/articleshow/75018634.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lights out did not blow KSEB's fuse||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala State Electricity Board was able to manage smoothly the sudden surge of energy demand brought out by Prime Minister Naredra Modi's call to switch off electric lights from 9 to 9.09 pm on Sunday. However, the sequences of events that preceded and followed the nine-minute 'no light' observance did not peter out without surprises. According to the detailed analysis carried out by KSEB, the demand for power had come down by an average of 400 MW during the nine-minute observance. However, as per the analytical data released by the National Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO), the load drop in the grid in Kerala was 557 MW, and 500 MW according to the reports of State Electricity Load Despatch Centre during the particular time slot. "The mismatch in the figures doesn’t mean that any of them are wrong. It simply means that there were significant changes in the load reduction pattern in the minutes leading to the 'switch off' period, its initial minutes, peak and the final flight to the normal consumption level. A closer analysis shows that the average slump the board witnessed was very much on the lines of the anticipated 400 MW," said KSEB chairman and managing director N S Pillai. The demand identified in Kerala during the time slot between 8 .45 pm to 9.09 was 559 MW. However, the demand dwindled to 470 MW from 8.52 pm to 9.09 pm. The consumption further dropped to 335 MW in the time slot starting from 8.53 to 9.03 pm. "The shift in consumption pattern even within a short period indicates that not all have switched off or on the lights at 9 pm and 9.09 pm. Instead, people started switching off lights from 8 45 pm and a large number among them lingered on in the open and switched on the lights back minutes after 9. 09 pm, helping KSEB a big way in managing the electricity grid," top officials in the board said. Since the demand raised only gradually after 9.09 pm, the board got enough time to manage the system even without switching off the distribution feeders as it had earlier planned, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lights-out-did-not-blow-ksebs-fuse/articleshow/75016614.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Wife, lover plot and kill husband in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: A 35-year old man was killed by his wife and her paramour in Madanapalle, Chittoor district, on Monday. According to cops, Bala Subramanyam (35) was married to Renuka. After Subramanyam incurred losses in his business a few years ago, he moved to Tirupati where he was worked as a travel operator. His wife Renuka on the other hand joined a political outfit and had an affair with one K Nagireddy. Later, Renuka and Nagireddy decided to kill him. When Subramanyam went out to purchase medicines in the late hours on Saturday, a speeding truck knocked him down, killing him on the spot. Though Renuka and Nagireddy tried to project the incident as an accident, the deceased’s brother K Raghupathi, lodged a police complaint on grounds of suspicion. Police seized the truck and picked up Renuka, Nagireddy and a few others who helped them and upon interrogation confessed to their crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/wife-lover-plot-and-kill-husband/articleshow/75015633.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No new positive case in district||Thiruvananthapuram: It was a day of respite for the district as it didn’t report any Covid positive case for the fourth consecutive day. Adding to the relief, as many as 5,419 persons have successfully completed the 28-day quarantine period in the district. This is highest number recorded on a day. A Manacaud-native, who was admitted in Medical College Hospital, got discharged on Monday after his results turned negative. He will undergo mandatory home quarantine as a precautionary measure. In Kollam, the first Covid-19 case, an NRI belonging to Prakkulam, who was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, was discharged from the hospital as he was cured of the disease. DMO R Sreelatha said the health condition of four other four persons who are being treated in Kollam was satisfactory. Thiruvananthapuram currently has seven persons under treatment for Covid 19. So far, seven persons were discharged and one succumbed to the disease. In Kollam, a native of Oyur, who was under isolation, tested positive on Monday. He had attended the Tablighi conclave at Nizamuddin. Incidentally, the scare of community spread at Pothencode and from Tabligi Jamaat meeting are waning away from Thiruvananthapuram. The results of 11 persons who returned from Nizamuddin were negative. Also the samples of 145 out of the 177 from Pothencode too turned negative. Now, results are awaited from 32 tests at Pothencode. Around 205 persons were brought under quarantine on Monday. Of these, 25 were admitted in hospitals, while 22 others were discharged. Apart from 11,725 persons who are under home quarantine, around 105 persons are in quarantine at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-new-positive-case-in-district/articleshow/75016635.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Use machines to meet manpower shortage, scientists tell farmers||COIMBATORE: To help farmers who are facing shortage of farmhands due to the lockdown, the ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Vivekanandapuram, Karamadai in the district has been promoting the use of farm machinery for sowing and harvesting purposes. Scientists and agronomists from the KVK said earlier they had conducted demonstrations on farm mechanisation to farmers. Now, they are planning to connect farmers to rent and use machines for farm activities through farmer producer organisations (FPOs). This would not only help them overcome shortage of farmhands and save farm labour cost but would also bring down waste during harvest, they said. Senior scientist and head of the ICAR-KVK P Kumaravadivelu said with groundnut and pulses already harvested in some areas, it was a breather now before the next sowing happens after a couple of summer showers in areas such as SS Kulam, Annur and Perianaickenpalayam. “Farmers can use equipment such as rotovators to prepare their field,” he said. The KVK has conducted demonstration of using farm machinery on a total of 20hecatres across Annur, Sirumugai and Pannimadai in the district, where they have trained farmers to use the equipment. “FPOs have bought the machines through the agriculture engineering department. We have given them technological inputs. Now we would coordinate farmers and connect them to the FPOs to rent and use the equipment. The rent would go to FPOs,” he said. Suresh Kumar, an agronomist with the KVK said paddy and groundnut have the most number of farm machines. Groundnut has machinery for sowing, harvesting and stripping its shell, he said. “There is also an equipment ‘check basin former’ which is used to form partitions,” he said. Suresh said they have held 10 demonstrations earlier and farmers have been responsive about the machinery. “When they have enough farmhands, they would not use these machinery as they would easily employ workers and finish their job. Three years ago, there was a shortage of farmhands and farmers used these machines. Now again as they face a crisis, they have come forward to use them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/use-machines-to-meet-manpowershortage-scientists-tell-farmers/articleshow/75017630.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||In 12 days, 1.6 lakh Lucknow households delivered respite||LUCKNOW: Home delivery boys, who are among the ones working in the frontline in fight against coronavirus, have delivered essential commodities at the doorstep of 1.6 lakh consumers during lockdown in last 12 days. More than 10,000 people, including 8,000 delivery boys, are working in more than 70 outlets of 31 agencies which include retail and online supermarkets, e-commerce companies and online food delivery services. These outlets have been delivering goods at doorstep since March 26. Family Bazar, run by UP government on PPP model, has so far catered to at least 10,565 customers with six stores and 100 employees. TOI went to one of its stores at polytechnic crossing from where a team of 12, including 10 delivery boys, have attended to 3,000 customers so far. The store opens at 10am. Employees said they sanitize themselves and their workplace before starting work. Packets of products are also sanitized before delivery. Two managers, Ankur Dubey (28) and Ali Rizvi (29), take orders through phone and WhatsApp, prepare lists of individual orders and do billing before dispatch. For first seven days, on an average, they received one call/message every 20 seconds, which has now come down to about 90 seconds. “Initially, the demand was very high. We used to receive about 1,800 calls and messages in 10-hour duty. Now, as things have eased out, we are getting 400-450 calls/messages per day. We take orders and inform people about expected date of delivery,” Ali said. The lists are handed over to delivery boys who prepare packages and get them billed. During billing, Ali and Ankur match products with lists again. “Eight delivery boys move on bikes, each delivering to minimum 25 households daily. Two others, one on e-rickshaws and another on a taxi, deliver items to at least 50 houses daily,” said Ankur. Similarly, other agencies are working round-the-clock to provide people with essentials during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-12-days-1-6l-city-households-delivered-respite/articleshow/75018650.cms||Rahul Tripathi
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Collector warns people against non-disclosure of travel history||NASHIK: District collector Suraj Mandhare has requested all citizens to disclose their travel histories and get themselves checked for coronavirus infection. Anyone found hiding his/her travel history, will face strict action, he warned This directive comes following the confirmation of the second Covid-19 case in the city on Monday. The positive patient had allegedly not revealed his travel history to Delhi.  Mandhare, who is also the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) president, said that the people with travel history should immediately contact the health department. “By concealing travel history, people are putting many lives at risk. Whenever a person tests positive, we track his/her travel history. If there is a deliberate attempt to conceal this information, we may be compelled to invoke various sections under the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act,” Mandhare said.  “We request people to voluntarily disclose their travel histories to the government authorities, the nearest public health centre or the civil hospital. People can also reach Ravindra Shinde, who is appointed as the incident commander, on his phone 983338999,” collector said. Mandhare has also warned people against using the current situation to spread communal hatred among or any kind of coronavirus-related rumours. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-warns-people-against-non-disclosure-of-travel-history/articleshow/75017637.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 7, 2020||Surat||Man spreading hate audio clip nabbed||Surat: The detection of crime branch (DCB), Surat city, has arrested a 49-year-old resident of Surya Complex on City Light Road in the city, for spreading a hate audio clip against the minority community. DCB had lodged a complaint against Mukesh Ostval on April 4 after the audio was widely shared on various WhatsApp groups. In the 6.42 minute audio Ostval had introduced himself as a resident of City Light area and based on the provocative contents, cops booked an offence against unidentified person at that time. According to police, Ostval is a native of Bhintagam of Bhilwada district of Rajsthan and he has been booked for violation of prohibitory orders issued in public notification and acting negligently under Indian Penal Code. He was also booked under National Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-spreading-hate-audio-clip-nabbed/articleshow/75018180.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Protocol for returning NRKs a challenge gor govt||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has given top priority to the safety of non-resident Keralites (NRKs) reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic abroad and will continue discussions with prominent NRKs and Malayali welfare organisations for taking up issues that have cropped up in the wake of the pandemic. A major challenge before the government will be to prepare a protocol for receiving the NRKs who might want to return to the state once the lockdown is lifted, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday. Such a protocol will be formulated after considering the report of the expert committee (which was submitted on Monday), the CM said. “We have great concern for Keralites who are now under observation in countries, especially women expatriates, for whom safe-quarantine facilities have to be set up in the respective countries. The government is in constant touch with the Union ministry of external affairs and Indian embassies to ensure their safety,” Vijayan said. NRKs from 22 countries and representatives of around 30 organisations attended the video conference held on Sunday, who raised several issues including expiry of visa period, and the CM said the discussions will continue in the coming days. The CM has already sent a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar to ‘consider waiver of fee for emergency certificate’ to be issued by the Indian embassy in Kuwait in the backdrop of amnesty declared by the Kuwaiti government between April 1 and 30. “Around 4,0000 NRIs trapped in Kuwait without proper job or regular income will get the benefit of the amnesty, and the fee for emergency certificate is 5 Kuwaiti dinars (Rs 1,222), which is mandatory for Indian citizens to travel back home under emergency circumstances,” the letter said. Norka (Non-Resident Keralites Affairs) department has taken steps to ensure the welfare of Malayalis trapped in smaller countries like Haiti and Moldova. The department is in touch with Indian embassies in countries where there are a significant Malayali population. It was the other day that the Indian counsel general in Caribbean country of Haiti informed Norka that the Keralites residing there were safe. “We are in touch with all Indian embassies in Gulf countries and other countries like Iran, Moldova and Maldives and with the Indian high commissioner in the UK. The NRK’s major concern is when they can travel back to the state,” said Norka Roots CEO K Harikrishnan Namboothiri. There are several Keralites in all these countries who are on visit visas which are expiring or even expired already, he said. Besides, because of the fear factor, even several residents abroad are now anxious to come back, the Norka CEO said, adding that the department can only request for measures to ensure their safety in the countries they are residing at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/protocol-for-returning-nrks-a-challenge-gor-govt/articleshow/75016644.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||2 sanitation workers felicitated for their work||Tirupati: Residents of Palamaner town decided to show their appreciation for santion workers in action and not just in words on Monday. While two sanitation workers went on their daily duties, residents of Pedda Masidhu street approached them and garlanded them with Rs 100-currency notes. Each garland had nearly Rs 1,500. The act of kindness was followed by felicitation of the duo with shawls and a big round of applause. After the video went viral on social media, Palamaner municipal commissioner PN Vijaya Simha Reddy appreciated the gesture of the residents of Pedda Masidhu street. “Sanition workers are on the frontline in the fight against novel coronavirus. It is a thankless job, which they selflessly do without any expectations. But, such gestures from the people can act as a motivation for them,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-sanitation-workers-felicitated-for-their-work/articleshow/75015654.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||13 flyers quarantined late in night, released within 24 hrs||Nagpur: Late on Sunday night, Sachin Singh (name changed) woke up after his door bell rang at around 1am. A couple of men at his door told him they were from NMC health department. He was told to collect whatever he can in just 10 minutes as they were going to take him to an institutional quarantine facility. On noticing policemen in two jeeps outside his compound, Singh went to his room, took his clothes and a bedsheet, informed his wife and left with the men.Beside Singh, there were around 12 others who were brought to the Central Nursing College at Lonara, on the city’s outskirts, till dawn on Monday. All of them had returned to the city from various countries via Mumbai in March. A co-flyer had tested positive some days ago, so the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration decided to place them under 14-day quarantine at an institutional facility. By Monday evening, the NMC reviewed its decision and allowed them to go home even as an international flyer — a Chandrapur resident quarantined at MLA hostel — tested positive. NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that they were already in self-isolation and have spent considerable time at home. “We have counselled them to isolate themselves for another 14 days,” he said. Throat swabs were not taken but only a medical examination was done. The flyers were also stamped for home quarantine upon their return from foreign trip, as per the state health ministry guidelines. Some of them were even tested earlier.Earlier in the day, these flyers had questioned the move to quarantine them at Lonara with over 40 high risk contacts of the cap seller from Takia, who was tested positive two days ago. The cap seller, who is city’s 17th Covid-19 patient, had spent over 20 days without any symptoms since his return from Delhi last month.The flyers feared contracting the virus while their stay at the facility which they alleged lacked proper isolation facility. “We all have been shoved in a common hall. All are using common toilets, wash basins and bathroom. We didn’t get a mug or bucket too. I thank myself to have lifted the bedsheet while leaving home,” Singh told TOI earlier in the day. The flyers demanded that they either be shifted to some other place or allowed to go back to their homes where they had maintained social distancing. “If we are found infected, how can it be known whether we contracted it here or in the country from where we arrived? If we are asked to stay at home it will be easier to trace the infection source in case anyone tests positive,” said a woman flyer.Anees Ahmed, adviser of Mehmuda Shikshan & Mahila Gramin Vikas Bahuudeshia Sanstha, which runs the group of institutions at Lonara, said that villagers didn’t allow his staff members to report for work which led to problems. “We had all the arrangements but no manpower to render service. It took some time to arrange around 80 workers. Now, everyone is being looked after properly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/13-flyers-quarantined-late-in-night-released-within-24-hrs/articleshow/75018185.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||Fire in bank at Hazratganj, nobody hurt||Lucknow: Fire broke out in a bank's branch near Hazratganj crossing early on Monday morning due to short-circuit in false ceiling. Four fire tenders took around two hours to extinguish the fire. However, till then several computers, furniture and other items were gutted. However, nobody was injured. Some constables of Hazratganj police station saw smoke billowing out from the ground floor of the bank building at around 1.45am. They immediately alerted the Hazratganj fire station. Senior police officers contacted the branch manager and asked him to immediately reach the branch. The fire tenders which were pressed into service managed to douse flames at about 4am, the police said. Station House Officer Santosh Singh said that the fire alarm was working, but there were no sprinklers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fire-in-bank-at-hazratganj-nobody-hurt/articleshow/75018655.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: One more tests positive||COIMBATORE: Another Podanur resident tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the district’s count to 59.The patient, a railway engineer in his 50s, had no travel history except a train ride to Salem and back two weeks ago. The baffled public health department officials, who traced his travel history, later learned that his daughter had recently returned from Georgia. Now that he has tested positive, the officials plan to bring his daughter, his wife and two other family members for tests to the ESI Hospital. The engineer is undergoing treatment at the PSG Hospitals. So far, 56 out of the 87 people from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi have tested positive. Thirty-one of them tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-more-tests-ve/articleshow/75017639.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: One more tests positive||COIMBATORE: Another Podanur resident tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the district’s count to 59.The patient, a railway engineer in his 50s, had no travel history except a train ride to Salem and back two weeks ago. The baffled public health department officials, who traced his travel history, later learned that his daughter had recently returned from Georgia. Now that he has tested positive, the officials plan to bring his daughter, his wife and two other family members for tests to the ESI Hospital. The engineer is undergoing treatment at the PSG Hospitals. So far, 56 out of the 87 people from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi have tested positive. Thirty-one of them tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/one-more-tests-ve/articleshow/75027855.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid care centre ready in Kasaragod||Kannur: Kasaragod district is set to impart excellent treatment to Covid-19 patients with state-of-the-art Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Government Medical College getting ready, said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, principal secretary of department of Industries. “All medical facilities and the service of medical professionals are in place so that the district can handle any emergency situation,” said Sharma, who is the special officer to oversee the corona-containment activities in Kasaragod district, after visiting the CCC on Monday. “If there is no drastic increase in the number of patients, the district will be able to get rid of the pandemic, and if everybody promptly follows the government’s instructions, we would be able to bring the scenario under control,” the special officer said. To begin with, there are around 200 beds and 10 intensive-care units here which could be scaled up, said Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu. He said the other buildings of the medical college, which is still under construction, would also be ready soon. The CCC is managed by a 26-member team of medical and healthcare professionals from Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, and would be supported by the healthcare professionals from the district, who would be deputed here. A few Covid-19 patients were shifted to the new facility on Monday afternoon. With this facility becoming functional, the district hospital at Kanhangad would be treating other patients, said Dr AT Manoj, district surveillance officer. “We would shift the Covid patients at the district hospital to elsewhere so that the regular patients from the district could come over here for treatment,” he said. The decision comes in the backdrop of the people from the district facing difficulties to get treatment in hospitals in Karnataka. Nine people from the border areas of the district had lost their lives in the last few days after they failed to get proper treatment since Karnataka had denied them permission to enter Mangaluru, where the people of many parts of Kasaragod go for treatment. Those who need to undergo dialysis can contact the district hospital and also Kasaragod General Hospital, where more technicians have been appointed, officials said. Meanwhile, the people’s representatives in the district and the KSEB would give Rs 12.47 crore for improving health facilities in the district. Of this, Rs 9.6 crore from the CSR fund of the KSEB would be utilized to purchase modern equipment for the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-care-centre-ready-in-kasaragod/articleshow/75016661.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Wineries in Nashik use table grapes to meet target||NASHIK: Wineries in Nashik, which had earlier decided to reduce the volume of grape crushing by 30% — due to the slowdown and rain-caused damage to plantations of wine variety of grapes — have started using table grapes to meet their targets. According to the All-India Wine Producers’ Association (AIWPA), wineries have crushed around 18,000 tonne of grapes so far, including 7,000 tonne of tables grapes. Around 1.25 crore litres of wine has been produced so far this season. This is the most viable solution available to both the grape farmers and wineries. Around 3,000 tonne of grapes have been procured from farmers and crushed in past three weeks when grape supplies to the domestic market were affected, said a senior AIWPA official. “The grape crushing season usually begins in January. Earlier, the wineries had reduced the grape crushing target from 18,000 tonne to 12,000 tonne given the shortage of wine grapes,” said AIWPA official. Premium wine is made using wine grapes, while cheaper wine is made using table grapes, he added. “We have completed grape crushing. Apart from the wine grapes, we have also crushed around 5,000 tonne of table grapes. Now, all our tanks are full of wine,” said sources in one of the major wineries in Nashik, which share 60% of the domestic wine market. “The vineyards growing wine grapes were badly damaged due to the unseasonal rainfall in September and October. We had to reduce our target. However, latter we decided to use table grapes. We crushed 250 tonne of grapes, including 150 tonne of table grapes,” said Pradeep Pachpatil, the chairman of Nashik-based Soma Wines. “Last week, we procured 150 quintal of table grapes from farmers to help them during the current crisis,” added Pachpatil. Nashik-based winery Renaissance, for the first time, also bought table grapes from farmers. “We use only wine grapes to make our wine. But table grape farmers were badly affected this season because of the lockdown — they were unable to send their produce to domestic markets. To help them, we have already procured 150 tonne of grapes for crushing in past two weeks. We will procure an additional 150-200 tonne,” said Shivaji Aher, chairman of Renaissance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wineries-use-table-grapes-to-meet-target/articleshow/75017651.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC official hid TJ visit, quarantined||Hyderabad: An executive engineer of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) who had not disclosed his visit to the Tablighi Jamaat , has now been moved to a quarantine centre. His family has been placed under home quarantine. The official from GHMC’s Charminar zone, returned to the city on March 17 and was traced by a multi-disciplinary team on Sunday. “When the team visited him, he was not revealing details of his visit,” said a source in GHMC. On returning, he continued working for 18 days . The duties of GHMC executive engineer are to monitor road works, ensure de-silting, coordinate with other officials. Verification revealed the official had neither applied for leave nor informed his superiors about the trip even after he returned. GHMC officials, heading the Charminar zone, said that he did not visit the GHMC zonal office after the congregation. “He used to go to circle office located in Moghalpura,” said a GHMC official. Officials of line departments and police are investigating his activities and the people he came in contact with between March 17 to April 4. They will the screen for his primary and secondary contacts. Civic officials said the he has not tested positive so far. “As on today (Monday), he has not tested positive and his family members fo not have any symptoms,” said a GHMC official. Officials said that a memo will be issued to the engineer and action will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-official-hid-tj-visit-quarantined/articleshow/75018194.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||347 patients violated quarantine rules in state: Deshmukh||Nagpur: After receiving a series of complaints from the administration about alleged misbehaviour and harassment by the patients put under quarantine, the Maharashtra government has decided to act tough against such persons.“We’ve found out 347 such patients against whom several complaints were received by various quarantine facilities across the state set up by the government. All of them have violated quarantine measures,” state home minister Anil Deshmukh told TOI.He’s in Mantralaya in Mumbai closely monitoring the entire situation along with officials from his ministry.According to senior officials working in the administration in city, the incidents of alleged misbehaviour and harassment increased manifold ever since the patients who attended the Taglibhi Jamaat (TJ) meeting in Delhi and their relatives were admitted.BJP corporator Sanjay Bangale has even written a letter to district collector Ravindra Thakare to immediately shift the 105 suspects who were related with TJ meet and admitted at Vanamati to any other place. According to him, the citizens residing in nearby localities like Dharampeth and Ambedkar Nagar are under threat of spread of infection due these patients.Thakare, however, clarified that they hadn’t lodged even a single complaint from the city against any quarantine patients. “But we need to confirm from the divisional commissioner if he has received any,” he said.Police commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay said some complaints were received from the administration, but those of minor nature like suspects loitering in the corridors and not maintaining social distancing. “We’re counselling and advising them on threats due to not maintaining social distancing. Our personnel aren’t supposed to go inside due to lack of protective gears like personal protection equipment (PPE). However, we don’t have the exact number of how many suspects have been booked for violation of quarantine measures,” he told TOI.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said there were problems initially as patients didn’t adhere to instructions. “We’re making constant announcements and also deployed cops to prevent anyone from going out or not maintaining social discipline. We’re constantly monitoring the situation. Police may have the record of such cases if any,” he said.The aggrieved officers told TOI that they had already apprised senior officials about bad behaviour from the patients. “One of them threw tea on wall as he disliked the taste. They often complain about food quality. They also spit all over the place despite warnings. They gather near reception throwing all caution to the wind and do not listen to our officers. Even cops don’t go near them as they lack PPE ,” they said, adding that they hardly receive any complain from suspects staying at MLA hostel.Bangale suggested shifting TJ members to city’s outskirts at Mouza Upplawadi where a big township with many flats is vacant and also at Mouza Bidgaon where many homes were built for poor people under the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/347-patients-violated-quarantine-rules-in-state-deshmukh/articleshow/75018193.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||6-yr-old boy dies, family alleges hosp refused treatment since it was turned into Covid-19 facility||Naintial: A Haldwani-based family has alleged that their six-year-old son died due to lack of proper medical assistance by both private and government hospitals in the ongoing lockdown. The family alleged that they were turned down by at least half a dozen hospitals including the government-run Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani, also known as STH, which refused to admit the boy since it had turned into a facility for Covid-19 patients exclusively. Speaking to TOI, the family said that the boy, identified by his first name, Vivek, was complaining about shortness of breath since March 31 and on recommendation of a local doctor, they had conducted his blood test. The results showed that he had pneumonia. After his condition deteriorated on April 2, the family took him to a private hospital. “The next day, the private hospital officials said they cannot treat Vivek anymore and that we should get him admitted at some other hospital. We carried him to at least half a dozen hospitals but none of them agreed to treat him. Finally, we reached STH where they informed that the hospital was treating only Covid-19 patients and therefore he cannot be admitted,” said Raju Paasi, the boy’s paternal uncle. The family then pleaded with a private hospital which agreed to admit him. However, as per the family, after some time, the hospital officials asked him to be taken to STH or any other hospital. “We asked them for an ambulance but the hospital didn’t even arrange that. We had already been turned away by STH so we took Vivek home but he died early morning on April 4,” Paasi said. The boy’s death came just 36 hours after his elder sister, Nidhi, 13, passed away in the ICU of STH on April 2 (when the hospital had not turned into an exclusive Covid-19 facility). “We had taken her to the hospital which, after conducting some tests, informed us that she was suffering from Tuberculosis (TB). She was admitted in the ICU and she she died the same day. But the death is a mystery to us since she had just complained of headache that morning and died the same day,” Passi told TOI. When contacted about the matter, the STH administration said that since the hospital had been turned into a facility for treatment of Covid-19 patients only, therefore, they were not taking any other cases except giving neo-natal care and chemotherapy. The officials confirmed that they had treated Nidhi for TB and that she died of the disease, but added that they had no knowledge about her brother Vivek. “The girl was treated at the hospital and she succumbed to TB despite being admitted in ICU. However, we have no knowledge of the boy. The hospital did not treat him and we have no knowledge of even him being turned away by our staff,” said Dr CP Bhairola, principal, Government Medical College, Haldwani, which is an associate institution of STH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-yr-old-boy-dies-family-alleges-hosp-refused-treatment-since-it-was-turned-into-covid-19-facility/articleshow/75017659.cms||Prashant Jha
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn PRO croons song to fight spread of coronavirus||Coimbatore: With the state and central government pulling out all stops to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, some are going the extra mile, in terms of novelty, to spread awareness.A public relations officer of the Coimbatore corporation has composed a song to highlight the measures taken by authorities to arrest the spread of Covid-19, apart from creating awareness on the critical need for social distancing. The song has gained instant fame on social media platforms. The officer, R Mathialagan, has penned and sung ‘Vallamai tharayo’, a song directed by his friends Vijay Nachimuthu and music composer K Benny Pradeep. “Ever since the lockdown was implemented, I have been thinking about writing a song which would not just talk about the basic rules to be followed by all citizens in the fight against Covid-19, but also help make the public realise how tough it has been for the government to work for public interest,” said Mathialagan. The civic body officials said his song focusses on relief efforts being carried out by those in charge of essential services such as sanitation workers, doctors and police officials and the importance of social distancing. Mathialagan was an avid fan of poetry and songs while being a student leader at Mannar College in Pudukkottai. What he did not have in plenty was time, to pursue his passion. “Though I had written a few poems after my college, I had stopped singing. This is the first time I have penned a poem and sung it… and made it public,” he said. As part of the government machinery, usually the first responders in crisis, Mathialagan and his team have rarely got a minute to breathe after the lockdown was announced. Taking time out after his daily engagements, he sat down over several nights to finish his poem and managed to complete it in less than a week, he said. “When I expressed my interest of singing an awareness song to my friends and sought their assistance, they agreed immediately,” he said. The group of friends managed to finish the music composition, recording and shooting in two days. The song, Mathialagan said, has become an internet sensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-pro-croons-song-to-fight-spread-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75017662.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Art Space comes up with online classes||Thiruvananthapuram: The city has gone under lockdown and so are the summer vacation plans of the children. In a novel initiative to help children spend their summer vacation creatively, The Art Space, a centre for performing arts based in Pattom, has come up with an initiative to conduct online classes. The Art Space has proposed to share videos of art forms on its Facebook page so that children can watch and learn from them. Classes in music, literature, theatre and personality development will be held online. “We have been conducting summer camp for past many years. There are kids who regularly attend our camp. These kids cannot come out of their houses due to lockdown. It is for their benefit that we proposed to conduct the classes online. It is a kind of campaign to follow the guidelines for prevention of Covid-19, while helping kids to spend their vacation creatively. We are using the social media platform to conduct classes,” said Satheesh G Nair, theatre artist and director of Art Space.  The centre has uploaded videos of children who were part of previous summer camps. Soon, the centre will share videos of experts in their respective fields for kids to learn and perform. The summer camp is being held for students up to Class X. According to Satheesh, college students are also engaged in the programme through online platform. “We have uploaded some performing videos to promote the talent of our kids. By the end of this week, we will upload video of classes as well. The classes will be led by Kendra Sahitya Akademi award recipient S R Lal, actor Senthil Rajamani, Amal Pirappancode, Kanchana Sreeram and lyricist Joy Thamalam,” added Satheesh. Considering the safety of children, the organisers are not planning to conduct direct classes even if the lockdown is lifted. The classes will conclude on May 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/art-space-comes-up-with-online-classes/articleshow/75016671.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Surat||SMC fines 247 Surtis for not maintaining social distancing||SURAT: At least 247 people were fined for not maintaining social distancing in different parts of the city, said the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday and has also collected Rs100 as penalty from each of the violators. “We have penalized 247 people in the city under the Epidemic Diseases Act and we also want to make it clear that people have to abide by the guidelines and rules issued by civic body and relevant authorities,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. “Door-to-door surveillance activity is also underway and if we find people with any Covid-like symptoms or influenza symptoms, we will shift them to the hospital so that we can diagnose them at an early stage and start treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-fines-247-surtis-for-not-maintaining-social-distancing/articleshow/75018192.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Revenue drying up, release Rs 5kcr due: Mitra to Centre||Kolkata: State finance minister Amit Mitra has written a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for clearing Rs 5,013 crore due saying that the state is now facing severe financial distress and will continue to face so as most of the revenue resources are drying up. “In order to tide over this critical situation, we had made a request for advance release of the revenue deficit grant provided by the 15th Finance Commission where we urged you to release the full amount of the grant during the months of April, May and June 2020,” Mitra appealed in the letter. He pointed out that it can be given in three instalments of 1,671 crore each. “But, we are dismayed that the Centre has released only an amount of Rs 417 crore for the month of April, in the routine manner without taking into cognizance the unprecedented Covid 19 crisis. This is the most disappointing, if not shocking at this critical hour of need to fight Covid-19 and disburse committed expenditures,” he added. Mitra also mentioned about the proposal sent by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to the Prime Minister of raising the FRBM limit from 3% to 5%, for 2020-21. “You may kindly recall my conversation with you, following up on this vital matter. Also, may I draw your attention to my earlier letters requesting that we be allowed to use the accumulated interest on the Consolidated Sinking Fund and the request for immediate release of the pending GST compensation. Furthermore, I had also requested for a moratorium on loan repayment, etc, relating to the serious problem of debt management,” Mitra wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/revenue-drying-up-release-rs-5kcr-due-mitra-to-centre/articleshow/75018205.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||Kanika Kapoor recovers, discharged||LUCKNOW: Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested Covid-19 positive in Lucknow on March 20, was declared free from infection on Monday. However, she will have to stay under home-quarantine for two more weeks. An official statement from Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said: “The sixth report of Kanika Kapoor came negative and she has been discharged”. According to the health ministry protocol, the viral load in a coronavirus positive patient is assessed regularly till it tests negative twice consecutively. Kanika was tested six times since her admission to SGPGI. Of these, the first two reports tested positive while the third was inconclusive. The fourth report was positive, but the fifth report, dated April 4, turned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanika-kapoor-recovers-discharged/articleshow/75018658.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kanpur||UP: 24 more Covid labs soon||LUCKNOW: Following fresh guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to speed up testing of coronavirus cases across the country, the state government has decided to set up 24 labs as per standards prescribed under the Laboratory Bio Safety Level-2. (BSL2). The issue was taken up at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath who issued instructions to the medical education department to make adequate arrangements for setting up of the BSL-2 labs besides upgrading functional labs at SGPGI and KGMU, Lucknow. The CM also said that labs in 14 remaining state medical colleges and 18 divisional-level labs should be included in the Laboratory BSL-2. Later, principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey said: “As many as 10 labs are already undertaking coronavirus testing in the state. In all, they can test 1,350 samples every day. Nine of these labs have been authorised to give confirmatory reports after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 21. Prior to that, KGMU, Lucknow was the only ICMR designated lab in state.” Efforts are on to add five more labs in the next few days. “Application to allow five more labs to undertake Covid-19 testing is pending for approval. Once they get functional, we will be able to undertake 2000 tests a day.” The labs will come up at: state medical colleges in Kanpur, Agra, RML Institute Lucknow, Super Speciality Institute, Noida and IVRI Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/24-more-covid-labs-soon/articleshow/75024765.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 24 more Covid labs soon||LUCKNOW: Following fresh guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to speed up testing of coronavirus cases across the country, the state government has decided to set up 24 labs as per standards prescribed under the Laboratory Bio Safety Level-2. (BSL2). The issue was taken up at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath who issued instructions to the medical education department to make adequate arrangements for setting up of the BSL-2 labs besides upgrading functional labs at SGPGI and KGMU, Lucknow. The CM also said that labs in 14 remaining state medical colleges and 18 divisional-level labs should be included in the Laboratory BSL-2. Later, principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey said: “As many as 10 labs are already undertaking coronavirus testing in the state. In all, they can test 1,350 samples every day. Nine of these labs have been authorised to give confirmatory reports after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 21. Prior to that, KGMU, Lucknow was the only ICMR designated lab in state.” Efforts are on to add five more labs in the next few days. “Application to allow five more labs to undertake Covid-19 testing is pending for approval. Once they get functional, we will be able to undertake 2000 tests a day.” The labs will come up at: state medical colleges in Kanpur, Agra, RML Institute Lucknow, Super Speciality Institute, Noida and IVRI Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/24-more-covid-labs-soon/articleshow/75018664.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid puts brakes on bus service project||NASHIK: The coronavirus pandemic has pushed back the city bus service, which was expected to begin on May 1 (Maharashtra Day), as the nationwide lockdown has halted the planning and execution work on the project. “The civic body was supposed to sign an agreement with the electric bus contractor, but could not do so because of the ongoing coronavirus crisis coupled with a lockdown,” said a civic official . The NMC plans to run 400 buses (200 CNG, 50 diesel and 150 electric) and has already finalised three contractors for operating the services effectively. The agreements with the contractors for CNG and diesel buses have already been signed. “We had already started working towards developing the infrastructure for the bus service project, but all development works have stopped for the past three weeks because of the Covid-19 outbreak,” the official said. “We have received subsidy for 50 of the 150 electric buses from the Centre. Our plan was to sign the agreement with the contractor for operating these buses in the second half of March. But everything has been delayed,” he added. The official said that the civic body had decided to launch the bus service on May 1 with 50 diesel buses and the remaining vehicles were to be deployed in phases. The bus service is to be operated on gross cutting contract (GCC) for 10 years. This includes purchase of new buses, their maintenance, employing drivers and purchasing fuel. The NMC will pay charges to private agencies on kilometer basis. “All 250 CNG and diesel buses arrived in the city last month and their RTO passing and fitness tests have been completed. The buses are parked at three locations in the city,” an official from the bus operating agency said. “All our work has come to a standstill. Although the buses have arrived, we are yet to work on other fronts like maintenance and hiring employees. We will require a total workforce of 1,500 for operation and maintenance of 250 CNG and diesel buses. We have shortlisted the candidates for the posts of drivers, but the final selection is pending,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-puts-brakes-on-bus-service-project/articleshow/75017671.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||68-yr-old from East Nagpur 1st Covid-19 victim in Ngp||Nagpur/ Chandrapur: Swab samples of 68-year-old man from Satranjipura area in Nagpur, who died on Sunday at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), have been tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday. With this, Nagpur has recorded its first death due to Covid-19. Apart from this, a man from Chandrapur, who had gone to Indonesia on a religious tour and returned to Nagpur via Delhi, has been tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Two close contacts of four positive patients in Buldhana on Sunday also tested positive on Monday. With this, the number of cases in Buldhana have gone up to 11, all connected to patients having Delhi travel history.This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 36 including 3 deaths. For the first time since its outbreak, Vidarbha has reported four confirmed positive cases in a day, including one death. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar confirmed the 68-year-old man as the first Covid-19 victim from the city.The deceased was a resident of Satranjipura Badi Masjid, ward no. 21 in East Nagpur. Till now, confirmed positive patients in the city have been reported only from South-West, Central and North Nagpur.Sources at Mayo Hospital said that the person had visited OPD complaining breathing problem and fever at around 12 midnight on April 4. He was admitted to ward no. 5 (Covid isolation ward) as he was showing symptoms of the virus infection. His samples were collected on Sunday for tests, but he passed away on Sunday night.Body of the deceased has been kept in Mayo Hospital mortuary. Soon after the test reports came, NMC team led by additional medical officer (health) Dr Praveen Gantawar rushed to the victim’s house. The team identified son, daughter and son-in-law. The doctor who had attended the senior citizen and his attendant have also been identified. All will be tested for the infection. NMC, with the help of police, has cordoned off the area and will identify more people, especially from a shop where the deceased used to spend time.The NMC will also launch door-to-door containment drive from Tuesday. The authorities will decide about the last rites of the deceased on Tuesday.Chandrapur still safe: Chandrapur’s patient and his seven companions, including wife, are in institutional quarantine facility at MLA Hostel in Nagpur from March 23, the day they arrived here. As neither of them had gone to Chandrapur nor anyone from there had visited them, chances of second phase infection in Chandrapur through them are negligible.Chandrapur collector Dr Kunal Khemnar said local authorities have decided to quarantine family members of the positive patient as precautionary measure. “Though the patient belongs to Chandrapur, he had not visited the city since his foreign travel. Still, his family will be kept in quarantine as precautionary measure,” said the collector.Civil surgeon of Chandrapur Dr ND Rathod informed that four couples, including three from Chandrapur city and one from Ballarpur, had gone to Indonesia in February. They returned to Delhi on March 22. They took domestic flight from Delhi on March 23 and arrived at Nagpur on the same evening. They were immediately quarantined at MLA Hostel in Nagpur. Sources informed that they all belong to Tablighi Jamaat, but none of them had attended the jamaat conference held during the second week of March.Swab samples of the Chandrapur were checked in the AIIMS Nagpur facility on Monday. Authorities informed that the samples were collected on April 1 but were pending for tests as the lab facility in IGGMCH had developed snag. The patient was shifted to isolation facility in IGGMCH on Monday night. Crisis deepens in Buldhana: Health officials from Buldhana confirmed that two samples from the close contacts of 4 positive patients admitted in Buldhana have been tested positive on Monday taking the total number of cases to 11, including 1 death. “These two are from the close contacts of one of the 4 positive patients from Buldhana. Their details are yet to be ascertained,” said Dr Premchand Pandit, civil surgeon of Buldhana. On Sunday, four men — all having Markaz Nizamuddin in Delhi travel history – had tested positive. They were from rural parts of Buldhana district. On Monday, two others belonging to rural areas were tested positive. One of the two is from Shegaon, which is popular religious centre in Vidarbha.With Chandrapur resident getting detected as Covid-19 positive, seven districts in Vidarbha are now affected with novel coronavirus. Confirmed patients are admitted in Nagpur (13 + Chandrapur patient = 14), Gondia (1), Buldhana (10) and Washim (1). Seven patients — 4 from Nagpur and 3 from Yavatmal have been discharged after they recovered. Three deaths have been reported from Nagpur, Amravati and Buldhana. Many samples yet to be tested: Suspects and close contacts of confirmed patients are admitted in Vidarbha are waiting for results of their samples. Highest number of swab samples — 121 — from Amravati are pending. The district administration is anxiously awaiting the test reports of the throat swabs of the relatives of Hathipura Covid-19 deceased and the medical staff of the hospital where he was admitted before he was shifted to district general hospital.“Because of the Covid-19 death, we have sealed and sanitized Hathipura and Itwara Bazar, Sakkarsath areas of Amravati. We were expecting reports on Monday itself, but they are still pending,” said district collector Shailesh Naval.The administration has sent swabs of 24 relatives of the victim besides 10 doctors and 15 hospital staffers who treated him. A lot depends on these reports, Naval said.The administration, in its attempt to trace the source from where the victim had contracted the virus in the absence of any travel history, is now checking his DCR from his mobile.Meanwhile, guardian minister Yashomati Thakur on Monday said that during a special drive launched across the district to check people for cough, cold and fever has covered 18 lakh people so far and found 17,000 suffering from cold, cough and fever.In Yavatmal, three suspects in the isolation of GMCH were tested negative and discharged on Monday. Test reports of 53 presumptive cases are awaited. Their swab samples have been sent to Nagpur since Wednesday last. District collectors of Washim, Buldhana, Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati have issued appeals to all those who have returned after visiting Markaz Nizamuddin to come forward and get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/68-yr-old-from-east-nagpur-1st-covid-19-victim-in-ngp/articleshow/75018200.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||2 U'khand jawans martyred in gun battle in Kashmir||Dehradun: Two Uttarakhand-based jawans were killed in a fierce gun battle with terrorists in Kupwara sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday night. Army officials said that two jawans – Amit Anthola from Pauri Garhwal district and Devendra Singh from Rudraprayag district — were involved in an encounter with armed militants in the higher reaches of Keran village in Kupwara district. Indian Army suffered five causalities in the operation which went on till late night on Sunday. Five terrorists were also gunned down during the encounter. The bodies of the two personnel would be brought back to Uttarakhand and then cremated with full military honour. Their kin were informed about the deaths early on Monday morning. While Devendra Singh is survived by his wife, two kids, and parents, Anthola was to get married in October this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-ukhand-jawans-martyred-in-gun-battle-in-kashmir/articleshow/75017667.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Conduct sanitisation drives, insure sanitation workers: Former MLA||Dehradun: Former Rajpur Road MLA Rajkumar gave a memorandum to state's chief secretary on Monday stating that effective steps are required with immediate effect to stop the spread of Covid-19. “With five people being found Covid-19 positive in Bhagat Singh Colony, a sense of fear has gripped the nearby residential areas. Due to this, an aggressive spraying of sanitiser has become a must in such localities. Along with that, the garbage in the Rispana river needs to be removed with the help of JCB machine and then sanitisers should be sprayed in the residential areas located near the river,” said Rajkumar. The Congress leader also added that sanitation workers must be given life insurance because they work at a very low wage and in such times, they are serving the society by putting their lives at risk. Meanwhile, the incumbent Rajpur Road MLA Khajan Das has presented sanitation workers with a cheque of Rs 1,000 each. In a short ceremony, the sanitation workers were garlanded at the house of late freedom fighter Gyan Singh Negi. Social distancing was properly maintained during this short ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/conduct-sanitisation-drives-insure-sanitation-workers-former-mla/articleshow/75017675.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||His heart beats for starving stray dogs||COIMBATORE: Packing his car with bowls full of food and water, 27-year-old Rahul Manoharan sets out from his house at RS Puram around 6pm every day. He stops the vehicle as soon as he sees stray dogs, which rush towards him, tails wagging. Manoharan serves them a few scoops of food on a sheet of paper and water in disposable cups. After spending a few minutes with them, he moves to the next spot. This has been his schedule for the last 10 days. “Just days after the lockdown was imposed, I notice how the stray dogs were looking skinny. As eateries were shut due to the lockdown, they were struggling to find food,” Manoharan, who owns a pet shop at RS Puram, told TOI. “I have been feeding stray dogs at VOC Park, Race Course, RS Puram, Ram Nagar and Avinashi Road after closing my shop around 10:30pm for the last two years. After the lockdown, I started feeding more dogs at more places. Now, I spend four to five hours to feed 120-150 dogs across the city,” he said. “Now, my cousins P Karan, 20 and R Karthi, 18, accompany me and lend me a hand.” The food served is prepared at home. “It is a mix of branded dog food, rice and cooked vegetables. After running out of the dog food at my shop, I am now buying it from my associates, who are keen to help.” Manoharan is now planning to feed the strays in Thudiyalur and NGGO Colony after reeving calls from dog lovers there. “I have decided to continue feeding the dogs even after the lockdown. But for that, I will have to find someone to manage the shop while I am out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/his-heart-beats-for-starving-stray-dogs/articleshow/75017674.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 7, 2020||Business||Coal India extended time limit for payment by customers||Kolkata: Coal India (CIL) has further extended the time limit for payment of coal, booked by its customers, by two more weeks till April 21 2020 from April 7, 2020 announced earlier. The move comes amid a slew of measures that the Maharatna coal major has introduced to lessen the burden of its customers in the ongoing lockdown phase. “We are reaching out to our customers with the best friendly initiatives that we could in this difficult period,” said a company official, adding that “the aim is to ease the stress of our customers”, a CIL official said. According to CIL, the long-pending demand of issuance LC is now implemented as an additional mode of payment along with irrevocable revolving letters of credit (IRLC) for the coal supplied to power producers, especially independent power plants. This will help the cash-strapped power producers avail credit facility through their banks to tackle liquidity crunch. In addition, the coal giant has extended the validity period for lifting of coal under all auctions without any penalty. Earlier, failure to lift the ordered quantity of coal within a stipulated time period attracted forfeiture of earnest money deposit under auction schemes. Now, this clause has been done away with till the closure of lock down period to non regulated sector as well. Coal stocks in the country now stand at 120 million tonne (MT) with pitheads of CIL heaped up at an all-time high of close to 75 MT. The rest 45 MTs of coal stock is at thermal power plants sufficient for 28-day consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-extended-time-limit-for-payment-by-customers/articleshow/75018208.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Mercury crosses 38°C; hotter days in store for Nashik: IMD||NASHIK: The past few days have seen a steady increase in the summer heat in the city with the mercury hovering around the 38 degrees celsius mark. The minimum temperature too has increased to 20 degrees celsius. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 38.4 degrees celsius and the minimum temperature was 19 degrees celsius. On Monday the maximum temperature was 37degrees celsius. This is a huge jump from last week when the maximum temperature was just 33 degrees celsius, largely due to rain in parts of the district. According to the weather department, the heat is likely to increase further over the next two days and may touch 39 degrees celsius. Thereafter, it may drop a degree or two. Other cities in North Maharashtra were even hotter. On Monday, Malegaon had a maximum temperature of 41 degrees celsius and a minimum of 21.4 degrees celsius and Jalgaon had a high of 40.5 degrees celsius and a minimum of 20 degrees celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mercury-crosses-38chotter-days-in-store-imd/articleshow/75017680.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kochi||A musical video from priests around the world||Kochi: Christian devotional songs like ‘Kunju Manasin Nombarangal’ and ‘Daiva Sneham Varnnicheedan,’ had become so popular that they even got featured in movies. Some of the most touching songs among these were written and composed by priests themselves. A group of such priests, based in cities around the world and who calls themselves the Twelve Band, on Sunday night, came out with a musical video, titled ‘Oru Mezhuthiri Paattu’ (A Candle Song), in solidarity with the nation, lighting lamps as per the Prime Minister’s call, to mark the country’s fight against Covid-19. The music video, a new rendition of the Malayalam version of Cardinal Newman’s ‘Lead Kindly Light’, has now gone viral on social media and it has priests, around 24 of them, based in cities like Vienna, Rome, New York, Paris, Southampton, Innsbruck, Allahabad and Bengaluru, apart from towns in Kerala singing the song, beside a lighted candle. Video of each priest, was shot separately at the countries they are based in and was later mixed at Kaloor Renewal Centre in Kochi. “We are a group of priests who are musicians as well and we usually compose such songs when we come together. But since we are facing a lockdown due to the pandemic, we thought about bringing out a song by lighting a candle of prayer through music from wherever we are. We came together to bring out this song, even though we were in various parts of the world,” said Fr Jacob Koroth, a priest based in Kochi who plays the drums. This is not the first time that the Twelve band has surprised the state with a viral video song. In 2019, they came up with a musical video, Uyirpattu, dedicated to all those who helped in rebuilding the state, after the 2018 flood. The video, thanking many like Noushad, who donated all clothes in his shop for flood victims, had the tone of a Mappilapattu song and even a rap session in between. This video, in which the priests with instruments were seen singing at a beach side café, had gone viral too. The performers included, Fr Jackson Kizhavana from Vienna, Austria, who arranged the song along with Bro Jeril Kurisingal, Trastevere, Rome, Fr Thaddeus Aravindath, Armonk, New York, Fr Sony Manjaly, Rome, Fr Joseph Manavalan, Rue du bac, Paris, Fr Tomy Chirackal Manavalan, Southampton, UK, Fr Joshy Puthussery, Innsbruck, Austria, Fr Nibin Kurisingal, Rome, Fr Linto Kattuparambil, Allahabad, UP, Fr Jerin Palathinkal, Hennur, Bangalore, Fr Sajo Padayatty, Nadathuruthu, Meloor, Fr Dibin Meembanthanathu, Kaloor, Fr Eby Edassery, Neericode, Aluva, Fr Paul Manayampilly, Kidangoor Angamaly, Fr Melvin Chittilappilly, Kizhakkummury, Cherthala, Fr Paul Ambookkan, Angamaly, Fr Sebastian Sankoorickal, Priest Home, Edakkunnu, Fr Cheriyan Nereveettil, Vyttila, Fr John Painumukal, Palarivattom, Fr Thomas Perumayan, Tripunithura, Fr Sinto Cheerakathil, Njarackal, Fr Jacob Koroth, Kaloor and Fr Juby Kalthiparambil, Vytila. Mar Antony Kariyil, metropolitan vicar of Ernakulam Angamaly archdiocese, have also sung a small portion towards the end of the video. The musical video that was posted on Sunday night has already around 32,000 views by Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-musical-video-from-priests-around-the-world/articleshow/75016694.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘We want to know how he got the disease’||Thiruvananthapuram: With more test results from Pothencode turning out to be negative and health team still being unable to establish an epidemiological link, the family of Abdul Azeez who died of Covid-19 said they have co-operated fully with the repeated series of queries from the health team and that they are keen to know from where Azeez contracted the infection. TOI spoke to the family members who are now under home quarantine. The family said as per their knowledge he had only attended one funeral contrary to the route map in which it says that he attended three funerals. He only took tablets for BP and thyroid-related ailment, they said. Two years ago, he had a fall and fractured his rib and there was breathing difficulty for sometime which was never serious, they added. “We had always co-operated with the health team who have been asking us repeatedly about our father’s travel history. He seldom went out of house and was not very keen on friendly gatherings. He had attended a funeral and a wedding with our mother. We gathered all the information which could help in tracing the source. We are relieved that the samples so far have tested negative, but we want to know how he got the infection,” said a family member. According to family members, Azeez had caught a cold after he took a shower and went out for collecting leaves for goats. He waited for two days and when the cold did not subside, he went to a PHC at Vengode where he was given medicine for five days. Three days later, he again went to the PHC with the youngest daughter. She asked whether they should do a Covid-19 test and the health team there said he did not need a test. On March 23, they went to private hospital at Venjaramoodu where he was given an injection, nebulized and ECG was taken. Hospital authorities said they could not admit him owing to Covid alert and that he shall be referred to medical college. Azeez was talking on the way and he himself paid for the ambulance. He was shifted to Covid ICU and on March 26 his test results came negative. The family said they were then told that he would be shifted to isolation ward but soon complications happened one after another. “We were told that some of his symptoms were related to Covid infection and hence samples were again sent for testing. We saw the results on television when CM announced it,” a family member. Later, swabs were taken from family members and all of them went into home quarantine. “The last time we saw him alive was from a distance being taken on a stretcher,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/we-want-to-know-how-he-got-the-disease/articleshow/75016693.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||32 flee from quarantine, booked||Lucknow: At least 32 suspected Covid-19 patients on Monday escaped from a government facility in Hardoi where they were being quarantined. Police have lodged an FIR in this connection and are making efforts to trace them. Health officials said these people had tested negative but were kept in isolation as a precautionary measure. SHO, Tadiyawana, Subhash Saroj said, “Thirty-two people had come to Hardoi from various states and were quarantined at a government intermediate college on Sunday as a precautionary measures.” “On Sunday night, they broke the window panes and fled. Kanungo (revenue clerk) Ram Prakash Mishra was informed about the incident who lodged an FIR,” he said. They have been charged with violation of prohibitory orders, act of negligence likely to cause spread of a disease, and under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Meanwhile, at least 105 people have been booked across the state for trying to escape from quarantine facility in last eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/32-flee-from-quarantine-booked/articleshow/75018667.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown defers IIT-Bombay team’s visit to review Smart City road||NASHIK: The arrival of IIT-Bombay team to review the uneven stretches on the maiden Smart City road has been deferred because of the ongoing nation-wide lockdown. Around two months ago, the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) had admitted that the construction of the smart road was improper and it was uneven at some stretches. The corporation had written to IIT-Bombay seeking help. “The institute had sought some information from us. We submitted all the details and the team from IIT-Bombay was to visit the city on March 28 for a review. The team could not come due to the lockdown,” sources in NMSCDCL said, adding that the team will visit only after things get back to normal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-defers-iit-bombay-teams-visit-to-review-smart-city-road/articleshow/75017687.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||2 more from Nagarwada test positive, total 12||Vadodara: Two persons persons, including a 15-year-old boy, from the densely populated Nagarwada area tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 12. Along with the teenager, a 27-year-old man also tested positive and they are the youngest patients to be infected by the virus in the city so far. Nagarwada and parts of adjoining Macchipith area were declared as containment zone on Sunday in wake of the first positive case – that of a 54-year-old male. In fact, the 27-year-old is the son of this man and the teenager also lives in his neighbourhood. Sources said that three other family members of the Nagarwada resident have been kept under observation at the quarantine facility at Gotri hospital. This include his 48-year-old wife, 51-year-old brother and another son, who is 29 years old. The areas count for around 650 houses and 3,200 persons. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal informed that the duo is being treated in the isolation ward of GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri as per protocol. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation has launched a mass health surveillance drive in the area since Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-more-from-nagarwada-test-positive-total-12/articleshow/75015862.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||62-yr-old woman succumbs to coronavirus||Vadodara: Vadodara recorded its second death of a COVID-19 patient at SSG Hospital on Monday morning. The 62-year-old female was fellow-traveller of the 52-year-old male patient who passed away on Thursday last. They had got infected with the virus during a tour to Sri Lanka. The duo was a part of a group of six couples from the city who had toured Sri Lanka. The male victim’s wife (who was also a fellow-traveller) apart from his daughter, son and daughter-in-law were earlier discharged from the hospital after they tested negative in repeat tests. After returning from the neighbouring country, the 62-year-old resident of Tandalja Road fell ill and was on March 18 admitted to government hospital where she tested positive for coronavirus. The female victim was critical since last couple of days. Since Sunday afternoon, she was on ventilator. “She also had other comorbid conditions, including hypertension, diabetes and chronic bronchitis,” said Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, medical superintendent of SSG Hospital. After the patient passed away at around 10am, her body was cremated at Khaswadi crematorium in Karelibaug in the presence of a couple of relatives. The victim’s husband, who has tested negative for COVID-19, is currently under treatment at a private hospital for other medical ailments, sources said. With the death of this female patient, there is no COVID-19 positive patient in the isolation ward of SSG Hospital. All the positive patients will be treated at GMERS Gotri Medical College and Hospital while screening and testing of samples will continue at SSG Hospital, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/62-yr-old-woman-succumbs-to-coronavirus/articleshow/75015830.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Maniyanpilla Raju joins Donate My Kit campaign||Thiruvananthapuram: The ‘Donate My Kit’ campaign of the civil supplies department, enabling ration card-holders to donate their food provision kit for other deserving persons, has been initiated in the district. The latest person to join the campaign is actor Maniyanpilla Raju, who donated his ration kit to poor people. Minister for food and civil supplies, P Thilothaman, visited the actor's house on Monday after Raju appreciated the quality of ration provided by the government. Raju donated his ration kit online in the presence of the minister. The ration card of the family is registered in the name of his wife Indira Raju. A special kit of 16 items is provided through ration shops, which can be donated online. “The words of Maniyanpilla Raju, appreciating the quality of ration items, are an encouragement to the government, which is trying to provide good quality food supplies to the people. Over 72 lakh people have bought ration. Government is distributing ration kits of 16 items free of cost to the people. And to help the needy people, Raju had decided to donate the kit," said Thilothaman. Raju who went to buy ration recently came to know that good quality rice is supplied through ration shops. “I want to tell people that it is not alms. Ration comes under the rights of citizens. And it is a relief to people who are struggling to make ends meet during the lockdown. Kit donation is a good scheme and I decided to donate my kit for other deserving people in need. I bought the ration recently and found that good quality rice is being provided. Many actors told me about the good quality of ration provided to them,” said Raju. People willing to donate their ration kit may log on to the civil supplies website. After clicking on the link ‘Donate my kit’, one need to enter the ration card number. An OTP will be send to the registered mobile phone number of the ration card-holder. People can donate their kit by entering the OTP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/maniyanpilla-raju-joins-donate-my-kit-campaign/articleshow/75016709.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar cops file FIRs against 35 Tablighi Jamaat event attendees||NASHIK: The Ahmednagar police have initiated legal action against 35 Tablighi Jamaat event attendees, including 29 foreigners, for entering the district after taking part in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin (Delhi) in mid-March without informing the local administration. Additional superintendent of police Sagar Patil said the FIRs have been lodged against the 35 individuals in three different police stations of the district. “The FIRs have been lodged under various sections of Indian Panel Code (IPC). The 29 foreigners had tourist visas, but they were involved in religious activities, which is a violation of the visa conditions. The local police were kept in the dark about the arrival of these foreign nationals in the district. If need be, we will also arrest them,” added Patil. Jamkhed police lodged FIRs against 10 foreigners and two Indians. Nevasa police lodged FIRs against another 10 foreigners and the Bhingar Camp police station lodged FIRs against nine foreigners and two Indians. “The foreign nationals hail from countries like Malaysia, Brunei, Ivory Coast, Ghana and Indonesia. Some of them are Islamic scholars and preachers. All 35 individuals were staying in local mosques in the area,” a police officer said. After being informed about the presence of the Jamaat event attendees, the district administration swung into action and picked the first lot of suspects from a mosque in Jamkhed. The remaining two batches were picked up from mosques in Nevasa and Ahmednagar city. According to a district official, of the total 21 positive Covid-19 cases in Ahmednagar, 18 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat markaz. “While four of the foreigners have tested positive, 14 of the local residents who came in contact with them have also tested positive. Reports of some of the other locals who met these individuals are still awaited,” he said. Meanwhile, district police have ruled out the possibility of presence of any more Tablighi Jamaat groups in Ahmednagar. “We have taken feedback from across the district and no more groups are present here,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-cops-file-firs-against-35-tablighi-jamaat-event-attendees/articleshow/75017698.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||FIR against objectionable TikTok videos, says UP govt||LUCKNOW: Fighting the scourge of fake news, video sharing app TikTok has emerged as a new challenge for the UP government. On Monday, the government declared that it could file cases against anyone making “objectionable” videos and those forwarding them. “We are getting a lot of complaints against objectionable videos being forwarded on Tiktok. The app should not be misused. An FIR can be filed against anyone who posts objectionable material on TikTok and even those who forward these videos. It may not always be possible to trace the source of fake news so we will also take the matter seriously with those who forward such videos,” said additional chief secretary home Awanish Awasthi. Awasthi said that the government will take up this matter with the Centre and also the TikTok app management so that some way can be found to prevent fake news and objectionable material from being circulated on the app. Earlier, the government has initiated action against those posting fake news on other social media sites, including one on Whatsapp and three on Facebook. Awasthi said that a gram panchayat officer in Hardoi had been suspended for posting fake news on WhatsApp. An FIR had also been filed against one person in Jaunpur for posting objectionable material on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-objectionable-tiktok-videos-says-govt/articleshow/75018671.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Hospital develops ‘disinfection gateway’||Thiruvananthapuram: The Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCIMST) has developed a disinfection gateway that can be set up in front of offices and hospitals such that the people will be disinfected while entering the premises. It also developed a consultation chamber for doctors such that the doctor will not have any direct contact with the patients in the OP. The ‘Chitra Disinfection Gateway’ is designed for decontamination of people, one at a time. This portable system is equipped with a system for generating hydrogen peroxide mist and a UV-based decontamination facility. Hydrogen Peroxide fumes will decontaminate body, hands and clothes of a person. The UV system will decontaminate the chamber, said Dr Asha Kishore, director of SCIMST. The whole system is electronically controlled. The sensors mounted in the chamber detect the entry of a person and starts the hydrogen peroxide mist generation process. The person is required to walk through the chamber to its end. When the person exits, the system will shut off the hydrogen peroxide fumigation system and will turn on the UV lamp inside the chamber to decontaminate it. After the UV light is switched off automatically after a prescribed time the chamber is ready for the next person. The whole process takes only 40 seconds. The examination chamber is a closed booth like a telephone booth for examining the patient without direct contact to prevent transmission of infection. Examination booth is equipped with lamp, table fan, rack and UV light. The UV light is used to disinfect the chamber after each patient leaves. There is a pair of gloves in examination booth, which allows patient’s physical examination. Additionally, there is an entry tunnel on the side frame to pass a stethoscope within the chamber. After examination, the patient is requested to vacate the chamber and UV light is turned on for three minutes. When UV exposure in chamber is completed, the next patient is examined and the sequence is repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hospital-develops-disinfection-gateway/articleshow/75016737.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Swiggy gets $43m in additional funds||Bengaluru: Online food delivery major Swiggy has raised over $43 million in additional funding from backers like South Korea’s Samsung Ventures, Mirae Asset Capital Markets, Korea Investment Partners besides existing backer Tencent, taking the total capital in this round to $156 million. In February Swiggy had was backed by existing investors like Prosus along with China’s Meituan Dianping and US-based asset manager Wellington, valuing the company at $3.6 billion. The new round comes at a time when orders in the food delivery space have fallen by 70-80% due to lockdown, which also caused disruption in service as the delivery persons were beaten by police in many areas. At the same time, it is also seeing a spike in demand for new businesses, like micro-delivery platform SuprDaily and grocery supplies through Swiggy Stores. But Swiggy’s valuation — which was pegged at around $3.3 billion in December 2018 after it raised $1 billion — was already sobering up as it increased less than 10% to $3.6 billion after including the employee stock options base in the current round. Swiggy’s rival Zomato is also currently raising its new round of funding. “Swiggy has built a sustainable food delivery business over the years while solving various customer pain points…..Our focus remains to execute on our vision while building a sustainable path to profitability,” said Rahul Bothra, CFO at Swiggy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-gets-43m-in-additional-funds/articleshow/75018218.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 112 teachers volunteer for Covid-19 relief efforts||COIMBATORE: At least 112 teachers from government schools in the district have signed up so far as volunteers for Covid-19 work, officials said on Monday. Coimbatore chief education officer P Usha, who has been collecting names of volunteers, told TOI that of the 112 teachers, 36 were women. “We have informed the district collector that these teachers are ready to volunteer in Covid-19 measures,” she said. The civil supply department, when informed of the new volunteers, said they would use male teachers for Covid-19 related work when the need arises. Meanwhile, with no exams and no pressure upon them, other teachers not related with Covid-19 containment measures have formed WhatsApp groups with parents to inquire about the health of their students and to spread awareness messages, said Usha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/112-teachers-volunteer-for-covid-19-relief-efforts/articleshow/75017710.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||100% lockdown for few days in Kasba Bawda, Line Bazaar||KOLHAPUR: The residents of Kasba Bawda and Line Bazaar areas will observe complete lockdown, meaning no one will be allowed to step outside their houses. This comes after the first Covid-19 case was reported from the Maratha Colony of Kasba Bawda. An elderly woman had tested positive for coronavirus. Immediately after the report, the civic administration deployed its staff to disinfect the entire area. The police sealed the locality and declared it as a containment zone. No one will be allowed to move in or out of the locality till everyone there has been screened. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have quarantined five people who were in direct contact with the Covid-19 patient. A domestic help has been traced and she will be screened as well. Our teams will go to every house and conduct a survey from Tuesday. The area has been declared containment zone.” After primary enquiry, it was found that the elderly woman went to a private hospital, then to a government hospital in Line Bazaar to get her health checked. The civic official said she was referred by the doctors of the government hospital to the CPR hospital for screening. The locals said she did not come out of her house in the past few days and not many of them had come in contact with her. “The colony is in a single lane. Therefore, we immediately contacted the residents. Many of them have said that they have not come in contact with her, but we will still take them for screening. We have advised all of them to stay inside their houses. We have locked the gates of the lane and other lanes so that nobody can leave,” said Kalshetti. The residents of the nearby colonies and societies will have to face inconvenience for some time. The locals through social media declared 100% lockdown of the locality for the next three to four days. A local, requesting anonymity, said, “Only three milk dairies and medical shops of Kasba Bawda and Line Bazaar areas will remain open at all times. The grocery shops will be open for three hours in the morning and three hours in the evening. No vehicular movement will be allowed.” The two areas combined have a total population of more than 50,000 people. The local police and district administration said that all the major roads connecting the internal areas of the city will, however, remain open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/100-lockdown-for-few-days-in-kasba-bawda-line-bazaar/articleshow/75018675.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||On foundation day, BJP tells workers to help poor tide over crisis||LUCKNOW: BJP’s foundation day remained a low-key affair in the wake of the lockdown. BJP workers remained indoors and put up party flag on their rooftops. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh stayed at his home and offered tribute to Jan Sangh founders Shyama Prasad Mukherjee and Deen Dayal Upadhyay. Party general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal also stayed back at party office and put up party flag at the rooftop. “Party workers, including MLAs and MPs, have been asked to carry out a weeklong campaign to help the needy and carry out a signature campaign to boost the morale of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff,” Singh said. He added party workers had also been asked to provide at least five face masks to at least five families. Singh said workers helped the party grow since the inception of Jan Sangh. “Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, BJP has become the biggest political party in the world,” he said. Meanwhile, Singh has announced a contribution of Rs 1 crore from his local area development fund and one month salary for fight against coronavirus. He also exhorted workers to donate at least Rs 100 in PM CARES fund and also encourage others to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/on-foundation-day-bjp-tells-workers-to-help-poor-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/75018677.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Timely help by cops saves day for three women||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the timely help rendered by cops, three women who were in the final stretch of pregnancy gave birth to healthy babies. In the first instance, Cyberabad police said after they received a Dial 100 call, a pregnant woman from Pet Basheerabad was shifted to Koti Maternity Hospital. “The woman sought help by dialling 100 and our patrolling personnel reached her place and shifted her to the hospital where she delivered a baby boy,’’ Cyberabad police said. In the second instance, a woman from Jagathgiri Gutta called the Cyberabad Covid-19 control room. She was shifted to the government hospital in Balanagar where she delivered a healthy baby. Similarly, family members of a pregnant woman in Begumpet police station limits called an ambulance for help. As the vehicle was on another emergency, the family called Dial 100. Police arrived and took her to ESI Hospital where she gave birth to a baby girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/timely-help-by-cops-saves-day-for-3-women/articleshow/75018224.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bucking national average, more seniors positive in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Karnataka has bucked the national trend so far as the number of seniors infected by SARS-CoV-2 (which causes Covid-19) goes, with more people above the age of 60 having tested positive in the state. Going by the global mortality trends, experts have concluded that senior citizens are more prone to death from the disease, which has so far claimed 124 lives in the country, including four in Karnataka. According to the Union health ministry data released on Saturday, 16.7% of all Covid-19 patients in India were aged 60 years or more. Analysis of daily bulletins issued up to Sunday night by the Karnataka government shows more than 21% of patients in the state are aged 60 or more. In fact, 9% of all patients are aged between 65 and 80 years. Nationally, a majority of the people (41.9%) infected by the virus so far are in the age group of 21-40 years, according to health ministry data, and Karnataka’s figures are also in line with this. Forty-seven per cent of the 151 infected patients until Sunday night were aged between 20 and 40 years, while another 25% of them were aged between 40 and 60 years. The state has 10 positive cases of people aged below 20 years, including a 10-month-old baby and four minors below the age of 14. The state, which was the first to report a Covid-19 death in the country, has so far seen four fatalities, all of who were aged above 70 years, which means 50% of all patients in this age group have died. “These are the kind of details the Centre should have looked into before deciding on which state gets how much money. While the number of cases is one criterion, they should have also looked at the age group of people being infected as that would have indicated the number of ventilators or ICUs needed and so on,” one official said. On Monday morning, Karnataka added another 12 cases, including one aged above 60 years, taking the total number of positive cases to 163. Yet, an analysis of the new numbers too puts the percentage of those above 60 years at more than 20%. The state, which in early March had the third-highest number of cases, has slipped below in the table, indicating that the measures being put in place by the authorities have managed to curb the spread. However, former RDPR minister HK Patil, in a letter to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, expressed apprehensions over a possible under-reporting of cases in Karnataka. Alleging that Karnataka is not testing enough, the Congressman has even claimed that the state is not releasing the correct data to the public. According to the government, there are 10 dedicated laboratories — Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Hassan; Mysore Medical College & Research Institute, Mysuru; Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, Shivamogga; Indian Air Force Command Hospital, Bengaluru; Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute, Bengaluru; National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru Field Unit, Bengaluru; Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalaburagi; Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences, Ballari; Nimhans, Bengaluru and Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru — notified for Covid-19 by the department of health research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-has-more-seniors-testing-ve-compared-to-national-average/articleshow/75017141.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn to launch massive containment drive today||Coimbatore: Less than 24 hours after the state government announced that 23 people within the corporation limits have tested positive for Covid-19, the civic body’s health department is getting ready for a massive door-to-door screening drive to check for people with symptoms of the disease, including fever and respiratory distress. People with the symptoms will be referred to the ESI Hospital for testing and observation.Last week, the corporation had implemented a containment plan after a positive case was reported from Saibaba Colony. Health workers covered 10,000 houses in the five kilometres radius within three days. This time, the workers have to cover 23 locations spread from R S Puram in west Coimbatore to Cheran Ma Nagar and Vilankurichi in the east, from Ramanathapuram and Podanur in central Coimbatore to Kuniamuthur and Sundarapuram in south.Civic body officials on Monday conducted a briefing session for the doctors in primary health centres on the containment plan guidelines, modifications that must be made and staff mobilization, among others. “We are involving 19 primary health centres in the exercise that will start on Tuesday. As many as 180 teams will be involved in the drive. The number looks small considering we used 180 nurses in Saibaba Colony and KK Pudur alone, but we will manage,” said a corporation official. “The doctors will draw the five-kilometre radius around houses of the positive individuals, give priority to the building, street and parallel streets and then move outwards.”Asked if the numbers are scaring the health workers, doctors insisted the mood is upbeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-to-launch-massive-containment-drive-today/articleshow/75017717.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Inmates of Kalamba jail produce 40,000 masks||KOLHAPUR: Inmates at the Kalamba Central Prison have produced 40,000 masks since the lockdown came into effect. The masks have been distrubuted to local government agencies in the city. Sharad Shelke, Jail Superintendent of Kalamba Jail told TOI, “In the initial phase, the jail inmates stitched more than 3,000 cloth masks. These were distributed among the prisoners as a precautionary measure to check the spread of the disease in the prison. We then received inquiries from the civic administration about the possibility of making more masks. We immediately issued orders to the jail inmates to produce masks as per the requirement.” “Till date we have produced more than 40,000 masks and most of them have been handed over to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation and other agencies that are working to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the district, including police and the medical staff,” he said. “The price of a single mask is a nominal Rs 12. In this way we earn a revenue as well as do a social service for the community,” he said. “As many as 50 prisoners have been deployed to produce the masks and they can make 300 masks a day. We continue to hike or lower the capacity of mask production depending on the demand and requirement raised by other government and non-governmental agencies,” Shelke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/inmates-of-kalamba-jailproduce-40000-masks/articleshow/75018681.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: MLAs may not get any pay hike||LUCKNOW: Following the Union Cabinet’s nod to an ordinance reducing salaries of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30% from April 1, there is a remote possibility that MLAs in the state would get a pay hike or their long-standing demand of getting more money under the ‘Vidhayak Nidhi’ be met. Talking to TOI, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna said BJP welcomes PM Narendra Modi’s decision of cutting salaries of MPs for a year and diverting the money to strengthen healthcare facilities in wake of coronavirus pandemic. He, however, kept mum when asked about the chances of state MLAs getting a pay hike in near future. He also refused to comment on chances of any increase in the ‘Vidhayak Nidhi’ of MLAs in the state. Meanwhile, sources in the chief minister's office said that, so far, no order has been issued for setting up of a high-powered committee to recommend hike in pay and perks of MLAs. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on the last day of the budget session on February 29 had declared that he would set up a committee under chairmanship of finance minister Suresh Khanna to review salary and perks of MLAs in other states. Members of all political parties of the state were to be given due representation in the committee which had to submit its report to the House. The CM had taken this decision as almost entire House, including members of the ruling BJP, had sought a hike in ‘Vidhayak Nidhi’ and their salaries. But so far no order has been issued for setting up of the committee. Now, following the Centre’s decision to curtail salaries of MPs, hopes of state MLAs have further dampened and most of them are fearing that even existing facilities might be curtailed by the Yogi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mlas-may-not-get-any-pay-hike/articleshow/75018682.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP seals 28 areas where Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive||LUCKNOW: Ten localities in Rae Bareli district were sealed on Monday after two Jamaatis, who had returned from Delhi, were tested positive. Another locality was sealed in Sitapur district after eight Bangladeshis living in a house owned by one Sadiq in Khairabad area tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. In all, 28 localities in the state have been sealed as many Jamaatis, who had returned from different parts of the country and were staying in mosques and residential houses there, have tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from Rae Bareli and Sitapur, different localities in Lucknow, Varanasi, Pratapgarh, Hathras, Ghazipur, Azamgarh and Kanpur have also been sealed. Additional Director-General of police, law and order, PV Ramasastry told TOI that district police chiefs and two police commissioners have been issued a set of instructions, including setting up of a rapid action team (RAT) and a nodal corona cell in co-ordination with other departments, for effective handling of any situation arising out of Covid-19 spread in the state. “A standard operating procedure (SOP) which includes a proper way to tackle risk areas as per international standards has been shared with the districts,” he said and added that necessary equipment required for launching any operation has been made available to police chiefs of all the districts in the state. In Rae Bareli, superintendent of police Swapnil Mamgain said that 200 policemen have been deployed in Nagar Kotwali area and the entire locality has been sealed after two Jamaatis, who had returned from Nizamuddin markaz and were staying in a ‘dharmashala’, were tested positive. “The ten localities, that have been sealed in Rae Bareli, are small in size comprising roughly 5,000 families. All these ten areas come under one police station. Fire and health workers are continuously sanitizing all these localities,” Mamgain added. Similarly, entire three-km area of Khairabad in Sitapur district was sealed on Monday. District Magistrate, Sitapur, Akhilesh Tiwari said the area would remain sealed till April 9. “The decision to this effect was taken after eight Bangladeshis, who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat's congregation in Delhi and who were staying in a house owned by one Sadiq in Khairabad area, were . Later, all of them were tested Covid-19 positive,” said circle officer, Khairabad, Yogendra Singh. He added that one company of provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and 200 cops have been deployed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-seals-28-areas-where-tj-members-tested-ve/articleshow/75018691.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||20 booked for spreading rumours, disrupting communal harmony in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Cracking the whip on those spreading rumours regarding Covid-19 and attempting to whip up communal sentiments, the Kolhapur police have booked 20 persons in 17 cases across the district. All the suspects booked are either administrators of groups on social media platform WhatsApp or members of such groups, said the police. The police have registered cases against the 20 under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 52 and 54 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh said the police are closely monitoring the flow of messages on social media platforms through their cyber-crime units and that strict action would be taken against those found spreading such rumours. “We appeal to people to refrain from spreading messages that can lead to hatred among different communities and related to wrong information about Covid-19. If people see such messages, please come forward and send us screenshots and the mobile phone number of such persons on the whatsapp no of our police control room on 7218038585. We will take action as per the law,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/20-booked-for-spreading-rumours-disrupting-communal-harmony/articleshow/75018687.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Security up in Chandgad as Belagavi reports Covid case||KOLHAPUR: The security in villages of Chandgad taluka has been tightened after a person from Belagavi’s Belgundi village in Karnataka tested positive for Covid-19 couple of days ago. The village is just 10-km from Chandgad taluka and the person who tested positive had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. According to sources, police are now trying to ascertain if the person had any connection with anyone in Chandgad and if anyone from the taluka had attended the same event. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh visited Chandgad taluka on Wednesday and took review of the situation and security around the villages bordering the state of Karnataka. Chandgad tehsildar Vinod Ranvare has issued orders to seal 11 villages that are situated on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. The administration has also closed the road connecting Kudnur (Maharashtra) to Handiganur (Karnataka) as a precautionary measure. “Local-level vigilance committees have been set up in all these villages and they have been instructed to find out if anyone recently travelled to Belgundi village or anyone from that village had come to Chandgad,” said a police officer attached with Chandgad police station . Those found to have come in contact with the person in Belagavi will be taken to the government hospital for screening,” said the officer. “We are gathering information about the person who has tested positive and whether he has any local connection. We are also searching to find out if anyone from the taluka had attended the Tablighi Jamaat programme in Delhi. As per our information no one from this region had gone to Delhi, but we will continue our investigation and request people to disclose the information in the interest of the society,” he added. High alert in Ajara Ajara town is on high alert after a person, who had attended the Delhi event, caught cold and flu. The authorities concerned have taken his throat swab sample along with his son’s as he is also showing similar symptoms. The family is already under home quarantine and the civic administration is keeping a close watch on the family to ensure all is well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/security-up-in-chandgad-as-belagavi-reports-covid-case/articleshow/75018684.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Hubballi||Mutton, chicken made more affordable in Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi: After reports of rampant overpricing, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) on Monday fixed the price of mutton at Rs 600 per kg and chicken at Rs 160 per kg. Taking advantage of lockdown, shops had been selling mutton at Rs 950-1,000 per kg and chicken at over Rs 250 per kg. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said shop owners wanted the mutton price fixed at Rs 640 per kg, the rate before the lockdown. “But we asked them to charge Rs 600 per kg for mutton and Rs 140-160 per kg for chicken,” he said. Itnal said that shops have been asked to put a price board and ensure social distancing. They were also asked the maintain hygiene and arrange collection of waste. “The officials will visit the shops and stern action will be taken against those violating the HDMC decision,” he said. Hanumathsa, resident of Keshwapur, said the HDMC’s decision will help people get mutton and chicken at affordable price. The public can register complaints of overpricing by mutton and chicken shops by calling 0836-2213888.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mutton-chicken-made-more-affordable-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/75014861.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 7, 2020||Business||Amazon puts Rs 284 crore in retail division||Bengaluru: Amazon has pumped Rs 284 crore in Amazon Retail, the unit which sells grocery and food items in India, as per the latest regulatory documents soured from business intelligence platform Tofler. This comes when Amazon India is selling only essentials due to the lockdown and as demand surges for grocery and food items. The capital infusion, by Amazon’s Singapore and Mauritius-based entities, was approved last month. In October last year, Amazon Retail had received Rs 172 crore fund, which was preceded by another Rs 240 crore in early 2019. The latest infusion will help the local arm scale up the grocery and food retailing businesses as consumers are expected to curtail spending on non-essentials. An email sent to Amazon India did not elicit any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-puts-rs-284-crore-in-retail-division/articleshow/75018227.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Follow rules to break chain: District collector||KOLHAPUR: The next two weeks are very crucial, citizens have to strictly follow the social distancing and sanitation rules to break the chain or viral spread, said district collector Daulat Desai on Monday. Desai has ordered stringent measures for the next two weeks. He said the lockdown can only be successful if people follow the rules strictly. As of now, only two coronavirus cases have been reported in the city, the throat samples of all their close contacts have been sent for testing and most of them were negative. Dilip Patil, chief health officer of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, said, “The period of 14 days is necessary for breaking the chain. Though we have been able to stop the spread significantly, we cannot rest. People should not come out of their houses, those coming out must cover their mouths and noses, wash their hands frequently and not touch any surface or objects.” He further stressed on the importance of social distancing. “The virus spreads through droplets, which can travel up to 10 feet after the person sneezes. Anyone coming in contact with it may get the infection. One infected person can cause infection to three others and it is difficult to stop the spread unless the carrier locks himself up for 14 days,” said Patil. Desai has asked all heads of ward committees to continue their search of people who came into the city after March 20 and ensure that they don't leave their houses. He has even asked them to take any such home-quarantined person for treatment if he or she is showing Covid-19-like symptoms. Around 77,000 people came from outside of the city. Of them, 42,000 have completed their 14-day quarantine period. "We have several cases across the country, where even after 14-day quarantine period is completed, no symptoms are seen. However, such people may be the active carriers. We have to ensure that the tests are done on all the quarantined people, as well as of those who came in touch with them,” added Patil. Contact tracing A man from Bhudargad tehsil died in Mumbai due to coronavirus infection on Sunday. He had visited his hometown in February. The district health authorities have initiated contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/follow-rules-to-break-chain-dist-collector/articleshow/75018692.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||Rumour triggers collapse of Rs 25,000 crore poultry trade in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: A small rumour has pushed the Rs 25,000 crore poultry trade in the state to the brink of collapse. Thousands of people linked with the trade are out of job and their families are facing a starvation-like situation. With hundreds of factories engaged in producing animal feed lying closed in the nationwide lockdown due to the fear of spread of new coronavirus and the police acting tough against shops selling chicken, the poultry industry in the state is facing heavy financial losses. Repeated advisories by the Centre and the state that the meat eating is not linked to the new coronavirus outbreak, the poultry business continues to be affected by action taken against them by the state police and other law-enforcing agencies. As the news of coronavirus turning a pandemic came, it was rumoured by a section of the society that new coronavirus infection is linked to meat eating. Since then the Central and state governments are trying hard to convince people that it is not right and meat eating does not cause coronarvirus infection, but to no avail. Talking to TOI, principal secretary, animal husbandry, Bhuwnesh Kumar said that even the Centre’s advisory of inclusion of the meat trade in the category of essential services has failed to deliver desired results. FM Shiekh, president of the UP Poultry Farmers' Association, told TOI that he has been writing to the Centre, state chief minister and UP chief secretary, drawing their attention towards the problem being faced by the industry, but nothing has changed. Factories producing bird feed are lying closed due to the lockdown resulting in its shortage, he said adding that in the absence of food birds have started eating one another. He added that the state government has allowed grocery, fruit and vegetable shops to open during the lockdown, but there is no such order for poultry shops. UP, having the annual poultry trade of over Rs 25,000 crore, stands at the sixth spot in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rumour-triggers-collapse-of-rs-25k-cr-poultry-trade-in-state/articleshow/75018696.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 7, 2020||Goa||Rapid testing to quicken detection rate in Goa||PANAJI: In a step towards speeding detection rate in the battle against Covid-19, the state government on Monday announced that it will start using rapid tests to screen suspects. Those who test positive will then be made to undergo the confirmatory test. “Health workers will visit suspects and take samples. People need not visit a hospital. Results will be available in an hour,” chief minster Pramod Sawant said. The rapid testing will be conducted at the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa and sub-district hospital in Ponda, from Wednesday. Sawant said that for this purpose the government has tied up with Goa-based company Molbio and procured five machines from it. “Not all will be asked to take rapid tests, only those who health workers identify as suspects,” Sawant said. A Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) ward is being set-up at the Goa Medical College (GMC) for patients coming with respiratory illness. Those admitted to this ward will be made to undergo the rapid test. If any one tests positive, a confirmatory test will be done and, based on the result, the person will be shifted to the ESI hospital at Margao. Rapid testing will help faster shifting of positive cases to ESI, Sawant said. The confirmatory test takes about 12 hours, he said. Sawant said two hotels have been requisitioned to quarantine frontline health workers of the GMC and ESI hospital. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said International Centre Goa has been requisitioned for this The DHS has appealed to those who have returned to India after March 8, and to all who have or have had symptoms to report on the 104 helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rapid-testing-to-quicken-detection-rate-in-state/articleshow/75018244.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||300 units in, order placed for 2,500 more PPE kits||KOLHAPUR: With a surge in the number of suspected Covid-19 cases in the city, the district administration has placed a demand for 2,500 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for those in the frontline. Around 300 kits – comprising hazmat suits, goggles, masks, face cover, hand gloves and costing around Rs 3,500 each – have already arrived. These kits can be used only once and need to be disposed carefully in a scientific manner after use. District collector Daulat Desai said, “We are prepared for situation where there is sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 positive patients. As of now, we have 300 PPE kits available and have placed order for more kits with the state government and companies involved in the production of the PPE.” Meanwhile, public representatives have also assured necessary help in providing protective gears. Some local firms are also ready to manufacture the same. A company based in Ichalkaranji has made a hazmat suit, but it is yet to get certified for medical use. District guardian minister Satej Patil has contacted some firms from Pune and Mumbai for the kits. “Some of the companies have to provide PPE, but they already have previous orders pending. The standard of the kits will be checked before buying,” he said. The Kolhapur Medical Association (KMA), too, has placed a demand for over 1,000 PPE kits with the Indian Medical Association. “These kits will be used only by the private doctors. The private clinics in the city are shut due to lack of personal protective equipment,” an official from KMA said. The district administration is also looking for decentralizing the health services after it found that Seva Hospital in the Line Bazaar area is getting overcrowded after the out-patient department (OPD) of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital was shifted there. The CPR hospital has been converted into corona hospital. Along with the OPD, the task of assigning patients, especially delivery of pregnant women, is being done at Seva Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/300-units-in-order-placed-for-2500-more-ppe-kits/articleshow/75018699.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile vegetable marts a boon for farmers, buyers||Coimbatore: With a growing number of farmers struggling to find labour to harvest their crops and sell their produce, some top officials from the horticulture department are planning to connect them with residents struggling to procure fresh vegetables due to the ongoing lockdown.The officials have convinced a group of farmers to install mobile outlets in front of apartments and gated communities, so that farmers are ensured a good bargain for their produce and the buyers get vegetables delivered afresh.It all began when Karamadai block’s assistant horticulture director, F Suresh, got a call from his brother about a relative with half an acre of mint which was yet to be harvested. He posted the availability on Coimbatore Food Group, and the response and demand staggered him, said Suresh. “That’s when I got the idea of mobile outlets,” Suresh said.Suresh, through his extended family, got in touch with farmers from areas such as Sulthanpet, Poorandampalayam and J Krishnapuram, who had vegetables like bittergourd, bottlegourd, tomatoes, small onions, brinjal among others, ready for harvest but were struggling to reach wholesale dealers. “I got in touch with farmers and the CFG, apart from influential people like Vanitha Mohan… we helped the farmers reach a few apartment complexes who would be interested in buying vegetables directly at their doorsteps,” said the assistant horticulture director.For the last five days, Suresh’s team has helped 15 farmers take their vegetables directly to several apartments in Race Course, Sowripalayam and Ramanathapuram. “The farmers load their produce into a common truck and it is brought inside the city by three farmers’ sons. We also go to the apartments, explain residents fresh produce is being sold at their doorsteps,” said Suresh, who has teamed up with Sulthanpet horticulture officer, G Gopalan.With the success of this model, the horticulture department is flooded with requests from areas such as Vadavalli, Singanallur, Ramanathapuram and Kavundampalayam. “We have contacted horticulture directors and offices in blocks closer to those areas to replicate this model of taking farmers to doorsteps on mobile outlets,” said Suresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-vegetable-marts-a-boon-for-farmers-buyers/articleshow/75017740.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||IT/BPM services biz to slow to 4-6%: Everest||BENGALURU: US IT research and advisory Everest Group said the global services revenue (excluding the domestic market) is expected to touch $221-$226 billion in 2020, growing at 4%-6%, the slowest in the last five years, exacerbated by slowdown due to the coronavirus outbreak and the likelihood of many economies slipping into recession. The growth was 5-7% in 2019, and 6-8% in 2018. In the report ‘2020 locations predictions: Confronting the impending slowdown,’ Everest says India, which accounts for 40-45% share of the global services (IT and BPM) talent pool, is likely to see progress, albeit at a slower rate, weighed down by the Covid-19 impact, lower growth forecasts, tight credit policies, and slow economic reforms. “Enterprises will place higher emphasis on process improvements, delivery optimisation, and implementation of large-scale automation projects in the next 1-2 years from their India centres,” said the report’s authors Parul Jain, Hrishi Raj and Rohan Kapoor. The Philippines, the world’s biggest provider of business process services, will continue its dominance in that space, the report said. But the growth is expected to slow across the IT-BPM industry, given decreasing demand for traditional services due to digitalisation and expected increase in delivery costs due to rationalisation of incentives by the government. Growth in the Eurozone is expected to be sluggish mainly due to the impact of the Covid-19 breakout and looming financial concerns. But within the zone, locations in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) are expected to witness growth for global services, driven by skills availability, proximity to customers in Western Europe, increased regulatory oversight driving the need for nearshore support, and demand for multilingual support, the report said. Poland, whose share of global services talent pool is 3-5%, is expected to continue to do complex BPM and IT services, retaining its position as the third-largest location (by headcount) in the world for global services delivery. The Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia are expected to witness moderate growth, given the constraints around talent sustainability, higher costs than other CEE locations, and rising competitive intensity in tier-1 locations (Prague, Budapest, and Bratislava). Dublin will be largely leveraged by companies for their EMEA headquarters and regional CoEs (centres of excellence), and Israel will continue to see higher growth for next-generation services for AI, blockchain, big data, cloud and IoT, Everest said. Latin America and the Caribbean are expected to continue their moderate growth, underpinned by environment-related challenges, political instability within the region, and slow momentum of investment. The United States, the report said, will continue to lead the onshore global services delivery market, although the growth is likely to be slower than previous years, especially due to the anticipated impact from Covid-19. Canada, it said, will witness high growth as a result of higher government investment to attract foreign investors as well as the uncertainty around the US government policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/everest-sees-services-biz-slowing-to-4-6/articleshow/75018238.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 7, 2020||Chandigarh||First Sikh gets elected into Labour’s ruling body||Gurinder Singh Josan, whose family hails from Sidhupur in Punjab, has become the first ever Sikh to be elected to the governing body of the Labour party, the national executive committee (NEC). He and Johanna Baxter, both Corbynsceptics, were chosen by Labour party members on Saturday as local party reps on the NEC, replacing two Corbynite MPs, Navendu Mishra and Claudia Webbe. Josan, 47, and Baxter were endorsed by Blairite group Progress and the moderate wing of Labour, Labour First. Josan, who has been a Labour party member since the age of 16, was awarded a CBE for political service in the 2019 New Year Honour's List. His family is from Sidhupur village in Nakodar in Jalandhar. He was born in Smethwick in the West Midlands to parents who emigrated from Punjab. His father was a BT engineer and Labour councillor and cabinet member on Sandwell Council. Josan was elected on Saturday with the highest number of votes, 57,361, in a contest which ran alongside the UK Labour leader and deputy leader race, which saw moderate socialist Keir Starmer take over as party leader from hard left Jeremy Corbyn. “The NEC is the most senior decision making body in the Labour party and is responsible for running the party. With Corbyn as leader we have become very factionalised and I want to see us become more of a broad church party where we embrace people from across the spectrum. There are issues like anti-semitism that have not been dealt with and I want to deal with. The Indian community has drifted away from Labour and I want to see how we can rebuild trust and confidence with them,” he told TOI. “The NEC is the party machine, the structure behind way party operates, like Labour’s executive board. It looks after the internal regulation of party and manages the annual conference. It decided how the leadership election took place,” explained Jas Singh, of Sikhs for Labour. Josan is a trustee and director of anti-racism campaign Hope not Hate, Secretary of his Unite the Union Branch, founder and Vice Chair of Sikhs for Labour, and a school governor. He has held positions in his Constituency Labour Party, served as a Labour councillor and is a member of West Midlands Strategic Police & Crime Board. Labour’s Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi MP said: “This a watershed moment for the British Sikh community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-sikh-gets-elected-into-labours-ruling-body/articleshow/75009896.cms||NAOMI CANTON
April 7, 2020||Business||Reliance will infuse Rs 500cr in ed-tech co||Bengaluru: Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd will invest an additional Rs 500 crore in Embibe to double down on the education technology venture it had acquired for Rs 100 crore in April 2018, according to filings with the ministry of corporate affairs. About Rs 30 crore has already been infused into the Embibe, shows the filing obtained through business intelligence platform Tofler. The additional investment comes as education technology platforms are seeing a spike in users, as schools remain shut due to the lockdown. Byju’s, which is valued at $8 billion, said it has added 6 million new students since announcing free classes last month. Facebook-backed Unacademy saw record 1 billion minutes spent by the students in March on the platform . Embibe offers test preparation for engineering, medical, railways besides coaching for students from Class VIII. It has also been investing aggressively and acquiring other startups like Mockbank and Onlinetyari over the last few quarters to bulk up the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-will-infuse-rs-500cr-in-ed-tech-co/articleshow/75018245.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapuris stock up essentials as fear of shortage looms||KOLHAPUR: With the third week of the nationwide lockdown approaching and restrictions over the movement of goods continuing, most people are still stocking up on essentials. Retail shops are seeing a surge in the number of customers buying staples in bulk and the possibility of shortage of supplies is looming large. Factory-made branded bread is not available. A shop owner said that supply has stopped and the bread will arrive only after the lockdown ends. In the meantime, locally made bread wrapped in plastic is being sold. Ratnesh Mulik, a resident of Kadamwadi said, “Rumours of shortage of essentials should stop. We are getting enough vegetables and milk but items for personal hygiene and sanitation are in short supply. Retailers should rationalise the supply and each person should not get more than one unit.” This kind of rationing was carried out during the floods which occurred last August. Then, each family was allowed only half a litre of milk. Now, to avoid shortage, dairies have put off the production of dairy-made products like butter milk, cheese, sweets and curd. There is also mass buying of items by politicians, NGOs and community groups who are providing kits of essentials for the poor and needy. However, this means that regular customers face a shortage. There are logistical problems too. One such community group which is asking for donations so that it can donate essentials to the poor said that there is no way of knowing if one family benefits more than another and gets ration kits from several groups. “How will we know that a particular family has already received rations from another organisation?” he said. “There is no central system for targeted delivery of essentials.” To address this issue, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has appointed four officers, one each for four divisional wards. NGOs and other organisations are expected to provide the kits containing essential provisions to these officers and the officers, in turn, will distribute it to needy families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-stock-up-essentials-as-fear-of-shortage-looms/articleshow/75018709.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Over 22 lakh people screened in district, says collector||Jaipur: District Collector Joga Ram, who visited the curfew-affected Ramganj area on Monday, said home screening of nearly 22 lakh people have been conducted so far for COVID-19 in Jaipur district by over 900 screening teams. The district collector visited the curfew-affected areas including Ramganj to inspect the rate of screening, sampling and monitoring done by the health officials. Of the total population of over 7.47 lakh in the curfew-affected areas (7 police stations), over 6.15 lakh people have been screened so far. In Ramganj area, of the total population of 3.41 lakh, 2.11 lakh people, involving 34,879 households, have already been screened as of now, said chief medical and health officer Dr Narottam Sharma. “As of now, 1819 people have been kept in home quarantine and 457 have been kept under institutional quarantine in various centers across the district. A separate database has been created for sampling and monitoring of the ILI (Influenza-like illness) patients in all the seven curfew-affected police stations including Ramganj by the health department,” said the collector. “We are maintaining a record of every person who is being screened at Ramganj area. The persons with ILI symptoms are being monitored on a regular basis. So far, 15,000 beds have been identified in the district for quarantine facilities. The primary and secondary contact of all the positive coronavirus cases are being kept under institutional quarantine,” he added. He also said over 200 vehicles and e-rickshaws for supply of milk, around 200 vegetable carts, and for grocery items 20 Confed vehicles and 113 private company vehicles have arranged in Ramganj for door-to-door delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-22-lakh-people-screened-in-district-says-collector/articleshow/75018250.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP triples target of foodgrain distribution to help needy||LUCKNOW: UP government has decided to triple the target of lifting of foodgrain from FCI godowns and ensure its distribution among the poor and daily wagers who are out of work due to lockdown in view of coronavirus pandemic. According to officials, the government has raised the target of providing foodgrain to people from 30,000 metric tonnes to around 1 lakh metric tonnes per day in April and May. Foodgrain will be lifted from the godowns of Food Corporation of India (FCI) and brought to block level godowns before distribution among the needy. Officials in food and civil supplies department said the government has been achieving the target for past couple of days. “We just need to put a mechanism in place for smooth supply of foodgrain. This is expected to continue till May,” a senior government official said. Data shows that till April 3, nearly 2 crore people of 47.25 lakh families were provided around 1.03 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain. This included nearly 11 lakh families of labourers and daily wagers who were provided 27,000 MT of foodgrain free of cost. The development comes amid UP government’s resolve of being driven by the principle of Antyodaya which focuses on elevating the status of people from the lowest rung of society. Officials said 26% of foodgrain is being provided to Antyodaya cardholders. Official figures show that since April 1, the government managed to provide more than 5 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain to 8.75 crore people of 2 crore families. This included nearly 3 crore people of approximately 74 lakh families of labourers and daily wagers who were provided ration free of cost. Officials said the distribution cycle which started on April 1 would end on April 12 after which even those whose Aadhar card was not certified would also be eligible to get ration. From April 15, the government will resume free ration distribution under which 5kg rice will be given to families having ration card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-triples-target-of-foodgrain-distribution-to-help-needy/articleshow/75018711.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 7, 2020||Lucknow||‘Hello Kaun’? Bhojpuri crooners on a song as corona tracks go viral||LUCKNOW: The coronavirus may be giving jitters to people across the world, but for Bhojpuri music industry it has all the ingredients to make any track go viral. So many songs have been belted out by Bhojpuri crooners in the past couple of months that it has become hard for one to keep the count. However, a casual search on the internet will throw up a long list, each song having something new to offer to listeners. While some numbers list the dos and don'ts to check Covid-19 spread, others speak about the origin of the virus and mock it in quirky Bhojpuri style. ‘Hello kaun, coronavirus’, a song by Khushboo Uttam and Pravin Uttam, is has become quite popular where the girl is asking her China-return boyfriend to stay away. Another song, ‘Cheen se aayil corona virus’, by Khesari Lal, is already a chartbuster. A singer from Azamgarh, who uses the nickname ‘Jalim Jiyara’, has come up with a song, ‘Karona bhagiyen sarau’, in which he speaks of ways to keep the virus at bay. “Ikkees din ke lackdaun mein ghar mein rahiya band...karona bhagiyen sarau”, thus goes the song in which the singer asks people to wash hands, wear masks, stay indoors, and cover nose and mouth while sneezing. Similarly, ‘karona viruswa, tabah keen deswa’ by Lakhan Deewana keeps the momentum going. Gorakhpur-based artist Rakesh Srivastava, has based his ‘pachra’ (a form of prayer) on coronavirus, “Lugwa bhayilba laachar....maiyaa baaru ho (people are helpless, where are you, goddess).”Mumbai-based chartered accountant Pankaj Jaiswal, who has founded Pardesiya Kala Sangam for conservation and promotion of Bhojpuri language, said: “There are at least 6 crore Bhojpuri speakers in UP. Besides, the language has retained its connect with people who are used to folk songs so much that many a times you would hear farmers singing a folk song while working in fields.” Mushrooming recording studios which charge little for mixing and recording songs, cheaper internet and handy smartphones have added to the popularity of Bhojpuri music. Daroga Julmi Nishad, better known as DJ Nishad, who writes promotional and campaign songs for political parties has his own small studio. Another famous singer Saroj Sargam Kol has written a ‘biraha’ on coronavirus. Her husband Ram Milan Nishad said, “We have written the song but could not record it due to lockdown. We have it in the form of story right from how the virus originated in China and spread its tentacles across the globe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hello-kaun-bhojpuri-crooners-on-a-song-as-corona-tracks-go-viral/articleshow/75018708.cms||Neha Shukla
April 7, 2020||Goa||Goa won’t face water shortage this summer: WRD||PANAJI: In April and May 2019, Goa saw one of its worst drinking water shortages in recent years. As the summer of 2020 peaks, citizens are restricted indoors due to the Covid-19 related lockdown and a water shortage could only add to the misery. Water resources department (WRD) chief engineer Shrikant Patil, however, said that due to excess rainfall received last year, the state will not experience a water shortage this summer as there is sufficient raw water available. “We have issued passes for our staff to move around during the lockdown and have ensured that pumping of raw water continues unhindered. We are also closely monitoring the water levels in the rivers and the reservoirs. We have reserve water in 337 bandharas on rivers across Goa. Usually, we have to tap this reserve by end of April or in May,” Patil told TOI. He said that currently, even the Ganjem river is overflowing and the need to utilise water from the bandhara has not yet risen. “For the four water treatment plants at Opa, we are presently supplying 48MLD water from the Selaulim river, 35MLD from the Ganjem river and pumping another 30MLD from the mining pits. From the raw water supply we receive from Tillari dam, we are providing 110MLD to the Assonora plant and 15MLD for the Chandel plant. Currently, there is no need to worry,” said Patil. “We have 14 bandharas waiting to be tapped on the Khandepar river itself ,” said Patil. Currently, two of Goa’s largest reservoirs at Selaulim and Anjunem are 67% and 51% full, respectively. While Bicholim’s Amthane reservoir is 73% full, the two smaller reservoirs in Panchwadi and Chapoli in Canacona are 49% and 79% full, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-wont-face-water-shortage-this-summer-wrd/articleshow/75018252.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Temple employees get fin aid||Madurai: Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji distributed Rs 2.8 lakh in cash from his own pocket to priests and employees working in temples at Sivakasi taluk in Virudhunagar district on Monday. The assistance was given to employees of Kasiviswanathar temple at Sivakasi, Nindra Narayanaperumal temple at Thiruthangal and Koodamudaiyar Ayyanar temple at M Pudupatti which come under the control of the HR&CE. To protect the livelihood of employees working in these temple during the lockdown, Bhalaji distributed Rs 10,000 each to the priests and Rs 5,000 each to the employees working in these temples. He also distributed rice, vegetables and other essential commodities which were arranged by the members of the temple trustees associations to 50 temple employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-employees-get-fin-aid/articleshow/75018255.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Business||Krishna takes over from Rometty as CEO of IBM||Bengaluru: IBM veteran Arvind Krishna took charge as CEO of the $80-billion company on Monday, replacing Ginny Rometty. In his first message to IBMers, the IIT Kanpur alumnus noted that he was taking office during a global public health crisis, “unlike any other that we have faced.” “This global pandemic is affecting everyone and has disrupted the rhythms of our daily lives.This crisis is also changing how many of us work,” he wrote.He told IBMers to deepen their understanding of IBM’s two strategic battles: the journey to hybrid cloud and AI. IBM, he noted, has already built enduring platforms in mainframe, services, and middleware, and all three continue to serve its clients. “I believe now is the time to build a fourth platform in hybrid cloud. An essential, ubiquitous hybrid cloud platform our clients will rely on to do their most critical work in this century. A platform that can last even longer than the others,” he said.With the acquisition of Red Hat, IBM now has a much stronger cloud practice. Krishna said IBMers should win the architectural battle in cloud. “There’s a unique window of opportunity for IBM and Red Hat to establish Linux, containers and Kubernetes as the new standard. We can make Red Hat OpenShift the default choice for hybrid cloud in the same way that Red Hat Enterprise Linux is the default choice for the operating system,” he said.Krishna also announced a series of leadership changes. Jim Whitehurst, who was CEO of Red Hat, will in his new role as president will head IBM strategy as well as the cloud and cognitive software unit. Bridget van Kralingen will become SVP of global markets. Paul Cormier, a Red Hat veteran, will become the CEO of Red Hat. And Howard Boville will join IBM from Bank of America on May 1 to become SVP of the cloud platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/krishna-takes-over-from-rometty-as-ceo-of-ibm/articleshow/75018260.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases crosses 300-mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Thirty-five people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday taking the total number of infected to 301. According to the health department report, 10 people from Kota, eight from Jaipur, five from Jhunjhunu, three from Dausa, two each from Dungarpur and Tonk have tested positive. Three Iran evacuees and one each from Jodhpur and Bikaner have also been found infected with the virus. In Kota, 10 people were found infected with the virus, including the 60-year-old man who died on Sunday night. The other nine are his family members. Two persons tested positive in Dungarpur — an 11-year-old boy who came in contact with an infected person and another 22-year-old youth who returned from Godhra in Gujarat recently and is linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. Five persons were found infected in Jhunjhunu. All the five are linked to Tablighi Jamaat. They all are aged between 18 years and 65 years. Besides, eight persons have been found infected in Jaipur, three in Dausa and one each from Jodhpur and Bikaner. A 20-year-old woman from Bikaner has tested positive. She is the wife of a person related to a Tablighi Jamaat, who was recently diagnosed with Covid-19. Also, three evacuees from Iran kept at isolation facilities at Army wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. In Tonk, two persons including a 29-year-old man related to Tablighi Jamaat and a 42-year-old woman who is a relative of an infected person. Among eight who have tested positive in Jaipur, one belongs to Suraj Pole area who is undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital for difficulty in breathlessness. Seven others are all relatives of people in Ramganj who have tested positive. They are already staying at a quarantine facility at NIMS on Delhi Road. In Jaipur, the health authorities have quarantined 40 people from one building from densely congested Ramganj area of Walled City. “One person has been found infected with the virus, who lives in the building. There are 40 people in the building including tenants and owner’s family. We have sent 18 of them to quarantine facility in NIMS and we are in the process of sending the rest of them,” said a health department official. From Ramganj only, 89 people have tested positive for Covid-19 since the first case was reported on March 26. Covid-19 cases in Jaipur have touched the 100-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-cases-crosses-300-mark-in-state/articleshow/75018264.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||‘Extend insurance to all fighting corona’||PANAJI: Senior MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar on Monday said that the Centre’s insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh should be extended to all people who are risking their lives in the battle against Covid-19. “The scheme should be extended not only to health workers, but also to numerous others who are working against the disease,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extend-insurance-to-all-fighting-corona/articleshow/75018262.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospital starts tailoring unit to stitch protective suits||KOLKATA: Shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) has led Charnock Hospital — a private facility in New Town — to launch a tailoring unit to stitch protective suits for its doctors, nurses and support staff. The hospital decided to produce its own gear in the last week of March when several others were struggling to procure PPEs. So far, the unit has churned out hundreds of PPE. It has also purchased and distributed 1,000 pairs of gloves. “We recently received 100 PPEs from the state government, but the number is obviously not sufficient considering they are being used by everyone at the hospital. So, rather than depending on an external vendor, we thought it would be better if we could have our own production unit,” Charnock managing director Prashant Sharma said. All the gear being produced at Charnock sticks to the basic specifications for PPEs laid down by WHO. “While masks are made out of cloth, the coveralls and leg gear are being stitched from hospital sheets that are usually used to produce surgical gowns,” Sharma said. Other hospitals like RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and AMRI are procuring PPEs from vendors. “We are sourcing them mainly from Bengaluru,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. AMRI has been struggling with fast depleting PPE stock. The authorities said that while government supplies have been slow, external sources have been erratic due to the high demand. “We would rather depend on our vendors for proper body suits rather than use the government-supplied raincoats,” said another private hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-hospital-starts-tailoring-unit-to-stitch-protective-suits/articleshow/75017760.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 7, 2020||Goa||NPR, Census 2021 surveys put on hold||PANAJI: The state government has deferred the updation of National Population Register (NPR) and Census 2021 survey due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Following a decision by the Centre, Goa on Monday issued a notification postponing the above exercise until further orders. The surveys were scheduled to take place in the state in April-May 2020. “The government of Goa has decided to postpone the field work for phase I of the Census 2021 and updation of NPR due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The notification has been issued as per the directives of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner, ministry of home affairs,” director and ex-officio joint secretary for planning Vikas Gaunekar has stated in the order. While the house listing survey in preparation for the Census 2021 took place in Goa from February 9 to 28, 2020, the NPR data was to be collected by enumerators from April 16 to May 30, 2020 in the state. Around 3,000 enumerators and 500 supervisors have been trained for the survey.  During the NPR updation, additional information to be sought from citizens includes date and place of birth or birth of parents, place of last residence, passport number if an Indian passport holder, Aadhaar number, mobile number, voter ID card number, PAN number and driving licence number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/npr-census-2021-surveys-put-on-hold/articleshow/75018268.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||No lockdown for creative minds as competitions keep students engaged||Madurai: In an attempt to keep the school and college students engaged during the lockdown announced to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the members of Madurai Karmegam Kalaikoodam are organizing various competitions for students in which they can take part by staying inside their houses.Madurai Karmegam Kalaikoodam has decided to organize drawing, story writing, essay writing and poem writing competitions with a tagline - ‘Thanithirupom - Thanithiran Valarpom’ -stressing on the importance of staying home during the lockdown period.Speaking to TOI, the president of organization K Elangovan said that they have come up with the initiative in order to keep the students engaged as it would help them in overcoming their fears about spread of Covid-19. He said that organizing such competitions would also bring out the creativity of the students.He said that students have been divided into three categories - junior (class I to class V), senior (class VI to class X) and super senior category (college students). He said that the competitions are open to students across the state. Stories, essays and poems should be written in Tamil on the topic of their own choice.“We have asked them to send their works to an email id ‘ekkmadurai@gmail.com’ along with their name and other details before April 10. The works of these students would be sent to team of judges, who would announce the list of winners for all the competitions in each category on April 14. The results would be sent to the email addresses of the participants. Cash prize would be distributed to the students, who secure first three places in each competition in all the categories and these cash prize would be sent to their account numbers. Participation certificate would also be sent to all the students to their email address,” said Elangovan.Since the details about these competitions were shared through social media, there is a good response as students from across the state are sending their works, he added.Similarly, the inspector of police of Panagudi police station in Tirunelveli district, A Shahul Hameed is also organizing such competitions for the people in the police station limits to keep them engaged.Shahul Hameed told TOI that he had come up with several initiatives to make the people stay inside their houses and had organized drawing competitions for the children, singing competitions for disabled people and poem writing competitions for the people in the police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-lockdown-for-creative-minds-as-competitions-keep-students-engaged/articleshow/75018271.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 7, 2020||Business||Infosys’ Rao is chairman of Nasscom||Bengaluru: IT industry body Nasscom has appointed Infosys COO UB Pravin Rao as its chairman for 2020-21. He replaces Keshav Murugesh, group CEO of WNS Global Services. Rekha M Menon, chairman and senior MD in Accenture in India, willl be the vice-chairperson. Nasscom held its first executive council meeting via video conference on Monday.“These are challenging times for the Indian IT industry. However, it has time and again proven its resilience, and I have no doubt that this time too, we will emerge stronger and wiser. As we all adjust to a new normal, I hope to continue the great work that Nasscom has been doing in transforming the industryand making it relevant in this digital era. I believe that our industry, more than ever, needs a focused approach towards building resilience, upskilling is workforce and contributing to our country’s growth,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-rao-is-chairman-of-nasscom/articleshow/75018279.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Udaipur||Lockdown effect: Blue sky, clean air||JAIPUR: Lockdown has significantly improved the state’s air quality. However, there was a slight spike in the pollution levels on Sunday evening after people burst crackers in response to PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to only light candles to to “challenge the darkness” spread by the coronavirus crisis. Rajasthan Pollution Control Board after analysing various parameters said air quality in several cities across the state including Jaipur over the past few days was ‘good’. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of the state capital, which hovered between 150 and 200 in February, is now recording 65 mg-per-cubic-metre. Drastic measures to curb Covid-19 spread such as shutdown of factories, commercial establishments and vehicular movement have resulted in a massive drop in pollution levels. According to pollution control board data, there has been a 40% drop in pollutants from February to April. “Apart from industrial smoke, dust due to the vehicular movement also adds to pollution. Likewise, with the change of wind patterns, we get pollutants. However, post lockdown, we are neither witnessing industrial smoke, nor emission of dust since there is negligible vehicular movement,” said Vijay Singhal, chief environmental engineer, state pollution control bureau, Rajasthan. “Also because of negligible vehicular pollution, there has also been a dip of almost 70 per cent nitrogen dioxide levels,” Singhal said. After the lockdown on March 22, there has been a drastic dip in AQI levels. “Jaipur’s AQI which generally stays at 150 on a normal day, witnessed levels of 85, 65, 54 on March 22, 23 and 24, respectively. Also the average in March was 130 compared to 160 in February,” said a senior officer. According to the Centre-run system of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research, measures against Covid-19 has led to a drop of PM 2.5 (fine particulate pollutants) by 40% in Jaipur, 30% in Jodhpur, 35% in Udaipur, 45% in Ajmer and 35% in Pali. “PM 2.5 checks the level of pollutants which are not visible, but dangerous for asthmatic patients suffering with various allergies,” said a senior doctor at SMS Hospital AQI ranging from 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 (moderate), 101 to 150 (unhealthy for sensitive groups), 151 to 200 (unhealthy for all), 201 to 300 (very unhealthy) and (301 to 500) hazardous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/lockdown-clears-up-rajs-air/articleshow/75019168.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown effect: Blue sky, clean air||JAIPUR: Lockdown has significantly improved the state’s air quality. However, there was a slight spike in the pollution levels on Sunday evening after people burst crackers in response to PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to only light candles to to “challenge the darkness” spread by the coronavirus crisis. Rajasthan Pollution Control Board after analysing various parameters said air quality in several cities across the state including Jaipur over the past few days was ‘good’. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of the state capital, which hovered between 150 and 200 in February, is now recording 65 mg-per-cubic-metre. Drastic measures to curb Covid-19 spread such as shutdown of factories, commercial establishments and vehicular movement have resulted in a massive drop in pollution levels. According to pollution control board data, there has been a 40% drop in pollutants from February to April. “Apart from industrial smoke, dust due to the vehicular movement also adds to pollution. Likewise, with the change of wind patterns, we get pollutants. However, post lockdown, we are neither witnessing industrial smoke, nor emission of dust since there is negligible vehicular movement,” said Vijay Singhal, chief environmental engineer, state pollution control bureau, Rajasthan. “Also because of negligible vehicular pollution, there has also been a dip of almost 70 per cent nitrogen dioxide levels,” Singhal said. After the lockdown on March 22, there has been a drastic dip in AQI levels. “Jaipur’s AQI which generally stays at 150 on a normal day, witnessed levels of 85, 65, 54 on March 22, 23 and 24, respectively. Also the average in March was 130 compared to 160 in February,” said a senior officer. According to the Centre-run system of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research, measures against Covid-19 has led to a drop of PM 2.5 (fine particulate pollutants) by 40% in Jaipur, 30% in Jodhpur, 35% in Udaipur, 45% in Ajmer and 35% in Pali. “PM 2.5 checks the level of pollutants which are not visible, but dangerous for asthmatic patients suffering with various allergies,” said a senior doctor at SMS Hospital AQI ranging from 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 (moderate), 101 to 150 (unhealthy for sensitive groups), 151 to 200 (unhealthy for all), 201 to 300 (very unhealthy) and (301 to 500) hazardous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-clears-up-rajs-air/articleshow/75018274.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 7, 2020||Goa||‘BJP should refrain from fake news’||PANAJI: A day after Goa Police urged citizens not to post sensitive or fake content on social media, Congress on Monday said chief minister Pramod Sawant must ensure that BJP karyakartas pay heed to the advice given by the police. Congress alleged that BJP cadre and bhakts were behind the circulation of old videos and doctored pictures which aim to tarnish a particular community. “With routine contradictions on Covid-19 policy decisions and patients’ data with test results, there is a conspicuous silence by the chief minister on fake news when the DGP appeals to refrain from posting fake ,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-should-refrain-from-fake-news/articleshow/75018298.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||5,400 lockdown violations registered till date in Goa||PANAJI: Goa police, which is strictly enforcing the lockdown, has till date registered around 5,400 curfew violations, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh said. This includes 301 arrests — 166 in North Goa and 135 in South Goa — and 208 first information reports (FIR). Till April 1, police had registered 1,746 lockdown violations. Cases are being booked against those moving around villages and cities without permission of the authorities, shopkeepers for opening stores by defying government orders and, in some cases, even drivers transporting furniture. Singh said that police have also collected fines to the tune of Rs 9.2 lakh. The IGP said that his department has not only put out appeals on social media asking people not to come out of their houses during this period, but has also met religious heads and asked them to request their followers and devotees to remain indoors. Besides, the patrolling staff also persuades citizens to comply with conditions stipulated under the curfew, Singh said. Police patrolling has been intensified all over the state and nakabandis have been deployed at all existing patrolling points. Traffic personnel have been deployed along with district police at nakabandis. Police have also been doing the rounds of grocery shops and supermarkets to keep tabs on whether shoppers out to pick up essentials are following social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5400-lockdown-violations-registered-till-date/articleshow/75018270.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||NTCA, CZA put states on ‘highest alert’ after tiger in US zoo tests corona positive||Nagpur: The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA), both statutory bodies under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) monitoring tiger reserves and zoos in the country, have sounded a red alert after a tigress at Bronx Zoo in New York tested positive for coronavirus. This is the first such case known in the world. As per the All India Tiger Estimation Report (2018), there are 2,967 tigers in the wild. There are another 400 tigers in 145 CZA-recognized zoos in the country. “On Monday, we directed chief wildlife wardens (CWLWs) of all tiger-bearing states that owing to the communicable and zoonotic nature of the disease, tigers may be observed for symptoms of Covid-19 to avert the disease in wild tigers in India,” said NTCA member-secretary Anup Kumar Nayak. The NTCA advisory states tigers must be observed for Covid-like respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation to the extent possible, and also through camera trap images for visible symptoms. Nayak said the CWLWs should ensure that personnel handling tigers in “human-tiger negative interactions and translocation operations” are coronavirus negative. They should take due precaution as advised by the ministry of health and family welfare. The NTCA has also said that diligence needs to be exercised while handling post-mortem cases and collecting samples for coronavirus diagnosis. “It should be in consultation with the state veterinary officials while safeguarding oneself through appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE),” it said. “As coronaviruses are known to affect gastrointestinal system in felines, requisite correlation may be made for characterizing the virus type in consultation with the state veterinary department. Differential diagnosis with feline infectious rhino-tracheitis needs to be made as similar respiratory symptoms may be observed,” says the NTCA advisory. For Covid-19 diagnosis as well as differential diagnoses and characterization, the NTCA has asked to send samples to approved laboratories of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). “We have asked the state to gear up frontline staff as well as veterinary officials engaged in monitoring tiger mortality to detect the disease and prevent any spread in tigers in the wild. Being a notifiable disease, any positive case needs to be reported immediately to the NTCA for onward transmission to authorities concerned,” Nayak told TOI. CZA member-secretary SP Yadav said the United States department of agriculture’s National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL) has confirmed on April 5 the Bronx Zoo tiger tested positive for coronavirus. “Zoos in the country therefore have been put on highest alert and the animals are being watched through CCTVs for any abnormal symptoms. We have instructed that zoo keepers and animal handlers should not be allowed near the cages without safety gear,” Yadav told TOI. The CZA member-secretary said mammals like carnivores, especially cats, ferret and primates need to be monitored carefully every fortnight for Covid-19 while following all bio-containment and safety measures required to handle this high risk pathogen. “For safety of zoo personnel we have asked all the zoos to coordinate with designated government agencies responsible for public health response and screening,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ntca-cza-put-states-on-highest-alert-after-tiger-in-us-zoo-tests-corona-positive/articleshow/75007517.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Docs, nursestake care of patients, kin||Jaisalmer: Doctors and nursing staff have set an example in government hospitals here. Two medical personnel at Jaisalmer hospital are not only treating patients, they are also providing food to their caretakers. These medical personnel have started a unique corona Annapurna scheme through wich they cook and serve food to people accompanying patients. Government hospital senior doctor V.K Verma and senior nursing staff Kailash Changani and Sushil Bhatia have started this kitchen in which large number of doctors, compounders, nurses, lab technicians and others are helping. They are serving food to around 100 people, doctors and employees who are deployed in emergency. Their motto is no one should sleep hungry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-nursestake-care-of-patients-kin/articleshow/75018280.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Lockdown effect: Blue sky, clean air||JAIPUR: Lockdown has significantly improved the state’s air quality. However, there was a slight spike in the pollution levels on Sunday evening after people burst crackers in response to PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to only light candles to to “challenge the darkness” spread by the coronavirus crisis. Rajasthan Pollution Control Board after analysing various parameters said air quality in several cities across the state including Jaipur over the past few days was ‘good’. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of the state capital, which hovered between 150 and 200 in February, is now recording 65 mg-per-cubic-metre. Drastic measures to curb Covid-19 spread such as shutdown of factories, commercial establishments and vehicular movement have resulted in a massive drop in pollution levels. According to pollution control board data, there has been a 40% drop in pollutants from February to April. “Apart from industrial smoke, dust due to the vehicular movement also adds to pollution. Likewise, with the change of wind patterns, we get pollutants. However, post lockdown, we are neither witnessing industrial smoke, nor emission of dust since there is negligible vehicular movement,” said Vijay Singhal, chief environmental engineer, state pollution control bureau, Rajasthan. “Also because of negligible vehicular pollution, there has also been a dip of almost 70 per cent nitrogen dioxide levels,” Singhal said. After the lockdown on March 22, there has been a drastic dip in AQI levels. “Jaipur’s AQI which generally stays at 150 on a normal day, witnessed levels of 85, 65, 54 on March 22, 23 and 24, respectively. Also the average in March was 130 compared to 160 in February,” said a senior officer. According to the Centre-run system of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research, measures against Covid-19 has led to a drop of PM 2.5 (fine particulate pollutants) by 40% in Jaipur, 30% in Jodhpur, 35% in Udaipur, 45% in Ajmer and 35% in Pali. “PM 2.5 checks the level of pollutants which are not visible, but dangerous for asthmatic patients suffering with various allergies,” said a senior doctor at SMS Hospital AQI ranging from 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 (moderate), 101 to 150 (unhealthy for sensitive groups), 151 to 200 (unhealthy for all), 201 to 300 (very unhealthy) and (301 to 500) hazardous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/lockdown-clears-up-rajs-air/articleshow/75019166.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 7, 2020||Ajmer||Lockdown effect: Blue sky, clean air||JAIPUR: Lockdown has significantly improved the state’s air quality. However, there was a slight spike in the pollution levels on Sunday evening after people burst crackers in response to PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to only light candles to to “challenge the darkness” spread by the coronavirus crisis. Rajasthan Pollution Control Board after analysing various parameters said air quality in several cities across the state including Jaipur over the past few days was ‘good’. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of the state capital, which hovered between 150 and 200 in February, is now recording 65 mg-per-cubic-metre. Drastic measures to curb Covid-19 spread such as shutdown of factories, commercial establishments and vehicular movement have resulted in a massive drop in pollution levels. According to pollution control board data, there has been a 40% drop in pollutants from February to April. “Apart from industrial smoke, dust due to the vehicular movement also adds to pollution. Likewise, with the change of wind patterns, we get pollutants. However, post lockdown, we are neither witnessing industrial smoke, nor emission of dust since there is negligible vehicular movement,” said Vijay Singhal, chief environmental engineer, state pollution control bureau, Rajasthan. “Also because of negligible vehicular pollution, there has also been a dip of almost 70 per cent nitrogen dioxide levels,” Singhal said. After the lockdown on March 22, there has been a drastic dip in AQI levels. “Jaipur’s AQI which generally stays at 150 on a normal day, witnessed levels of 85, 65, 54 on March 22, 23 and 24, respectively. Also the average in March was 130 compared to 160 in February,” said a senior officer. According to the Centre-run system of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research, measures against Covid-19 has led to a drop of PM 2.5 (fine particulate pollutants) by 40% in Jaipur, 30% in Jodhpur, 35% in Udaipur, 45% in Ajmer and 35% in Pali. “PM 2.5 checks the level of pollutants which are not visible, but dangerous for asthmatic patients suffering with various allergies,” said a senior doctor at SMS Hospital AQI ranging from 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 (moderate), 101 to 150 (unhealthy for sensitive groups), 151 to 200 (unhealthy for all), 201 to 300 (very unhealthy) and (301 to 500) hazardous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/lockdown-clears-up-rajs-air/articleshow/75019169.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 clusters identified in Ahmedabad for containment||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, the state health & family welfare department officials announced that they have identified eight specific clusters in six areas of Ahmedabad as Covid-19 hotspots. Incidentally, Ahmedabad was declared one of the Top 10 hotspots earlier this month. A total population of 14,075 will be under quarantine. The population/area breakup is: 5,355 in Danilimda, 2,324 in Rakhial, 743 in Ambawadi, 1,470 in Dariapur, and 1,653 in Jamalpur. Jayanti Ravi, the principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the local administration is the best judge when it comes to the identification of containment zones. “The clusters have been identified based on the number of positive cases and the potential contacts in a specific geographic area,” she said. “The areas will be the prime focus of the health department action now.” She added that the rapid antibody testing (RAT) kits are expected to arrive in the next two days. “They will provide very quick results,” she said. “Currently, we are increasing the conventional RT-PCR tests for the most affected areas.” She said that the move is to ensure that the state doesn’t go the way a few western countries did, recording an exponential rise at community level. The health department officials said that all 11 new cases recorded on Monday had direct or indirect links with Markaz at Nizamuddin, Delhi. In several areas of the city, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) put up barricades and huge hoardings, identifying the specific areas as containment zones. The operation, however, was not smooth. Local administration had to seek the help of police to ensure compliance. Trouble brewed in Baluchawad and Pathanwada areas of Dariapur when AMC teams arrived to cluster-quarantine the areas after a few people tested positive for Covid-19. Women came out in large numbers asking officials to explain how they will get daily provisions. Municipal authorities had to rope in community leaders and local politicians to pacify the families and explain to them the importance of the quarantine. “The AMC will provide full assistance, including delivering specific food requests made by the community,” said Vijay Nehra, the municipal commissioner. “We had to explain why cluster quarantine is important in denser clusters to contain the disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-clusters-identified-in-city-for-containment/articleshow/75018315.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for posting derogatory messages, photos against Tamil Nadu CM||COIMBATORE: A web designer from Chennai was arrested by the city police on Sunday for posting derogatory messages and photos on Helo application against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and municipal administration minister SP Velumani. Police said D Sudharsan, 22, of Arumbakkam in Chennai, claimed that he posted the defaming messages and photos on the app after his friend, a DMK functionary, requested him to do so. Sudharsan was pursuing BTech and working part-time as web designer. The accused was booked under sections 504, 505 (2) and 506 (1) of the Indian Penal Code. Police lodged him at the Avinashi sub-jail in judicial custody after producing him before a magistrate on Monday. The arrest was made after M Riyose Khan, 21, of Azath Nagar at Karumbukadai, a deputy secretary of the IT wing of AIADMK in Coimbatore, lodged a complaint with the Saravanampatti police. The complainant said he noticed defamatory posting against CM, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and other ministers on Helo app by a user named Black horse and lodged the complaint on Sunday. After registering a case, police traced the account to Sudharsan and arrested him on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-posting-derogatory-messages-photos-against-cm/articleshow/75018269.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Illegal slaughter: Ponda police seize 300kg meat, rescue 3 bovines||PONDA: On a tip-off, the Ponda police raided an illegal slaughter house in a private house inside the Goa meat complex campus at Mharvasaddo, Usgao. The team seized the meat weighing over 300kg from two bovines, and rescued three live bovines found at the site. The police have also arrested three persons in connection with the illegal slaughter. Police have named the arrested accused as Khazauddin Hakiwala, 58, his son Mohammad Hakiwala, 25, both residing in the house where the slaughter occurred, and one Mohammad Rafi Kanvi, 37, residing at Chimbel, Ribandar. Sources said an animal activist informed the police about the illegal slaughter at midnight and by the time police reached the site, the bovines were slaughtered and the meat was butchered. The seized meat was disposed of with the help of AHVS veterinarians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-slaughter-police-seize-300kg-meat-rescue-3-bovines/articleshow/75018294.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||500kg rice arranged to feed stray dogs in city||Madurai: The officials from the animal husbandry department have arranged 500kg rice to feed the stray dogs through volunteers during the lockdown period in Madurai.Speaking to TOI, the regional joint director of animal husbandry department, Madurai, D Suresh Christopher said that this initiative was started following the instructions from the district collector T G Vinay. He said that the stray dogs that feed on waste food items would not be able to find food during the lockdown period.He said that in order to ensure that the stray dogs are also fed he had identified several volunteers, who regularly feed the dogs in their locality. “Since, the volunteers would have run out of resources during the lockdown, I along with few officials from the department planned to provide rice to these volunteers,” he explained.He said that so far 15 such volunteers came forward to feed the dogs in their locality. He explained that 25kg rice sacks are being distributed to each volunteer to feed the dogs in their locality and had also given them letters granting them permission to feed the dogs every day.He noted that they had arranged for nearly 500kg of rice to feed nearly 1,100 dogs in Madurai during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/500kg-rice-arranged-to-feed-stray-dogs-in-city/articleshow/75018288.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Councillors begin ‘Janata Ration’||Ajmer: After Janata Rasoi, corporators of Ajmer Municipal Corporation (AMC) have initiated ‘Janata Ration’ in the city wherein dry ration will be distributed to those who cannot afford it. Interestingly, corporators across party affiliations have come together for the task, putting party differences aside. Corporators of AMC have been running Janata Rasoi ever since the lockdown started and invested their own money to provide food packets to the poor in their wards. “And now, we have started ‘Janata Ration’ for the poor, for which financial aid has been given by MLA and former education minister Vasudev Devnani and former social welfare minister Anita Bhadel,” said Neeraj Jain, a BJP corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/councillors-begin-janata-ration/articleshow/75018291.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||This Rajasthan pharmacist works for over 12 hours to deliver medicines at your doorstep||JAIPUR: He works for over 12 hours a day to ensure that nobody who needs medicines is turned away. Working with limited manpower, pharmacy owner 50-year-old Ajay Agarwal is tirelessly coordinating with suppliers to get the stocks on time. “I have a set of regular customers who need their hypertension, diabetes, kidney and heart medications from time to time. I cannot let them down. Lifestyle diseases can pose a major threat if medicines are not taken regularly,” Agarwal said. Agarwal leaves for his shop located near SMS Hospital from his Jawahar Nagar house at 7 am. “It is the most difficult time of my life. Initially when lockdown was clamped, supply of medicines was restricted. Also, I had 13 people working at my store. Now I have only six as most of them have gone to their villages. Luckily, I am still able to coordinate with my suppliers to cater to the needs of my customers,” he said. “My regular customers include senior citizens who call me even at night for their regular medicines. Since many of them are not able to visit, I voluntarily supply them medicines at their doorstep,” he said. He remains at the shop till 2 pm before going for lunch and afternoon nap. He returns at 5 pm and remains till 10 pm. “I had never done home delivery as my employees used to do it earlier. Now, when I visit a home to deliver medicines and see the satisfaction in the eyes of an elderly woman or a man it feels nice,” he added. Agarwal also distributed hundreds of masks among the needy and migrant labourers who walked past his shop in large numbers last week. “The least we can do at this hour is extend an helping hand. Most shopkeepers here offered meals along with baby food, painkillers and waterbottles to the needy,” he said. Agarwal heads a group of medical shop owners who are on the job of feeding the destitut , as well. Since he has a medical store in front of SMS Hospital, is he scared of Covid-19 infection. “My family members including my wife keep calling me to remind me of washing my hands frequently and ensure my mask is not wet. I have to be careful all the time. Also, after reaching home in the afternoon and in the evening, I always take bath before doing anything else,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pharmacist-who-delivers-medicines-at-doorstep/articleshow/75018295.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to check on victims of domestic violence||CHENNAI: The state commission for women has directed the social welfare department to keep tabs during the lockdown on women in the city who had earlier complained about domestic violence. The commission and social workers are on alert as the exclusive helpline for women, 181, has received only four calls in the last 12 days from women in the city, when it normally gets 15-20 calls a day. The commission has asked the department to ensure that social workers provide shelter, medical aid or counselling to victims of violence and also to ensure that all one-stop centres are well equipped to take care of those in need. “We don’t know how many women are comfortable seeking help since they are stuck with their families all day inside their homes and don’t know how to seek help during these times,” said Kannagi Packianathan, chairperson of the commission.  “We are now following up on women who had previously complained of abuse, just to ensure they are alright,” said a social welfare department source. Women’s organisations said they too have not received any complaints from women since the shutdown. “They usually come to us when their spouses or families are away from home or when they are alone. But now they are not,” said R Geeta, an adviser to the unorganised workers federation. “And this is also a time when lack of money or unemployment can create more tensions and conflicts in a household and usually it’s the woman who bears the brunt,” said Geeta. “Or maybe women are not seeking help because they are happy that their spouses are standing by them during these turbulent times. This is another possibility,” said Sujata Mody, president of Penn Thozhilalargal Sangam. She too did not receive any complaint but pointed to cases where women said that their spouses were now sober and more responsible at home. “Low reporting does not necessarily indicate more violence. It’s high time that we stop thinking that only men from the working-class are capable of inflicting violence on their women,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-to-check-on-victims-of-domestic-violence/articleshow/75018292.cms||Aditi R
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Containment plan in three areas of Nilgiris extended||Udhagamandalam: With four people testing positive for Covid-19 in the Nilgiris district, the containment plan in sealed areas in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri will be extended further, said collector J Innocent Divya.On Sunday, the government declared four out of eight people, who were being monitored in isolation wards in Ooty government headquarters hospital for the past six days, positive for Covid-19. The remaining four tested negative.However, they will remain in the hospital for 14 days from their admission. Samples of throat swabs and blood will be sent for repeat tests, said the collector.The four confirmed patients were shifted to ESI hospital in Coimbatore on Saturday night.The eight people had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi from March 21 to 23, and had returned to Ooty on March 24.“The areas, where the four positive Covid-19 patients live, namely Kandal in Ooty, Rajaji Nagar in Coonoor and Lower Bazaar in Kotagiri, will remain sealed for an extended period”, said Divya. The government will soon test all primary contacts of the four confirmed cases.As many as 1,312 people, with a travel history have been kept under quarantine. About 770 people have completed the prescribed quarantine period of 28 days. The remaining 442 are under home quarantine and are being monitored by the health department officials in the district, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/containment-plan-in-three-areas-of-nilgiris-extended/articleshow/75018289.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Wild boar ravage chilli, bean crop in Pernem farm||PANAJI: While some people in the state are still struggling to source grains amidst the lockdown, many farmers growing food locally are battling the menace of wild animals destroying their farms. Pernem-based farmer Uday Prabhudesai on Sunday woke up to the rude shock of wild boar having ravaged his farm in Korgao, Pernem, destroying 60% of the chilli, alsalna and chavli crop. The wild boar jumped through the compound wall and left both the mulching layer and chilli plantation spread over 1.5 acre destroyed. One acre each of the alsalna and chavli plantation were also ravaged. The animals have been returning frequently and destroying more crop. “The only crop that has been spared till now is that of moong. However, it is at risk too, as it will not be harvested till May. Besides the wild boar, we’ve also seen Indian bisons (gaurs) around,” Prabhudesai said. He said that over the past few weeks, the wild animals have been regularly visiting the farms. The farmers usually use sound implements to scare them away. However in the wake of the lockdown, with limited number of field labourers coming to work, it has become tough to keep a watch on the farm at all times. “I depend on some local labourers for irrigating the farm and they too are only able to come during the morning hours. Since they are not present in the field all day long, the wild animals take advantage,” Prabhudesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wild-boar-ravage-chilli-bean-crop-in-pernem-farm/articleshow/75018286.cms||Nida Sayed
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Man held for misbehaving with workers||Kota: The city police arrested a man for allegedly misbehaving with two Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and interfering into government working, while the two health workers along with the medical team, were carrying out door-to-door screening and survey on Monday in Nanak Tower under Bhimganjmandi police station area of Kota district. Zero mobility was enforced in the area on Sunday evening after a 60-year-old man, who had died on Saturday late night tested positive in the report received from Jaipur on Monday morning. Superintendent of police, Kota city, Gaurav Yadav said, Manoj Jain, a resident of Nanak Tower in Bhimganjmandi police station area was on Monday arrested for breach of public peace and was booked under Sections 341, 342, 186, 188 of IPC for allegedly misbehaving with two ASHA workers and interfering in government working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-misbehaving-with-workers/articleshow/75018301.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jammu||Jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir cremated with honours in Jhunjhunu||JAIPUR: The mortal remains of the jawan, who was killed in a counter-terrorism operation in Kupwara in J&K on Sunday, were brought to his native village in Jhunjhunu on Monday evening. He was cremated with military honours in presence of his family and the villagers. The 23-year-old paratrooper had returned to the valley last month after leave. Paratrooper Chhatrapal Singh was killed along with four others during a counter terrorism operation in Kupwara on Sunday in which five militants were also neutralised. Singh’s death came as a shock to the locals of his native village Chhawashri in Jhunjhunu district and the martyr’s father Suresh Singh, “We all are still in a state of shock. My son had returned to Kashmir after celebrating Holi with us last month. We used to speak to him regularly after he left. Many people from our village are in the army and even Chhatrapal always wanted to join the forces.He was happy to become a commando and join the Special Forces. We are proud of him but at the same time his loss has left a void which can never be filled.” According to sources, the bodies of the soldiers were found close to the terrorists that they killed. CM Ashok Gehlot also took to Twitter to condole Chhatrapal’s death and wrote, “I salute the valour of our 5 soldiers including, Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan’s braveheart paratrooper. Chhatrapal Singh, who were martyred in an anti-infiltration operation in Kashmir’s Keran sector. My heartfelt condolences to the families of our martyrs.May God give them strength.” Deputy chief minister Sachin pilot also expressed his condolences on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jawan-killed-in-jk-cremated-with-honours-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/75019199.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir cremated with honours in Jhunjhunu||JAIPUR: The mortal remains of the jawan, who was killed in a counter-terrorism operation in Kupwara in J&K on Sunday, were brought to his native village in Jhunjhunu on Monday evening. He was cremated with military honours in presence of his family and the villagers. The 23-year-old paratrooper had returned to the valley last month after leave. Paratrooper Chhatrapal Singh was killed along with four others during a counter terrorism operation in Kupwara on Sunday in which five militants were also neutralised. Singh’s death came as a shock to the locals of his native village Chhawashri in Jhunjhunu district and the martyr’s father Suresh Singh, “We all are still in a state of shock. My son had returned to Kashmir after celebrating Holi with us last month. We used to speak to him regularly after he left. Many people from our village are in the army and even Chhatrapal always wanted to join the forces.He was happy to become a commando and join the Special Forces. We are proud of him but at the same time his loss has left a void which can never be filled.” According to sources, the bodies of the soldiers were found close to the terrorists that they killed. CM Ashok Gehlot also took to Twitter to condole Chhatrapal’s death and wrote, “I salute the valour of our 5 soldiers including, Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan’s braveheart paratrooper. Chhatrapal Singh, who were martyred in an anti-infiltration operation in Kashmir’s Keran sector. My heartfelt condolences to the families of our martyrs.May God give them strength.” Deputy chief minister Sachin pilot also expressed his condolences on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawan-killed-in-jk-cremated-with-honours-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/75018307.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Civil society activists in Goa seek more screenings, safety for medicos||PANAJI: A visible lack of preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and paucity of medical facilities have created anxiety and panic in the state, a group of activists said here on Monday. While demanding an increase in testing, the activists, over 70 of them, have asked the government to also ensure the safety of health professionals and healthcare providers. “Increase the number of tests conducted and reduce the time period taken to get results by drafting, not outsourcing, more qualified personnel, such as pathologists and laboratory technicians from private pathology laboratories and procuring more requisite equipment such as kits,” the activists said in an open letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant. Among those who signed the letter are Albertina Almeida, Judith Almeida, Abhijit Prabhudesai, Sabina Martins, Olencio Simoes and Norma Alvares. Doctors, professors and even film directors have lent support to their demands. One of the key demands is the need for a door-to-door survey by health professionals, anganwadi workers, retired nurses and doctors and final year medical students to identify individuals who have symptoms of coronavirus or who may have been exposed to it. “The ground reality would be understood only by surveys that ought to be undertaken as soon as possible. There needs to be data collection even in the most remote villages,” the letter said. The activists have recommended the formation of infection prevention control committees, three-layered protection for healthcare providers, roping in of private hospitals, and doorstep medical services for the old, the infirm and the disabled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civil-society-activists-seek-more-screenings-safety-for-medicos/articleshow/75018306.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Priest holds prayer meet, booked||Coimbatore: The city police registered a case against a Christian priest and three others for conducting a prayer at Ganapathy here on Sunday. Though the government has ordered not to conduct any puja or prayers during the lockdown, more than 15 people gathered for prayer at a house at Subash Nagar in Ganapathy on Sunday. After being informed by neighbours, the Saravanampatti (law & order) police reached the spot and dispersed the people in the house. They registered a case against priest Jebastin Antonyraj and three others for violating the prohibitory orders. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/priest-holds-prayer-meet-booked/articleshow/75018303.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Ambedkar museum, convention centre in limbo due to lack of funds||Nagpur: Even though guardian minister Nitin Raut had assured he would ensure adequate funds for Dr BR Ambedkar’s museum in Chicholi and Ambedkar international convention centre on Kamptee Road, the two projects are stuck up due to lack of funds. The museum was slated to be completed in December 2018. A Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) official said the museum needed another Rs 7.6 crore while the convention centre was short of Rs 26 crore. “The contractors have stopped working as their past bills have not been cleared,” he added. Finance minister Ajit Pawar in his budget speech had promised funds for the two projects. NIT officials are now hoping he does not go back on his words. The cost of the museum is Rs 41 crore. It is spread over an area of 11.5 acre, off Katol Road. Other than the museum, NIT is constructing a vipassana centre, uposathagar, anapansati centre, students’ training centre, teachers’ quarters, students’ hostel, dining hall, cafeteria and public toilets. This complex will not only be a museum but also a centre to train Buddhist monks. The museum was conceived way back in 1956 by Wamanrao Godbole, a close associate of the Dalit icon soon after the latter’s death. After retiring from Indian Railways in 1985, Godbole started developing it bit by bit and continued the work till 2006, when he died. After some years, state government decided to build the museum. The cost of the convention centre is Rs 113.74 crore. The centre will have an auditorium with a capacity of 550, a training centre with capacity of 100, a media centre, bank, restaurant, library, banquet hall, VIP rooms and dormitories. It is a G+5 structure with constructed area of 10,500 square metres. In addition, a 40 feet high statue of Ambedkar will be installed in the garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambedkar-museum-convention-centre-in-limbo-due-to-lack-of-funds/articleshow/75013946.cms||Ashish Roy
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to promote manufacture of N-95 masks, PPEs in state||Gandhinagar: Even as production of ventilators crucial for treatment of novel coronavirus patients began at Rajkot-based Jyoti CNC after successful completion of necessary tests, chief minister Vijay Rupani has encouraged production of personal protection equipment (PPE) for medical staff at two facilities in Gujarat. Secretary to the CM, Ashwani Kumar, said that Ahmedabad-based Arvind Mills and Vadodara-based Sure Safety will soon start production of personal protection equipment for medical personnel who are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. He said that Cellulose Products at Changodar near Ahmedabad is producing 25,000 masks per day in collaboration with IIT-Kanpur. He added that the PPEs produced in the state under the national policy of Make in India will meet the demand not only of Gujarat but also other states. Referring to the sudden increase in the demand for isolation wards for suspected cases of Covid-19, he said that the four biggest cities in the state already have such hospitals with dedicated facilities. The CM has asked the administration to set up 100-bed Covid-19 facilities at hospitals on a war footing in each of the remaining 29 district headquarters in the state. Three IAS officers – Rajiv Gupta, J P Gupta and Mukesh Kumar have been asked to oversee this exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-promote-manufacture-of-n-95-masks-ppes-in-state/articleshow/75018313.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||TN foodgrains merchants’ assn donates Rs 25L to CM relief fund||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants’ Association Limited donated Rs 25.5 lakh collected from its members to the chief minister’s relief fund to fight against covid-19. A delegation led by association’s president S P Jeyaprakasam met Madurai collector and handed over the money on Monday.Jeyaprakasam said their members in other districts too have come forward to make contributions in the chief minister’s relief fund. He said that Rs 11.25 lakh was handed over to Virudhunagar collector, Rs 10 lakh to Dindigul collector, Rs 2 lakh to Theni collector and Rs 1 lakh to Tuticorin collector. A contribution of Rs 43.46 lakh collected from elected representatives and functionaries of AIADMK was handed over to Theni collector M Pallavi Baldev on Monday. The money will be used to help all 4,346 sanitation employees in various local bodies in Theni district with Rs 1,000 each. Former Madurai MP R Gopalakrishnan handed over Rs 1 lakh to Madurai collector. Vaa Nanba, a city based youth outfit, distributed vegetables worth Rs 2 lakh to around 580 families of Sri Lankan Tamils staying in Thiruvathavur camp. M C Saravanan, secretary of the association said that they recently came to know about the plight of the Sri Lankan Tamils and mobilized funds . Each family was distributed with Rs 300 worth vegetables. The 1992-batch of Kalasalingam Engineering College helped them in a big way for this purpose, he said. Madurai district tiny and small scale industries association (Maditssia) came forward to donate masks for corporation workers on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-foodgrains-merchants-assn-donates-rs-25l-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75018305.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Srinagar||Jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir cremated with honours in Jhunjhunu||JAIPUR: The mortal remains of the jawan, who was killed in a counter-terrorism operation in Kupwara in J&K on Sunday, were brought to his native village in Jhunjhunu on Monday evening. He was cremated with military honours in presence of his family and the villagers. The 23-year-old paratrooper had returned to the valley last month after leave. Paratrooper Chhatrapal Singh was killed along with four others during a counter terrorism operation in Kupwara on Sunday in which five militants were also neutralised. Singh’s death came as a shock to the locals of his native village Chhawashri in Jhunjhunu district and the martyr’s father Suresh Singh, “We all are still in a state of shock. My son had returned to Kashmir after celebrating Holi with us last month. We used to speak to him regularly after he left. Many people from our village are in the army and even Chhatrapal always wanted to join the forces.He was happy to become a commando and join the Special Forces. We are proud of him but at the same time his loss has left a void which can never be filled.” According to sources, the bodies of the soldiers were found close to the terrorists that they killed. CM Ashok Gehlot also took to Twitter to condole Chhatrapal’s death and wrote, “I salute the valour of our 5 soldiers including, Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan’s braveheart paratrooper. Chhatrapal Singh, who were martyred in an anti-infiltration operation in Kashmir’s Keran sector. My heartfelt condolences to the families of our martyrs.May God give them strength.” Deputy chief minister Sachin pilot also expressed his condolences on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/jawan-killed-in-jk-cremated-with-honours-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/75019200.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Those obstructing health officials to be booked under PASA: CP||Vadodara: If you resist health workers from doing their duty during the lockdown, you may be detained under Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA). City police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut said on Monday that they have decided to act strictly against those who try to obstruct doctors and health workers from doing their job.The move came after health officials began a massive drive to quarantine residents of Nagarwada area where a local was tested positive for Coronavirus. “If someone tries to obstruct doctors and health officials on duty or get violent, we will not just file police complaint but also detain the person under PASA,” Gahlaut said. He has also asked all the policemen to ensure their own safety while conducting their duty on the roads. Twenty police sub-inspectors (PSI) have been trained on how to communicate with people on road and ensure their own safety while detaining vehicles. “This team of 25 PSIs is now visiting every police station and training other cops,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (administration). BOX: Drive to check health of on-duty copsA drive has been initiated on Monday to examine health of policemen posted on the city roads. The police department has tied up with two hospitals who are now checking blood pressure of the cops apart from symptoms like fever and cough. Any cop found suffering from high BP or fever will be given rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/those-obstructing-health-officials-to-be-booked-under-pasa-cp/articleshow/75015885.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Ponda cop chokes on dentures in sleep, dies||PONDA: Premanand Naik, a 49-year-old policeman attached to the police training school at Valpoi, choked to death after his dentures got stuck in his wind pipe when he was asleep at his Ponda residence in the wee hours of Monday. Police said that while going to bed on Sunday night, Naik forgot to remove his dentures. At 1.30am on Monday morning, his dentures slipped down his throat and got stuck into the wind pipe and he started gasping for breath. He died while being rushed to the Ponda sub-district hospital. Medical officers on duty declared him 'brought dead'. A case of unnatural death has been registered at the Ponda police station. Lady PSI Rashmi Bhaidkar is investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-cop-chokes-on-dentures-in-sleep-dies/articleshow/75018302.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Online events, social service, puja at home mark Mahavir Jayanti||Nagpur: At a time when social distancing has become essential to check the spread of Covid-19, social media is proving to be a handy tool even for religious occasions. The Jain community, which usually organizes daylong celebrations, processions and various cultural programmes on Mahavir Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Lord Mahavir, mostly celebrated it online while many offered prayers from home and did social service. Rashtriya Pulak Jain Chetna Manch and Rashtriya Jagruti Mahila Manch invited online entries for drawing, quiz and various other competitions. Attractive prizes will be presented to the winners. Live abhishek and puja was telecast on Paras and Jinwani channel from Shantitara Bhagyauday Sagar. Devotees followed the teachings of Pranasagar Maharaj who urged them to begin their day by waking up early in the morning. They later offered puja and prayers to Lord Mahavir at their homes. People of the community rang bells and did Shankha Naad (conch blowing) at 8 in the morning. Richa Jain, national working president of the manchs, said, “As per message given by our gurus, we all woke up early, rang bells and offered prayers to mark the beginning of the auspicious occasion.” “We watched live telecast of the puja and abhishek, then offered prayers to Lord Mahavir at our homes,” said Ramesh Udepurkar, a Jain devotee. The festival was also an occasion to contribute to the society. Over 5,000 ladoos and food items were distributed among police, NMC workers, sanitation workers serving the needy amid the lockdown. Digambar Jain Mahasamiti members distributed food grains and other necessities to people from slum areas. “It’s a very special occasion for the Jains. We dedicated our day to offering prayers and celebrating it by distributing grains to needy people,” said Sunil Jain. Adding to this, his wife Neeta said, “We performed aarti around 6pm and prayed for freedom from the pandemic. We couldn’t go out to celebrate with our community members and missed the grand procession, but nation and safety comes first,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-events-social-service-puja-at-home-mark-mahavir-jayanti/articleshow/75017788.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Kin stage protest, allege police harassment||Madurai: Tension prevailed in Karuppayurani, located on the city outskirts, as kin staged a roadblock protest with the body of a 75-year-old man, alleging that he died due to police harassment. The deceased was identified as H Abdul Rahim from Karuppayurani. A mobile police unit stopped to warn his son-in-law K Shahjahan, when the two were sitting in front of their meat stall which was closed for Mahavir Jayanthi on Monday morning. Shahjahan had picked up an argument with the police team. When Rahim intervened to support Shahjahan, he suddenly collapsed. He was taken to a clinic, from where he was referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital. He died on way to the hospital in a car. His family members brought him back to the house. As information about his death spread, a large number of people from the Muslim community gathered. They staged a protest blocking the Madurai-Sivaganga road alleging that he died due to police harassment. They stationed the car with the body on the middle of the road. The protest, which lasted for more than 30 minutes, was withdrawn after police officials held talks with them. Police officers assured of an inquiry if a complaint is lodged with the Karuppayurani police station and necessary action be taken. But they withdrew the protest. After taking a written statement from them, police allowed them to conduct the final rites. Oomachikulam deputy superintendent of police Nallu said the police team had stopped on seeing the crowd at a rice store, next to the meat stall. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-stage-protest-allege-police-harassment/articleshow/75018310.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Over 8,000 vehicles in four districts seized||COIMBATORE: A total of 9,993 cases were registered and 9,706 people were arrested for violating prohibitory orders by police in Coimbatore, Erode, the Nilgiris and Tirupur districts under the Coimbatore range. As many as 8,518 vehicles were seized from the violators. . Police said the FIR details of the cases will be reflected during the verification for government job or passport. The Coimbatore rural police have registered 3,538 cases for violating prohibitory orders since March 24 and arrested 4,009 people and let off on station bail. Likewise, the Erode district police have registered 3,346 cases, arrested 2,377 people and seized 2,652 vehicles in the same period. While the Nilgiris district police have registered 1,219 cases, arrested 907 people and seized 457 vehicles, the Tirupur rural police have booked 1,890 cases, arrested 2,413 people and seized 2,105 vehicles. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police (Coimbatore range) G Karthikeyan said that those who violated the prohibitory orders were booked under Indian Penal Code and the FIR details are available in the CCTNS (crime and criminal tracking network and systems). “During the verification for government job or passport, the case details will be reflected, and it could affect their future. So, the youths should not come out unnecessarily during the lockdown,” Karthikeyan said. The Coimbatore city police have registered around 100 cases and arrested 1,200 people since March 24. So far, 1500 vehicles were seized from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/over-8k-vehicles-in-four-districts-seized/articleshow/75027848.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Over 8,000 vehicles in four districts seized||COIMBATORE: A total of 9,993 cases were registered and 9,706 people were arrested for violating prohibitory orders by police in Coimbatore, Erode, the Nilgiris and Tirupur districts under the Coimbatore range. As many as 8,518 vehicles were seized from the violators. . Police said the FIR details of the cases will be reflected during the verification for government job or passport. The Coimbatore rural police have registered 3,538 cases for violating prohibitory orders since March 24 and arrested 4,009 people and let off on station bail. Likewise, the Erode district police have registered 3,346 cases, arrested 2,377 people and seized 2,652 vehicles in the same period. While the Nilgiris district police have registered 1,219 cases, arrested 907 people and seized 457 vehicles, the Tirupur rural police have booked 1,890 cases, arrested 2,413 people and seized 2,105 vehicles. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police (Coimbatore range) G Karthikeyan said that those who violated the prohibitory orders were booked under Indian Penal Code and the FIR details are available in the CCTNS (crime and criminal tracking network and systems). “During the verification for government job or passport, the case details will be reflected, and it could affect their future. So, the youths should not come out unnecessarily during the lockdown,” Karthikeyan said. The Coimbatore city police have registered around 100 cases and arrested 1,200 people since March 24. So far, 1500 vehicles were seized from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/over-8k-vehicles-in-four-districts-seized/articleshow/75018312.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Water consumption goes up in Udupi despite lockdown||Udupi: The Udupi City Municipal Council had hoped that the lockdown would reduce the number of tourists coming into the district, which would help in preserving water for the entire summer, however it has not been the case. Even though people have stopped coming to the district, the water consumed per day is 7 MLD more than on regular days. Mohan Raj, assistant executive engineer, CMC, said, “Water rationing will be started in the district from March 1, by dividing the wards into three zones. All the zones will be given water for 6 hours a day. Earlier, gram panchayats (GPs) from Baje to Manipal were supplied water 24X7, which was also reduced to 6 hours a day, from 7 am to 1 pm. This saved 1.5 MLD water per day. When the lockdown was declared, major hotels and lodges in the district, which number 60-85, were closed. Hence, we hoped that the use of water would reduce further, and would be able to save enough water for the summer. However, it has not been the case, as the water consumption continues to remain at 22 MLD per day. In this situation, only 15 MLD supply of water should be consumed per day for the city”. At this time every year, we consume an average of 24 MLD water per day, including 20MLD for CMC wards, 2 MLD for GP’s and 2 MLD for other uses. “Even though we have less people due to the lockdown, the same amount of water is being consumed even now. The reason could be that people are taking additional measures to keep themselves clean, like bathing more than once a day, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As people are confined to their houses, they may also be doing more gardening, washing vehicles and cleaning the house more than usual, without realizing the scarcity of water,”. he said. “Currently, Baje dam has water stored at a level of 4.9m. Last year it was at 4.1m at this time of the year. This water will be enough for the next 42 to 44 days maximum. By the end of May, the water situation will be bad in Udupi, if we fail to get rain before the monsoon,” he added. “The water level at Shirror dam has reduced, due to which water will be pumped into the dam, within a week. Water will be lifted from large holes in the riverbed at Shiroor through pumping, and brought to Baje dam,” he said. “ It’s high time people understand the value of water, and help us to preserve it till the monsoon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/water-consumption-goes-up-in-udupi-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75011426.cms||Sheeja Moodubelle
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||JMC overwhelmed by residents’ panic calls for disinfection||Jaipur: Along with the spread of coronavirus, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) is facing another problem of residents calling the control room and asking them to spray disinfectants in their houses or colonies.The control room at JMC is receiving around 250 such calls every day. Residents are asking them to spray disinfectants in their houses or in their colony and if the authorities refuse, it leads to a verbal spat. A senior JMC official who did not wish to be named said that people are trying to approach many ministers and powerful people to get their work done. “It is not mandated to spray disinfectants in every house at the time of epidemic. Houses are disinfected in the colonies which have been a hotspot of new cases or in areas which have been put under quarantine. There are more than 8 lakh houses in Jaipur city, with more than 40 lakh population. It’s not possible to disinfect every household in the city,” said the official. Many politicians — MLAs and MPs — have also joined in the menace and are pressurizing JMC officials to disinfect areas and households of their choice. “Many times, zonal deputy commissioners receive calls from politicians to send vehicles in their areas. This is interference in the system, which we have to abide by, out of compulsion,” said another JMC official. Recently, JMC commissioner appealed to the people of Jaipur to not call at the control room with such demands, as it increases unwanted pressure on JMC.At present, 35 fire tenders and more than 200 teams of JMC are working all over the city for spraying disinfectants. Despite lockdown, the number of positive cases in Jaipur are rising, with Ramganj topping the list. There are however, many places where JMC hasn’t started spraying disinfectants yet. Mostly, the areas on the outskirts of the city — Kho Nagoriyan, Amber, Jai Singhpura Khor and others — are waiting to be disinfected. As per the residents of these areas, only the main roads or posh areas are being sprayed. Kamal Sodani, a resident of Jai Singhpura Khor said, “The vehicles came to our area last weekend but they sprayed only on the main roads. Majority of the region is still waiting, but JMC officials are busy with VIP areas. We have complained to many officials, but no one is ready to listen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-overwhelmed-by-residents-panic-calls-for-disinfection/articleshow/75018311.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Curfew clamped in Pokhran after case linked to TJ emerges||Jaisalmer: A person in Pokhran who had come in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat group, which came to Pokhran on March 19 after taking part in the congregation at Markaz in Nizamuddin area of Delhi, tested positive on Sunday. Following this, the district administration imposed curfew in the entire Pokhran municipality area early on Monday to stop the spread of infection and referred the patient to Jodhpur. District collector Namit Mehta imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of IPC. The district administration has collected samples of around 50 people who had come in contact with the infected person along with the group and sent them to Jodhpur for testing. A large number of local people have been kept in quarantine. Mehta said he received information that a 14-member group had come to Jaisalmer on March 19 after taking part in the Markaz in Delhi on March 15. The group stayed for four days and left on March 23. The Jamaat group also visited Pokhran. From the last four days, the district administration has been working on war footing to collect information on where all these people stayed and whom all they contacted. The screening and testing of people who came in contact with the group is still under way. In this process, one person was found positive and samples of around 50 people were taken and many people have been put on quarantine, Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curfew-clamped-in-pokhran-after-case-linked-to-tj-emerges/articleshow/75018317.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Workers at quarantine facilities demand testing, protection||Nagpur: With two positive cases emerging from those quarantined at Vanamati and MLA Hostel facilities, housekeeping and sanitary workers deployed at these and other place have demanded better protection. Sources said workers at Vanamati didn't report on duty on Sunday after they got the news. Now MLA Hostel workers too have said they should be tested and given protection kits or they wouldn’t work. The contractor too couldn’t assure continuation of service. M/s Kabir Bahuddeshiya Seva Sahkari Sanstha proprietor Vivek Jain said his workers at MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan were demanding they be tested for coronavirus as it was almost a month they had been dealing with suspect cases. Since beginning, these workers have been exposed to the people as they have to clean their rooms and serve food thrice a day. Initially, there was lack of PPE too. The contractor had to arrange them on his own. The officials had told them there was no reason to worry as these were just passengers and not patients. The officials had given same statement to TOI too that no patient was kept at these places. MLA hostel was filled up with people who were close contacts of positive patients in the city. Last week, people with travel history to Delhi were quarantined in large numbers. Of them, one tested positive on Saturday at Vanamati. Another housed at MLA hostel tested positive on Monday. Sources said during this time the close contacts of positive patients from North, Central and South-West Nagpur allegedly created ruckus at MLA hostel under influence of liquor. This forced revenue officials and cops to start checking food and other parcels brought to all quarantine facilities by relatives and friends. The women workers had expressed inablity to work if these activities were not controlled. PWD execeutive engineer Janardhan Bhanuse said, "Our workers had been due taking care. The contractor has requested for Covid-19 testing but it is for the health officials to decide. We are ready to pay for the test if needed. We have engaged workers who have hospital experience. They are provided with masks and kits, sanitizers while disinfectant is sprayed at work area. The doctors are also continuously monitoring the workers," he said. Bhanuse said all medical guidelines were being strictly followed. "Everybody is doing good work," he said. Jain said, "The agreement to cater to Covid-19 suspects would be signed soon with PWD. We have been told it will have insurance cover for workers," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/workers-at-quarantine-facilities-demand-testing-protection/articleshow/75017792.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Community intervention, social mapping for screening in Ramganj||JAIPUR: Walled City is running against time to complete the screening of residents by April 7. The area had emerged as a hotspot for coronavirus after recording 89 positive cases. Other than police, the administration is using community intervention and social mapping to convince residents to cooperate with health authorities. Health, anganwadi and Asha workers along with a battery of officers are working from 9am till 10pm to complete the task of screening 6 lakh people. The administration is using community leaders to spread the word that health workers knocking on their doors have nothing to do with CAA, NRC and NPR. Since the mass screening began, the administration came across several reports of non-cooperation by residents, preventing the first step in the prevention of the virus. Thereafter, they started connecting community and religious leaders to bust the myth. Even health workers come across several houses which were locked from outside, but found families living inside to dodge screening. “Since the community leaders have spread the message via social media and announced through mosques, people are reporting voluntarily to health workers,” said Aqeel Khan, a magistrate in Ramganj. Special attention is being given to Ramganj area. “All positive patients from Ramganj area were detected after intense screening. We have prepared the social contact history of all suspected patients and put them under self-isolation either at their homes or at a government facility. The moment they were found positive, our teams immediately reached out to their primary contacts and put them in quarantine,” said another area magistrate. The local administration is also using social mapping data carried out for UNESCO in forming the base for screening. This data gives the officers a rough estimate of the number of houses and its occupants, vehicles, gender composition, age group population profile and occupation. The city’s old areas is under the curfew. The Walled City has the highest density of population with 42,000 people living in a 1 square-km, making screening more difficult The entire tatargeted rea has close to 1 lakh registered houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/community-intervention-social-mapping-for-screening-in-ramganj/articleshow/75018322.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||14 more samples collected in Ajmer||Ajmer: People continue to keep a strict vigil in Ajmer as the district administration is receiving complaints about those who have returned from Delhi or other places. Meanwhile, of the 323 samples taken till now, reports of 312 were negative, five positive and reports of five samples are awaited. On Monday, 14 samples were taken and medical and health department is waiting for the results. Control room of the SDM office is working on the complaints about people who returned from Delhi or other places. In the last one week, 286 such complaints were registered. “We send these details to the health department and they send a team for examining them,” an official said. People are keeping vigil in their locality. “This awareness is helping the system identify and check the infection from spreading,” the official added. Chief medical and health officer K K Soni on Monday said 14 samples have been collected. Health teams are conducting a survey in the city, especially in the Kharikoi region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/14-more-samples-collected-in-ajmer/articleshow/75018330.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 3 estate workers fined Rs 20,000 each for poaching porcupine||COIMBATORE: The forest department has detained three men and imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each for poaching a porcupine and trying to consume its meat at the Manampalli forest range near Valparai. The men were identified as R Siva, 36, V Mariappan, 56, and K Kannan, 53, who were tea estate workers at Kejamudi estate near Valparai. The department, in a press note released on Monday, said it received a tip on Thursday that three men were cooking porcupine meat at Thaimudi estate in the Manampalli forest range. When Kallar Pirivu forester Sheik Umar and his team reached the spot, they caught the men in the act. The trio confessed to their crime, a forest officer said. A case was registered against them and field director of the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) A Arockiaraj Xavier imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each. Subsequently, the forest department warned off stringent action against poachers and instructed tea estate managements to advise their employees not to indulge in such acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-estate-workers-fined-rs-20k-each-for-poaching-porcupine/articleshow/75018324.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Closure of Thengapattanam harbour hits boat owners hard||Kanyakumari: Efforts taken by the fisheries department has resulted in speedy unloading of fish piled up at Erayumanthurai village near Thengapattanam fishing harbour over the last two days. But stagnation of fish in nearly 200 boats at Thengapattanam for more than a week has resulted in the quality of fish, which is stored in freezer boxes in the boats, deteriorating. On Monday, at least five insulated trucks carrying fish from Erayumanthurai to the processing units in Kerala were seized by the food safety officials in Thiruvananthapuram. “An official told us over phone that quality of the fish seized had deteriorated by 60%,” said a fisheries official in Kanyakumari district. This comes as a big blow to fishermen and companies that are taking fish from the deep sea fishing boats. Closure of the fishing harbour in Kochi, where they usually sell fish, due to Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in more than 200 deep sea fishing boats heading to Thengapattanam in the third week of March. But, the closure of the Thengapattanam harbour due to the isolation of the coastal village after two people in the area testing positive for Covid-19 one week ago was an unexpected blow for them. The incoming boats have almost flooded the harbour, and the villagers of Erayumanthurai who are on the other side of the harbour refused to unload fish there. After a series of talks by top fisheries officials including director G S Sameeran, the villagers of Erayumanthurai agreed to unload fish worth a few crore rupees on their side from Saturday night. Unloading was allowed only from 10pm to 5am with stringent norms. “Only two to three trucks were allowed to carry fish from each boat and not more than 200 labourers should be engaged each day. Under these conditions, unloading was done from 30 boats on Saturday night and 28 boats on Sunday night,” a fisheries department official told TOI. The fisheries department expected the remaining boats (close to 100) will be unloaded by Thursday morning at this pace. But, the quality issue of fish has come as a big blow. “Processing companies are not showing interest in buying the fish now and we are sure to face heavy loses,” said a boat owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/closure-of-thengapattanam-harbour-hits-boat-owners-hard/articleshow/75018323.cms||M K Ananth
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Two siblings arrested for making illicit arrack||COIMBATORE: The prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) of Coimbatore rural police arrested two siblings at Chellappampalayam near Annur for making illicit arrack for sales on Monday. The arrested were identified as A Subramani, 52 and his younger brother A Velusamy, 48, both from Chellappampalayam near Annur. With all the Tasmac outlets and bars closed due to the lockdown, the two siblings made illicit arrack at their agricultural field at Chellappampalayam for sales on Monday. Acting on a tip, PEW police inspector K Baskaran and his team arrested the siblings and seized one litre of illicit arrack. The same team arrested 12 people for selling liquor (180 ml brandy for Rs 400 each) illegally. The team seized 51 liquor bottles from them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-siblings-arrested-for-making-illicit-arrack/articleshow/75018333.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 labs at GMCH Ngp & Akola await ICMR nod||Nagpur: The new Covid-19 testing laboratories at Government Medical Colleges and Hospital (GMCH) at Nagpur and Akola can’t start functioning as Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) is yet to grant its approval to them. According to a senior bureaucrat, the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) were ready at both GMCHs and their proposal was sent to ICMR along with the lab at AIIMS Nagpur. The AIIMS laboratory got the approval from ICMR last week but proposals of both Nagpur and Akola are still pending. City administration wants both laboratories opened as early as possible in the wake of huge pendency of samples testing. The problem worsened due to technical snag at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital’s (IGGMCH) lab. This lab used to receive samples from all districts of Vidarbha, apart from neighbouring states. “Thankfully, AIIMS lab received approval just at the time and samples are being tested there. Since Covid-19 patients and suspects are increasing each passing day, the city urgently needs more testing facilities. Even World Health Organisation (WHO) has strongly recommended more testing to contain the virus,” they said. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar informed the snag at IGGMCH lab had been repaired by Mumbai technicians. “The snag was only for one day and now the testing has been resumed there. With starting of AIIMS facility, we have two laboratories and testing rate has doubled,” he said. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told TOI VRDL at Akola GMCH was also ready and awaiting ICMR nod. “We were told to send all samples from out five districts to AIIMS. Accordingly, we sent 267 which are pending there. The reports are likely to come by Tuesday,” he said. On March 23, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and collector filed their affidavits with Nagpur bench of Bombay high court stating the government would be starting facilities at GMCHs of Nagpur and Akola soon. Based on their affidavits, the court had asked the government to set up similar facilities at GMCHs of Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-labs-at-gmch-ngp-akola-await-icmr-nod/articleshow/75017795.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara’s ‘ruthless’ coronavirus strategy earns national praise||JAIPUR: The “ruthless” Covid-19 containment model adopted by Rajasthan's Bhilwara since detecting the first of its 27 positive cases on March 19 has been acknowledged by the Centre as a potential template for states battling a spurt in infections. At a video-conference with the chief secretaries of all states on Sunday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said in his concluding remarks that there were two key takeaways from the review of strategies to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic – aggressive containment like in Bhilwara and preparation in terms of scaling up hospitals and quarantine facilities. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh, who has been driving the containment campaign in the textile city along with district collector Rajendra Bhatt, said on Monday that health department teams screened 28 lakh people in the first 14 days since a doctor in a private hospital there tested positive. The decision to implement a massive containment protocol was hastened by the background of the first case. The source of infection was unknown, and the fact that the patient was a doctor led health officials to fear a runaway spread of the virus through a long list of primary and secondary contacts. "The strategy to combat a cluster spread was three-pronged. The first step was effective implementation of the curfew, sealing the borders of containment zones and ensuring zero vehicular movement," Singh said. "Second, we set out to identify potential clusters and carry out intensive mapping of contacts, besides isolating high-risk people and collecting samples for tests quickly. The third step was a massive screening exercise covering the entire population to detect influenza-like symptoms." The district administration constituted around 2,000 teams that went door-to-door screening a population of 28 lakh residents. Although 17 members of the hospital staff identified as the epicentre of the outbreak have since tested positive along with a few primary contacts, including their family members, the containment strategy seems to have prevented a full-blown spread so far. The last Covid-19 case in Bhilwara was reported on Saturday – after a gap of four days without any new infections. Health officials are also relieved that there has been no positive case among the 7,000-odd patients who had visited the private hospital between March 1 and 20. For collector Bhatt, the battle is far from over, but Bhilwara's strategy being talked about as a model for others to follow is a big fillip. "The Centre has appreciated our containment model and advocated that every district in the country should take such measures to deal with the pandemic. It's a proud moment for us," he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwaras-ruthless-coronavirus-strategy-earns-national-praise/articleshow/75018332.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Navy flies in virology expert from Pune to help state lab||PANAJI: Continuing to assist the state government in the ongoing lockdown, the Indian Navy tasked a Dornier 228 maritime aircraft to fly to Pune on Monday to pick up a virology expert and Covid-19 testing kits. Based on a request from the state government, the aircraft was launched from INS Hansa “at short notice” to bring Dr Dilip Hinge from the National Institute of Virology in Pune. Hinge has come to assist Goa Medical College with the virology test facility. “Goa Naval Area continues to provide assistance to the state government during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis,” a naval officer said. Hinge is expected to provide training to microbiologists at the virology laboratory and testing facility that was recently set up. In March, a similar aircraft was deployed to fly a team of GMC doctors to Pune where they were given training to set up the testing facility. The navy has also helped transport swab samples to Pune for testing besides bringing masks for doctors in Goa. Goa Naval Area has also played a humanitarian role, distributing around 900kg of essential groceries to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-flies-in-virology-expert-from-pune-to-help-state-lab/articleshow/75018334.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t be afraid, says the nurse||Guest ColumnThis year’s theme for World Health Day on April 7 is to celebrate the work of nurses and midwives, a befitting tribute to these frontline soldiers of the war on Covid-19. This is also the bicentenary of modern nursing’s founder, Florence Nightingale, also remembered as ‘Lady with the Lamp’. The pandemic has stopped the world but nurses continue working bravely in the face of risk. We doctors sometimes fail to acknowledge the contributions of our most trusted teammates. The word nurse comes from Latin ‘nutricius’, meaning ‘one that nourishes’. Modern medicine, which works on the formula of treat and retreat, needs to re-establish this system of “nourishing” patients back to health. It is impossible without the participation and dedication of nurses. Nurses have been close to my heart and my first guides in career. After MBBS in 1991, I applied for a house job (a non-postgraduate training) in paediatric gastroenterology at the PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research) Chandigarh. Since I love children, this training was a chance to learn the art of their care, besides the science of their treatment, before I could get an MD. As a new doctor with almost no clinical exposure, I was assigned to a small ward of 10-to-15 beds, 15-to-20 nurses, and other health workers. The nurses, Sisters Cecily, Sudesh, Darshan, and Harjit, to recall a few, were efficient, energetic ladies in uniform. Recording vitals (blood pressure, heart beat etc.), turning over sick children to prevent bedsores, administering medication and injections, assisting apprehensive mothers, and cleansing bedridden children were the rites of passage for them. They made spotless clean beds and wouldn’t hesitate to reprimand me if I messed up with my bedside sampling. I learned a lot about handling sick children from watching sisters. Their loving but firm hands taught me to balance treatment and care. They cured my novice fear of pricking children. Tender hearts Supportive and encouraging, they’d hold the child’s hand while taking a sample or injecting a drug and reassure me in local dialect: “Doctor sahib, tusi lagao (go ahead, doctor), kuchh nahi honda (nothing to be scared).” It built up my confidence. They became not only my teachers but also my friends. Don’t get me wrong if I acknowledge only woman nurses. At the start of my career, male nurse was rare. Even now more than 70 % of the world’s nursing workforce is female. On the days our senior doctors would come for rounds, all the children would be cleaned thoroughly, their hair well-oiled, nails pared, and if the family couldn’t afford, the sisters would not hesitate to even arrange clothes for them. The children would look ready to battle any illness. A girl of 12, who was just skin and bones, was fond of new dresses and jewellery. In her childlike innocence, she asked for earrings and nail polish. Just to cheer her, the nurses dressed her up. Even her doctors, who were used to her shrivelled and worn-out medical look with bandages and cannulas, broke into a smile. Sister Cecily’s healing touch Another girl diagnosed with tuberculosis of the intestine and recommended surgery at the medicine department was too malnourished to survive the operation. So she landed in our paediatric gastroenterology ward for pre-operative nutritional rehabilitation. She had faecal fistulas (excretion through abdominal wound) and a broad bandage around the abdomen to keep the fecal contents from falling out. The smell was unbearable. Sister Cecily and I decided to first clean her up. We were unsure if the frail, famished girl can tolerate the stress of even an innocuous bath and if it will give her hypothermia. It was difficult to be around her bed, so we took her to an isolation ward, warmed up some water and the room and gave her a thorough cleanse. A simple wash made her appear healthier. Eventually, she had full recovery and would often come back to share her new dresses and nail enamels with me and the sister who nursed her in difficult times. Another fine example was the way the nurses handled the death of patients. They provided the departed with respect and empathised with grieving families. Cognitive empathy is the ability to recognize another person’s feelings and affective empathy is to respond appropriately. My nursing mentors had both empathies in abundance. Community angels In 1997, when I finished MD Paediatrics from the PGI and joined a community posting at the civil hospital of Rohru, 140 kilometres from Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, I had the professional company of finest community nurses who served poor villagers. Since this village posting was soon after my marriage, they gave me a homely welcome, besides the wisdom of working in a resource-constrained setting. To pay them back, I taught them and the midwives technical skills of baby care. The nurses would put me in their traditional attire and teach me cultural sensitivity needed for the treatment of children who came from remote Dodra Kawar, Chopal, and Tiyuni. Community nurses and midwives are able to build trust with patients because they know the traditions, cultures, and practices. It makes their services indispensable for alien doctors. They helped me optimise care even in the later two decades as child specialist, first in the GMCH and then in the PGI. The staff and students of the Nursing Institute of National Education (NINE) were also a wonderful support. Doctor is a nurse first I am reminded of my Irish schoolteacher who had spotted a future “nurse” in me. I became a doctor instead but my core attitude mirrored the virtues of a nurse, a person who nourishes, who also focuses on the person with the problem. Nursing is a demanding job. Behind every successful doctor is a team of dedicated nurses. Nothing can be nobler than caring for others. To the nurses, midwives, and all the health workers I have worked with in the last three decades: “I thank you, deeply.” The writer is professor in charge of the social paediatrics division of Advanced Paediatrics Centre, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh Blurb: They made spotless clean beds and wouldn’t hesitate to reprimand me if I messed up with my bedside sampling. Their loving but firm hands taught me to balance treatment and care||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-be-afraid-says-the-nurse/articleshow/75011505.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot asks for Rs 1-lakh-crore aid from PM again||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday wrote to PM Narendra Modi urging him to take steps to empower the state governments. In his second letter to the PM in a week, Gehlot reiterated his demand to announce an economic package including a grant of Rs 1 lakh-crore for the states immediately. “I would like to reiterate that our state’s financial condition is rapidly deteriorating due to decline in revenues and it was forced to partially defer the salaries of employees for this month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-asks-for-rs-1-lakh-crore-aid-from-pm-again/articleshow/75018338.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus alert for zoos and tiger reserves in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) issued separate advisories on Covid-19 infection, the forest department sprung into action and is keeping a strict vigil on the big cats in the state. The move comes after a tiger tested positive for coronavirus at New York’s Bronx zoo, the first known case in the world. Chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar said, “All the national parks and zoos in the state have been put on alert. Directions to monitor the health of the big cats have been issued.” The letter written by AIG NTCA Vaibhav C Mathur read, “ I am directed to inform that owing to the communicable and zoonotic nature of the said disease, following actions need to be taken to avert the disease in wild tigers in India.” The NTCA’s advisory for state also includes that tigers may be observed for symptoms consistent with Covid-19 such as respiratory signs of nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation to the extent possible, besides through camera trap images for visible symptoms. A senior official at Ranthambore National Park said, “Any tiger, if it moves into human settlements which will be tranquillised and tested.” Jaipur zoo’s veterinary officer Arvind Mathur said CZA has advised it to remain on the highest alert, watch animals 24x7 including CCTV footage for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms. “Keepers/handlers will not be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear, preferably PPE (personal protective equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals and have least contact while providing feed to animals,” he said. The letter also mentioned that carnivores, especially cats, ferrets and primates needed to be carefully monitored. Mathur said, “If any symptoms in big cats occur, we have been directed to fortnightly send samples of the suspected cases to designated animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing, while following bio-containment and safety measures required to handle this high-risk pathogen as per the national/ICMR guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-alert-for-zoos-and-tiger-reserves-in-state/articleshow/75018336.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Time and space no more relevant in pursuit of NU PhD||Nagpur: The special committee of Nagpur University (NU) Senate members has done away with the 60-month validity for PhD entrance test (PET) score beside dropping the six-year registration tenure in its overhaul of the existing norms submitted recently. The six-year validity cap on PhD registration threw cold water on scores of theses after researchers exceeded the deadline by even one day, by failing to submit them within six years of starting their work. Hundreds of research work became piece of trash in many cases missing the deadline by a week, a month or more. Among the 28 improvements recommended by the panel, the move aims to revive all such theses by deleting the controversial clause. Compelling researchers to reside within territorial jurisdiction of NU during PhD tenure too would no more pose hurdle for candidates from any part of the country. The benefits of PET validity and those missing submission on time have been extended in retrospect in the 28-point amendments. Led by Rajendra Bhoyar, the committee comprised Omprakash Chimankar, Urmila Dabir, Nitin Kongre, Ajeit Jachak, Niranjan Deshkar and Mritunjay Singh. The committee was formed during discussion on the topic in Senate meeting held on March 13, 2019. It placed its report on March 7 this year after which the house accepted as it is. Doing away with the 60-month score validity would now enable candidates to register for PhD from next session irrespective of the year when they appeared for PET. These improvements in the norms are being hailed as major respite beside removal of negative marking in PET and restrictions on guides. Another major respite has come in the form of keeping Reserach Recognition Committee (RRC) decision in check. As per the existing norms, the RRC decision was final and in case of rejection no reasons were recorded. Now the RRC will have to make suggestions in synopsis and ask for resubmission instead of outright rejecting a topic, title of research. In fact, the committee has gone a step further and recommended “total rejection must be avoided”. Time-bound action, as recommended by the panel, will also prove highly beneficial for scholars who are at the receiving end of PhD cell officials and external examiners. After submission of thesis, scholars have to wait for years on end for viva voce and open defence of their work as examiners wouldn’t give a fixed date. The PhD cell will have to arrange this within 30 days and prefer the geographically nearest examiners. The report of referees and external examiners used to languish before the Board of Examinations and Evaluation director, who will now have to confirm acceptance within eight days to award PhD. Other reforms * Plagiarism certificate must be issued within 15 days from the date of thesis submission * Resubmission of thesis within six months, if plagiarism is detected * Candidate will get only one chance for resubmission * Deduction of fee in case registration cancellation cut to 10% per annum from 18%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/time-and-space-no-more-relevant-in-pursuit-of-nu-phd/articleshow/75013992.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||City entrepreneurs’ EzySpit is seen as top tool for prevention of coronavirus||Nagpur: EzySpit, a unique invention developed by three city youngsters last year, has emerged as one of the top prevention solutions to tackle the coronavirus pandemic.Fed-up with the obnoxious habit of people spitting everywhere, Prateek Malhotra, Ritu Malhotra and Pratik Harde did research and found out that governments spend several crores on cleaning paan and tobacco stains. The trio then got inspired to create a first-of-its-kind mobile spittoon.Following the outbreak of Covid-19, the demand for the invention has gone up almost 50%. “We are supplying the spittoon to various hospitals and health care professionals, not just in India but also in other countries. We are also in touch with hospitals in Hong Kong,” said Ritu.Australia-based research blog Startus recently declared the invention as one of the world’s top five preventive solutions to fight coronavirus. Made from a combination of paper, pulp and polymer, the material absorbs the heat in the spit and converts the liquid into granules. After absorbing multiple spits, the spittoon can be easily disposed of as it becomes a biodegradable waste.Highlighting that Covid-19 can survive in the air for up to three hours, Startus stated: “Salivary droplets transmit several viruses including corona. During a pandemic, public spitting exponentially increases the chance of community transmission of the virus. Indian start-up EzySpit kills microbes present in saliva, making it safe to dispose of after the usage.”Stressing that the invention was an effective tool to combat coronavirus, Ritu said, “When people spit in EzySpit, it locks down the bacteria and viruses within a few seconds and prevents them from coming in contact with air. As we are locking the source, spread of the disease gets controlled.”The spittoon is specifically designed to provide users with a re-usable and socially responsible place to deposit the refuse generated. The product is spill-proof and releases fragrance every time someone spits in it. “We have added materials that can kill 75-80% of the germs present in human saliva. Even after its disposal, the product will not spread any infections,” added Ritu.The invention was also recognized under the Young Champions of the Earth, a prize for young environmentalists under the United Nations Environment Programme. The trio won TOI’s Nagpur Heroes award last year., made it to the list of 30 young achievers of the country. The list was released by Forbes, an international media company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-entrepreneurs-ezyspit-is-seen-as-top-tool-for-prevention-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75017800.cms||Manka Behl
April 7, 2020||Madurai||They provide free medicines to labourers||Tirunelveli: A room at the Masjuthur Rahman Pallivasal in Melapalayam, Tirunelveli City, has been converted into a temporary pharmacy with lifesaving medicines. Medicines worth Rs 35,000 were distributed free of cost to nearly 100 people with prolonged illnesses on Sunday. “We distributed 193 tokens on the first two days (Sunday and Monday) and plan to spend Rs 4 lakh for this cause till the lockdown ends,” said state secretary of Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath (TNTJ) K A Syed Ali. The impact of the lockdown is more in the minority dominant pocket as it has been isolated since March 31 after nearly half of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district are from Melapalayam. Rolling beedi (tobacco leaves) is the primary occupation in the locality with 15 branch offices for beedi companies here. Women collect tobacco leaves from the offices and bring back rolled ones. Two adults rolling beedi in a family would collectively make Rs 250 to Rs 300 a day. “They get their wages on a daily basis and lost their livelihood after the lockdown,” Syed said. TNTJ state secretary S Yousuf Ali from Tirunelveli adds the locality also has autorickshaw drivers, sales personnel and daily wagers working for a meagre pay. “They are affected by the lockdown. The government is giving them dole and supplies in PDS shops. But those suffering from prolonged illnesses cannot skip their medicines,” he added. Without much money in hand, TNTJ borrowed Rs 4 lakh from well-to-do businessmen and used it to buy medicines. They also convinced four pharmacies in the locality to extend help them procure lifesaving medicines from wholesalers. “The pharmacies also provided us with BPharm graduates working for them to verify prescriptions and provide medicines to the needy,” Syed said. Announcement for the free service, eligibility and requisites such as doctor’s prescription was made in the locality. People started queuing from 8am on Sunday and when the stall was opened and by 11am 125 tokens were distributed. “After verifying prescriptions and claims, we were able to give medicines for only 50 people till 11.30am,” Syed said. They also faced difficulty in making the people maintain social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/they-provide-free-medicines-to-labourers/articleshow/75018339.cms||M K Ananth
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Several exams postponed||Ahmedabad: In view of the lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, various entrance exams have been deferred including those for admission to medical and engineering colleges. The ministry of human resource development has decided to postpone exams for Class XII students seeking admission to medical and engineering colleges, sources said. This includes UGC-NET, JNU and IGNOU PhD and several others keeping in mind the lockdown, according to sources. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), whose marks are used for admission to medical colleges across the country, was scheduled for May 3. The HRD ministry’s National Testing Agency (NTA) has postponed the exam, a source said. The NTA also debunked fake news doing the rounds regarding the alleged NEET UG 2020 syllabus change, a source said. “There is no such change,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/several-exams-postponed/articleshow/75018347.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus claims 60-year-old man in Kota, first death in district||JAIPUR/KOTA: A 60-year-old Kota resident who died on Sunday night tested positive for Covid-19. The health department informed about his demise on Monday morning. So far, six persons have fallen prey to the virus, the first two being reported from Bhilwara and one each from Alwar, Bikaner, Jaipur and Kota. His death has given sleepless night to health authorities as they rushed to find out from where he contracted the virus. “There is no travel and contact history given by the patient’s attendants,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). He was admitted to the hospital with complaints of bilateral pneumonia, fever and cough, which are symptoms of Covid-19. He was brought to the hospital on Sunday afternoon and he died at 11pm. “Since he did not show any travel or contact history, health department is working to find out from where he had contracted the virus. Few people linked to Tablighi Jamaat have been identified from the same area, but all tested negative,” the health department official said. He was undergoing treatment at isolation ward of MBS hospital. Following his death, Kota district administration has enforced zero mobility in an 1km periphery of Teilghar area under Bhimganjmandi police station area where the man lived. Nearly 120 medical teams have been engaged to carry out door-to-door screening of the area, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-claims-60-yr-old-man-in-kota-first-death-in-dist/articleshow/75018337.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vadodara||Five-foot crocodile rescued in Vadodara||Vadodara: A five-foot crocodile was rescued from Waghodia taluka on Sunday night. The reptile had ventured out of a lake at Sakariyapura village and entered the residential locality. Locals spotted the crocodile and called up Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) volunteers. The volunteers rescued the reptile and handed it over to forest department. The volunteers also urged locals to maintain social distancing and not panic if they spot a reptile. This is the second crocodile to be rescued from Vadodara in last 10 days. Earlier, a three-foot crocodile was rescued from Tarsali area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-foot-crocodile-rescued-in-vadodara/articleshow/75015907.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Hope amid despair: 10-month-old infant, mom among five discharged from ESIC Hospital in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The 10-month-old infant, his mother and three others, who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at ESIC Hospital in the city, were discharged on Monday after doctors confirmed that they were cured of the novel coronavirus. They are the first batch of patients who were discharged from the hospital, after the city witnessed its first positive case on March 22. The 29-year-old doctor who treated Thailand nationals in Erode, her 10-month-old boy, 51-year-old woman who worked at their house, 48-year-old businessman from Udumalpet and 25-year-old student who returned from Spain were discharged from the hospital and sent to their houses in ambulances, said a doctor from ESIC. “Even though the infant was asymptomatic from the beginning, we were a bit worried and monitored him closely because he was only a few months old. We are so happy that he was cured of the infection,” the doctor said. While the 51-year-old also remained asymptomatic, the three others had mild symptoms, the doctor pointed out. “Once the patients remain asymptomatic for 24 hours, they would be subjected to two continuous tests and only if both the test results were negative, we would consider them for discharging,” the doctor said, adding that the throat and nasal swabs of the patients would be sent to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research in Chennai for testing. Meanwhile, collector K Rajamani said there are about 140 ventilators in government hospitals in the district and orders have been placed to procure more ventilators and other equipment. He said Rs 7 crore was allotted from MP and MLA funds for carrying out emergency activities in the district while the collector’s fund has Rs 3 crore. So, we are not in short of fund, he added. The district would also get rapid test kit soon, he added. “We have over 1,000 beds in government hospitals, 240 beds in primary health centres (PHCs) and over 13,000 beds in major private hospitals, schools and colleges in the district. In addition to it, several organizations including CODISSIA had come forward and asked us to use their buildings in case of emergency,” he said. As on Monday, 300 patients were tested for the virus at ESIC Hospital and of which, the result turned negative for 228 people, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hope-amid-despair-10-month-old-infant-mom-among-five-discharged-from-esic-hospital/articleshow/75018341.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 7, 2020||Goa||‘Pharma sector limping to normalcy in Goa’||PANAJI: Principal secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel told the state executive committee (SEC) that the pharma industry has returned to its near-normal scale of operations and that pharmacies have also reported resumption of normal operations. This was discussed at the SEC’s review committee meeting chaired by the chief secretary Parimal Rai The SEC was informed that supplies of all essential food items has returned to normal and that a fourth groceries-on-wheel vehicle has started operations. “Two groceries-on-wheel vehicles have been placed at the disposal of each collector. Potatoes and onions have been added to the items on sale through these vehicles,” the statement states. The SEC has directed PWD to carry out an extensive drive to ensure that there is no disruption in water supply. PWD has been asked to check overhead tanks and to prevent overflow of water due to malfunctioning equipment. Leakages or damaged water pipelines have to be repaired, the SEC said. Regarding migrant labourers, SEC directed district observers and incident commanders to visit all relief shelters in their areas to ensure its directions from the April 3 meeting are implemented. These include providing milk and biscuits to children in these shelters, making provisions for sanitary napkins, folic acid and iron supplement tablets, conducting regular medical check-up of the children and ensuring that requisite immunisation measures are taken, a press note issued here said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pharma-sector-limping-to-normalcy/articleshow/75018340.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Most hosps shut, biomedical waste generation dips in city||Nagpur: The city’s biomedical waste generation has witnessed steep decline as most private hospitals and clinics remained closed after first coronavirus patient was detected here in March. From an average of 3,136kg hospital waste generated per day, the city is generating 900kg less biomedical waste a day, revealed data procured from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management department. The NMC has appointed a private agency to collect biomedical waste from over 1,800 institutions, including 632 private hospitals/clinics, OPDs, pathology laboratories, radiology centres etc. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) have their own biomedical waste disposal facilities. The biomedical waste being collected by NMC is being treated at Bhandewadi dumping yard. According to statistics, in March 2020, the city generated around 83,049kg biomedical waste. “Pre-coronavirus outbreak, i.e. from March 1 to 13, the city’s private hospitals and clinics generated around 40,771kg biomedical waste,” said a senior official from the solid waste management department. To a query, the official pointed out that most of the private doctors having clinics and even bedded hospitals have shut their establishments in view of the Covid-19 outbreak leading to the lockdown. Most private medical practitioners haven’t opened their clinics during the lockdown even after orders from the NMC. This has led to reduction in biomedical waste generation. The administration has also warned of action against such doctors who still keep the dispensaries closed. A private practitioner, requesting anonymity, pointed out that most private clinics lack safety equipment. “There is a shortage of N95 masks also. In the absence of personal protective equipments (PPEs), we may come in contact with the virus if we keep the OPDs open. Hence, most doctors preferred to keep the clinics shut,” he said. The official said as per Central Pollution Control Board, the NMC has directed all hospitals across corporation limits to dispose of biomedical waste generated from corona patients in yellow-coloured bags only. Box Decoding colour-coded bags Yellow: Human tissues, organs, body parts, items contaminated by blood/body fluids, soiled cotton & dressing, soiled plaster casts etc Red: Catheters, tubes, cannulae, syringes, plastic IV bottles & sets, used gloves, infected plastics, specimen containers, lab waste, microbiology cultures, used or discarded bags of blood/blood products, vaccines etc Blue: Glass items, needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, used and unused sharps etc Black: Discarded medicines, discarded cytotoxic drugs etc Green: General waste, non-infected plastic materials & papers, disposables, cardboards, metal containers, office waste, food waste etc Box Waste Generation At A Glance DATE------------ WEIGHT (IN KGS) 01-03-2020---3195 02-03-2020----3300 03-03-2020---3003 04-03-2020---3284 05-03-2020---3076 06-03-2020---3089 07-03-2020---3016 08-03-2020---3098 09-03-2020---3030 10-03-2020---3020 11-03-2020---3191 12-03-2020---3268 13-03-2020---3201 14-03-2020---2005 15-03-2020---2910 16-03-2020---3106 17-03-2020---3185 18-03-2020---2863 19-03-2020---2803 20-03-2020---2879 21-03-2020---2720 22-03-2020---2715 23-03-2020---2520 24-03-2020---2501 25-03-2020---2408 26-03-2020---2250 27-03-2020---2080 28-03-2020---2140 29-03-2020---1810 30-03-2020---2106 31-03-2020----2080||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-hosps-shut-biomedical-waste-generation-dips-in-city/articleshow/75017819.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett, Rajaji gear up to track tigers for Covid-19 symptoms||Dehradun: Following a tiger contracting coronavirus at Bronx Zoo in New York, Union ministry of environment, forest, and climate change on Monday sent orders to Uttarakhand and all other states which have tiger ranges regarding the steps to be taken to protect big cats from the fatal disease. According to Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister, the directions state that tigers should be observed for Covid-19 symptoms such as respiratory signs, nasal discharge, coughing etc. The order also lays emphasis on tiger mortality and directs taking “extremely careful measures” while conducting regular inspection of tigers in consultation with veterinary experts. However, wildlife experts said that it would be a tedious task for officials to check tigers, especially wild ones, for Covid-19 symptoms. “It is practically impossible to keep a watch on wild tigers. Leave aside tracking them for cold and cough, spotting them in general is a big thing itself,” said an Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer requesting anonymity. Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), which has a population of around 250 tigers, has eight thermal cameras and its authorities claim that drones are also deployed to track wild animals. “We have around 800 staff members. Among them, 500 members are daily wagers, 200 are permanent staff, and the remaining are personnel of the special task force. We will ensure hygienic conditions at all levels and reduce interaction of wild animals with humans to keep the virus at bay from wild animals,” CTR director Rahul told TOI. Meanwhile, Central Zoo Authority, in its communication, to state has also directed zoo authorities to be on “highest alertness” at all times. And every fortnight samples of all the unwell animals are to be sent to any of the three Centre-authorised laboratories at Bareilly, Bhopal, and Haryana for Covid-19 test. The staff is advised to go close to any sick animal only after wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Notably, Uttarakhand stands at the third spot in the country in tiger estimate with around 442 big cats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-rajaji-gear-up-to-track-tigers-for-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75016991.cms||Shivani Azad
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Netflix and Instagram helped techie battle isolation blues||Bengaluru: A week after vanquishing Covid-19 virus and returning home, V Bharath, a techie from Bengaluru, says battling isolation was a bigger problem than infection. The 32-year-old was the first patient to be treated at the isolation ward of KC General Hospital and was discharged on March 29. He killed boredom and kept stress at bay by binge-watching Friends series on Netflix and action movies on his smartphone. The techie had travelled to the US for an onsite assignment on February 29 and returned to Bengaluru on March 8. On March 12, he was informed by the health and family welfare department about a co-passenger on his return flight testing positive for Covid-19. He was immediately put in home quarantine. As he developed symptoms, he was tested and when the result came positive on March 17, he was admitted to KC General Hospital. Two days after his arrival in Bengaluru, Bharath had noticed redness in his eyes, which he thought was due to sleeplessness. “Maybe that was the beginning of the infection. I later developed fever. Though my symptoms were not severe and doctors later told me I had a wheezing problem,” he recalls. “Soon after I got a call from the department, I asked my domestic help not to come to work. At home also I made sure that I stayed in a separate room. When I was admitted to the hospital, only my parents in Hyderabad were informed about it. I didn’t want unnecessary attention and people calling me or my wife. My wife had a tough time, facing it all alone in home isolation,” he says. Bharath feels his source of infection could be the washroom or the smart screen in front of the passenger seat on the flight. While in the hospital, the arrangements at the isolation facility improved after two days. Bharath has a huge appreciation for the doctors who treated him. Initially, he was given food from a well-known restaurant in Malleswaram and then the hospital’s kitchen supplied it four times a day. Gadgets were allowed in the isolation ward but Bharat says he didn’t want to use his laptop to keep it safe from any further transmission. “I was active on Instagram throughout the hospitalisation period. Apart from video calls with my wife, my favourite pastime was editing my old photos and uploading them on Insta. That way nobody even got a hint that I was affected by Covid-19 or was admitted,” he says. Bharath’s keyword in battling Covid-19 is not to panic. “There was hope for me, as my symptoms were not severe. I suggest anyone out there afraid of the infection to keep calm. Do not panic, even if you get it. But if you feel slightest of the symptoms, go to the hospital voluntarily,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/netflix-and-instagram-helped-techie-battle-isolation-blues/articleshow/75017181.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 7, 2020||Chennai||With no drivers, essentials among cargo stuck at port||Chennai: Nearly 40,000 containers, containing both essential and non-essential cargo, are stuck at Chennai Port and container freight stations (CFS) due to lack of truck drivers amid the lockdown. In a recent meeting, stakeholders said the drivers were off to their natives and unavailable for work. Cargo that makes its way to the city port is first transported to container freight stations and then to industries to which the cargo was originally shipped. About 25,000 containers are stuck at CFS and about 15,000 in the port, said a senior port official, adding that a majority was non-essential cargo. “About 40% of the containers have essential items such as pulses and fruits, while the remaining contain raw material for chemical industries, automobile ancillary parts and other industrial needs, said the official. Chennai Port Trust chairman P Raveendran said there has not been an appreciable decrease in the arrival of cargo vessels at Chennai port. The port organized a meeting with stakeholders on Saturday last, in which Customs, representatives from Custom House Agents Association, senior police officers, corporation officials, members of CII, SICCI, FIEO and MCCI had participated, Raveendran said. “A major issue raised by most trade representatives was the lack of drivers to move the containers to CFS and industries. The police department has asked representatives to share contact details of drivers who have returned to their natives to trace them and request them to return to work,” Raveendran said. Police have requested a couple of days to do this and have assured that trucks with cargo labeled as essentials will be permitted to move, he added. A Custom House Agents Association member said if the cargo isn’t moved now, it might lead to severe traffic snarls once the lockdown is lifted on April 14. Shortage of manpower needed to handle the cargo must also be addressed immediately, he said. Meanwhile, Raveendran said no crew members of foreign vessels were allowed to disembark at the port and that port employees were put through temperature checks at various entry points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-no-drivers-essentials-among-cargo-stuck-at-port/articleshow/75018350.cms||P Oppili
April 7, 2020||Goa||‘I thought I would die, but now am almost normal’||PANAJI: Edgar Julian Remedios can breathe freely again. He can walk without any discomfort. He can reflect clearly on all that happened during the past fortnight and tell the world how he recovered from the deadly Covid-19. Remedios is among Goa’s seven Covid-19 cases who are under treatment in ESI hospital, Margao. After 15 days of hospitalisation, he is now feeling “almost normal”. Read the entire story on TOI+  'I thought I would die, but now I’m almost normal’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-thought-i-would-die-but-now-am-almost-normal/articleshow/75018351.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Police personnel near isolation wards get PPEs||Tirunelveli: Police personnel at the hospitals housing Covid-19 isolation wards have been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to ensure safety of the officials on duty. City and district police unit heads said that funds for the same were sanctioned by the office of the director general of police, and the local units made the procurement. As many as 20 police personnel and officers are on duty at the check post and near the isolation ward of the government Tirunelveli Medical College and hospital that is housing nearly 40 patients from Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts. This is in addition to the six on compulsory quarantine and will replace those on duty at the hospital. A Saravanan, Tirunelveli city deputy commissioner of police (law and order), said that they have procured 200 sets of PPEs comprising disposable and reusable suits. The synthetic disposable kits have a suit to be worn over the khaki uniforms, cover for shoes, gloves, masks and goggles. They are provided to personnel who go close to the ward. The reusable suits have a cotton suit that can be washed, disinfected and used, says superintendent of police of Kanyakumari district N Sreenath. Kanyakumari district has procured 120 such suits – 50 disposable and 70 reusable – to be used by police personnel at the check post of the medical college hospital at Asaripallam. The gloves and mask are disposable in both the kits but the goggles are disinfected and used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-personnel-near-isolation-wards-get-ppes/articleshow/75018346.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Dehradun||5 more Covid-19-positive in U’khand, tally now 31||Dehradun/Nainital: Uttarakhand on Monday reported five new Covid-19-positive cases taking the state’s tally to 31. Of the five cases reported on Monday, one is a resident of Almora while four others are from Dehradun. All the new cases are members of Tablighi Jamaat. While the four cases from Dehradun were already in institutional quarantine, the one from Almora had been living with school children for the past couple of days before being tested positive. Meanwhile, with Dehradun district reporting 18 positive cases till now, the administration sealed Jhabrawala, Keshavpura slum and Kacchi colony areas of Doiwala for 72 hours on Monday. Bhagat Singh colony and Kargi Grant area has already been sealed a few days ago. Similarly, in Roorkee, Paniyala village and Gandikhata Gujar Basti in Haridwar have been sealed. After five Covid-19-positive cases from the Banabhulpura locality of Haldwani, the Nainital administration also sealed two areas -- Line Number 17 and Malik ka Bageecha -- for the next three days. Speaking to TOI, Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal.said that all the positive cases reported from the area had travelled to Delhi to take part in the congregation of Tabhligi Jamaat. He added that efforts are ongoing to trace all those who are suspected to have come in contact with the five people carrying the virus. “The health department will conduct checkups of the people living in the area and if anyone is found to show symptoms, they will be tested. The police teams will also make sure that adequate safety is provided to health teams in the area,” Bansal said, adding that the Haldwani municipal corporation has also been tasked with sanitising the entire region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-more-covid-19-positive-in-ukhand-tally-now-31/articleshow/75017022.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||Cops detain 49 for violating Sec 144||Nagpur: City police, enforcing the national lockdown, cracked their whip on 144 people under various sections, including violations of the section 144 order. As many as 49 persons were detained and 55 vehicles seized during the course of the day. Though sticks were not used, city police continued to crack down upon the violators of the lockdown orders in different pockets. Apart from their enforcement duty, cops helped the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and its team of health officials in their various duties related to Covid-19. The flying squad comprising crime branch team, along with other government agencies also raided a shop at Jaripatka, seizing around nine bottles of sanitizers worth Rs1,250. The shop owner was selling the bottles violating the norms of the government order. Police stepped up action between 9am and noon, and later between 4pm and 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-detain-49-for-violating-sec-144/articleshow/75017830.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM warns against spreading fake info on social media||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed police to take stringent action against those spreading misinformation about coronavirus on social media. While interacting with home department officials and police officers through video conferencing from his residence on Monday, he praised the functioning of Rajasthan Police in enforcing the lockdown effectively. Gehlot instructed DGP Bhupendra Yadav to take strict action on those who were spreading false information and hatred on social media. A total of 68 FIRs have so far been registered for misleading information on social media and action had been taken against 300 people, officials said. Alwar topped the list with 18 FIRs, followed by Ajmer and Udaipur with six complaints each, a police officer said. Gehlot said the manner in which officers of Rajasthan Police were working towards improving the law and order was commendable. The CM told police officers that the lockdown should be strictly maintained. Gehlot directed that all efforts must be taken to protect doctors and health workers. “It is the responsibility of all of us to provide security to frontline workers fighting coronavirus,” he said. ADG level officers who returned from touring from different ranges updated the CM about the law and order. They said 34 police station areas in different districts were under curfew. Meanwhile, social activists including PUCL requested the government to take steps to stop communalisation of coronavirus to target a community. In a memorandum to the home department and police, the organisation said, “Muslims have been targeted for the spread of the virus. Media communalised the case of Tablighi Jamaat and the Centre also kept on providing data on the spread of the virus holding attendees of the Jamaat responsible for the spread of the disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-warns-against-spreading-fake-info-on-social-media/articleshow/75018352.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Immune booster Vitamin C disappears from shelves||PANAJI: The desire to strengthen one’s immune system coupled with the urge to bulk purchase out of fear of running out of medicines, has led to a shortage of Vitamin C tablets in pharmacies across the state. “We ran out of the tablets last week and have been reaching out to our distributors. They have told us that there is a shortage of the tablets since stocks are not coming from the pharmaceutical manufacturers’ end,” chemists at Jeevan Rekha medical stores said. At Farmacia Salcete the demand for the tablets has increased ever since news of the novel coronavirus pandemic broke out. “Vitamin C boosts immunity so people started purchasing four to five strips at a time instead of just one to keep themselves stocked,” a staffer said. Secretary of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association’s Goa branch, Prasad Tamba said that this is an artificially created shortage owing to panic buying. “With the Vitamin C stock we had, we would have managed to last till this weekend. However, growing demand following the lockdown led to panic buying. Some buyers went to multiple pharmacies and purchased the tablets. The drug has therefore gone out of stock,” he said. Tamba said that there are hiccups in distribution of other medicines coming from companies like Sun Pharma and Lupin Laboratories. These are psychotropic drugs, medicines for anti-hypertension, and cholesterol. “The lockdown can be very difficult for people who already have a history of anxiety and depression. I was worried that my uncle would lose his semblance of mind during this time and therefore purchased 30 days’ worth medicines in advance,” a Panaji-resident said on condition of anonymity. In addition, medical stores continue to face a shortage of face masks and sanitisers. “This is for the first time that such a situation has prevailed, so people need to cooperate instead of panic buying,” Tamba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/immune-booster-vitamin-c-disappears-from-shelves/articleshow/75018349.cms||Nida Sayed
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Kolar brothers sold their shed to provide groceries to the poor||Kolar: Moved by the plight of hunger-wracked families of migrant labourers and daily wagers in their neighbourhood, two brothers from Harohalli Gardens in Kolar have sold their shed standing on a 30 ft by 40 ft plot in Autonagar here and are using the Rs 20 lakh sale proceeds to supply provisions to those in distress. Realtors Tazumal Pasha, 42, and Muzamul Pasha, 39, said they have come up the hard way and know well that no sacrifice is enough when it comes to ensuring no one goes hungry. Tazumul Pasha told TOI, “The Quran says Allah will give back in multiples if one sacrifices something for the society. Me and my have earned some money in real estate business and it is the payback time for us.” Once the lockdown’s impact on the poor began to unravel, the brothers formed a group of 20 like-minded people who were keen on social service. After holding discussions with the group, the brothers decided that the best way to help was to provide groceries to the poor. The brothers and their volunteers then sent out messages on WhatsApp groups saying groceries, enough to last for about 15 days for a family of five, would be delivered at the doorsteps of the needy by two-wheeler borne volunteers. On March 26, the brothers received a call from labourers from Rajasthan who were stranded in Narasapura industrial area of the district and the team members delivered over 30 bags of provisions to them. Similarly, another group of nomads in Mohamedpur, near Chintamani in Chikkaballapur district were also supplied with groceries. Rajesh Singh, a member of the group, said all the groceries are packed in bags and delivered within 10-15 minutes of receiving the call. He said 1,300 beneficiaries have been given groceries and another 1,500 bags are ready for delivery. He added that early callers also get food packets for the day along with the grocery kits. According to the brothers, each bag consists of 5kg rice, 2kg wheat flour, 1kg sugar, 1kg soji, 1kg edible oil, 2kg tur dal, a packet of tea powder, one bottle of sanitizer and a few masks and costs them about Rs 1,000. They said they have already spent the money they got by selling their shed and were now spending from their own pockets. Muzamul said their gesture is being appreciated and several people in Kolar have come forward to join hands with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kolar-brothers-sold-their-shed-to-provide-groceries-to-the-poor/articleshow/75017226.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||In lockdown mode, e-office would have worked wonders||Bhopal: E-office that failed to take off in Madhya Pradesh would have saved the day for officials and employees fighting Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, 12 government employees, including top health department officials, were tested positive for coronavirus. E-office system was introduced in April 2018 with an aim to facilitate paperless functioning of offices. Despite efforts of successive governments the idea never got implemented due to resistance from several departments, said sources. Officials point out that the entire government machinery would have been operational and officials safely from their homes despite the 21-day lockdown till April 14 had the e-office system been in place. The idea, however, was mooted in 2006 to shift from pen to the click of mouse. In 2016, it was back on the agenda. The government even set up a control room on the ground floor of the secretariat to monitor this system in 2017. Around 500 new computers and 150 scanners were installed at the secretariat, said officials. In April 2018, the general administration department (GAD) made it mandatory that all departments process files using the new system that was to be put in place. Bureaucrats were briefed about the e-office set up: file tracking system, maintaining secrecy of files, status of pending files, draft creation and others. Log in IDs were of around 1000 staffers were created to help them access their accounts and clear the files, said officials. People in the e-office system were to be mapped through their names and not by designation. On receiving a file, an official would get an SMS alert or e-mail. Even digital signature was not required at every step. The system made it possible for an official to track a file and process it. The digital signature was required only while issuing orders, the officials added. The system also enabled the department head access to track the complete file movement at all rungs. On the other hand, junior officials could view the files a step down and up the rung. On April 4 this year, the GAD department directed that orders, correspondence and approvals be issued through e-mails, e-office (NIC) should be considered valid. However, in absence of e-office, officials can only use e-mails, but cannot track or clear the files at all levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-lockdown-mode-e-office-would-have-worked-wonders/articleshow/75017832.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown stalls Smart City works in Madurai||Madurai: Works on Smart City projects have come to a grinding halt ever since the introduction of the lockdown. Officials said that only curating works are being carried out with minimum employees for the time being. However, they are confident of finishing the projects without much delay, if the curfew restrictions were lifted soon. The officials from Madurai Corporation said that the Smart City projects may delay by a month or so. Works will be expedited once the curfew restrictions are lifted and they will try to finish it in time, they say. “We do not think there will be any major implication in completing the projects other than a few days’ delay. It will take a few days for the work to attain pace even after the curfew is lifted, since materials have to be transported from places such as Krishnagiri,” a higher official from Madurai Corporation said. Meanwhile, guest workers from various states, who are staying at the project sites, are being well taken care of. Another official said that there are 203 such workers staying at Periyar Junction and Meenakshi Amman Temple. The corporation and contractors are taking care of them. He said, “We often supply them food prepared at Amma canteens and community kitchens. Medical screening and assistance is also being provided to them. We also make sure that they maintain social distance with others. They did not take up long distance travel recently. Measures are in place to prevent them from contracting Covid-19 from others.” Madurai Corporation is carrying out Smart City works at an estimated cost of Rs 970 crore. It includes construction of Underground Drainage System in 15 wards in North Madurai at a cost of Rs 291 crore, Reconstruction of Periyar bus terminal at a cost of Rs 160 crore, Vaigai Riverfront development at Rs 81.41 crore, heritage structure development at Rs 40.68 and multi-level car parking and convention centre at Tamukkam ground at Rs 45.55 crore. The water distribution project after drawing water from Mullaperiyar dam carried out a cost of more than Rs 1,500 crore is also stalled due to the curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-stalls-smart-city-works-in-madurai/articleshow/75018366.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism department forms task force to revive industry||JAIPUR: With the lockdown all set to be lifted in a week’s time, the state tourism is looking at ways to revive the industry that has been in the eye of the pandemic. The department on Monday constituted a stakeholder forum consisting senior officials and representatives from industry bodies like FICCI, CII, Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators and Indian Heritage Hotels Association to thrash out ways for rebooting the sector. Sreya Guha, principal secretary, department of tourism, said Rajasthan was the first state to give relief to the sector last month by lowering the bar licence fees and was now planning to reimburse state tax. Speaking at a FICCI webinar, she said the industry had been badly hit and they would hold discussions to find out what the industry needs to become sustainable. “Now, the industry is under complete shutdown. But we need to have a plan for revival before the lockdown is lifted,” she said. With regard to the opening of restaurants, she said there has to be a holistic decision and the medical and health department’s views have to be taken in. Since the source markets for tourism have been roiled by the pandemic, the department thinks the focus should be on domestic segment. She said that it would take up to two quarters for the foreign tourists to start coming after the travel restrictions are lifted. But the focus would be on domestic tourism, she said. “We are planning to come up with some plans before the lockdown is lifted. In a gradual way, we can look at opening the monuments as well,” said Guha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-department-forms-task-force-to-revive-industry/articleshow/75018359.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Hike announced for health workers in Goa||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday announced a 20% hike in basic salary of health workers and other staff, including contract workers who are on the frontlines of Covid-19 healthcare. Sawant also stated that a special insurance cover of up to Rs 50 lakh would be provided to all staff working in quarantine facilities and also in Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hike-announced-for-health-workers/articleshow/75018370.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Goa to conduct door-to-door survey to fight coronavirus||PANAJI: The state government is set to conduct a community survey across the state from April 13 to 15 in order to identify people who have Covid-19 symptoms. CM Pramod Sawant told reporters on Monday that the survey would cover every house in the state including industrial estate colonies, shacks and migrant camps. He said that the survey would be conducted along the lines of the one conducted at Bhilwara in Rajasthan. “We will do it in the entire state,” he said. The survey, according to the CM, is set to be completed by April 15, but has kept a day reserved in case it isn’t. Around 8,000 government employees will be engaged in it, including health workers, anganwadi workers, booth level officers (BLOs) and education department teachers. There are 1,560 polling booths in the state, and this survey will be conducted booth-wise. “In each booth, three teams will be constituted of two persons each, and one person will monitor the process,” Sawant said. Sawant appealed to the people to cooperate with the survey team, and requested them to provide all details, including of people living in rented accomodation. “We have prepared a community survey questionnaire on Covid-19,” he said. “If a family member has travelled outside the state and/or country, details of that person from February 15 till date must be provided,” he said. The government team will conduct the survey after taking all precautions. Orientation training for surveyors commence on Tuesday. “We will also check if anyone in the family has Covid-19 symptoms including cold, fever, cough or breathing problems,” he said After the survey reports are filed, booths will prepare a history sheet and send it to the primary health centre (PHC) concerned. The CM said the government wants the detailed report by April 16. Earlier in the evening, Sawant had said that the survey would be conducted from April 10-12. Following a demand by Congress and some BJP MLAs to reschedule it on the grounds that it was coinciding with Good Friday and Easter, the chief minister announced the new dates – April 13-15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-conduct-door-to-door-survey-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75018368.cms||Murari Shetye
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||At Nagalwadi, no one can enter or exit sans valid reason||SLUG: Lessons to take Nagpur: Saoner taluka’s Nagalwadi village, around 65km from the city, might provide a lesson to many urban localities in the pattern of protecting their residential area from the spread of Covid-19 infection. The village, with a population of 600-650 people, has strictly made the place a ‘no entry’ zone for outsiders. They cannot enter the village without giving genuine reasons. Following the national lockdown, the residents of Nagalwadi decided among themselves that they would need to take special precaution to ensure that the virus does not enter their village. It was a spontaneous decision to disallow outsiders and stop them outside Nagalwadi. Harish Morghare, president of vana samiti or forest committee and also a local grocer, said there was no instruction from any government officials or police to take any extra precautionary measure apart from being at home during the lockdown and stepping out only for exempted reasons. “The villagers erected a makeshift bamboo check post on the road at the entry point of the village where a couple of youths are manning the place to stop entries or exit without valid reason. We do not want our village to get affected at any cost or at least try as much as possible to break the chain here,” he said. “The gate is manned from 7am till 11pm. Villagers from four adjoining hamlets too come here for daily needs but their entries have been put under restrictions,” said Morghare, adding that some of the more aware villagers are also guiding their fellow residents regarding precautionary measures of wearing masks and personal hygiene. “We are short of sanitizers. So, we use soap water to clean ourselves repeatedly,” he said. Morghare said access to the village is being strictly regulated. “We are not allowing villagers to leave the place until he or she specifies the reason and it appears valid. The register kept at the check-point has details of every person entering or leaving the village,” he said. “Mobile phone number, registration number of the vehicle, reason for entering or leaving and place visited are being recorded so that in case there is any issue later, we can immediately trace the person concerned,” he added. Senior counsel Prashant Sathianathan, who owns lands near Nagalwadi and is living nearby since lockdown, appreciated self-reservation of the villagers in deciding to control access to their village. “Rest of the country should take a lesson from Nagalwadi. The pattern followed here is a classic example of how people are using indigenous methods to protect themselves without being prompted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-nagalwadi-no-one-can-enter-or-exit-sans-valid-reason/articleshow/75017836.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 7, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury takes upward swing in state, Barmer hottest at 40.8°C||Jaipur: Mercury is rising in the state and people are harried since the shops that repair coolers and air-conditioners are shut due to the lockdown.On Monday, many places across the state witnessed maximum temperatures hovering around the 39°C mark. Barmer was the hottest at 40.8°C. Even the early morning temperatures in several places revolved around 21°C.Usually during the first week of April, people buy coolers and air-conditioners and many get old ones repaired. However, due to the lockdown, shops are closed.“When the lockdown is relaxed, I think the government should give nod to shops to sell electrical appliances and allow mechanics to repair electrical gadgets,” said Jagdish Sharma, a resident of Jhotwara locality here.Jaipur witnessed the hottest day of the season with the mercury clocking 38°C. “Air-conditioners and air coolers are like grocery items, vegetables, fruits and medicines. Thus, government agencies should announce opening of shops selling electrical appliances and those involved in its repair,” said Pramila Mehta, a resident of railway colony, Ganpati Nagar.Attributing the rise in mercury to the active northerly winds, Jaipur Met office said many places would witness spike in temperatures in the next couple of days. “No further western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation is visible in the coming days, which will push mercury further,” a weatherman said.Barmer was followed by Churu with 39.5°C, Jodhpur (39.7°C), Jaisalmer (38.6°C, Ajmer (38.4°C), Udaipur (37.2°C), Sriganganagar (33.9°C) and Kota (32.9°C).In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mercury would continue to move north. Some places in western Rajasthan are likely to hit maximum temperatures on or above 40°C in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-takes-upward-swing-in-state-barmer-hottest-at-40-8c/articleshow/75018364.cms||---
April 7, 2020||India||Covid-19: Imported PPEs arrive; shortage easing, says govt||NEW DELHI: The arrivals and domestic production will add to the 3,87,473 personal protection equipments (PPEs) already available in the country as of now. Till now a total of 2.94 lakh PPE coveralls have been arranged and supplied by Centre, an official release said. Last week, the government had said 60,000 PPEs had been distributed. The objective is to achieve a supply of about 10 lakh PPE kits per week. Looking at the number of patients in the country, sufficient quantities are available for the moment, a government release said. The government has faced criticism that shortages in PPEs is putting frontline medical staff in harm’s way and compromising the fight against Covid-19. The government has said severe shortfalls of January-February are easing and supplies were directed according to hospitals and highincidence areas. The arrival of foreign supplies is a “major milestone” in procuring PPEs and a fresh order of 80 lakh PPE kits (including N95 masks) with a Singapore-based platform is likely to see supplies commencing in a week from April 11 with 2 lakh, followed by 8 lakh more. Negotiations are in final stages with a Chinese source for 60 lakh complete PPE kits. Separate orders for N95 masks and protective goggles are also being placed. Two lakh domestically produced N95 masks are also being sent to hospitals. This would mean over 20 lakh N95 masks have been supplied and around 16 lakh such masks are available with the number to be augmented by fresh supply. Major portions of fresh supplies are being sent to states with comparatively high number of cases such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan as well as institutions like AIIMS, Safdarjung and RML hospitals, RIMS, NEIGRIHMS, BHU and AMU. Northern Railways have developed a PPE coverall. This is in addition to the PPE coveralls and N99 masks developed by DRDO earlier. Orders have been placed for 112.76 lakh standalone N95 masks and 157.32 lakh PPE coveralls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-imported-ppes-arrive-shortage-easing-says-govt/articleshow/75018886.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Goa||Restricted to their homes, birders rediscover joy of ‘common’ birds||PANAJI: Confined within the four walls of their homes due to the lockdown, many birders and birding enthusiasts are now training their sights nearer to home, from their backyards, balconies or terraces, to indulge their passion. Some say they have even encountered a few surprises amidst concrete landscapes. For Nelson Fernandes, a resident of Duler, Mapusa, the tamarind, red cotton and banyan trees in his neighbourhood have become the point of focus. “The red cotton tree (Bombax ceiba) flowering during the summer season, draws a horde of bird species. I recently spotted brown headed barbet, coppersmith barbet, blackhooded oriole, ashey drongos and redwhiskered bulbul, among others,” he said. Spotting a dotted red spurfowl nearby excited him, as he had never seen this shy forest bird in town. Savio Fonseca, author of a book on birds of Goa said, “The lockdown made me realise that the birds I used to go looking for in Bondla are right here near my home in Porvorim. I have observed a raptor crested serpent eagle that flies past my house daily at 10.50am.” Birdwatchers are also finding new joy in setting up bird baths and feeders on their window panes and balconies to attract birds, thus getting a chance to observe them better. They are also discovering patience like never before, sitting still in their verandahs for hours in wait of birds they would otherwise have dismissed as ‘common’. The added advantage of lesser movement of traffic has made it easier for them to hear bird calls more clearly, which helps locate them. “A kingfisher makes a racket outside my house every day, at 6.15am sharp,” Fonseca said. “This time is going to help a lot of people develop patience, and when everything normalises, they will long for and will keep aside time for such appreciation of nature.” Prize-winning bird photographer Shailendra Naik, a resident of Khadpaband, Ponda, has put up a bird feeder in his balcony. This, he said, gives him an opportunity to closely observe the birds as they feed on the grains. “I sit in a place for up to four hours at a stretch and I am rewarded with the sight of birds like the lesser golden backed woodpecker, Tickell’s blue flycatcher, greater coucal, white throated kingfisher, Vigor’s sunbird, oriental robin magpie. These may be common, but I am finding a new joy in getting a closer look at them,” said Naik, who won the first place at the forest department’s bird festival at Valpoi in January. Naik, along with other bird watchers have been exchanging tips and tricks on this new experience using birders’ groups on social media sites. And while his friends are surprised by the urban bird diversity, Naik is wary of the declining greenery due to increasing construction activity. Meanwhile, Mandar Bhagat of the Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN) has encouraged birdwatchers to indulge in birding from home. “In context of the Covid-19 pandemic, GBCN has requested all bird watchers and photographers to refrain from going on birding trips and to follow social distancing to prevent further spread of the virus. You can do some balcony birding from your homes, create an ebird account on www.ebird.org/India and start monitoring the birds in your backyard,” Bhagat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restricted-to-their-homes-birders-rediscover-joy-of-common-birds/articleshow/75018378.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 7, 2020||Nagpur||29 more ‘dumped’ by Delhi firm||Yavatmal: The district administration and police, following intervention by SP M Rajkumar, are looking after needs of 400 youth who were allegedly dumped by a Delhi based ‘Glaze Trading India Company Private Ltd’ at two hostels in Pusad. Yet, no attention is being paid to 29 youths employed by the same company and staying in rented rooms in Jamb Road area of the city. These 29 youths are awaiting help and care from local NGOs ever since the lockdown was imposed. They are in need of food supplies and the house owners may force them out if the overdue rent is not paid. One of the trainees, who identified himself as Shailesh, told TOI on Monday that they have demanded help from the administration regarding food and payment of rent. When the matter was brought to the notice of district collector, he said the administration would consider shifting these youths to its camp. All of the youths hail from UP, Bihar, Belgaon (Karnataka) and Ratnagiri (Maharashtra). It seems the administration and police are yet to take steps to trace the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/29-more-dumped-by-delhi-firm/articleshow/75017842.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||SHGs pitch in with 14L masks and 15,000 litres of sanitiser||Bhopal: Self Help Groups across Madhya Pradesh are doing their bit in the fight against Covid-19. These groups have produced about 14 lakh masks and 15000 litres of sanitiser in villages and district headquarters across the state. Additional chief secretary, Panchayat and rural development, Manoj Shrivastav, said: “The PPEs, masks and sanitisers are produced strictly as per the specifications of the WHO.” Across the state, 1,421,710 masks have been stitched and 15,574 litre of sanitiser has been prepared. The material required for making masks and sanitizers were made available by the state government, said Shrivastav. Two SHGs in Damoh and Sagar have produced 3000 and 100 PPEs respectively. The SHGs in Madhya Pradesh are supported by State Rural Livelihood Mission within the framework of Panchayat Raj and are aimed at employment generation. Typically, an SHG comprises 10 or more men and women. In Sagar, the SHGs have set a target of producing 10,000 PPEs. More than 10,000 men and women are involved in producing the 3-ply face masks. These masks are being distributed to the cops, health department staff, government officials and employees of panchayats. Shivastav said that the production of sanitiser by SHGs was stopped after distilleries were given licence to produce it a week back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shgs-pitch-in-with-14l-masks-and-15000-litres-of-sanitiser/articleshow/75017847.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Trichy corporation procures 123 sprayers to disinfect all wards||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation has procured 123 sprayers and appointed sanitary workers to take up dedicated disinfection drive in all residential localities and public gathering spots in the city from Tuesday. Corporation has been facing criticism for not covering all the wards under the disinfection drive as locals here were urging the local body to intensify preventive measures to tackle Covid-19. Heeding to public demand, the corporation purchased 100 hand sprayers and 23 power sprayers to enhance preventive measures. The power sprayers, in two capacities equipped with two-stroke and four-stroke petrol engines, have a 150ft-long hose and can be mounted on mini-trucks to disinfect an entire street in a few minutes. “Zone-wise sanitary workers have been assigned to take up the disinfection drive from Tuesday. All the 65 wards will be covered in the drive,” a senior corporation official said. Each zone has 50-60 sanitary workers. Sodium hypochlorite and Lysol mixed in water will be sprayed as disinfectant. Disinfectants required for the drive will be mobilised to each ward through mini-trucks. Officials said they will cover only the peripheral areas of private properties while banks, ATMs and government buildings will be covered completely under the drive. “Containment zones in the city where Covid-19 positive cases were reported will be given special attention,” the official added. The corporation has also advised locals to disinfect common utilities and spaces in their respective gated communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-corporation-procures-123-sprayers-to-disinfect-all-wards/articleshow/75018390.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 7, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Man escapes isolation, found at kin’s place||MANDYA: Authorities at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) got the jitters on Monday as one of the suspected Covid-19 patients escaped from the facility’s isolation ward. The person is among those who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics in Malavalli town. MIMS staff informed police, following which superintendent of police Parashuram and other senior officers rushed to the hospital. Soon, several police teams fanned out to trace the person. Police officers also scanned CCTV footage from the hospital and surrounding areas. After hours of frantic search, the man was found at his relative’s place in Guttalu colony. He was taken to the hospital and warned of serious legal consequences if he made another attempt to escape from the isolation ward. As many as 52 people who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics have been put in the isolation ward at MIMS and district authorities are waiting for their medical reports. Meanwhile, the district administration has arranged for delivery of vegetables and fruits to the doorsteps in Mandya city through Hopcoms to ensure people don’t step out to make purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-man-escapes-from-isolation-ward-found-at-kins-place/articleshow/75021734.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Man escapes isolation, found at kin’s place||MANDYA: Authorities at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) got the jitters on Monday as one of the suspected Covid-19 patients escaped from the facility’s isolation ward. The person is among those who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics in Malavalli town. MIMS staff informed police, following which superintendent of police Parashuram and other senior officers rushed to the hospital. Soon, several police teams fanned out to trace the person. Police officers also scanned CCTV footage from the hospital and surrounding areas. After hours of frantic search, the man was found at his relative’s place in Guttalu colony. He was taken to the hospital and warned of serious legal consequences if he made another attempt to escape from the isolation ward. As many as 52 people who were in touch with Tablighi Jamaat clerics have been put in the isolation ward at MIMS and district authorities are waiting for their medical reports. Meanwhile, the district administration has arranged for delivery of vegetables and fruits to the doorsteps in Mandya city through Hopcoms to ensure people don’t step out to make purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mandya-man-escapes-from-isolation-ward-found-at-kins-place/articleshow/75017099.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Bhopal||Arrange PPEs for health staff: Nath||Bhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Monday expressed concern about the increasing number of Corona infected patients in the state capital especially with health workers on the field getting infected by the virus. In a series of tweets, the senior Congress leader on Monday said, “After Indore, the increasing number of Corona infections in Bhopal raises concern. With the cases of infected health workers and police personnel, the matter is extremely worrisome for all of us.” @OfficeOfKNath also said, “Government should provide those responsible on the field with all necessary resources. Government,on priority, should focus attention that all necessary items for their protection from the PPE kits to every other equipment required.” The senior Congress leader also shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday asking for a rollback on the state government’s decision to withhold the payment of increased dearness allowance DA of government employees. On March 16, the former Congress government led by chief minister Kamal Nath had increased the DA of state government employees by 17% for those under seventh commission pay scale and 164% for those under the sixth pay commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/arrange-ppes-for-health-staff-nath/articleshow/75017851.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Class X students and teachers anxious over Tamil Nadu board exams||MADURAI: With the state government expected to take a decision on reopening of schools and colleges by April 14, Class X state board students and teachers are anxious about the uncertainty over conducting of the board exams this year. “Even though we get extra time to prepare now, there is a lot of stress and pressure we are facing at home and from teachers. The government should at least come to a decision about whether board exams will be conducted otherwise our efforts will be wasted,” said Swarna M, a Class X student from a private school in the city. Teachers also urged the school education department to at least announce the dates for exams giving notice in advance that will provide enough days for preparation. “The new timetable must be announced at least 15 days in advance and each exam should have enough holidays between exams for students to prepare and do well,” said S Sheikh Nabi, member of Madurai district headmasters’ association. While some teachers are in favour of cancelling the exams considering the difficult situation, others want it to be conducted to be fair to students. “If the lockdown continues for more days, it is better if board exams are cancelled. If so, all students must be promoted and perhaps average marks from earlier examinations could be considered as final marks. It is not like Class XII exams where marks are far more crucial,” said the principal of a private school. However, some other teachers feel that Class X mark sheets are just as important for a child’s future. “There is an important diversion after Class X with some students opting for poly-technic or higher secondary education. Class X marks are still very important for applying for jobs as well,” said K Anand Raman, legal secretary, Tamil Nadu higher secondary headmasters’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-x-students-and-teachers-anxious-over-state-board-exams/articleshow/75018388.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 5 vegetable shops closed for allowing crowds||MADURAI: Madurai Corporation officials closed five shops at the central vegetable market at Mattuthavani for allowing a large number of customers to gather at the shop violating the curfew restrictions. The corporation has formed teams, which will ensure that traders follow curfew restrictions. A team of officials led by assistant commissioner (revenue) Jayaramaraja was at the central vegetable market, which is allowed to operate during night for wholesale trading. The team found heavy crowd in front of five shops. As the shopkeepers did not take measures to control the crowd, the issue was taken to the notice of Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan, who ordered closure of the shops. The officials said that the shops will remain closed till curfew restrictions are lifted. The team also warned other vendors to make sure social distance is being followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. So far around 100 shops, including grocery stores, vegetable shops and rice shops have been closed for not following the social distance norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-veg-shops-closed-for-allowing-crowds/articleshow/75018381.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat tackles 1,600MW load plunge||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat successfully handled a drop of 1,600MW in power demand as households switched off lights following the Prime Minister’s call for ‘lights out’ on Sunday night. This assumes importance because a slight deviation in frequency — a balancing parameter between electricity generation and demand — could possibly lead to a power grid failure. The electricity demand was 8,407MW by 8.54pm on Sunday. As people started switching off lights, the demand plummeted to 6,800MW till 9.09pm resulting in a drop of 1,607MW, data available with the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) shows. “There was seamless coordination between all distribution companies, public and private, state and western region load dispatch centres, GETCO as well as state and central power ministries and their officials and employees,” said Gujarat’s energy minister Saurabh Patel. Power cannot be stored and whatever is generated must be consumed at the same time. Given this constraint, grid discipline becomes important and grid frequency has to be maintained between 49.9 Hertz and 50.05 Hertz. If the frequency goes above or falls below this specific level, the power grid could fail. Since the grid is interconnected to several regions, the failure to manage the grid by one state affects other states as well. There are six states in India’s western grid including Gujarat. “In normal circumstances, about 800MW demand would reduce if only lights (keeping other appliances on) are switched off in households across Gujarat,” Patel said. “However, in the wake of rumours about grid failure in the run-up to the Sunday’s lights-out call, we prepared ourselves to handle a possible drop of 2,000MW in demand.” Eventually, the drop was double of what was anticipated by the state authorities. “Firstly, we increased 800MW supply in agriculture to take care of the minimum fluctuation. Thermal power stations using coal cannot be turned on and off in a short time,” he said. “So, secondly, we also ran our gas-based and hydro power projects, which can be shut quickly.” He further explained, “We kept feeding the minimum demand, which was not to be impacted in any circumstance, from coal-based power plants. At the same time, gas-based and hydro plants were kept running for the fluctuations in demand.” As the demand started going down with lights being put off, gas and hydro projects were shut to maintain the frequency. These plants were restarted with demand regaining after the lights-out period. “There was so much excitement in Gujarat that people started switching off their lights from 8:35pm,” the minister added. “As a result, demand started falling before we anticipated. All lights were not switched on at 9.09pm. Many families turned on lights by 9.30pm. Delayed resumption also helped us maintain the grid frequency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lights-out-state-successfully-handles-1600mw-demand-drop/articleshow/75017857.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||27 samples from Bokaro positive woman’s village sent for tests||Bokaro: A district health department team on Monday collected samples of 27 residents after door-to-door screening at Telo village in Chandrapura block where a 51-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Bokaro civil surgeon A K Pathak said, “Samples of 27 residents residing in the neighbourhood of the patient was collected and sent for tests.” Officials said the administration has declared areas within 3-km radius of the village as sensitive while the 7-km radius has been earmarked as buffer zone to contain spread of the virus. They are also conducting a massive sanitization of houses and streets in these areas. Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar said, “Contact tracing is being done to identify people who came in contact with the patient.” The woman, who tested positive, had a history of travelling to Dhaka in Bangladesh to take part in a Tablighi Jamaat event and returned in mid-March. She is currently admitted to Bokaro General Hospital for treatment. Kumar said, “The patient continues to be asymptomatic. Blood samples of her family members and persons, who came in contact with her, have been sent for tests. Her children and a few other family members have been home quarantined.” He further said the patient’s family has been provided ration and given strict advice to stay at home. Kumar said, “We have provided milk and biscuits to the children and all are advised to maintain distance even at home. The woman’s village, her home and surroundings have been sanitized and street fogging has been done.” Telo village has a mixed population and the DC has appealed to them to cooperate with the district authorities in containing the virus. “There is no need for panic, but precaution is a must.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/27-samples-from-bokaro-positive-womans-village-sent-for-tests/articleshow/75016878.cms||Divy Khare
April 7, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur doctors meet Banna with demand for more safety kits||JAMSHEDPUR: A section of senior doctors from Jamshedpur on Monday met state health minister Banna Gupta on Sunday and expressed concern over the shortage of protective gear for healthcare workers in view of the rising number of suspected Covid-19 patients in the state. Banna has assured all possible help and to meet the shortage of protective gear in a few days, those who attended the meeting said. Talking to TOI, Indian Medical Association (IMA) member and senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr Saurabh Chaudhury, who was part of the delegation, said: “As the number of suspected Covid-19 cases is on the rise, it is the duty of the state government to provide us with protective gear. Without these, doctors, nurses and medical staff will fall prey to this disease.” Chaudhury added that doctors from various private nursing homes along with IMA members were present at the meeting. The delegation informed the minister that a few doctors and medical staff attending to Covid-19 patients have been infected with the virus in various parts of the country. Chaudhury said Banna was informed that there is big gap between the demand and supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and gloves for medical staff. He said doctors wanted proper medical insurance cover for medical staff taking care of Covid-19 patients. They expressed concern over the rising cases in other states where doctors and medical staff attending to patients have been attacked or not allowed to return to their homes by their neighbours. They said taking note of such instances, doctors and medical staff attending to patients in the city should be provided with proper isolation places near the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-docs-meet-banna-with-demand-for-more-safety-kits/articleshow/75016323.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Raghubar Das, Babulal Marandi attack Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for ‘communal’ deployment||RANCHI: Former chief ministers Raghubar Das and Babulal Marandi (both from BJP) on Monday criticised the Ranchi district administration’s for deploying police personnel from the Muslim community for enforcing the lockdown and providing security to health workers during home screening and sample collection from residents of the Muslim-dominated Hindpiri area, where two women have now tested positive for Covid-19. Das accused the Hemant Soren government of trying to give a communal colour to the whole exercise by deploying administrative personnel from “only a specific community in Hindpiri. He said, “Deploying personnel from a specific community on the pretext of screening in Hindpiri is beyond logic and highly condemnable. Law and order management cannot be treated on the lines of caste and community. This will set a bad precedent for the entire state.” He added, “While the discrimination of Hindpiri residents is illegal, it is equally unwarranted to make security arrangements on communal lines.” Leader of BJP’s legislative party Babulal Marandi also said the move is illogical and unwarranted. In a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday, Marandi said while they appreciate several efforts undertaken by the state government to fight the infection, he and his party condemn the administration’s move to deploy officials on communal lines in Hindpiri. He appealed to Soren to consider the suggestion and sought his intervention to end the “discrimination”. Marandi wrote, “While taking oath of office as CM, he must have vowed to act in the interest and welfare of the residents of the state irrespective of the caste or community they belong to. Deploying community-specific personnel in Hindpiri is in violation of that oath.” Marandi added that Soren is setting a dangerous precedent. He said, “If, in future, any Covid-19 cases surfaces in Hindu-dominated areas and if the residents demands only Hindu officials in the locality for law and order or screening, what will the government do? I expect the government to take this criticism on a positive note to set things in order.” Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “The administration is being fair to all and trying its best to combat Covid-19. And it is not advisable for us at this juncture to respond to political comments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/das-marandi-attack-jharkhand-cm-for-communal-deployment/articleshow/75016975.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren urges governor to seek kits from Centre||RANCHI: Unhappy with the Centre for delaying the supply of protective gear and masks meant for the front-line workers fighting Covid-19 in Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday urged governor Droupadi Murmu to intervene. Soren met Murmu at Raj Bhavan to brief her about the Covid-19 scenario in the state and measures being undertaken to stop its spread. Four positive cases have been recorded here so far. “Our preparations are near sufficient, barring the timely supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks for our front-line health workers and police. We received our consignment only a few days ago. The cooperation we expected is not being given,” Soren told journalists outside Raj Bhavan after the meeting. “I urged Governor madam to speak with the Centre and help us,” he added. Soren participated in two virtual meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in between March 20 and April 5 over coronavirus. Murmu agreed to Soren’s demand. “I will urge President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure the supply of medical equipment to Jharkhand,” Murmu was quoted as saying in a statement issued by her office after the meeting. In his first meeting with Murmu since lockdown, Soren apprised her of the preparedness. Stating that the state received 5,000 PPEs, 25,000 N95 masks and 100 thermal scanners recently from the Centre, the CM said more equipment was needed to keep up the fight. The government informed Murmu that 6.94 lakh residents of Jharkhand are stuck in various states, the highest being in Maharashtra. Soren said his government is in touch with 70% of them. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh informed Murmu that 1.53 lakh people came to Jharkhand from outside till February 15, of whom 1.43 lakh were home quarantined. The governor asked the government to make arrangements and rope in volunteers and civil society groups to handle the people who will return to the state post lockdown. The government also apprised Murmu that it will set up four new RT-PCR machines for testing blood and swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. Currently, two such machines are operational, one each at Rims in Ranchi and MGMMCH in Jamshedpur. Singh also informed the governor that Jharkhand currently has 15,000 testing kits. Speaking to reporters, Soren said all four Covid-19 patients in the state are being closely monitored and will be provided essential medical care. When asked how the government will deal with locals who are refusing to cooperate and get screened, Soren said: “If need be, the government will take all steps to see that the suspects are screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-urges-guv-to-seek-kits-from-centre/articleshow/75016279.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 7, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Tigers, leopards, lions in captivity hale & hearty||MYSURU: The physical condition of over 50 tigers, 100 leopards, 30 lions and primates in captivity in the nine zoos in the state are being closely monitored in the wake of novel coronavirus pandemic. According to zoo authorities, all the mammals are hale and hearty. A tiger in Bronx Zoo in New York has tested positive to novel coronavirus and this has left authorities here worried . Forest officials say that after a domestic cat, as per reports, contracted the virus in Hong Kong, they have been following all precautionary guidelines as per protocol in view of safety of animals in captivity. Zoo Authority of Karnataka member-secretary BP Ravi, who is incharge of all nine zoos of Karnataka, told TOI that they are on alert for the past three weeks following a report that a domestic cat in Hong Kong was tested positive to Covid-19. “We’re keeping a tab on animals—whether they are consuming food regularly and their activities—round-the-clock. All cats and primates are going strong,” he said. “All bio safety measures have been put in place soon after the outbreak of Covid-19. Thermal screening of employees—animal keepers, veterinarians, assistant veterinarians, and officers—is done every day before they enter the zoo premises. Wearing mask, using hand sanitizers and maintaining social distance among workers are being strictly followed. Food being supplied to are being checked. All food supply vehicles are disinfected before they check into the premises. Masks and sanitizers too are provided to workers involved in supply of food stuff. We’re planning to install GPS in all vehicles to monitor their movements on real-time basis,” said Ravi. “We’re worried about primates. We have chimps at Mysuru zoo and a host of mammals. Keepers are told to follow all the guidelines and also directed how to be at home. Keepers at animal rescue centre at Koorgalli are provided facility to stay there as a precautionary measure,” said Ravi. Head of Karnataka Forest Forces and principal chief conservator of forests Punati Sridhar said necessary precautions have been taken to protect animals in captivity from Covid-19 virus. ‘No direct handling of animals in India’According to ZAK member-secretary BP Ravi, Mysuru zoo has 15 tigers and five primates. In all, Karnataka has over 50 tigers, more than 100 leopards and 25 lions. Over 1,500 different animals, birds and reptiles are housed in the 128-year-old Mysuru zoo. “One good practice in India is that the Central Zoo Authority doesn’t encourage animal handling by humans directly like in United States. Keepers and vets here don’t intervene unless any animal requires any medical aid. Handling of animals in US is different,” he said. Zoo employees living in Nanjangud given leave A few employees of Mysuru zoo living in Nanjangud, which has reported nearly two dozen Covid-19 positive cases, have been granted paid leave as a precautionary measure, said Ravi. A few employees from Bannur too were asked not to attend work. “We’re thinking of monitoring the movement of employees after taking them into confidence in view of safety of animals in captivity as well as employees of the facility,” he said Frozen meat Meanwhile, after supply of beef was hit in Bengaluru, the authorities have decided to provide frozen chicken to animals in Bannerghatta. Barring the Bannerghatta Biological Park, there is no problem in supply of beef in other places and officials continue to provide beef to carnivorous animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tigers-leopards-lions-in-captivity-hale-hearty/articleshow/75016758.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Mahagathbandhan govt completes 100 days amid lockdown||Ranchi: The Hemant Soren-led JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government on Monday completed 100 days in office amid a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The mahagathbandhan government is now facing poor health of the state treasury, along with a host of uncertainties, in view of the coronavirus outbreak. In less than a week, the state capital has reported two Covid-19 positive cases taking the statewide count to four as the health department is battling manpower and resource crunch to control the pandemic. Health minister Banna Gupta said despite the crunch, the government is trying its best to tide over the crisis. He stressed on the need for more central assistance. “We have received only 5,000 testing kits against the requirement of 75,000,” he said, pointing out that more than one lakh are either in institutionalised quarantine or home isolation in the state. He added that there is also a crisis of ventilators and other medical paraphernalia. Gupta, along with three other cabinet ministers from his party Rameshwar Oraon (finance and food and civil supplies), Badal (agriculture) and Alamgir Alam (rural development) attended a meeting convened by Hemant at the latter’s residence in the afternoon to take stock of the state’s preparedness against Covid-19 and also congratulate him for steering the alliance government since the change of guard in December last year. Earlier in the day, Soren and a battery of senior officials met Governor Droupadi Murmu to apprise her about the government’s activities against the pandemic. Oraon said that the alliance government had rolled out a series of welfare measures in sync with their poll manifestos within 100 days despite the challenges staring at them. He said, “The government has decided to waive off farm loans, set up dedicated funds for farmers, formed a committee to review and recommend changes in the local residents policy, initiation of ground works for providing free electricity to the people. These are just a few key highlights of our 100 days. Due to faulty policies of the earlier regime, we inherited a frail treasury and are trying to set things right to steer the state’s economic growth.” He added that the state machinery’ focus has been on safeguarding Jharkhand from Covid-19 and ensuring that none goes hungry in these times of crisis. He said, “We have announced and began dispatch of two months advance ration, opened community kitchens at panchayat bhavans, police stations and doubled the number of Mukhya Mantri Daal Bhaat Kendras and given emergency funds to districts and mukhiyas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahagathbandhan-govt-completes-100-days-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75016290.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Hindpiri sealed for next 72 hours, stern warning against lockdown violation||Ranchi: With two Covid-19 cases detected in the last one week, Hindpiri area has become the epicentre of the viral disease in the state and the Ranchi district administration on Monday clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC for the next three days, banning all forms of movement, including individuals and vehicles. All entry and exit points leading to Hindpiri have been sealed with immediate effect and police have been asked to enforce the lockdown strictly. The administration now plans to repeat home screening and contact tracing in all neighbourhoods of the area where members of Tablighi Jamaat were hosted. A control and command centre has been set up at the Guru Nanak School campus for the purpose. A team of district officials will co-ordinate in enforcing the lockdown as well as ensure supply of essential items in the area from the centre. Addressing the media from the centre, DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “As we have found the second patient from Nala Road in Hindpiri area, we are invoking Section 144 of CrPC with immediate effect, which will be applicable across all 15 lanes of the locality. All entry and exit points leading to Hindpiri have also been sealed and no one will be allowed in the area with immediate effect and I assure the residents that the district administration will supply essential commodities at their doorsteps and no one needs to venture out.” Ray appealed to all those who have come in contact with the infected persons or with their group to come forward and seek medical assistance immediately. In a stern warning to those who try to violate the lockdown, he said, “If anyone is found venturing out on the streets, they will be booked under relevant sections of Epidemics disease Act, IPC and CrPC. We have also arranged for medical teams at the control and command centre and people in need will be provided round-the-clock and immediate medical attention.” The DC further said, “We have formed a team of volunteers from the area, who in co-ordination with district administration, will ensure supply of essential items to all those in need. The volunteers will deliver ration items as well as medicines at their doorsteps and we will be issuing helpline numbers soon, so that people can contact us and put in requests.” SSP Anish Gupta, who also addressed the media, said, “As Section 144 has been invoked, a police team led by SP (city) Saurabh has been deployed for round-the-clock surveillance in the area. PCR vans, tiger mobile patrols as well as on foot security personnel will be guarding the area to enforce the lockdown strictly. Anyone found roaming on two wheelers or moving around unnecessarily will be taken to task and if a repeat offender is detected, cases will be registered against them under relevant laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindpiri-sealed-for-next-72-hours-stern-warning-against-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75017031.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Police personnel are without adequate protective gear: JPA||Ranchi: Expressing concern over the lack of protective gear among cops deployed in the ongoing fight against Covid-19, the Jharkhand Police Association (JPA) has demanded that the government provide masks, gloves and sanitizers to all personnel. On Monday, JPA office bearers, led by its president Yogendra Singh, visited various parts of the city, including Hotwar, Piska More, Birsa Chowk and the Main Road, to get a first-hand information on conditions under which the personnel are working. Singh said the government has not provided any protective gear to the police personnel so far and many of them have bought masks on their own. “Many policemen are still dependent on handkerchiefs to cover their face,” he said. Apart from masks, gloves are also necessary for the personnel as on many occasions, they have to deal with people physically, Singh said, highlighting that even cops posted at the isolation centre in Khelgaon were not provided with gloves. He added, “We distributed around 500 gloves among the personnel irrespective of their ranks on Monday. Masks were also given to many personnel in the past. This drive will continue in future as well.” Singh pointed out that JPA had written a letter to the police headquarters several days ago, seeking utilisation of the exigency funds of each police station to provide protective gear to personnel engaged in the fight against the virus. He said, “We have not received any letter from the department so far in this regard. Our personnel must be protected or else there will be acute manpower crisis in this long battle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-personnel-are-without-adequate-protective-gear-jpa/articleshow/75016246.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 7, 2020||Ranchi||Samples test negative; bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients released||Ranchi/Hazaribag: Samples of two persons, one in Ranchi and the other in Hazaribag, who died in hospitals and were suspected have been infected with the novel coronavirus, turned out to be negative. The body of Mahaveer Sahu, who died at the emergency ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi on Saturday, was handed over to his relatives on Monday, almost 55 hours after his death. Talking to TOI, Rims director Dr D K Singh said: “Soon after we received the test results, we informed his son and handed over his body. The patient had a history of liver disease and he did not die of Covid-19.” The son of the deceased, Raj Kumar Sahu, said hospital authorities co-operated with him on Monday and he did not face any difficulty. However, he said had they shown the same promptness when his father was admitted at the isolation ward on Friday, he might still have been alive. “I saw a complete change in the attitude of the hospital staff after samples of my father tested negative for Covid-19. I wish they were more prompt during the course of his treatment,” Raj said. Meanwhile, the 36-year-old man, who died at the Covid-19 ward at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) on Saturday night, also tested negative for coronavirus, Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said on Monday. The deceased, a labourer, had recently returned to Hazaribag from Delhi. Singh said, “Samples of the deceased tested negative for Covid-19 and his body was handed over to his family for cremation. He hailed from Saliya village in Barkatha. Samples of five family members of the man also tested negative.” Singh added that the condition of a 52-year-old from Bishnugarh, who was admitted at HMCH after testing positive for Covid-19 last week, was improving. The man had returned to Hazaribag from Asansol in West Bengal on March 29. Singh said, “He is doing fine. Samples of a few of his relatives and family members that were sent to Rims tested negative. There is no cause for alarm. We have begun contact tracing to identify others who might have come in contact with the patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/samples-test-negative-bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-patients-released/articleshow/75017148.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 7, 2020||World||Covid-19: World leaders wish UK PM Boris Johnson a quick recovery||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's admission to intensive care with coronavirus prompted an outpouring of well-wishes from world leaders on Monday. Here are some of the global figures who wished the British leader a quick recovery: President Donald Trump said he wanted to "send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, Prime Minister Boris Johnson." "We're very saddened to hear he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago. Americans are all praying for his recovery," Trump told a press conference. "We'll see if we can be of help. We've contacted all of Boris' doctors and we'll see what is going to take place. But they are ready to go." The European Union's top officials all sent public messages wishing Johnson a "full recovery". "My thoughts are with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his family this evening," European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen tweeted. European Council President Charles Michel expressed a similar sentiment, tweeting: "Get well soon, Boris." The EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier, who is recovering in quarantine after also testing positive, tweeted that "my thoughts are with you and your family." The best wishes from the European Union's top officials underlined the setting aside of political tussling after Johnson took Britain out of the bloc in January. French President Emmanuel Macron gave his "full support to Boris Johnson, his family and the British people at this difficult time". "I hope he will rapidly overcome this ordeal," tweeted. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian had earlier told BFMTV: "I know his strength, I am convinced he will draw from his resources, which are great, the capacity to overcome this ordeal. It's also symbolic of the seriousness of this crisis, which affects everyone." Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez tweeted: "My solidarity and wishes for a speedy recovery for Prime Minister Boris Johnson. These are difficult days for our countries, but it is through strength and unity that we can win this battle." Foreign Minister Luigi di Maio tweeted in English that "the Italian people is with the UK in these difficult times. We are one for each other. Get well soon Boris Johnson!" World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was "thinking of my friend Boris Johnson tonight, and sending my and WHO's heartfelt good wishes as he battles the coronavirus." "I know the NHS and its dedicated health workers will be looking after you," he tweeted. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whose wife tested positive last month, wished Johnson a full and speedy recovery. "My thoughts are with you and your family right now. Hope to see you back at Number 10 soon," he tweeted. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said that "on behalf of the Dutch cabinet, I wish Boris Johnson, his family and the British people lots of strength during this difficult time." "I hope to be able to speak to him soon in good health," Rutte tweeted. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said his thoughts are with his friend. "Lots of strength, Boris, and get well soon!" he tweeted. President Andrzej Duda tweeted: "My thoughts are with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his family at this testing time. I wish him a full and swift recovery." Czech President Milos Zeman tweeted: "I wish you strength and endurance in your fight with the disease to overcome it and win over it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/covid-19-world-leaders-wish-uk-pm-boris-johnson-a-quick-recovery/articleshow/75018975.cms||---
April 7, 2020||World||Covid-19: World leaders wish UK PM Boris Johnson a quick recovery||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's admission to intensive care with coronavirus prompted an outpouring of well-wishes from world leaders on Monday. Here are some of the global figures who wished the British leader a quick recovery: President Donald Trump said he wanted to "send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, Prime Minister Boris Johnson." "We're very saddened to hear he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago. Americans are all praying for his recovery," Trump told a press conference. "We'll see if we can be of help. We've contacted all of Boris' doctors and we'll see what is going to take place. But they are ready to go." The European Union's top officials all sent public messages wishing Johnson a "full recovery". "My thoughts are with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his family this evening," European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen tweeted. European Council President Charles Michel expressed a similar sentiment, tweeting: "Get well soon, Boris." The EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier, who is recovering in quarantine after also testing positive, tweeted that "my thoughts are with you and your family." The best wishes from the European Union's top officials underlined the setting aside of political tussling after Johnson took Britain out of the bloc in January. French President Emmanuel Macron gave his "full support to Boris Johnson, his family and the British people at this difficult time". "I hope he will rapidly overcome this ordeal," tweeted. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian had earlier told BFMTV: "I know his strength, I am convinced he will draw from his resources, which are great, the capacity to overcome this ordeal. It's also symbolic of the seriousness of this crisis, which affects everyone." Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez tweeted: "My solidarity and wishes for a speedy recovery for Prime Minister Boris Johnson. These are difficult days for our countries, but it is through strength and unity that we can win this battle." Foreign Minister Luigi di Maio tweeted in English that "the Italian people is with the UK in these difficult times. We are one for each other. Get well soon Boris Johnson!" World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was "thinking of my friend Boris Johnson tonight, and sending my and WHO's heartfelt good wishes as he battles the coronavirus." "I know the NHS and its dedicated health workers will be looking after you," he tweeted. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whose wife tested positive last month, wished Johnson a full and speedy recovery. "My thoughts are with you and your family right now. Hope to see you back at Number 10 soon," he tweeted. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said that "on behalf of the Dutch cabinet, I wish Boris Johnson, his family and the British people lots of strength during this difficult time." "I hope to be able to speak to him soon in good health," Rutte tweeted. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said his thoughts are with his friend. "Lots of strength, Boris, and get well soon!" he tweeted. President Andrzej Duda tweeted: "My thoughts are with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his family at this testing time. I wish him a full and swift recovery." Czech President Milos Zeman tweeted: "I wish you strength and endurance in your fight with the disease to overcome it and win over it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/covid-19-world-leaders-wish-uk-pm-boris-johnson-a-quick-recovery/articleshow/75018974.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||108 ambulances step up to allay fears amid lockdown||Vijayawada: The number of people availing themselves of 108 ambulance services in the state has increased in the past month following fears surrounding Covid-19. In March, these ambulances ferried over 3,600 persons with Covid-19-related health complaints to various hospitals. The 108 ambulances also served nearly 9,610 pregnancy-related emergencies, besides plying 850 people with cardiac-related problems to hospitals last month. The emergency service is continuing to receive phone calls from persons fearing they have been infected with Covid-19 and requesting an ambulance to get themselves tested at a nearby hospital. An official in the health department said the response time in rural areas is around 20 minutes and 17 minutes in urban areas. “People with even a mild cough have been calling up for an ambulance under an emergency Covid-19 pretext. This is primarily not only due to the Covid-19 fears, but also due to the restrictions in the lockdown period. This may continue even in April. We hardly get 1,500 emergency calls a month other than for the regular diseases and medical conditions. But this time, the ambulances attended more than 3,600 suspected Covid-19 cases. Persons at the 108 call centres had to counsel hundreds of callers on the symptomatology of Covid to quell their fears,” said the official. Pilots and other personnel in the 108 ambulances have been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE). The state government recently launched 108 bikes in tribal pockets to transfer tribal patients to nearby hospitals or main ambulances. These feeder ambulances have been working under the jurisdiction of various integrated tribal developmental agencies, including Paderu, Rampachodavaram, Seethampeta and Parvathipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/108-ambulances-step-up-to-allay-fears-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75015373.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Raids across AP expose meat traders cheating customers||Vijayawada: Taking advantage of the high demand for red meat and chicken, traders have begun cheating customers by manipulating their weighing machines. This came to light after officials of the legal metrology department conducted raids across the state, including over 20 shops in Visakhapatnam and Anakapalle, on Monday. It was found that a few meat traders were setting the unit to litre in their electronic weighing machines instead of gram while weighing the meat. Officials explained that on April 5, the price of meat had increased from Rs 700 to Rs 900 a kg. But by setting the weighing unit to litre instead of kilogram, the traders made a Rs 100 profit per kilogram. Similarly, raids were also carried out in Vijayawada city and Gudivada Town in Krishna district and few other places in the state. The officials registered over 40 cases against meat traders for cheating consumers. “Consumers must observe the weighing unit on the machine before purchasing the goods. If L symbol is on display, it means litre, which is used only for the weighing milk and oils. The cheating was mostly done at chicken and meat shops and customers go home with at least 100gms less that what they bargained for,” said PV Ranga Reddy, assistant controller. “We appeal to the authorities to continue their raids. We urge them to file criminal cases against the traders who are found selling low-quality meat during an health emergency,” said Kandregula Venkataramana, an activist in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/raids-across-ap-expose-meat-traders-cheating-customers/articleshow/75015407.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Naidu urges govt to increase test centres||Vijayawada: TDP supremo and leader of the Opposition N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday urged the state government to increase the number of Covid-19 testing centres in the state. He lashed out at the government for allegedly failing to increase the number of testing centres, ventilators and isolation wards despite the increase in the number of positive cases. The TDP chief criticised the daily official health bulletin, alleging that it lacks transparency and is inaccurate. “The situation is serious. The government is not able to handle it due to lack of experience. It should take help from political parties, experts and others in meeting the situation,” Naidu said. He cited Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s example of holding consultations with leaders of various political parties and wanted a similar exercise in AP. The TDP chief expressed concern over the scarcity of vegetables and provisions in the state as well as the rise in prices. He said that the government needs to keep a check the rise in price of essential commodities. He suggested that the government should intervene and provide marketing facility for the farmers. Further, the TDP chief said, “There is no need for making any payment to the contractors at this point of time. They can wait for the corona crisis to be resolved. The government must pay full salaries to the government staff who have been working hard during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-urges-govt-to-increase-test-centres/articleshow/75015423.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Retired nurse donates one month’s pension to PM-Cares fund||Mangaluru: Harini P, who retired as nursing superintendent (in-charge) last year, has donated her one month’s pension amount to the PM-Cares fund. She drew inspiration from medicos in Pune. In fact, the gesture of Pune doctors and nurses was even acknowledged by the Prime Minister, who reportedly called a nurse working at a hospital treating Covid-19 patients and applauded the work done by the hospital staff to fight the pandemic. Harini told TOI, “The country is going through a difficult phase and I was touched when Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the work of doctors and nurses. Though nurses are extremely vital to healthcare system, people rarely acknowledge their contribution. Being in the field for 36 years, I know the challenges the community is facing. As a token of respect to all the frontline warriors serving at this hour of crisis, I have donated one month’s pension amount (Rs 30,368) to the PM-Cares Fund. This is a very small amount, when compared to the costs that are expected to be incurred in case there is a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in India,” she said, requesting the public not to harass health workers who are risking their lives while attending to patients. Harini has been the recipient of the state-level Florence Nightingale award and was popular especially among children during her service as the chief nurse at the Regional Advanced Paediatrics Care Centre (RAPCC) of district Wenlock Hospital. She is ‘Amma’ to two orphan brothers who were admitted to the hospital in 2012 after one of them sustained more than 60 percent burns. She looked after them as long as they were in the hospital and though they found foster parents and moved away from the city, she continues to stay in touch by talking to them at least once a month over the phone. She has been honoured for her service by several organisations and continues to extend help to the needy post retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/retired-nurse-donates-one-months-pension-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/75016180.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Hunkered at home, children in a Mangaluru apartment complex bring out a newsletter||Mangaluru: Premature closure of schools, coupled with the suspension of all summer camps this year, has compelled children and parents alike to think out-of-the-box to kill the long hours of boredom, and the kids in an apartment complex in Mangaluru have hit on an innovative idea, that is as exciting as it is creative. Distressed with watching their 13-year-old son Arnav spending his entire day on the couch, with his eyes glued to the television screen, his parents Prashant and Usha Kamath decided to task him with an activity that was sure to whet his appetitte. The end result was Arnav getting a crash course in journalism. His parents, determined to engage him in a productive activity that would help their son sharpen his creative skills, suggested that Arnav come out with a newsletter, with the help of his friends. “I asked my son to publish a newsletter for the apartment, and told him he could use my computer to design pages. He was visibly excited at the prospect, and started working on it in earnest. He went through newspapers religiously, and started following news on TV closely,” Prashant Kamath told TOI. Along with his friend, Naren Pai, a class VI student, Arnav culled out the basic vision of the newsletter. The duo decided that the newsletter must have local, national and international sections, in addition to one dedicated to publishing children’s articles. “In no time, they had the first edition of ‘AE (Ashoka Excellency – the name of the apartment complex) Times’ ready and the four-page publication was released on March 29. The response has been overwhelmingly positive. They increased the number of pages to six for their next edition, which came out on Sunday. The newsletter, which was shared on their school group, has received rave reviews,” a proud Prashant added. An elated Arnav said that, producing the newsletter has helped both him and Naren stay abreast of the latest development in current affairs. “Naren comes to my home, and together, we finalise the design and content of the newsletter. Many children in the apartment complex have expressed interest in contributing articles and drawings to the newsletter. I ask my father when I have doubts about design or fonts. We are hoping to keep the newsletter running till the school re-opens in June,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hunkered-at-home-children-in-a-mangaluru-apartment-complex-bring-out-a-newsletter/articleshow/75016503.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 7, 2020||India||Over 25,500 Jamaat members isolated||NEW DELHI: The government has quarantined over 25,500 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts across the country and sealed five villages in Haryana where some “foreign members” of this Islamic organisation had stayed. Residents of these villages have also been placed under quarantine, the government said on Monday. Home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivatava said a “mega operation” to identify members of Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts was carried out by the Centre along with state governments across the country. She said 1,750 foreign-based members of the Jamaat, out of the total 2,083, have been blacklisted till now by the government. The Centre on Monday said 4,067 confirmed coronavirus positive cases were reported of which 1,445 are related to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in mid-March in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. The congregation, in the middle of the Covid-19 outbreak and then many of its members travelling to several parts of the country, contributed significantly in spreading the infection even as the government announced stringent measures like lockdown to contain the transmission. An analysis of health ministry shows that without Tablighi Jamaat-related cases, India's Covid-19 positive count would have doubled in 7.4 days, whereas it doubled in 4.1 days because several infected members of the Jamaat dispersed across the country, leading to the spread of the virus. Srivastava said Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to all the states and Union Territories on Monday, asking them to ensure that the supply chain of medical oxygen, critical for treatment of Covid-19 affected people, should go on smoothly and these directions should be "implemented strictly" while following norms of social distancing and proper hygiene. Meanwhile, states have already been advised to use funds under National Health Mission and State Disaster Relief Fund to undertake all activities related with creation of quarantine centres, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and other medical equipment, treatment of patients and all other activities related with management of the pandemic. In addition, NHM has already sanctioned Rs 1100 crore to all states and Rs 3000 crore additional funds were released on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-25500-jamaat-members-isolated/articleshow/75018963.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 7, 2020||India||Journalists being threatened, say broadcasters||NEW DELHI: The News Broadcasters Association, a collective of news and current affairs broadcasters, said on Monday journalists reporting on the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were being “threatened and abused” after they “exposed” its role in spreading the coronavirus pandemic in India. The organisation had held a religious gathering of several thousand persons in March, before India went into a 21-day nationwide lockdown. “Anchors and reporters working in news channels are being specifically targeted through social media platforms like WhatsApp, TikTok and Twitter,” the NBA said in a statement. It added, “There are videos circulating on social media in which some religious preachers are naming some TV news anchors and threatening attacks on the reporters of those channels.” The NBA also said religious preachers should refrain from “issuing open threats and making insinuations” against news channels, saying that it violates freedom of speech and expression. Saying this was a “pernicious trend” which the government and law enforcement agencies should step in to curtail, NBA also asked religious leaders to come forward and use the news channels to “clear their stand on the role of Tablighi Jamaat in spreading the novel coronavirus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/journalists-being-threatened-say-broadcasters/articleshow/75019011.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Noida||Noida officer on the frontlines of fight against Covid-19 can’t hold his newborn||NOIDA: It’s a girl! With the message came overpowering emotion. Rajeev Rai was ecstatic, but also relieved after quarantining himself in the guest room of his house for nearly three weeks so as to not endanger his pregnant wife and their eight-year-old daughter. He also had to give up on that special fatherhood moment of cradling the newborn in his arms. That’s how it will be for a while. Rai is the field officer leading the massive containment exercise to check the spread of the novel coronavirus infection in Noida, which has UP’s most Covid-19 cases so far (58). Each time a person tests positive, the containment protocol demands extensive sanitisation of the neighbourhood and sealing it for a period of time. Rai oversees this and, with cases in Noida surging in the last two weeks, his field visits have only gone up. So at home, he has distanced himself — staying confined to a guest room and the living area to avoid any contact with his family. Moments after he saw his newborn daughter — from near the door of his wife’s hospital room — on Monday afternoon, Rai had to go back to work. He returned to the hospital late evening, standing three metres away from his wife and daughter, on the doctor’s advice. Rai told TOI he will not go near his wife and child till his current task is completed. Picture Rajeev Rai saw his newborn daughter from near the door of his wife’s hospital room, standing 3 metres away on the doctor’s advice Noida officer home only for quick mealsIt’s one of the greatest days of my life. Both of them need to be in hospital for a few more days. They are already susceptible to infections and I don’t want to increase the risk any further. It would have been great to hold my girl and be by their side. But duty calls and we all have work to do,” said Rai, who otherwise holds the post of subdivisional magistrate (Dadri). Till Sunday, Rai was part of the administration team that worked at a stretch for 72 hours to set up the advanced integrated control room to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak in Noida as well as prepare contact-tracing software and run checks on those ordered home quarantine. Life had been different till just a month ago. Rai and his wife Swati had been planning to put office work in order so that he could take a few days’ leave and be with the family during the delivery. “We had planned that he would take a two-day trip to Allahabad and settle the official high court cases before the delivery,” Swati told TOI. “That way, he would be able to take a week’s leave from work and be with us. Then they all got busy, especially after the first case in Noida in the first week of March. Since then, he has only been home for a quick meal and a bath. On some days, he comes at 2am.” With Rai forced to confine himself, it also meant more household chores for Swati. “He is usually very helpful at home. But he has had to entirely restrict himself to just one part of the house so tshat he is never too close to us. He is scared because be visits all the places where positive cases have been reported. He has a different room now towards the outside, so that he can change and take a bath before he even enters any other part of the house,” said Swati, adding the family had stayed positive throughout the past few weeks as they prepared to welcome their newest member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-officer-on-the-frontlines-of-fight-against-covid-19-cant-hold-his-newborn/articleshow/75019012.cms||Snehil Sinha
April 7, 2020||Business||Prefer to wait for tea gardens opening: CM||Kolkata: The state government would prefer to wait and watch before opening the tea gardens of north Bengal owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking at a press conference in Nabanna, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said: “The Centre wants us to keep the tea gardens open. I spoke to the stakeholders on Monday. We have decided to wait for a few more days before opening them.” On April 3, the Union ministry of home affairs has sent a circular allowing the tea industry to function with a maximum 50% staff strength amid lockdown subject to the approval from the respective state governments. For the first time in the history of the Darjeeling, Dooars and Terai tea estates of north Bengal, almost entire lot of the expensive and exportable first flush leaves withered away, amid the suspension of garden operations. Garden experts confirm that it will take a few weeks to a month to get the tea bushes back in shape after re-opening on April 15, which may also affect the equally prized second flush crop of May-June. Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling produce around 353 mkg of made tea annually and it may come down by 45-50 mkg this year. There are 3.5 lakh labourers (along with their 15 lakh direct dependents) on payroll across the 290 tea gardens in north Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prefer-to-wait-for-tea-gardens-opening-cm/articleshow/75018230.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Faridabad||Palwal, Faridabad emerge as new Covid-19 hotspots||GURUGRAM: Three neighbouring districts of Gurugram, all within 50km of Delhi, are emerging as hotspots for Covid-19 — Palwal, Faridabad and Nuh (Mewat). Together, these three areas have 60 cases – 25, 21 and 14 respectively — accounting for 62.5% of the state’s tally of 96. On Monday, 22 new cases, including 20 from the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) chain, were reported from the districts — nine in Palwal, seven in Faridabad and six in Nuh. So far, Gurugram has two TJ-linked out of 16 total cases (excluding the 14 Italians who were admitted to Medanta hospital). With more attendees being tested, the health department is expecting a spike over the next few days. Palwal now has 25 cases, the highest in Haryana so far. Out of these, 24 are related to TJ. “We identified 89 people from the congregation who visited Palwal. We also traced their primary contacts and quarantined 203 people. About 556 people were also under surveillance,” said Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu. Eleven villages have been sealed, 3,000 houses have been surveyed and two lakh people have been screened, he added. “We have created containment zones in 25 villages and increased sample collections. We are taking the help of police to trace phone records to identify Jamaat members.” Faridabad’stally rose to 21 on Monday, with five of the seven testing positive linked to Jamaat. Among the other patients is a health worker from Sonipat. Two patients have recovered so far. Nearly117 people from the Tablighi congregation have been identified, officials said. About 1,237 people with foreign travel history have been kept under surveillance. Out of these, 170 people have completed 28 days of quarantine. A total of 272 samples have been sent for testing so far, out of which reports of 196 have come negative and those of 55 people are awaited. Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, said that medical and paramedical staff are being trained to treat Covid-19 patients in the district. In Nuh, out of the six people who tested positive on Monday, one is from Jammu and Kashmir while the other five are foreign nationals from Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Out of the district’s 14 cases, 13 are from the TJ chain. Three villages have been sealed and the samples of 334 people have been sent to PGI Rohtak for testing. Nuh chief medical officer Virender Singh said, “We have placed them in the isolation wards at Medical College. We will have the results by Sunday.” Police and the administration have stepped up tracing and surveillance efforts in the predominantly Muslim district to monitor the chain of contact of villagers with those who attended the Tablighi meet. In all, 1,193 people have been put under surveillance. Another 100 people have been found to be in touch with Covid-19 patients and have been put in isolation.  “We have identified four villages that the patients had visited in the recent past. We have completed door-to-door screening in three of them and sealed them,” said Nuh deputy commissioner Pankaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/palwal-faridabad-emerge-states-covid-hotspots/articleshow/75019039.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Palwal, Faridabad emerge as new Covid-19 hotspots||GURUGRAM: Three neighbouring districts of Gurugram, all within 50km of Delhi, are emerging as hotspots for Covid-19 — Palwal, Faridabad and Nuh (Mewat). Together, these three areas have 60 cases – 25, 21 and 14 respectively — accounting for 62.5% of the state’s tally of 96. On Monday, 22 new cases, including 20 from the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) chain, were reported from the districts — nine in Palwal, seven in Faridabad and six in Nuh. So far, Gurugram has two TJ-linked out of 16 total cases (excluding the 14 Italians who were admitted to Medanta hospital). With more attendees being tested, the health department is expecting a spike over the next few days. Palwal now has 25 cases, the highest in Haryana so far. Out of these, 24 are related to TJ. “We identified 89 people from the congregation who visited Palwal. We also traced their primary contacts and quarantined 203 people. About 556 people were also under surveillance,” said Palwal chief medical officer Brahmdeep Sandhu. Eleven villages have been sealed, 3,000 houses have been surveyed and two lakh people have been screened, he added. “We have created containment zones in 25 villages and increased sample collections. We are taking the help of police to trace phone records to identify Jamaat members.” Faridabad’stally rose to 21 on Monday, with five of the seven testing positive linked to Jamaat. Among the other patients is a health worker from Sonipat. Two patients have recovered so far. Nearly117 people from the Tablighi congregation have been identified, officials said. About 1,237 people with foreign travel history have been kept under surveillance. Out of these, 170 people have completed 28 days of quarantine. A total of 272 samples have been sent for testing so far, out of which reports of 196 have come negative and those of 55 people are awaited. Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, said that medical and paramedical staff are being trained to treat Covid-19 patients in the district. In Nuh, out of the six people who tested positive on Monday, one is from Jammu and Kashmir while the other five are foreign nationals from Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Out of the district’s 14 cases, 13 are from the TJ chain. Three villages have been sealed and the samples of 334 people have been sent to PGI Rohtak for testing. Nuh chief medical officer Virender Singh said, “We have placed them in the isolation wards at Medical College. We will have the results by Sunday.” Police and the administration have stepped up tracing and surveillance efforts in the predominantly Muslim district to monitor the chain of contact of villagers with those who attended the Tablighi meet. In all, 1,193 people have been put under surveillance. Another 100 people have been found to be in touch with Covid-19 patients and have been put in isolation.  “We have identified four villages that the patients had visited in the recent past. We have completed door-to-door screening in three of them and sealed them,” said Nuh deputy commissioner Pankaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/palwal-faridabad-emerge-states-covid-hotspots/articleshow/75018328.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||In just two days, fatality rate in Mumbai jumps from 4 per cent to 6.5 per cent||MUMBAI: With seven deaths in the state on Monday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll rose to 52, of which Mumbai accounted for 34. Worryingly, it translated into a fatality rate of 6% for the state, double that of the national 3%, and an even higher 6.5% for Mumbai. The fatality rate of Mumbai has risen sharply, up from 4% on Saturday (April 4). All seven deaths on Monday were also reported from the Mumbai region—four from Mumbai and one each from Vasai-Virar, Kalyan and Thane. Till March 31, the state had recorded 300 cases and 10 deaths, meaning a death rate of 3%. Maharashtra now accounts for over 40% of all Covid-19 deaths in the country. Dr Anup Kumar, the commissioner of the National Health Mission, said Maharashtra is testing more than many other states. “Also, we have seen most casualties among people with underlying health conditions. However, we have formed a team that has started gathering data on all deaths from across the state. We will study that,” he said. On Monday, 120 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking its tally to 868. Mumbai’s tally crossed 500, reaching 526 as the city reported 57 new cases. In all, 70 people have been discharged so far. In Pune, with most of the 34 new cases being reported from the congested ‘peths’, the state sealed them from midnight. 73% deaths in state of men, 87% had med history: StudyAn analysis of the Covid-19 deaths reported in the state till Sunday shows that of the 45 deaths, 73% were male. Two were between 40 and 45, and a 30-year-old pregnant woman was reported dead on Monday. Importantly, 87% of the deceased had underlying health issues like hypertension and diabetes. In at least 4-5 fatalities, the individuals also had long-standing heart problems. The highest deaths have happened in the age-group of 61-70 years (14), although most cases have been reported in the age bracket of 41-50 years. Commenting on Mumbai’s higher death rate, Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department at BMC, said most deaths have been in the agegroup of 70-80 years. “Besides, we are testing a lot more than many other places. Over 90% of the deaths have been seen in people with underlying conditions,” she said. State officials said there are states with much higher mortality rates than Maharashtra. According to the Union health ministry, Gujarat and Punjab have a fatality rate of 9%, the highest in the country. Himachal Pradesh has a mortality rate of 8%. However, all these states have way fewer cases than Maharashtra. Gujarat, for instance, had 122 cases till April 5. Punjab had 68 till Sunday. Infectious diseases expert Dr Tanu Singhal, who consults with Kokilaben Hospital, said at this moment, the deaths were too few to make a generalisation. “There could be a statistical bias here. Maharashtra could be testing much more than other states. Elsewhere, cases of Covid-19, if not tested, could be passing off as viral pneumonia, in which case Maharashtra’s figures would stand out. There is also more awareness and medical facilities in Mumbai, which could mean more diagnosis,” she said. A state official said the rate of discharge in the state should be considered. “If we are looking at the fatality rate, we should also consider the rate of people getting discharged, which is over 8% of the total positive cases,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-just-two-days-fatality-rate-in-mumbai-jumps-from-4-per-cent-to-6-5-per-cent/articleshow/75019021.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 7, 2020||India||‘Truck aggregators’ can link farmers to ‘mandis’: Modi||NEW DELHI: PM Modi on Monday asked ministers to harness technology and explore innovative solutions like using ‘truck aggregators’ on the lines of app-based cab services to connect farmers with mandis. Truck aggregators could help farmers transport their produce from farms or registered warehouses to agrimarkets at cheaper costs and in a hassle-free manner. Modi’s suggestions came during his interaction with Union ministers via video conference. Though India has a few truck aggregators, they are not popular among farmers who still have to depend on local operators.The Centre had last week tried to minimise hassles by launching new features at its national agriculture market portal (e-NAM). The e-NAM provides a database of transporters to the traders. Under newly launched features, traders would now be able to use the link to navigate to the logistics providers’ website and select appropriate services to deliver produce. More than 3,75,000 trucks would be added for the purpose. The PM said the government would provide all possible help to farmers in the ongoing harvest season which coincides with the lockdown period. He also underlined the need to devise a strategy to ensure procurement of tribal products so that the source of income of the indigenous tribal populace remains intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/truck-aggregators-can-link-farmers-to-mandis-modi/articleshow/75019044.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi hospital sealed after 18 staffers test positive for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: The state government on Monday sealed the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), a 180-bedded hospital, after it was found that 18 of its healthcare workers — two doctors and 16 nurses — had Covid-19. At least 50 other staff members, including the director of the hospital and senior doctors, have been advised self-quarantine. The Delhi governmentrun hospital is situated in Shahdara, close to Dilshad Garden, one of the hotspots in the capital. One of the hospital’s senior residents who worked in the preventive oncology department had tested positive on April 1. Three days later, three nurses also tested positive for the disease, leading to a scare and the hospital deciding to shut down its OPD services. It also initiated the process of shifting its patients — 48 people suffering from cancer — to a private hospital. 22 new cases take Delhi total to 525; 25 of them in ICUWe have collected swab samples of 19 patients. They have been sent for testing on Monday. The district surveillance officers are trying to contact all other patients who may have come in contact with the doctors and nurses who have tested positive for Covid-19,” said a senior official at the DSCI. Cancer patients are at high risk of developing complications and the hospital was worried about the number of patients affected by the disease, he added. A 38-year-old woman with travel history to Saudi Arabia, who lives in Dilshad Garden, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 17. Subsequently, many of her family members and two mohalla clinic doctors who came in contact with her, also tested positive. The DSCI is in close proximity to Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) hospital where 103 suspected and 28 positive cases of Covid-19 are currently admitted. Many of them are evacuees from the Nizamuddin mosque. District surveillance officials are exploring whether the sudden explosion of cases in the hospital was linked to the Dilshad Garden cluster, or to the Nizamuddin mosque. “We are hoping our cancer patients haven’t contracted the disease from one of the nurses or doctors. That can have devastating consequences,” said a senior DSCI doctor, who did not want to be quoted. Delhi has reported 525 Covid-19 cases, including 22 confirmed positives on Monday. Of the total cases, 329 are connected to the Nizamuddin cluster, sources said. As many as 25 people suffering from the disease in Delhi need ICU support, while another 15 require oxygen support, suggesting their lung functions are compromised. To date, Delhi has confirmed seven deaths, but the number may increase sharply given the high number of seriously-ill patients. Maharaja Agrasen hospital in West Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh has confirmed that five of their healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19. They are believed to have contracted the infection from a 52-year-old man from Sonipat, who died at the hospital recently during treatment. At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) also, 108 staff members are under quarantine as two patients who visited the hospital last week were confirmed as Covid-19 positive cases. A senior doctor at AIIMS and his wife were confirmed positive last week. The wife delivered a healthy baby on Friday. Recently, two doctors at Safdarjung hospital were also tested positive. While one of them had travel history, the cause of infection in the other is still not known. Also, at least 40 healthcare workers have been confirmed positive for Covid-19 in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hospital-sealed-after-18-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75018996.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drones swoop into Dharavi to shepherd people to safety||MUMBAI: The BMC is using drones to check lockdown violations in Covid-19 hotspot Worli and congested Dharavi, where there are fears of a cluster spread of the coronavirus. The same methodology is being followed by Thane police in densely-packed Mumbra and Bhiwandi. On Monday morning, a team of BMC officers led by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi reached Dharavi, which has recorded five Covid-19 cases, including one death. Using a drone, the team got an aerial view of the entire slum sprawl, down to the narrowest of lanes. While watching the footage, Pardeshi told TOI, “We are looking for any movement among the public, especially in areas marked out as Covid-19 containment zones. We are taking L&T's help for this.” The primary reason why civic authorities have taken to aerial surveillance is to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in Dharavi's shanties; till now, Dharavi's reported cases have come from flats in buildings, not shanty clusters where social distancing is almost impossible to maintain. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward, which contains Dharavi, said, “We are organising health camps in slum areas and have appealed to private doctors for help. A private hospital has been acquired and kept ready in case it is required. We have not yet been able to trace the index case and therefore are taking precautions." In Worli, 15 Covid-19 positive cases and one death have been reported so far. G South ward, where Worli lies, has recorded a total of 68 cases as per data BMC released on Monday morning. In Thane, police officers said drones will monitor the alleys of Mumbra and Bhiwandi with precision, so that the lockdown can be enforced efficiently. "We will now be able to not just monitor what's going on in any area, but also make timely announcements and issue warnings to residents," said deputy police commissioner (Thane) SS Burse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-drones-swoop-into-dharavi-to-shepherd-people-to-safety/articleshow/75019045.cms||Richa Pinto
April 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Hospitals’ worry as cases rise: Manpower shortage||GURUGRAM: Palwal, which has reported the highest number of positive cases in the state so far, does not have a single general physician in its district hospital. Moreover, there are 15 posts of MBBS doctors and nurses that are lying vacant at the health facility. “We have already sent a request to appoint more doctors and we are hoping to get help soon from the health department,” said chief medical officer, Brahmdeep Sandhu, Palwal. The district currently has a dedicated team of 75 medical staffers to deal with positive cases. The district’s health infrastructure, Sandhu said, was well equipped to handle Covid-19 cases. “We have 600 PPE kits, 1,000 N95 masks and more than 1 lakh triple-layer face masks. We have around 10 medical staff responsible for providing psychological help to the Covid-19 positive and suspected patients,” he said. In Palwal, 25 people have tested positive for coronavirus so far. While there are 16 isolation wards with 225 beds, this will not suffice in case the number of positive cases go up in the coming days. The test result of 30 patients is still awaited and is likely to be out in a day or two. “While there is no shortage of equipment, we need more medical staff to deal with the situation. We have also increased our bed count from 100 to 160 in the civil hospital. We are hoping that three medical officers and one physician will join us soon,” said Sandhu. Mewat is also grappling with a lack of manpower as the number of patients rise. With the conversion of the Mewat Medical College into a Covid-19 exclusive hospital, there is no shortage of beds as of now. In all, the medical college has 600 beds and 250 isolation wards. The test results for 229 people are expected on Tuesday and if a majority of them test positive, the administration will face a dire situation.  “As of now, there is no shortage in terms of infrastructure but there is a shortage of manpower. If things get worse, it will be a concern,” said Pankaj, deputy commissioner, Nuh. For a population of 11 lakh people (as per 2011 Census data) Mewat has just 18 medical officers in all. “We have around 4-5 doctors for conducting the samples and all of them had to work around the clock over the past two days to collect samples,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity. He said though there is no shortage of the PPE kits, this could change if the number of Covid-19 patients increases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hospitals-worry-as-cases-rise-manpower-shortage/articleshow/75018358.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||With 52 cases, Wockhardt Hospital bigger hotspot than most Mumbai wards||MUMBAI: The Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central seems to have emerged as the city’s biggest hotspot with the count of positive cases from the facility touching 52 on Monday. Civic officials confirmed that apart from nurses, staffers and three doctors are among those who have tested positive. This single hospital in the city now has more cases than all but one of the 24 civic wards. G South, which includes the densely populated Worli Koliwada that saw an outbreak last week, is the only one with more cases — 68. Police have barricaded the entrance to the hospital, which has shut its gates and services. Civic officials confirmed that plans were being drawn up to shift the affected staffers to various dedicated Covid-19 hospitals so that this facility could start functioning. The hospital was declared a containment zone after nurses started coming positive. Sources said around 50-60 patients continue to be in the hospital, but most have tested negative for coronavirus. Besides the medical personnel, samples of patients too have been sent for testing. In all, 270 swabs were collected from the hospital. “Most of the positive staffers, which includes nearly 30 nurses, didn’t have any major symptoms,” said BMC’s deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah. She said the source of the infection was a heart patient who didn’t have Covid-19 symptoms. By the time he had come positive, which was almost after four-five days into treatment at the hospital, many staffers were exposed to the virus. Nurses have alleged that the hospital’s inappropriate handling of the situation was mainly responsible for the spread. Families of several nurses have even reached out to the Kerala CM, requesting him to intervene in the matter. On Monday, Kerala’s leader of opposition Ramesh Chennithala called Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope seeking his intervention. “As many as 40 nurses from Kerala working at a private hospital in Mumbai have contracted the disease. More than 150 nurses in the hospital are kept under observation. There are more than 200 nurses from Kerala working in this hospital. The health workers becoming prey to the fatal virus en masse is a grave situation,” he said, adding that the lives of the nurses have to be saved at any cost. Hospital sources, however, told TOI most nurses are asymptomatic, while the others are recovering. Hospital officials said 50 nurses had been shifted to SevenHills, Marol, on Monday evening. The hospital in a statement said the source of infection was identified as a 70-year-old patient admitted on March 17 for a cardiac emergency. “The patient was asymptomatic. On March 26, the patient developed cough, and was tested for Covid-19, which turned out positive. The hospital staff were unknowingly exposed to the infection in the time period. We are informing the healthcare sector at large not to be misled by asymptomatic patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-52-cases-wockhardt-hospital-bigger-hotspot-than-most-mumbai-wards/articleshow/75019073.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 7, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka may allow liquor sale for 3 hours if curbs extended||BENGALURU: Dry days are likely to end as the Karnataka government plans to allow sale of liquor for limited hours if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, when the lockdown imposed by the Centre ends.  The government is considering making liquor available as incidents of people addicted to alcohol committing suicide and facing health problems due to withdrawal symptoms are on the rise, said officials of the excise department. The incidents of burglaries targeting wine stores are also on the rise across the state since March 24. The excise department has made a proposal to allow sale of liquor between 10am and 1pm if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14 and the CM will take the final call, an officer said.  Karnataka banned the liquor sale on March 21, four days before the nationwide lockdown announced by PM Modi took effect. Financial consideration has also prompted the government to mull over the issue as sale of liquor is the second highest money-spinner, after commercial tax, for the state government. As per the excise earnings for 2019-20, the government earns an average of Rs 1,800 crore a month. According to the current year budget, the government was hoping to earn Rs 22,700 crore and exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. Allow only MSIL outlets to open: Excise officialAmong the four revenueearning sectors, liquor was the only silver lining for the government. “The government is cashstrapped since the lockdown has hampered revenue collection. It’s short of the revenue target by about Rs 5,000 crore. So it has to find ways to better its revenue collection by allowing sale of liquor,’’ an excise official said defending the move. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa ruled out resumption of liquor sale before April 14. “We’ll think of allowing sale only after that,” he added. Fearing a sudden rush if vends are opened for only a few hours, a senior excise official said the government must allow “all liquor shops” to function for full day or permit only MSIL outlets to operate full time, besides issuing stringent guidelines for the public to follow while buying liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-may-allow-liquor-sale-for-3-hours-if-curbs-extended/articleshow/75019098.cms||Anil Gejji
April 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka may allow liquor sale for 3 hours if curbs extended||BENGALURU: Dry days are likely to end as the Karnataka government plans to allow sale of liquor for limited hours if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, when the lockdown imposed by the Centre ends.  The government is considering making liquor available as incidents of people addicted to alcohol committing suicide and facing health problems due to withdrawal symptoms are on the rise, said officials of the excise department. The incidents of burglaries targeting wine stores are also on the rise across the state since March 24. The excise department has made a proposal to allow sale of liquor between 10am and 1pm if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14 and the CM will take the final call, an officer said.  Karnataka banned the liquor sale on March 21, four days before the nationwide lockdown announced by PM Modi took effect. Financial consideration has also prompted the government to mull over the issue as sale of liquor is the second highest money-spinner, after commercial tax, for the state government. As per the excise earnings for 2019-20, the government earns an average of Rs 1,800 crore a month. According to the current year budget, the government was hoping to earn Rs 22,700 crore and exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. Allow only MSIL outlets to open: Excise officialAmong the four revenueearning sectors, liquor was the only silver lining for the government. “The government is cashstrapped since the lockdown has hampered revenue collection. It’s short of the revenue target by about Rs 5,000 crore. So it has to find ways to better its revenue collection by allowing sale of liquor,’’ an excise official said defending the move. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa ruled out resumption of liquor sale before April 14. “We’ll think of allowing sale only after that,” he added. Fearing a sudden rush if vends are opened for only a few hours, a senior excise official said the government must allow “all liquor shops” to function for full day or permit only MSIL outlets to operate full time, besides issuing stringent guidelines for the public to follow while buying liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-may-allow-liquor-sale-for-3-hours-if-curbs-extended/articleshow/75019099.cms||Anil Gejji
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka may allow liquor sale for 3 hours if curbs extended||BENGALURU: Dry days are likely to end as the Karnataka government plans to allow sale of liquor for limited hours if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, when the lockdown imposed by the Centre ends.  The government is considering making liquor available as incidents of people addicted to alcohol committing suicide and facing health problems due to withdrawal symptoms are on the rise, said officials of the excise department. The incidents of burglaries targeting wine stores are also on the rise across the state since March 24. The excise department has made a proposal to allow sale of liquor between 10am and 1pm if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14 and the CM will take the final call, an officer said.  Karnataka banned the liquor sale on March 21, four days before the nationwide lockdown announced by PM Modi took effect. Financial consideration has also prompted the government to mull over the issue as sale of liquor is the second highest money-spinner, after commercial tax, for the state government. As per the excise earnings for 2019-20, the government earns an average of Rs 1,800 crore a month. According to the current year budget, the government was hoping to earn Rs 22,700 crore and exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. Allow only MSIL outlets to open: Excise officialAmong the four revenueearning sectors, liquor was the only silver lining for the government. “The government is cashstrapped since the lockdown has hampered revenue collection. It’s short of the revenue target by about Rs 5,000 crore. So it has to find ways to better its revenue collection by allowing sale of liquor,’’ an excise official said defending the move. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa ruled out resumption of liquor sale before April 14. “We’ll think of allowing sale only after that,” he added. Fearing a sudden rush if vends are opened for only a few hours, a senior excise official said the government must allow “all liquor shops” to function for full day or permit only MSIL outlets to operate full time, besides issuing stringent guidelines for the public to follow while buying liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-may-allow-liquor-sale-for-3-hours-if-curbs-extended/articleshow/75019077.cms||Anil Gejji
April 7, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka may allow liquor sale for 3 hours if curbs extended||BENGALURU: Dry days are likely to end as the Karnataka government plans to allow sale of liquor for limited hours if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, when the lockdown imposed by the Centre ends.  The government is considering making liquor available as incidents of people addicted to alcohol committing suicide and facing health problems due to withdrawal symptoms are on the rise, said officials of the excise department. The incidents of burglaries targeting wine stores are also on the rise across the state since March 24. The excise department has made a proposal to allow sale of liquor between 10am and 1pm if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14 and the CM will take the final call, an officer said.  Karnataka banned the liquor sale on March 21, four days before the nationwide lockdown announced by PM Modi took effect. Financial consideration has also prompted the government to mull over the issue as sale of liquor is the second highest money-spinner, after commercial tax, for the state government. As per the excise earnings for 2019-20, the government earns an average of Rs 1,800 crore a month. According to the current year budget, the government was hoping to earn Rs 22,700 crore and exceeded the target by Rs 450 crore. Allow only MSIL outlets to open: Excise officialAmong the four revenueearning sectors, liquor was the only silver lining for the government. “The government is cashstrapped since the lockdown has hampered revenue collection. It’s short of the revenue target by about Rs 5,000 crore. So it has to find ways to better its revenue collection by allowing sale of liquor,’’ an excise official said defending the move. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa ruled out resumption of liquor sale before April 14. “We’ll think of allowing sale only after that,” he added. Fearing a sudden rush if vends are opened for only a few hours, a senior excise official said the government must allow “all liquor shops” to function for full day or permit only MSIL outlets to operate full time, besides issuing stringent guidelines for the public to follow while buying liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-may-allow-liquor-sale-for-3-hours-if-curbs-extended/articleshow/75019097.cms||Anil Gejji
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||MPs & MLAs remote-control Covid relief||Kolkata: Like almost everyone else, it’s work from home for Bengal politicians. If workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress and opposition BJP are reaching out to daily-wage earners with free food, their leaders are remotely monitoring the operations. Trinamool workers are carrying food packets on cycle vans and distributing them among the poor in Barrackpore. Party secretary-general and minister Partha Chatterjee too visited Behala to distribute food packets. The state BJP headquarters is keeping track of the distribution process on a daily basis and sending reports to Delhi. The focus is on Kolkata and Howrah. According to the party’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu, workers distributed rice, pulses and potato among 87,182 families on March 30, 1,01,000 families on March 31 and 1,30,000 families on April 1. “Our MPs (18 LS members and two RS members), 14 MLAs and 30 state office-bearers began the effort by spending on their own. It is now being carried out by one lakh-odd BJP workers spread across 70,000 booths,” Basu said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh has procured 10 vans to carry food items for the poor in Kolkata and Howrah. BJP leader Mukul Roy and party MPs Arjun Singh and Nisith Adhikary are running similar camps in their own constituencies. Left organisations have a different approach. Paschimbanga Vigyan Mancha volunteers are holding workshops on how to make hand sanitisers with isopropyl alcohol, glycerine and clove oil. Left youth wing DYFI in Jadavpur has floated a platform of “red volunteers” to help senior citizens with buying medicine and food. DYFI activists in Barrackpore belt are donating blood to the central blood bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mps-mlas-remote-control-covid-relief/articleshow/75018729.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Government forces join hands, make sure every dog (and cat) of Kolkata has its food||KOLKATA: A mass feeding initiative undertaken by Kolkata Police, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and a few other state bodies, such as the forest department, has come as a ray of hope for thousands of strays — both dogs and cats — of the city who depend on leftover food from eateries, but who had been finding it increasingly difficult to manage even the odd scrap, because of the nationwide lockdown. With crime rate in the city at an all-time low, officers of the detective department and the anti-rowdy squad have formed teams with members of all police stations under Kolkata Police, to prepare food for and distribute it to the strays. “We are used to catch hardened criminals and handle tough law-and-order situations. Feeding dogs is something very new to us, but this situation gives us an opportunity to serve the animals. I am loving it,” said Ashadur Rahman, the additional officer-in-charge of Kasba police station. Cops said the idea was floated by KP commissioner Anuj Sharma himself after several animal rights organisation approached Lalbazar, seeking permission and special passes to feed strays during the lockdown. The department did issue a number of passes to each applicant, but, realising it would be a daunting task for a handful of NGO, the cops themselves took up the task. “In this hour of crisis, Kolkata Police is standing by its citizens and helping them,” said Sharma. “But the strays are facing the brunt of the lockdown, as people are neither coming out to feed them, nor are they getting anything from garbage. We at Kolkata Police have taken the humane approach in feeding all strays from our own resources. We are also feeding horses in and around the Maidan, taking help from various NGOs and RCTC (the Royal Calcutta Turf Club). We shall continue this project till the return of normality,” he added. As part of the initiative, multiple police officers from each police station have been making the rounds of areas under their jurisdiction, feeding stray dogs and cats cooked meals of rice and meat on clean paper plates or plates made of sal leaves. “The food is made in a way so that it is easy to digest,”: said an officer of Netaji Nagar police station. “We cook it in our police housing kitchen and distribute it in police vehicles. Along with rice and meat, we are also feeding biscuits.” A few days ago, former Union minister and senior BJP leader Maneka Gandhi had urged cops and resident welfare associations to be sympathetic to strays in their areas. “Street dogs, cows and birds can neither get nor give the corona virus to humans. However, in the event of a lockdown, if they are not fed, many will die, creating another kind of serious problem,” she had said. The KMC-managed dog pound at Dhapa is also supporting the initiative and feeds over 400 dogs each day in central and north Kolkata. The team starts from the north and south gates of Victoria Memorial and moves towards Millennium Park, covering Vidhan Sabha Bhavan, the High Court, the Town Hall and Bankshall Court. The team then takes Bidhan Sarani and moves all the way to Chitpore and Burrabazar before coming back to Dhapa each evening. “The project is supported and funded by deputy mayor Atin Ghosh, ward 63 councillor Susmita Bhattacharya and some animal lovers like Sreelekha Mitra, Debosree Roy, Tathagata Mukherjee and Debolina Dutta,” said Rajib Ghosh of the pound, who is overseeing the project. Officers of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate and the state forest department have also taken up similar initiatives. “We are providing the animals with chicken khichri, chapatis and biscuits at different times of the day. It has been strictly instructed that the food should not be spicy. Our officials are doping the rounds of the city and feeding animals,” said state forest minister Rajib Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-forces-join-hands-make-sure-every-dog-and-cat-of-kolkata-has-its-food/articleshow/75018730.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Active Covid-19 cases 61, West Bengal CM raps Centre for disputing data||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday questioned the Centre’s motive in disputing the state’s Covid-19 patients’ tally and death toll and announced the formation of a “Global Advisory Board”, including Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, to help the state government formulate a policy response to the emerging situation. “Is it fair to release separate sets of data? We do not do it. We accept the data released by the Centre,” Banerjee said. Bengal’s Covid-19 death toll remained at three, she added, though there was a spike in cases. The number of “active positive” cases rose to 61 till Monday noon; the total Covid-19 tally till date came to 77 (including the three deaths and 13 patients who had completely recovered). The Bengal CM also expressed her apprehensions over the lengthy “gharbandi”, which she said had impacted daily wage earners and petty traders, and compared the situation with the “notebandi” of four years ago. “But we have to abide by the lockdown. So I spoke to Nobel Laureate Banerjee, who assured me of help in formulating a Covid-response policy for Bengal. He will head the panel, comprising other experts like former World Health Organisation regional representative Swarup Sarkar and eminent physicians like Abhijit Chowdhury and Sukumar Mukherjee,” the CM said. Banerjee sought to allay people’s fears by focusing on the positives: one major takeaway, she said, was the fact that 55 of the 61 cases still in hospital belonged to only seven families. “Just one Kalimpong cluster is responsible for 11 cases, a defence doctor’s cluster is responsible for five, a Tehatta family accounts for five patients, the Egra cluster has a dozen and Howrah and Kolkata and Haldia account for eight, 12 and two patients, respectively,” she said. Also, an overwhelming number of patients had either “foreign travel history or came in contact with people who had travelled”, Banerjee added, explaining why things were better here than in many other parts of the country. Bengal had done 1,301 swab tests so far, she said, adding that the started with only “40 kits when it began the fight against the virus”. “Thirteen patients admitted to Beliaghata’s ID Hospital have been discharged after full recovery and doctors 12 of the 17 patients still there are responding very well to treatment. None of them has needed the ventilator,” she said. Banerjee appealed to people having ailments like hypertension, blood sugar, kidney problems or lung congestion to go directly to MR Bangur Hospital. “It has all life-support facilities. You don’t need to go to SSKM, NRS or Medical College and Hospital,” she said. She also urged people to disclose their recent medical history to doctors for the sake of other patients and healthcare staff. “Don’t hide anything from doctors; you will then put the other patients and doctors at risk,” she said. The Bengal CM drew a parallel between the current situation and the state’s struggle to contain malaria for more than a decade since the early 1990s. “The current figures so far are less than the malaria and dengue figures of the past. More than 200 people died of malaria in 2005; nearly 1.6 lakh were affected. Fifty people died of dengue in 2016; 26,741 had the disease,” she said. Banerjee asked the police to take strong action against fake posts on the disease. “The information technology cell of a political party has been spreading fake coronairus news, using the state health bulletin logo. This is not the time for politics. This is the time to serve people,” she said. Banerjee also took exception to the “mudslinging” by a section of politicians. “The state’s most senior officer, the chief secretary, briefed the press on Saturday,” she said, adding that she failed to understand the insistence on a health bulletin even after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/active-covid-19-cases-61-cm-raps-centre-for-disputing-data/articleshow/75018727.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Biker takes off mask, spits on Manipuri woman in Mumbai||MUMBAI: An unidentified biker has been booked for spitting on a Manipuri woman in Santacruz (E) on Monday when she and her friend were walking from Geeta Vihar Junction towards Kalina Military Camp where essential goods were being distributed. Additional commissioner of police (west region) Manoj Sharma said Vakola police are scanning CCTV footage of the route to zero in on the biker. The 25-year-old complainant said: “The biker removed his mask, spat on me and sped away. We did not see the registration number as we were in shock. I am worried that his action could expose me to coronavirus infection.” After her friend posted about the incident on Facebook, the National Commission for Women in Delhi tweeted: “Yet another case of racial discrimination amid #COVID19outbreak, a miscreant spat on a north-eastern girl at Kalina Market area in Mumbai. NCW is looking into this matter for appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biker-takes-off-mask-spits-on-manipuri-woman-in-mumbai/articleshow/75019085.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM's Karaga decision draws flak over cluster fears||BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has come under criticism from ministerial colleagues, police officers and public-health experts for giving the go-ahead to Bengaluru Karaga, which is set to be held on Wednesday night, despite the lockdown over Covid-19 fears. They expressed strong apprehensions that devotees in large numbers could descend on Sri Dharmarayaswamy temple in the busy trading hub of the city central, raising fears of a possible cluster infection.  The CM gave green light for Karaga with a rider that not more than five persons should be allowed to congregate at the 350-year-old annual festival. Sources said it's likely that the congregation could be in thousands. Some 300 devotees have already arrived at the venue, a source said. A senior cabinet minister said, "What is the need for granting permission for a religious event especially when Covid-19 cases are on the rise? The CM should desist from taking what seems to be a political decision in these times."  Officials from the BBMP's health cell and police department, too, have raised red flags. A senior IAS officer implementing the lockdown said the CM was, perhaps, under pressure from a section of Bengaluru city MLAs. "The CM should have discussed the issue threadbare with the officials enforcing the lockdown,'' the senior officer said.  The officer referred to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and said the government can ill-afford a risk of that scale. The police department had earlier refused permission for Karaga procession fearing participation by thousands of devotees. Sources said Chickpet BJP MLA Uday Garudachar and Congress leader PR Ramesh reportedly assured the CM they will not allow devotees to turn up in hundreds on the day of Karaga. "The only reason we wanted the festival to be held as per schedule is its centuries-old tradition. Violation invites police action,'' said the lawmaker. The government said Karaga-related rituals will be held with just five members. "We will ensure there is adequate police security," said revenue minister R Ashoka. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said police will ensure the CM's rider for the festival is obeyed. However, Thigala community leaders confirmed Karaga cannot be reduced to a five-member affair. "We need at least 20 people to conduct the rituals. Because of Covid-19 concerns, we will not take out a procession," said Sri Dharmarayaswamy temple president Rajgopal, adding they have sent messages through flysheets and WhatsApp groups asking devotees not to come to the Karaga venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cms-karaga-decision-draws-flak-over-cluster-fears/articleshow/75019107.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra migrant group covers 400 km during lockdown, end up where they started||MUMBAI: They walked ten days, covering a distance of roughly 400kms, negotiating uncharted jungle trails between the borders of Maharashtra and Gujarat. But for this group of migrant workers and their families, the intrepid bid to escape the lockdown has ended in disappointment – they are back where they started, on their way to a construction site in Virar which employed them After the border between the states was sealed, over 3,000 migrants had massed near Achhad village, the last post on the Maharashtra side, on the highway in Talasari taluka. While a number of migrants were turned away or moved to temporary shelters set up by the district administration, some broke through the cordon and took to forest paths to cross into Gujarat. Rajesh Dawak, a construction worker, his wife Relam, their two-year-old son Krishna along with extended family comprising around 20, men, women, children, spent nights in the jungle trekking to Gujarat. They were eventually stopped by police at Surat, put in a truck and dropped off at the Maharashtra border. When TOI found them, they were fleeing the camp in Talasari, despite the offer of food and shelter, and circling back to their construction site in Virar. Rajesh said they decided to take their chances through the forest into Gujarat in a bid to get back to their village near Bhopal. The walk from Virar to Talasari had taken six days. “The border was sealed, so we sneaked into the jungle,” he said. Aware of the presence of wildlife—it’s a stretch known for leopard sightings—they kept to the periphery of the forest, but ensured they did not get noticed along the way. The men, around 10 of them, used their phones sparingly, switching on one at a time, so it would help with navigation, phone calls and visibility. “The phone acted as a torch. We had to watch for wild animals at night,” said one of them, Harish Dawak. The group would walk during the day and break at dusk to cook a meal of rice and dal over firewood found in the jungle before catching up on sleep. The women admitted that the two nights in the jungle left them with a sense of dread, especially for the children’s safety. Relam said she and the other women clung to their children. Rajesh said they had made it to Surat and would have continued onwards if they had not been stopped. Once they were shipped back to the shelter at Talasari, they collectively decided to leave and head back to their hutments in Virar. When TOI found them, they were resting their sore feet in the shade of a tree; they had another 95kms to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/migrant-group-covers-400-km-during-lockdown-end-up-where-they-started/articleshow/75019101.cms||Sandhya Nair
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: NRS shuts CCU, male medical ward; 20 staffers’ samples sent for test||KOLKATA: Swab samples of 20 healthcare workers attached to NRS Hospital were sent to the lab at IPGMER for testing on Monday. More samples will be collected on Tuesday as the health department has decided to test swab samples of all 79 people, including 39 doctors, who had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. The number of quarantined staffers jumped from 55 on Sunday to 79 on Monday. NRS authorities have sealed the male medicine ward and the critical care unit (CCU) where the patient was treated. A decision has been made not to admit new patients in these two units for now till the latter are properly disinfected. A 35-year-old patient had died in the hospital’s CCU on Saturday morning. His Covid-19 positive results came late on Saturday night, sending the hospital into a tizzy to identify doctors, nurses, paramedics and group D staff who had been involved in the treatment of the patient from Maheshtala. “The first lot of 20 samples have been drawn from those who were directly in contact with the patient. Though none among the quarantined has shown any symptom, swab samples of all of them will be tested,” said a health department official. According to hospital sources, the man suffering from haemophilia had come to the hospital’s emergency on March 30. Since the patient had no influenza-like symptoms, he was admitted straight to the male general medicine ward despite the hospital having an isolation unit for Covid-19 suspected patients. He was shifted to the CCU a day later, when he had developed severe respiratory distress. “It was only at the CCU that doctors suspected Covid-19 infection and sent his samples. By that time, many healthcare providers had already come in contact with the patient,” said a hospital source. “The patient also had a fractured limb. Luckily, the orthopaedic department had not come into the scene as the surgery was delayed because of the patient’s condition. Otherwise, at least 15 more healthcare personnel would have come in contact with the patient,” added a doctor of the hospital. The male medicine ward had 10 other patients while the CCU had two more when the Covid-19 patient was being treated. Sources said if it was not for the lockdown, the male medicine ward would have had at least five times more patients. Hospital officials said quarantine of the 79 will not have much of an impact in running the hospital services as the number of patient footfall has decreased by almost 80% due to the lockdown. “The question, however, is if more cases like this emerge and more batches of doctors and other support staff go into quarantine, there could be a severe manpower crisis even to treat suspected or Covid-19 positive patients,” said a hospital source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sumati-nrs/articleshow/75017934.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 7, 2020||Kolkata||First critical Covid +ve case reaches Salt Lake hospital||KOLKATA: A 57-year-old patient from Howrah was shifted to the annexe building of AMRI Hospitals, Salt Lake, on Monday, making her the first Covid-19 positive case at the private facility acquired by the state government to treat those with co-morbid conditions. The patient, who was referred from Beliaghata ID Hospital, is now admitted in the critical care isolation ward and is on ventilation. According to sources, the patient was initially brought to another private hospital off EM Bypass. But the hospital had referred her to ID Hospital. As the patient developed severe breathing distress, she was shifted to AMRI, Salt Lake. “Our critical care unit exclusively for Covid-19 patients is yet to be ready. Therefore, the patient was shifted to AMRI after consultation with officials at Swasthya Bhawan,” said an official at ID Hospital. On Saturday, the state health department came out with a circular on hospitals earmarked for treatment of Covid-19 patient. The circular also categorised the type of patients to be admitted in the four facilities in the city created for the care of corona patients. “She is the first patient to occupy the CCU with 12 beds. The patient’s condition is critical as she is on ventilation support,” said a source at AMRI Hospital. The annexe building of the hospital chain’s Salt Lake unit, which will be used for treating only Covid-19 patients, has 50 beds. While 12 critical care beds are on one floor with facilities like ventilation and dialysis support, there are 38 other general isolation beds spread across three floors. While the state government will be supplying PPEs to the healthcare providers and medicine for patients, the medical team for the unit and other infrastructures are being provided by the hospital. For patients referred from other private hospitals, the cost of treatment will be borne by the individuals, but the cost will be reimbursed by the government through the West Bengal Health Scheme for the ones referred from government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-critical-covid-ve-case-reaches-salt-lake-hospital/articleshow/75017947.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 7, 2020||Delhi||You can report fake news on Delhi Police’s site||NEW DELHI: In a crackdown against fake news during the lockdown, Delhi Police has added a tab to its website where users can put up news articles which they find to be misleading or fake. “To counter the spread of rumours, a fake news verification module has been launched on our website. Citizens can report any suspected fake news and upload content for its verification and clarification,” the Delhi Police tweeted. Officers said that rumours on social media about the Covid-19 pandemic has been creating unnecessary panic among people, leading to confusion. The tab on the Delhi Police website redirects the user to a form where they have to upload their name, ID and the copy of the fake news, which will be scrutinised and actions will be taken. Officers will analyse the pattern of fake news and trace its origin. Cops had earlier launched a campaign to target fake news on twitter. Officers said that the tab was included in the website to take a concerted action against fake news circulators. Police will track down anyone found to be sharing the fake content as well. Data from intelligence agencies suggest that more than 500 fake accounts have been created in the past few months on various social media platforms to spread fake news across the country. Intelligence agencies and cyber unit of the ministry of home affairs confirmed that most of them originated from across the border, ever since the northeast Delhi riots. Over the last week, Delhi Police asked various social sites to block several accounts that were found to be spreading fake news about Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/you-can-report-fake-news-on-delhi-polices-site/articleshow/75019104.cms||---
April 7, 2020||India||States warn Jamaat attendees 'in hiding'||Several states have warned Tablighi Jamaat members to self-declare their attendance at last month's Nizamuddin congregation or face legal action. Some states have already taken steps. Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said, "Either they come forward voluntarily or the government will take action against them under the Epidemic Act."  Nearly 1,500 Tablighis from UP who attended the Delhi meet have been identified and more than 1,200 of them quarantined. By Monday, 159 of them had tested positive for Covid-19 . Police in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar have taken legal action against 35 Tablighi members, including 29 foreigners, while cops in Chhattisgarh's Korba district on Monday filed an FIR against 16 members of Tablighi Jamaat. Haryana home minister Anil Vij set a deadline of April 8 for self-declaration. He said that of the 74 posi- tive patients in the state till Monday, 44 were Tablighi Jamaat members. After the Himachal Pradesh DGP's warning, 12 Tablighi members on Monday disclosed having attended the Delhi event. "From April 6 onwards, we are going to register cases under Section 307 (attempt to murder) if police catch any Tablighi member who is hiding his attendance in the Delhi Jamaat," said Uttarakhans DG (law & order) Ashok Kumar.  Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday, too, said, "We have decided that whoever comes out (of hiding) from tomorrow (Tuesday), the government will register cases against them for willful disobedience under the Disaster Management Act." At least 128 Jamaat returnees are still at large in the state, he said. Gujarat police on Monday arrested one person from Dariapur for not disclosing that he had attended the Delhi event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-warn-jamaat-attendees-in-hiding/articleshow/75019120.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Noida||62-year-old in Noida recovers. Her advice: Stay upbeat||NOIDA: It began with a cough that wouldn’t go away, breathlessness and fever. She thought she should get tested for Covid-19 — more cases were being reported every day. By the end of the day, she and her son, who had travelled to Denmark earlier, were isolated. Soon, the rest of the family was as well, becoming the city’s second biggest cluster with seven cases. Now, the 62-year-old is back home, the first senior citizen in Noida to have recovered, and she has one advice to share — stay positive. Medical experts have flagged age as a risk factor for the novel coronavirus — those over 60 have a higher risk of infection and mortality. And she has diabetes and asthma, comorbid factors that add to the risk factors. At one point during treatment, her condition had worsened and she was on oxygen and nebuliser for four days. But she bounced back and is happy to be back home. “I feel healthy. Being in the isolation ward was like being in jail. I can finally breathe,” she said. Two things, she said, made it possible for her to see herself through her time in hospital — a supportive medical staff and staying positive. “First, you hear about the disease and get scared. Then, you find yourself in the middle of it, your own situation worsens. And when you overcome it all and come home, people avoid you and your family. But I tell my children: remain strong and think positive. There is no point thinking about how people respond. We should stay away, right now at least, as it’s best for everyone. Just follow the treatment protocol and mentally prepare yourself. That’s how you get better,” she said. Both she and her son said the doctors at the hospital were doing their best. “They spoke to us, tried to make us feel comfortable,” her son said. Director of GIMS, Brigadier Rakesh Gupta (retired), admitted age had been a factor. “Age does make cases complicated. We have a dedicated team of doctors who always remember that in all this, the spirits of our patients also need to be held high.” Mother and son were discharged last Friday after they recovered. Now she waits for her husband, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren to get home. “We’re still not allowed to go out though.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-62-with-diabetes-and-asthma-recovers-from-covid-her-advice-stay-positive/articleshow/75018007.cms||---
April 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Cops to file reports on ‘behaviour’ of Jamaat patients in Ghaziabad Covid hospital||GHAZIABAD: Police will prepare two reports a day on the “behaviour” of Tablighi Jamaat members isolated at the CHS Hospital at Muradnagar after they tested positive for Covid-19 and submit them to the district magistrate. Police had not received any complaint from the hospital about the patients. “The hospital staff didn’t complain about them, but in the presence of cops, the Jamaati people will not take a chance,” said Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani. The hospital, which has 20 Covid-19 patients, has a separate isolation ward for members of Tablighi Jamaat — there are 13 as of now. “On Sunday afternoon, some of them started offering namaaz inside the isolation ward. When we asked them to maintain a distance of 2m from each other, they didn’t listen to us,” a hospital official said. “Police officers deployed at the CHC Hospital will check their behaviour six times in 12 hours, on the basis of which a report will be sent to the circle officer, the SSP and the district magistrate,” said OP Singh, station house officer of Muradnagar police station. Till now, police have identified 17 employees of Cease Fire, the other big cluster of Covid-19 cases, and 250 who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. “All are in quarantine under the eye of the police and health department,” said Naithani. A complaint of harassment and misbehaviour by patients who had attended the congregation had been filed by the MMG District Hospital last week, on the basis of which five men were booked under the National Security Act — which allows detention up to 12 months without a charge. After that, cops had been stationed and CCTV cameras installed at every quarantine centre and isolation ward in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/cops-to-file-reports-on-behaviour-of-jamaat-patients-in-ghaziabad-covid-hospital/articleshow/75018019.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
April 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad hospital to treat Covid-19 patients from Hapur, Bulandshahr||GHAZIABAD: The 90-bed District Combined Hospital, which has been designated Covid-exclusive, will treat patients from the adjoining districts of Hapur and Bulandshahr in case of emergency, officials said. Serious patients from Baghpat will also be admitted to the hospital, chief medical superintendent Naresh Vij said. However, no written instructions have been received from the government in this regard. The hospital has 145 staff, including 23 doctors, 41 nurses, 56 ward boys and nine pharmacists. A team of 53 staff will remain on duty round the clock in three shifts. To ensure that there is no scarcity of doctors and nurses, the management has put up a demand of 40 staff, including 14 doctors. Vij said other doctors from the region are also expected to join duty at the hospital. “The list of hospitals, doctors and facilities from the Meerut division has already been called in and the deployment of additional staff will soon start. We have the facility of five ventilators and the demand of five more has been put forward to the health department,” he said. According to protocol, all Covid-19 patients will first be admitted to the hospital in Muradnagar initially (Level 1). If they don’t respond to the treatment or face complications, they would be transferred to the District Combined Hospital (Level 2). However, patients above 60 years and having pre-existing conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and respiratory ailments will be directly admitted to the Combined Hospital. If the condition of patients at the Combined Hospital deteriorates, they will be referred to either Meerut Medical College or hospitals in Delhi (Level 3). Apart from these, Santosh Hospital, which has been serving as an isolation centre, could also be turned into a Covid-exclusive hospital, an official said. The staff of Combined Hospital will stay in Krishna Sagar and Red K Velvet hotels. The district administration has acquired six hotels, including Radisson Blue, Country Inn, Park Plaza, Royal Inn, Clarks Inn and Mahagun Sarovar Portico, to put up doctors and medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-hospital-to-treat-covid-patients-from-hapur-bulandshahr/articleshow/75018027.cms||Aditya Dev
April 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Four new cases in Mohali in a day||Mohali: Four people tested positive for novel coronavirus here on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 19. All are primary contacts of two Covid-19 patients. One of them is the 30-year-old son of the 62-year-old man who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi. The 62-year-old had tested positive on April 3. He had returned from Delhi on March 17. He is admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We took samples of all his family members. Only his son tested positive. The reports of the rest came negative.” The others are the father (67), brother (38) and wife (43) of the 42-year-old former sarpanch of Jawaharpur village in Derabassi who had tested positive two days back. All of them have too are admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital. The former sarpanch, who runs a tent house, had come in contact with a foreman who had attended the Jamaat meet in Delhi on March 31. The local administration has sealed both the villages from where the cases have been reported. The civil surgeon said, “The new positive cases have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital Banur. They are kept in an isolation ward. The earlier positive cases of two women are also in the same hospital. All the patients are stable.” Out of hospital, city’s first case relishes rajma at homeChandigarh’s first positive novel coronavirus case and her cook were discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Monday night. The 23-year-old resident was tested on March 19. She spend 17 days in the hospital. “The first thing I did was to have a proper shower and eat home-made rajmachawal cooked by my mother,” she said. Life has changed for me. I have come to know who all stand by me. I got close to my mother with whom I didn’t spend much time,” she said. “On the first day of my arrival in India, I got fever. I called up the UT helpline to get myself tested. But they ruled out that anything like that. I had to go to the hospital on my own,” she said. Her mother, her brother, cook and a beauty parlour masseur had tested positive. Out of them, three city-based patients have been discharged Three discharged from MohaliThree people were cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Mohali on Monday. They are Mohali’s first positive case (69-year-old NRI woman), her 74-year-old sister and an 81-year-old woman. All were undergoing treatment at a private hospital. They were sent home after their two consecutive tests came negative, said a doctor. On Saturday, a 42-year-old man who had returned from the UK was discharged from Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh. He was admitted on March 19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/four-new-cases-in-mohali-in-a-day/articleshow/75019144.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: To save PPE, doctors & nurses wear diapers, avoid drinking water||BENGALURU: Straitjacketed in their Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for 6-7 hours, doctors and nurses treating Covid-19 patients in government hospitals in Bengaluru are avoiding drinking water and washrooms. They use adult diapers since they cannot wear their suits a second time. Global standards limit usage of one set of PPE to 6-7 hours. In Karnataka — as in the rest of the country — doctors and nurses are under pressure to conserve resources because of PPE scarcity. Thick-material PPE, which covers the personnel from head to toes and includes gloves, causes excessive sweating in hospitals as ACs and fans remain switched off to prevent the virus from spreading. Some personnel have started suffering from hyperhidrosis, a skin condition caused by excessive sweating in hands, health workers TOI spoke to said. The government is aware of the problem. “There is a global shortage of PPE. We have enough stock and the government has initiated steps for further procurement. We know it’s tough for the medical practitioners to wear PPE. There is no choice,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, admitting that a PPE cannot be used for more than 6-7 hours. ‘Doctors, nurses are no less than soldiers’PPE-related issues are bound to occur. Not drinking water is not the solution. They can use adult diapers, instead. Motivating healthcare staff is the need of the hour now. They are being counselled before and after work,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 cases since March 9. Many nurses and doctors have been complaining of fatigue, dehydration and headaches. In some hospitals, they work for 14 days nonstop and undergo a Covid-19 test. Once they test negative, they are under 14-day home quarantine. Some hospitals have reduced the working window to seven days, followed by the 14-day quarantine break. Hospitals like KC General which are grappling with staff shortage are giving their doctors no break. “Some personnel have cited excuses to skip work. A soldier on the border can’t cite an excuse. A doctor or a nurse treating a Covid-19 case is no less than a soldier. Those who are unwell have to rest and return to work once they are fine,” said a senior doctor at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, who is working without a break. At the Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus, a 100-bed facility has been set up for Covid-19 patients and it already has 22. The situation is no different at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, the nodal Covid-19 centre since January which has 15 beds for Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-to-save-ppe-doctors-nurses-wear-diapers-avoid-drinking-water/articleshow/75019145.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 7, 2020||Noida||300 teams to survey residents, talk prevention in 12 Covid-19 clusters from Tuesday||NOIDA: Even as no new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in GB Nagar in the past 48 hours, the district magistrate Suhas LY has set up 300 surveillance/containment teams with a total manpower of 900 (3 members per team) as a part of its Coronavirus Awareness Campaign (CAC). The teams consisting of officials from health, revenue, police and development departments, will carry out extensive awareness, containment and surveillance drives from April 7 across 12 designated clusters of the district. A cluster comprises of an area where more than one Covid-19 positive case have occurred or been reported. Under the drive, each team will scan a 3km-radius area around each cluster, going door-to-door to spread awareness on Covid-19 and collect information on their travel history as well as secondary contacts. “We are giving most attention to the areas from which cases have been reported, and surrounding areas. From Tuesday (April 7), all these teams will begin field work,” Suhas LY, district magistrate GB Nagar told TOI, adding that on receiving any kind of information from anywhere, the team of that area will be mobilised immediately. Some of the 12 clusters identified in Noida and Greater Noida include Sectors 137, 135, 100, 50, 28, 37, JJ Colony Nangla which is a slum area near Sector 5, and Sector 2 in Greater Noida. “Each team will talk to residents about coronavirus prevention, sanitisation and hand-washing techniques,” said the CMO. So far, the number of cases in GB Nagar is 58. Out of these, active cases are 50 while 8 have been treated and discharged. “No new cases were revealed on Sunday or Monday,” said Dr AP Chaturvedi, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/300-teams-to-survey-residents-talk-prevention-in-12-covid-clusters-from-today/articleshow/75018049.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
April 7, 2020||Noida||Bhutan will evacuate 41 students from Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: Bhutan has decided to evacuate 900 of its nationals in India, including the 41 students who are stuck in the hostels of two colleges in Greater Noida due to the Covid-19 lockdown. A special flight has been arranged to take these students back home on April 9. The decision has been conveyed by the Royal Embassy of Bhutan to Sharda University, where 39 of the 41 students are enrolled. The Embassy has also urged the university to make arrangements for these students to reach Delhi’s IGI Airport. “Due to the Covid-19 situation, the royal government of Bhutan is planning to evacuate its citizens from India on a special flight, the embassy requests the university to kindly assist and facilitate the students with transportation from their current location to the IGI airport,” the embassy wrote to the chancellor. PK Gupta, chancellor of the university, said, “The special flight has been scheduled for March 9 around 1.50 pm, for which we have arranged two buses in which 41 students, including 39 enrolled in our University and two from other colleges, will be taken to IGI airport. We have also written to the district administration and police, seeking permission and security for the students.” One such student, Tashi Toshomo Dolma, said many of her friends had earlier gone back to Bhutan. “Since then we have been stuck in the hostel,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bhutan-will-evacuate-41-students-from-greater-noida/articleshow/75018069.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
April 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Lack of PPE: Medics avoid loos, drinking water for 6-7 hours||BENGALURU: Straitjacketed in their Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for 6-7 hours, doctors and nurses treating Covid-19 patients in government hospitals in Bengaluru are avoiding drinking water and washrooms. They use adult diapers since they cannot wear their suits a second time. Global standards limit usage of one set of PPE to 6-7 hours. In Karnataka — as in the rest of the country — doctors and nurses are under pressure to conserve resources because of PPE scarcity. The thick-material PPE results in excessive sweating in hospital rooms since ACs and fans remain switched off to prevent the virus from spreading. Even makeshift ICUs have only exhaust fans. Some personnel have started suffering from hyperhidrosis, a skin condition caused by excessive sweating in hands, health workers TOI spoke to said. The government is aware of the problem. “There is a global shortage of PPEs. We have enough stock and the government has initiated steps for further procurement. We know it’s tough for medical practitioners to wear PPE. There is no choice,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, admitting that a PPE cannot be used for more than 6-7 hours. “PPE-related issues are bound to occur. Not drinking water is not the solution. They can use adult diapers instead. Motivating the healthcare staff is the need of the hour. They are being counselled before and after work,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 cases since March 9. Many nurses and doctors have been complaining of fatigue, dehydration, and headaches. In some hospitals, they work for 14 days non-stop and undergo a Covid-19 test. Once they test negative, they are under 14-day home quarantine. Some hospitals have reduced the working window to seven days, followed by the 14-day quarantine break. Hospitals like KC General which are grappling with staff shortage are giving their doctors no break. “Some personnel have cited excuses to skip work. A soldier on the border can’t cite an excuse. A doctor or a nurse treating a Covid-19 case is no less than a soldier. Those who are unwell have to rest and return to work once they are fine,” said a senior doctor at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute who is working without a break. At the Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus, a 100-bed facility has been set up for Covid-19 patients and it already has 22 patients. The situation is no different at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, the nodal Covid-19 centre since January which has 15 beds for Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lack-of-ppe-medics-avoid-loos-drinking-water-for-6-7-hours/articleshow/75019158.cms||Sunitha Rao R
