April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||#LifeintheLockdown: Academics and admissions now go online||When the Coronavirus pandemic forced schools to close in early March, most students were thrilled about the extra holidays they were getting. But those slated to appear for Board exams next year will now begin to cover portions over online classes. This week, many schools sent out schedules for online classes, with Zoom meeting IDs for students to log in, giving distance education a new meaning. Asha Dinesh’s* daughter’s summer school for Class 10, was cut short in March, but is all set to resume this week. “A lot of parents have concerns about the reported security breaches associated with this app. But going by the situation now, it is uncertain when normal school will resume and my priority is for my daughter Ramya to be able to finish the portions by November, as per schedule. Attendance is compulsory and the chapters covered in these classes will not be repeated,” she says. But there are concerns that can’t be ignored. For instance, class 12 teacher Geetha Narayan* found 68 students in attendance during her first Zoom class this week, for a batch strength of only 45. “Some students sent class details to outsiders. During the session, an obscene comment appeared in the chat section, so I had to disable the option,” she shares. It is not only classes that have gone online, even admission processes — including entrance exams and one-one-one interviews — are now on the web. Rosh K Joy, public relations officer from Christ (deemed-to-be) University, says, “For undergraduate courses, the entrance tests and interviews will be online from April 15.” At Jain (deemed-to-be) University too, online tests have begun for fresh admissions. Dinesh Nilkanth, admissions director, says that the administration will take a final call only after the results of Class 12 and Pre-University exams are published. Keep your online class safeVijay Raj, cyber security risk evangelist, shares a few pointers on how teachers and parents can ensure that the online classrooms are safe for students...  Do not make meetings or classrooms public. In online meeting services, there are two options to make a meeting private — a meeting password or the waiting room feature to control the admittance of guests. Some platforms also provide settings to disable attendees joning the meeting before the host; leverage that. Also, as host, you can disable file-sharing options during the session. When there is a possibility, use a co-host who can monitor the list of attendees and their activities. Do not share a link to a teleconference or classroom on an unrestricted publicly available social media post. Share the link directly to specific people. Do not maintain a distribution list (DL) to send invites. Always choose who needs to be a part of the meeting and include them.  In a classroom kind of atmosphere, ensure that you set up the screen sharing permission to ‘Host-Only’. As an attendee, ensure you’re attending the right meeting. Phishing is a potential threat — you may click on a link, that could land up in some other website which could potentially steal your data. Ensure you are using the latest version of the application either on mobile or desktop. Try to use a virtual background so that, your environment and others at home do not appear in the meetings. Although it is more of an old-school practice, use a webcam cover for your laptops and use video only when required. — with inputs from Sunayana.Suresh@timesgroup.com Watch Academics and tutorials now move online in Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lifeinthelockdown-academics-and-admissions-now-go-online/articleshow/75034604.cms||Prathibha Joy
April 8, 2020||Chennai||New jumping spider species discovered in Chennai’s MCC||The Tamil word silanthi is used to refer to the magnificent creepy crawly, spider. But now, it is also the name of a new species of jumping spiders , which was discovered in the scrub jungles of the Madras Christian College in namma Chennai. The species, Carrhotus silanthi Caleb, which was discovered by arachnologist Dr John Caleb, took about nine years and six months to be confirmed and vetted. It was around 2013 that John first came across the spider. “I had collected a few specimens later on, but its identity remained elusive for all these years until I was able to study other members of the same genus in detail. The species was finally described in this paper which includes other known Indian members of the genus Carrhotus,” explains John, who specialises in arachnology or the scientific study of spiders and related animals. And what makes the species stand apart? The new species has distinctive organs that are different from other closely related species. “Both males and females look almost similar in general body coloration. It sports a metallic green to bronze-green coloration with white spots and patches on its abdomen,” John notes, adding that Chennai has been home to 13 new species of the insect in recent times. Spider taxanomy — the science of naming, describing and classifying species — in Chennai has come a long way ever since its inception by European workers in the 1900s, he observes, adding, “There was, however, a great gap for about eight decades until recent large-scale studies.” Along with the taxanomy, public interest in the spider, too, has seen a welcome change with time, the arachnologist says. A recent example of this was the new species of the peacock spider discovered in Australia. The striking spider became a worldwide phenomenon for its resemblance to Vincent van Gogh’s popular artwork, Starry Night. “The general fear (arachnophobia) among people is gradually changing as they become more aware of the importance of spiders. Moreover, jumping spiders are pleasing to look, with their large anterior median eyes. Many people term them ‘cute’,” he says. An integral cog in the ecosystemSpiders play a vital role in controlling the pest populations since they are natural enemies of insects. They are an important part of the food web as they help maintain the intricate balance of the ecosystem. A recent study revealed that spiders eat at least 400 million tons of insects globally. They also impact agricultural ecosystems, working as biocontrol agents. — John Caleb||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-jumping-spider-species-discovered-in-chennais-mcc/articleshow/75035271.cms||Sruthi Raman
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s 125-member choir puts up a virtual performance||Members of the Bangalore Chorus choir are doing their bit to raise spirits during the pandemic, through a virtual performance. The 125-member choir, recently pieced together a performance of Peace In Our Hearts, featuring Hum Honge Kaamiyab Ek Din, and posted the video online. Maya Mascarenhas, director of the choir, says, "Since we aren't able to meet each other due to the lockdown, I thought why not do a virtual video where we could sing while at home. I discussed this with the choir and the younger members were excited to be a part of it." Maya says that in addition to the 125 choir members, there were several relatives of the members who featured in the story. The video features the choir's four-year-old member as well as the oldest, a 67-year-old. Following a round of discussions, Maya sent out the directions to the choir asking each one to record their bit and send it to her. "Once we got the videos, the difficult part began. Stitching the videos together was a little difficult, but thankfully, we managed to do it in a week's time. All the harmonies, altos and other groups of the choir were stacked together. So, the audio and the video had to be edited separately, which was done by two parents," says Maya, adding, "I never imagined that the video would receive so much love. We have received many requests to do more such videos and are working on something that will be out soon. The next video will be based on the theme of friendship," says Maya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-125-member-choir-puts-up-a-virtual-performance/articleshow/75035878.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
April 8, 2020||Goa||After FC Goa exit, coach Sergio Lobera settles for Mumbai City||PANAJI: Sergio Lobera will be back in India but that’s not really a surprise. Sacked with FC Goa at the top of the table and just three matches left to be played in the Indian Super League (ISL), Lobera’s stellar record during his time in Goa made him a top-choice for many clubs here. Kerala Blasters FC made an initial approach and then opted out of the fray. There was some interest from Jamshedpur FC as well. But it is Mumbai City FC who have found favour. Given City Football Group’s investment, they seem tailor-made for each other. "It’s a done deal. The coach has already submitted a list of players that he is keen to have with him at Mumbai. While there is no compulsion on Mumbai to sign whoever he recommends, those that are tried and tested here will surely find favour," a senior official told TOI on Tuesday. It is no secret that Lobera had his own favourites at FC Goa. Midfielder Ahmed Jahouh and defender Mourtada Fall, both of whom played under the Spanish coach earlier in their careers and then joined him at Goa, are likely to be tempted with offers by Mumbai. While there are differences over the length of Jahouh’s contract, Fall remains undecided. With midfielder Paulo Machado the only foreign player retained so far – thanks to his two-year contract -- Mumbai are also looking at some Spanish players with City group’s intention of winning trophies on debut there for all to see. At Mumbai, Lobera will be joined by his trusted conditioning coach and friend Manuel Sayabera. The two have worked together for more than a decade since their time at Terrassa FC in 2008. Mumbai parted ways with Portuguese coach Jorge Costa after two years at the helm of affairs. In his first season, Mumbai lost to Goa in the semifinals and then missed out on a playoff spot by a whisker, finishing fifth in the league. Lobera, on the other hand, has a hugely-impressive record with FC Goa since joining them in 2017 at a time when the team, under Brazilian legend Zico, had finished at the bottom of the ISL table in 2016. Lobera guided Goa to a semifinal appearance in the first season, final in the second and also won the Super Cup, the club’s first trophy. This season it had seemed even smoother sailing with Goa at the top of the ISL table until the Spanish coach was sacked with just three league matches left to be played. Under Lobera, Goa played a much-loved attractive brand of football which won fans over. Goa scored the highest number of goals for the last two seasons with Spanish striker Ferran Corominas finishing with the Golden Boot for two successive years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-fc-goa-exit-coach-sergio-lobera-settles-for-mumbai-city/articleshow/75037025.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Online food delivery replaces kitchen swag in locked-down Kolkata||We’ve entered Day 14 of the 21-day lockdown and the initial craze of getting innovative in the kitchen with subsequent food posts on social media seems to be fizzling out. With hectic work-from-home schedules, domestic help out of bounds and market trips to buy essential items becoming risky, cooking at home is no longer a feasible option for many. Therefore, many families are ordering in from the limited eateries that are still operational. Not only are these places claiming to maintain strict hygiene protocols, they are even practising social distancing by introducing contactless deliveries. From ghar ka khana-like thalis to Chinese, Bengali and even biryani, these eateries are flooded with orders and there is no sign of lull in their business. “Our regular clientele includes bachelors and those staying in PGs. But most of them have returned home due to the pandemic. Now, it’s the family crowd or senior citizens who are ordering more. While the elderly prefer veg thalis, young couples with kids are choosing egg, chicken, mutton or fish thalis,” said Bithika Niyogi, owner of Dubbawala. Rongon Neogi from Continental Catering Service said hordes of people started ordering lunch and dinner from mid-March. “Besides a barrage of home-delivery orders, we are even getting calls from abroad enquiring about our services for their parents staying alone in Kolkata,” he said. Most people are now emphasising on the nutritional aspect more than taste and variety while ordering food online. They are opting for simple vegetarian or non-veg thalis. Debjit Majumdar of Hindusthan Cuisine, a home delivery service available in Tollygunge, New Alipore and Behala, said, “There is a high demand for homestyle food now. Steamed rice, moong or masoor dal, aloo chokha, fish, egg or chicken curries are quite in demand. We are trying to serve basic food at the moment, not anything fancy. We are taking orders as per our capacity since we cannot keep more than four to five staff because of social distancing norms. We are stressing on no-contact deliveries.” There are many who are bored of eating home-cooked meals and looking to spice up their locked-down days with some fancy Chinese dishes and biryani. “Chinese food is light on the tummy and biryani is an all-time favourite with Bengalis. After resuming our delivery services about a week back, I’ve noticed a sharp rise in orders for Chinese dishes, even more than biryani,” said Debaditya Chaudhury, managing director of Chowman, Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2, adding that all his cooks are taking care of hygiene by changing their clothes and washing hands before entering the kitchens. “Wearing gloves and masks for chefs and delivery boys is a must,” he added. That’s not all. South Indian cuisine too seems to be a big hit with Kolkatans during lockdown. Piyush Menon, owner and head chef of The Coastal Macha, said, “No matter what, foodies will always find a way to indulge in food for the soul. Our mutton ghee roast, chicken or mutton stew, appam and Hyderabadi biryani are selling like hot cakes.” Star hotels curate lockdown menusStar hotels are taking home delivery orders too. Kumar Shobhan, GM, Hyatt Regency Kolkata, said, “A delicious meal during lockdown can instantly lift your spirits. Our regulars are requesting for their favourite delicacies to be delivered and we’re happy to oblige them with some of our signature dishes as well as comfort food.” The Park Hotel has curated a special menu that includes snacks, Chinese, pizza, steaks, rolls, wraps and biryani. Pramode Bhandari, their area general manager, said, “During these difficult times, we are trying to deliver happiness to the doorsteps of Kolkatans. Our online food delivery has helped in providing choice and convenience, allowing guests to order freshly cooked hygienic food from a wide array of options with a single tap on their mobile phone. The initiative has been very well received, and we are getting significant amount of orders every day.” Even JW Marriott Kolkata has started their online food delivery services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-food-delivery-replaces-kitchen-swag-in-locked-down-kolkata/articleshow/75033361.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
April 8, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: 3-tier classification of hospitals for diverse levels of infection||NEW DELHI: To streamline the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the government has classified hospitals into three categories — Covid Care Centres to treat very mild, mild and suspect cases; Covid Health Centres for clinically moderate level serious patients; and Dedicated Covid Hospitals to provide comprehensive care to severe and critical patients. On Tuesday, the health ministry issued detailed guidelines to states as well as district administrations putting in place a mechanism for triaging and identification of appropriate, dedicated facility for providing care to Covid-19 patients. "The guidelines are applicable to central, state government as well private hospitals," a senior government official said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe move is part of the government’s preparedness measures as the number of cases are increasing rapidly. “It would be important to appropriately prepare the health systems and use the existing resources judicially. One among these is to isolate all suspect and confirmed cases of Covid-19,” the official said. The guidelines also provide details of requirements for each category. For instance, a Covid Care Centre can be a makeshift arrangement or a hostel or school premises, whereas a Covid Health Centre has to be a hospital or a dedicated block with proper triaging and separate entry and exit to avoid a risk of infection. These facilities, which will monitor Covid-confirmed cases with moderate level of illness, will also need to have beds with assured oxygen support. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignA dedicated Covid Hospital — which will treat only critically ill patients — will also be a full hospital or a block fully equipped with ICU, ventilators and beds with oxygen support. These hospitals will have separate areas for suspect and confirmed cases. Suspect and confirmed cases should not be allowed to mix under any circumstances, the guidelines say. According to the official, the dedicated Covid Hospitals would also be referral centres for Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres. All these facilities will follow strict infection prevention and control practices, he added. Official data suggests nearly 70% of cases affected with Covid-19 either exhibit mild or very mild symptoms. Hence, the Covid Care Centres and Health Centres will play a significant role in dealing with a majority of patients. "The purpose of this document is to put in place such SOPs to ensure optimal utilisation of available resources and thereby providing appropriate care to all Covid-19 patients. This will ensure that available hospital beds capacity is used only for moderate to severe cases of Covid-19," the document said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-tier-classification-of-hospitals-for-diverse-levels-of-infection/articleshow/75037735.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 8, 2020||India||Average age of India’s Covid deaths 60; diabetes, BP common co-ailments||NEW DELHI: The average age of 125 people who had died in India from Covid-19 till Monday was 60 years, data collated by TOI from states shows. While this is significantly lower than in countries such as Italy, where the average is closer to 80, this is due to a younger population in India than in most Western countries. Age-wise case fatality rates (deaths as a percentage of confirmed cases) worked out on the basis of official data for 4,097 cases and 109 deaths put out on Monday confirm this. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAgainst an overall CFR of 2.7%, the figure for those below 40 years was 0.4%. It was 2.4% for those between 50 and 60, and 8.9% for those over 60. This is in line with the trend in other countries. The data collated by TOI also showed that the most common co-morbidities among those who died of Covid-19 so far were diabetes and hypertension, and in a large number of cases both conditions were present together. This too is not unlike the rest of the world though there are variations. In China, for instance, the death rate was highest among people with heart diseases or those with lung diseases, followed by diabetes and hypertension. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignInformation on co-morbidities was available for 86 people who died. This showed that more than half of them (56%) were diabetic and almost half (47%) had hypertension. Over a third of the 86 had both diabetes and hypertension. One in five suffered from asthma or lung disease. Only 16% had cardiac disease along with diabetes and/or hypertension. Renal disease too was reported in several of those who died. The data does not record how severely diabetic or hypertensive the person was or how serious the lung disease was. It is not possible to say, therefore, how much of a bearing the extent of pre-existing morbidities had on the probability of death. More than 40% of the cases examined had two pre-existing disease conditions, while over 17% had more than three co-morbidities. Only about a third of those who died (35%) had just one co-morbidity. The fact that diabetes emerged as the leading co-morbidity among those felled by the disease in India is significant given the fact that an estimated 9.4% of the country is diabetic — 12% of the urban population and nearly 8% of rural — according to an ICMR study on prevalence of diabetes and hypertension. The same study also showed that up to 30% of the population — 33% in urban and 28% in rural had higher than normal blood pressure levels. While a combination of diabetes and hypertension is bad enough as a risk factor, what makes it worse is that this risk increases with age. The prevalence of hypertension was over 60% in the above 55 years age group and that for diabetes was almost 30% in the same age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/average-age-of-indias-covid-deaths-60-diabetes-bp-common-co-ailments/articleshow/75037820.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 8, 2020||Business||Sensex surges record 2,476 points on global cues||MUMBAI: A strong market rally across the globe on slowing daily coronavirus infection numbers, talk of a phased exit from the lockdown in India, expectations of foreign fund inflow aggregating $1.3 billion into the country after MSCI rejigs its indices and some short covering by speculators combined to lift sensex by 2,476 points on Tuesday, its biggest-ever single-session points gain, to close at 30,067. The day’s gains came on the back of strong buying in heavyweights like RIL, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Infosys and HUL, BSE data showed. The day’s 9% gain was the sensex’s biggest percentage rise since May 18, 2009 when it had closed almost 20% higher after Manmohan Singh was re-elected to lead UPA-II government at the Centre. Tuesday’s rally also added about Rs 8 lakh crore to investors’ wealth with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 115.8 lakh crore. Wall Street rally boosts Asian markets’ openingOn Monday, the Dow Jones and S&P500 indices on Wall Street had each rallied over 7% after data showed slowing growth of the spread of the pandemic across the US and Europe. This led to a strong opening for Asian markets on Tuesday with Dalal Street getting an additional boost from indications from the government that it may partially relax lockdown rules for districts where the virus has not spread. According to Gaurav Dua, senior VP, head — capital market strategy & investments, Sharekhan, the daily addition has dropped to below 10% levels in the last couple of days and is showing flattening of curve in hotspot countries like Italy and Spain. “Along with this, the weightage of India in the MSCI Emerging Market index is expected to increase by 55 basis points (100 basis points=1 percentage point), which means possible inflows of $7 billion into some large-cap companies,” Dua said. On Tuesday evening too, the rally in Dow Jones and S&P500 indices continued with European markets too joining in. According to a note by Angel Broking, the Nifty, which closed at 8,792 points, is now most likely to head towards the 9,000-9,050 level and then if the strong buying continues, could break above that mark. “Looking at today’s sharp broad-based move, we will not be surprised to see the Nifty marching towards 9,200–9,400 levels. On the flipside, 8,550-8,360 level now becomes a sacrosanct support for a while,” the note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-surges-record-2476-points-on-global-cues/articleshow/75037888.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Itanagar||Section 144 in Arunachal Pradesh capital complex||ITANAGAR: The capital complex administration in Arunachal Pradesh imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code on Tuesday till April 14 after many violated lockdown protocols in the area. The order, issued by deputy commissioner Komar Dolom, said the prohibition will be effective from 3.30 pm to 8.30 am everyday from Tuesday till April 14, in addition to the already existing regulatory order issued before for the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/section-144-in-arunachal-pradesh-capital-complex/articleshow/75045508.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Guwahati||IIT-Guwahati develops low-cost system to disinfect areas||GUWAHATI: The Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT-G) on Tuesday said its researchers have developed a low-cost UVC LED-based disinfection system amid the spread of Covid-19 in the country. The team is also addressing the critical need of the material required for the personal protective equipment (PPE), a fabrication material that is waterproof.  Professor TG Sitharam, Director, IIT Guwahati, has formed a research team lead by Senthilmurugan Subbiah, department of chemical engineering to work in collaboration with Excel Tech based in Bengaluru and Ultimate Aeroaqua Filter Private Limited based in Guwahati to develop the two technologies. "IIT-G community is focused to work closely with government agencies and industrial partners to develop smart and low-cost technologies to fight against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prof Sitharam," said Subbiah.  According to the institute, UVC system is a proven technology to sanitise the microorganism infected non-porous surface. In this project, the team has developed an UVC-LED system capable of providing a certain dose in 30 seconds, such that the virus-infected surface will be sanitized. The unique design of this UVC system will ensure uniform UVC exposure in virus-infected non-porous area.  Further to adopt this technology to the porous surfaces, the team is improving the design by integrating UVC with Ozone system such that surface with porous nature also can be sanitized. The system is equipped with an object movement identification feature so that the UVC exposure to human skin is avoided during the operation. The primary role of IIT Guwahati is to develop the UVC system design, prototype (using 3D technology), and testing it in its laboratory. Three of them are designed for household sanitisation and one of them for sanitising bigger spaces like hospital wards, buses, metros, and railway compartments, including those transformed for Covid-19 care. The UVC LED system is under design and prototype development.  According to the research team, one of the critical requirements that Covid-19 PPE fabrication material should have is a waterproof ability. As a research institute, the IIT Guwahati is providing technical support to identify the best waterproof material from the Indian market and its performance concerning waterproofing. ians The PPE kit includes a jumpsuit, face shield, mouth mask, head covers, gowns and shoe covers. Excel Tech Bangalore and Ultimate Aeroaqua Filter Private Limited foresee a need for at least one million PPE kits soon for India and both the companies are working together to meet this demand, with a separate task team assigned for this project. The initial trial for the production of 15,000 PPEs has been completed successfully and 200 PPEs are ready for shipment to IIT Guwahati for further improvement study. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/iit-guwahati-develops-low-cost-system-to-disinfect-areas/articleshow/75045542.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||2.5 vs 406 infected: Study reveals lockdown’s benefit||NEW DELHI: One person infected with coronavirus can possibly infect 406 others in just 30 days in the absence of a lockdown and social distancing measures, but this can dramatically come down to 2.5 people with a 75% reduction in social exposure, a recent study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) shows. “If one person does not follow lockdown and so-cial distancing norms, he can infect 406 people in 30 days. However, if social exposure is reduced by 75%, then the same infected person can spread it to just 2.5 people,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said on Tuesday. “It is, therefore, our appeal to all of you to follow the lockdown and social distancing measures. We should understand that this is a very important intervention in the management of Covid-19,” Agarwal added, citing the study to underline the importance of observing the national lockdown. At present, the mathematical component that represents the number of persons to whom an infected person can spread the disease is between 1.5 to 4 for Covid-19, Agarwal said and added that Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was right in stating that “social distancing is social vaccine” in managing the infection. However, recent reports also suggest that the novel coronavirus often infects clusters of family members and friends. In China, almost 80% of the transmission appears to have occurred within families. A similar pattern has been reported in the United States, too. These trends assume significance in India where family members often stay together and members comprise different age groups, making social distancing a difficult proposition. While the elderly are at a higher risk of severe illness from the disease, the younger members of their family are more likely to be asymptomatic carriers. With 354 new cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the total count of coronavirus positive cases in the country has gone up to 4,421, while total deaths stood at 117, the health ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-5-vs-406-infected-study-reveals-lockdowns-benefit/articleshow/75037936.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 8, 2020||Patna||Govt acts tough on errant PDS dealers||PATNA: The state government has sealed nearly 50 public distribution system (PDS) shops in the past two weeks and booked action taken against the dealers following complaints of gross irregularities in the distribution of food grains during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. “Altogether 50 fair price shops were sealed across the state after complaints of irregularities were received against them and found to be true. The highest number of PDS shops facing action are in East Champaran district,” food and consumer protection department secretary Pankaj Kumar Pal said. He added, “The errant dealers will be booked under the National Disaster Management Act for siphoning off food grains meant for the poor and selling them in black market. Such lapses will not be tolerated and stern action will be initiated against those found flouting the norms.” The state government had announced 5kg rice and 1kg of pulses for all ration card holders for three months free of cost. Around 8.66 crore beneficiaries will benefit from the scheme. DMs have been told to inspect the go-downs of PDS shops to ensure smooth distribution of food grains among the poor. According to reports, 17 fair price shops were sealed in East Champaran, 13 in Muzaffarpur, six each in West Champaran and Darbhanga and three in Nalanda district, respectively. Searches were also carried out in Patna where 84 bags of rice were seized from the go-down of a dealer at Meghnibigha village under Masaurhi sub-division on Monday. Sources said a team of officials led by assistant district supply officer Sandip Kumar Pandey conducted an inspection of the go-down of PDS dealer, Bachchu Yadav, and seized 84 bags of rice each weighing 50 kg in Patna district. Some local residents had complained against the dealer. Masaurhi SDO Sanjay Kumar said an FIR would be lodged against the dealer. “An inquiry has been ordered and licence of the shop will be cancelled on the basis of the report. A report on the searches has been sent to senior officials of the department,” Kumar added. A senior officer of the department said the timing of distribution of food grains at the fair price shops have been fixed in order to maintain social distancing and avoid rush of ration seekers. The shops will open at 7 am and close at 4 pm. According to the fresh directive, while elderly people will get ration from the PDS shops from 7 am to 10 am, women will visit the shops between 2pm and 4 pm. The timing for other beneficiaries has been fixed between 10 pm and 2 pm only. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal has issued instructions to carry out surprise checks on fair price shops to check irregularities in the distribution of food grains among the poor free of cost. He has asked the DMs to set up special squads for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-acts-tough-on-errant-pds-dealers/articleshow/75035048.cms||Ramashankar
April 8, 2020||Patna||Religious bodies ask people to pray at home on Shab-e-Barat||PATNA: Several Islamic organizations on Tuesday appealed to the Muslims not to take out any procession or hold religious gatherings on Shab-e-Barat, which is on April 9. In a move to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Islamic bodies have instructed the officials of cemetery and Muslim graveyards to remain shut on the holy night, when the devotees visit graves of their loved ones and pray for the departed soul by lighting agarbatti (joss sticks) and candles. Bihar State Sunni Wakf Board chairman Mohd Irshad Ullah said all the mosques in the state were already shut for the containment of Covid-19. “I have asked the committee members of kabristan (graveyard) to close the entrance gates, so that no one enters there on the holy night on Thursday,” he said. “Devotees should worship at their homes instead of going to the graveyards or mosques. If someone wants to visit the graveyard at all, he can read ‘Durood’ (supplication) from the boundary wall while maintaining social distancing,” he added. He asked the Muslims to pray for the people who are afflicted with the Covid-19 and pray for the situation to get normal. A similar letter was issued by the Shia Wakf Board, Bihar, to all its committees at district level. Imarat-e-Shariah, a Muslims’ religious body having its jurisdiction over Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, asked the community to stay at home during the festival and engage themselves in religious practices, fasting, charity, penance and prayers. Imarat-e-Shariah chairman Maulana Wali Rahmani said Muslims should not hold any procession or religious group activities on the occasion. “It is advisable that people should follow the directive of the Centre and state government and maintain social distancing in this pandemic situation. It will be good for everyone,” he told this newspaper. All India Milli Council vice-president Maulana Anisur Rahman Qasmi said Shab-e-Barat is observed on the 15th night of Sha’aban, the eighth month of the Islamic calendar. “In Islam, it is the night of forgiveness or day of atonement, when the Almighty forgives sinners, who pray and repent for their wrongdoings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/religious-bodies-ask-people-to-pray-at-home-on-shab-e-barat/articleshow/75035155.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Conmen use EMI deferment option to swindle gullible||Mangaluru: If you receive a call requesting OTP for processing EMI deferment, and in case you do it without thinking twice, it can clean up your bank account. Cyber experts have warned bank account holders that scamsters are taking advantage of deferment of EMIs being allowed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and conning people. Ananth Prabhu G, a professor at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, and a cyber security trainer, said that scamsters are making the best of the situation. This is because customers have to opt for EMI deferment, and it is not by default. The banks have to be given instructions by individuals, through a simple process, to defer their EMIs. “Most who fall prey to these scamsters are poor in English, and find it difficult to carry out the process to defer EMIs. The fraudsters call up their targets and ask whether they want to defer theif EMIs. When consent is given by them, and the target follows the process, an OTP is sent to the victim’s phone, which the scamsters ask for from the victim. Seconds after it is shared, money vanishes from the victim’s account,” said Ananth, adding that bank details, including credit and debit card details get compromised due to the scamsters, and are made available on the dark web. EMI deferment fraud is also done by sending phishing emails. “Fraudsters create an email id which resembles that of genuine banks, and when the gullible click on it, it redirects them to a fake website. When one logs in with correct credentials, the money vanishes from the victim’s account. Usually, when genuine links are clicked, it redirects to the bank app, installed in one’s phone, and not browser,” says Ananth, on how to be on guard against such fraudsters. “Similarly, the request money option on mobile wallets can also be used by conmen. If the user is smart and reads the SMS alert, this fraud can be avoided,” he says, while explaining about the third type of EMI deferment scam. Another fraud that is emerging these days is the ‘coronaviruspatientdetector’ app, which tricks the victim to share their bank details. Cybercrime police in Mangaluru said that OTP fraud cases have not yet been reported here, but fake bank accounts are being created, requesting people to donate money to fight Covid-19. Another scam in the city is targeting tipplers. Cybercrime police sources said that some miscreants have created fake Facebook accounts of city-based liquor vends, and uploaded information on availability of liquor, which is home delivered. “Many tipplers have called the number mentioned in the post. However, when the fraudsters requested for partial payment of money, many refused to pay, as they smelled something fishy. The liquor shop owners have filed a complaint in this regard,” the source added. D Roopa, IGP, Railways, tweeted rom her handle @D_Roopa_IPS “There’s is a new cyber fraud that’s come to light. Modus operandi is, customers get calls requesting for OTP to postpone their EMI. Once OTP is shared, amount is withdrawn. Requesting all to spread this message.” @CyberDost @CybercrimeCID @KarnatakaVarthe @BlrCityPolice @bommai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/conmen-use-emi-deferment-option-to-swindle-gullible/articleshow/75036061.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 8, 2020||Surat||Two doctors, Covid-19 patient in Silvassa booked for not revealing illness||Surat: Two doctors in the union territory of Dadra & Nagar Haveli (DNH) were booked for allegedly concealing the illness of a 50-year-old man from Silvassa who has tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mumbai. The Silvassa police have also booked the Covid-19 patient along with the doctors.The doctors, one working with a private hospital and another lady doctor at government-run Vinoba Bhave Civil Hospital (VBCH) in Silvassa, had not bothered to alert the local health authorities about the flu-like symptoms of Vijaysinh Rathod, 50, who runs a hotel in Silvassa’s Naroli village. Rathod had gone to Mumbai and returned home on March 15. After few days, Rathod consulted Dr Hemant Shah, a physician at Vardhman hospital, as he was suffering from high fever and severe cold. Without informing the administration and the health authorities about his patient’s health condition, the doctor continued to give treatment to Rathod.Later, Dr Shah referred Rathod to VBCH where Dr Krishna Parmar, who checked on him, did not alert the health authorities about his condition and referred him to a private hospital in Mumbai where he tested positive on April 6.In a complaint lodged by the additional medical superintendent of VBCH, Dr Sanjay Verma, it is stated that the private physician and the doctor at the civil hospital concealed the illness of the patient despite he having flu-like symptoms and difficulty in breathing. Silvassa police station inspector Manoj Patel said investigation has revealed that Dr Parmar of is the distant relative of the COVID-19 patient.The Silvassa police has registered a case under section 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing something which is likely to spread infection), section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the under section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Patel said, “We are yet to arrest the doctors as they are under home quarantine for 14 days for treating the Covid-19 positive patient. DNH health teams have started the door-to-door survey of the residents in Naroli village and that about 30 close contacts of the patient including the doctor and staff of Vardhman Hospital and the family members have been home quarantined.A senior health officer of DNH said, “Had the doctors informed the health authorities, we could have acted immediately. This is grave negligence on the part of the doctors and the patient who did not alert the authorities. The patient is suffering from breathing problem and severe flu and he is recuperating at the private hospital in Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-doctors-covid-19-patient-in-silvassa-booked-for-not-revealing-illness/articleshow/75036612.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Zydus Cadila boosts HCQ production 10X||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Zydus Cadila, one of the two largest manufacturers of key Covid drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), has ramped up its production by nearly 10X to 30 metric tonnes (15 crore tablets of 200mg) per month in view of the huge spike in demand expected due to rising cases of Covid-19. The company with over Rs 13,000-crore revenue is helping the government to build a stockpile of 10 crore dosages of the drug, Zydus group chairman Pankaj Patel said. He added that there are enough stocks in the country and, if need be, it can be scaled up to even 50mt (25 crore tablets). Significantly, the Ahmedabad-based company’s accelerated research for a vaccine on Covid-19 has entered the animal-testing stage. If the results are successful, the company is hopeful of its launch by January next year. “This is not the time to make money,” Patel said. He added, “We will be supplying the drug to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) at a price even lower than the government-regulated price — at a little over Rs 3 per tablet.” ICMR recently advised the use of HCQ for prevention among high-risk categories — healthcare workers and relatives of confirmed patients. The drug HCQ shot into the limelight in March after US President Donald Trump touted it as a potential treatment for Covid-19, which was followed by several countries approving its restricted use in coronavirus emergencies and for certain categories of patients. On Tuesday, the government partially eased the export ban on the drug, reportedly after a US demand, which also reflected in Cadila Healthcare’s stock hitting the upper circuit and closing nearly 14% higher at Rs 313 on the BSE. Main producers of HCQ — mostly used for arthritis and lupus — include Zydus and IPCA Laboratories, with a majority of the drug exported to the US. Amid the surge in demand globally, a shortage of the generic drug in the US has been reported. In India, the demand was not much till now, at only around one to two tonnes, and used mainly for rheumatoid arthritis patients. Going forward, the company does not expect any production constraints on finished formulation as it also manufactures key intermediates as well as the raw materials for the drug. The company will also supply 5 crore tablets to states. After “taking care of the country’s demand, we can help other countries who need the drug”, Patel said. Input prices of the drug have suddenly skyrocketed by 5-8X, with HCQ disappearing from retail shelves as people stock up on it. Zydus, however, has not increased prices. Elaborating on the vaccine, he said an accelerated research programme has been initiated with multiple teams in India and Europe. The vaccine is currently in the animal-testing stage, and if results are successful, it should enter clinical studies by the second half of this financial year. The development is based on two approaches: The first deals with development of a DNA vaccine against the major viral membrane protein responsible for the cell entry of the novel coronavirus. The plasmid DNA would be introduced into the host cells, where it would be translated into the viral protein and elicit a strong immune response mediated by the cellular and humoral arms of the human immune system, which play a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. The second approach deals with development of a live attenuated recombinant measles virus- (rMV-) vectored vaccine against Covid-19. The rMV produced by reverse genetics would express codon-optimised proteins of the novel coronavirus and will induce long-term speciﬁc neutralising antibodies, which will provide protection from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zydus-cadila-boosts-hcq-production-10x/articleshow/75036854.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 8, 2020||Business||Micro lenders feel credit squeeze||Chennai: Microlenders are feeling the squeeze, with no relief on loans from banks even as their borrowers press them for a moratorium on repayments. Association for the microfinance sector - Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN) - has requested RBI for a two-month moratorium (April and May) as most MFIs have already extended similar relief to end-borrowers which include kirana stores, vegetable and fruit vendors, and agribusiness. MFIN chairperson Manoj Kumar Nambiar said, “Following our representation, RBI had requested us to submit data on the size of the balance sheet, debt on the book (on and off books), NCDs raised. About 55 members of our association, on Monday, have submitted the required data,” he said.  This is to help the banking regulator to understand MFIs acute liquidity crunch. Given the turmoil in the financial markets in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, most finance companies do not have much recourse to financing other than banks. Given the current risk aversion in markets, only top-rated financial institutions are in a position to raise funds issuing debt. “The credit ratings of most MFIs are very low and do not stand a chance in the capital market against bigger NBFCs with higher credit ratings. “We depend on bank loans and NBFC funding,” Nambiar said. By March end, MFIN and other microfinance institution representative bodies wrote to all members to extend the moratorium to all their end clients and relax their repayments of micro loans. Simultaneously, they also wrote to lenders (banks and NBFCs), requesting an extension of the full benefit of a moratorium on terms loans taken by NBFC-MFIs, as there will be no collection or cash flow for these NBFC-MFIs in this period. However, banks and NBFCs have not passed on the moratorium benefits to MFIs. “It is only logical to believe that if our end customers get a moratorium, we also deserve the same,” he said. “We lost a week of business operation valued at Rs 300-Rs 350 crore of credit disbursement since last week of March will be the most hectic period. We could not have disbursed due to the 21-day lockdown announcement in mid-March,” said Nambiar, who also runs micro-financing institution, Arohan Financial Services Limited. “We are looking for an announcement soon. We believe they (RBI) will look at extending the moratorium or some other solution for us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/micro-lenders-feel-credit-squeeze/articleshow/75036889.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 8, 2020||Business||Micro lenders feel credit squeeze||Chennai: Microlenders are feeling the squeeze, with no relief on loans from banks even as their borrowers press them for a moratorium on repayments. Association for the microfinance sector - Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN) - has requested RBI for a two-month moratorium (April and May) as most MFIs have already extended similar relief to end-borrowers which include kirana stores, vegetable and fruit vendors, and agribusiness. MFIN chairperson Manoj Kumar Nambiar said, “Following our representation, RBI had requested us to submit data on the size of the balance sheet, debt on the book (on and off books), NCDs raised. About 55 members of our association, on Monday, have submitted the required data,” he said.  This is to help the banking regulator to understand MFIs acute liquidity crunch. Given the turmoil in the financial markets in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, most finance companies do not have much recourse to financing other than banks. Given the current risk aversion in markets, only top-rated financial institutions are in a position to raise funds issuing debt. “The credit ratings of most MFIs are very low and do not stand a chance in the capital market against bigger NBFCs with higher credit ratings. “We depend on bank loans and NBFC funding,” Nambiar said. By March end, MFIN and other microfinance institution representative bodies wrote to all members to extend the moratorium to all their end clients and relax their repayments of micro loans. Simultaneously, they also wrote to lenders (banks and NBFCs), requesting an extension of the full benefit of a moratorium on terms loans taken by NBFC-MFIs, as there will be no collection or cash flow for these NBFC-MFIs in this period. However, banks and NBFCs have not passed on the moratorium benefits to MFIs. “It is only logical to believe that if our end customers get a moratorium, we also deserve the same,” he said. “We lost a week of business operation valued at Rs 300-Rs 350 crore of credit disbursement since last week of March will be the most hectic period. We could not have disbursed due to the 21-day lockdown announcement in mid-March,” said Nambiar, who also runs micro-financing institution, Arohan Financial Services Limited. “We are looking for an announcement soon. We believe they (RBI) will look at extending the moratorium or some other solution for us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/micro-lenders-feel-credit-squeeze/articleshow/75036886.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 8, 2020||Business||Canara Bank to compensate Covid-19 deaths||Mumbai: Canara Bank has announced a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to legal heirs of employees in case of death due to Covid-19 up to September 2020. Earlier, SBI had announced cash compensation of Rs 20 lakh in the event of death due to the virus. “Bank employees need to interact with the public day in and day out. Bank staffers serving customers and the country at large are facing severe challenges and risks on account of the spread of the coronavirus. Considering the serious condition prevailing in the country, the competent authority has decided to pay Rs 20 lakh as compensation to legal heirs in case of unfortunate death of any employee,” the circular said. It added that in case of hospitalisation due to the coronavirus, the guidelines applicable to the Indian Banks Association medical insurance policy will apply. Meanwhile, Tata AIA Life Insurance has said it will provide additional benefits related to Covid-19 for its policyholders and agents without additional cost. Those already hold Tata AIA policies get an additional Rs 5 lakh (or an amount equivalent to the sum insured, whichever is lower) for death claims due to Covid-19. This benefit is applicable for all valid death claims with a date of death on or before June 30, 2020. Further, Tata AIA’s agents along with their spouse and children are entitled to up to Rs 25,000 hospitalisation cover if diagnosed with Covid-19 within the period as well. Besides employees, SBI has said that it will provide Rs 10-lakh compensation to heirs of its 61,000 business correspondents in case of death due to the coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/canara-bank-to-compensate-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/75036983.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Surat||Two more die in Surat, toll rises to four||SURAT: The death toll due to novel coronavirus in the city increased to three after a 52-year-old man from Rander succumbed at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital on Tuesday. Ehsaan Khan Pathan, 52, a resident of Al-Amin Residency, New Rander road at Gorat was admitted with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes and depression and he was on the ventilator since April 4. His tested positive on April 5. His condition deteriorated on Tuesday morning and he died at 3.20 pm on Tuesday. His last rites were conducted as per the government protocol. Sources said that Pathan had no travel history, but he had come in the contact with a Covid-19 patient from Rander. His wife was shifted to the government quarantine facility at Samras hostel. Another patient, Rameshchandra Rana, 65, a resident of Hathi Faliya in Begumpura, who was admitted in the NCH’s isolation ward on April 3, died on Tuesday evening. The deceased was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. Earlier, a 67-year-old man from Nanpura and a 61-year-old woman from Pal had died due to COVID-19 at the Mahavir Hospital and Seventh Day Adventist Mission hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-die-in-surat-toll-rises-to-four/articleshow/75036636.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar gets kits from ICMR to test 11,000 more samples||PATNA: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has supplied vital test kits and reagents for use by four hospitals in the state where Covid-19 tests are conducted. At least 11,000 tests can be conducted at the four hospitals through these kits, health department sources said. The four hospitals where Covid-19 tests are conducted are Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said. “The present stock will last for seven to 10 days,” a senior health department official said. RMRIMS has conducted 3,257 Covid-19 tests till 10am on Tuesday, IGIMS 658, PMCH 11 and DMCH 136. “Of the 34 positive cases detected in the state till Tuesday, 22 were detected at RMRIMS and 12 at IGIMS,” sources said. Another senior health department official said the RMRIMS is alone conducting around 360 to 400 tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-state-gets-kits-from-icmr-to-test-11k-more-samples/articleshow/75035633.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||SBI reduces savings rates to 2.75% on all deposits||MUMBAI: The country’s largest lender State Bank of India on Tuesday cut its interest rate on savings by 25 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 2.75% on all deposits. This is the second such reduction in recent weeks. Earlier on March 11, the bank reduced interest rate on its savings account to 3% across the board. The bank has attributed the reduction in rates to surplus liquidity in the system. SBI has been a beneficiary of the flight of deposits to safety in recent weeks following the Yes Bank crisis. Also, the RBI has made available liquidity equivalent to 3.5% of the gross domestic product (GDP) to banks in order to bring stability to financial markets in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Until earlier this month, SBI was offering 3.25% on deposits up to Rs 1 lakh and 3% on higher balances. SBI had cut rates in March after waiving all charges for not maintaining minimum balance. The bank has 44.5 crore savings accounts. “In view of adequate liquidity in the system, SBI has realigned its interest rates on savings bank deposits, with effect from April 15, 2020,” the lender said. Interest rates on savings account were deregulated in 2011. However, these have been the stickiest and remained unchanged even as fixed deposit rates moved by several percentage points.In a parallel move, the bank also reduced its marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) by 35bps across all tenors. The MCLR is the benchmark rate for large businesses. Home loans that were availed before October 2020 have also been linked to MCLR. Most retail loans are now linked to an external benchmark. In this case, most banks opted for the RBI’s repo rate as the anchor. Following Tuesday’s rate cut, the one-year MCLR comes down to 7.4% per annum from 7.75% with effect from April 10, 2020, SBI said in the statement. This is the 11th consecutive cut in MCLR since April last year, the bank said. The one-year tenor is the benchmark against which most of the consumer loans are priced. “Consequently, EMIs on eligible home loan accounts (linked to MCLR) will get cheaper by around Rs 24 per Rs 1 lakh on a 30-year loan,” SBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-reduces-savings-rates-to-2-75-on-all-deposits/articleshow/75036979.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Patliputra University offers colleges for isolation wards||PATNA: Patliputra University (PPU) vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal has offered the premises of constituent colleges of the university in Patna and Nalanda districts for setting up isolation wards for Covid-19 suspects. “The university has already handed over premises of the College of Commerce, Arts and Science in Patna to the district administration for community service purpose. The district and college authorities have arranged temporary shelter and meals for the poor and needy people on the college premises,” Prof Jaiswal said on Tuesday. “The NCC and NSS volunteers of all PPU colleges are also very keen to cooperate with the district authorities to prevent spread of Covid-19 virus by way of creating more awareness among the illiterate and poor people of these two districts,” he said. A N College principal Prof S P Sahi said the college has shown its willingness to the district administration to convert its several spacious classrooms and halls into isolation wards. R L S Y College, Bakhtiarpur principal incharge Prof Pravin Kumar said the college is ready to set up at least 50-bed isolation ward on its premises. B D College principal Prof Sanjoy Kumar said the district administration could utilize the college premises either for setting up isolation wards or providing community services to the needy people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-offers-colleges-for-isolation-wards/articleshow/75035119.cms||Kumod Verma
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||“My 10-year-old son gave us strength to fight Covid’||Rajkot: A 38-year-old citizen, who had tested positive for coronavirus, was discharged from a private hospital, thus taking the total number of recovered patients to four. Rakesh Hapalia, who is engaged in real estate business, was discharged late on Monday night. However, is not a relieved man still as his wife, who had also tested positive, is still under treatment. He condition, though, is improving and he is praying for her discharge. Hapalia had contracted the infection from this friend who had tested positive after coming back from the US in mid-March. Hapalia himself went to the doctor informing them that he came in contact with his friend. Talking to TOI, Hapalia said, “I was not scared on the first day when I came to know that I tested positive. But I got really scared when my wife’s also tested positive after two days. I was only thinking about the future of our 10-year-old son. However, my son did not test positive and completed his quarantine period.” “My son was gave us lot of strength. When I was thinking about my family, my son was constantly giving us courage saying that we both will recover soon,” Hapalia added. Hapalia has been advised to remain quarantined at home so he may is infected by other viruses as his immune system is weak currently. “Don’t panic, but be cautious. Don’t violate government guidelines in combating Covid-19,” Hapalia has requested people. 1ST PATIENT DISCHARGED IN BHAVNAGAR In Bhavnagar, which has seen a sudden spike in positive cases, a 70-year-old man recovered fully and was discharged from Sir T hospital. The patient Jashu Jambucha had tested positive two weeks ago. The hospital staff stood in line and clapped as Jambucha walked out on Tuesday morning. According to officials, he leads a lonely life in Bharatnagar area and is mostly seen in the garden of Shivaji circle on Ghogha Road. He got infected through local transmission. TESTED POSITIVE, MAN ESCAPES FROM CIVIL HOSPITAL Rajkot: A 41-year-old man living in Jangleshwar area of Rajkot tested positive on Tuesday. The source of his infection is still not known because he is not cooperating with the authorities in revealing his travel history. He also escaped from Rajkot Civil Hospital after the doctor on duty suspected him to be positive. According to health officials, the man was referred by a private physician after his condition deteriorated on Monday evening. When the doctor in civil hospital asked him to complete some formalities, he escaped from there. The doctor alerted health officials because his mobile number was also switched off. Police and health teams fanned out in Jangleshwar and traced him after nearly one-and-a-half hours. Hospital sources said they will take help of police if he does not cooperate. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman from Bhavnagar also tested positive. She is a family member of a 65-year-old man who had tested positive and is under treatment at Sir T Hospital. COPS’ HELP SOUGHT TO KNOW TRAVEL HISTORY Rajkot: Health officials in Morbi had to take police’s help to know the travel history of a 52-year-old man who tested positive on Sunday. He is advocate by profession and did not cooperate with the staff. Police found from his mobile phone data that he had visited Delhi in March. Rajkot district health officer Dr Manish Bhanderi said, “He had visited the doctor on March 27 but not revealed his travel history.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/my-10-year-old-son-gave-us-strength-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75036672.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Zydus Cadila boosts HCQ production 10X||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Zydus Cadila, one of the two largest manufacturers of key Covid drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), has ramped up its production by nearly 10X to 30 metric tonnes (15 crore tablets of 200mg) per month in view of the huge spike in demand expected due to rising cases of Covid-19. The company with over Rs 13,000-crore revenue is helping the government to build a stockpile of 10 crore dosages of the drug, Zydus group chairman Pankaj Patel said. He added that there are enough stocks in the country and, if need be, it can be scaled up to even 50mt (25 crore tablets). Significantly, the Ahmedabad-based company’s accelerated research for a vaccine on Covid-19 has entered the animal-testing stage. If the results are successful, the company is hopeful of its launch by January next year. “This is not the time to make money,” Patel said. He added, “We will be supplying the drug to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) at a price even lower than the government-regulated price — at a little over Rs 3 per tablet.” ICMR recently advised the use of HCQ for prevention among high-risk categories — healthcare workers and relatives of confirmed patients. The drug HCQ shot into the limelight in March after US President Donald Trump touted it as a potential treatment for Covid-19, which was followed by several countries approving its restricted use in coronavirus emergencies and for certain categories of patients. On Tuesday, the government partially eased the export ban on the drug, reportedly after a US demand, which also reflected in Cadila Healthcare’s stock hitting the upper circuit and closing nearly 14% higher at Rs 313 on the BSE. Main producers of HCQ — mostly used for arthritis and lupus — include Zydus and IPCA Laboratories, with a majority of the drug exported to the US. Amid the surge in demand globally, a shortage of the generic drug in the US has been reported. In India, the demand was not much till now, at only around one to two tonnes, and used mainly for rheumatoid arthritis patients. Going forward, the company does not expect any production constraints on finished formulation as it also manufactures key intermediates as well as the raw materials for the drug. The company will also supply 5 crore tablets to states. After “taking care of the country’s demand, we can help other countries who need the drug”, Patel said. Input prices of the drug have suddenly skyrocketed by 5-8X, with HCQ disappearing from retail shelves as people stock up on it. Zydus, however, has not increased prices. Elaborating on the vaccine, he said an accelerated research programme has been initiated with multiple teams in India and Europe. The vaccine is currently in the animal-testing stage, and if results are successful, it should enter clinical studies by the second half of this financial year. The development is based on two approaches: The first deals with development of a DNA vaccine against the major viral membrane protein responsible for the cell entry of the novel coronavirus. The plasmid DNA would be introduced into the host cells, where it would be translated into the viral protein and elicit a strong immune response mediated by the cellular and humoral arms of the human immune system, which play a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. The second approach deals with development of a live attenuated recombinant measles virus- (rMV-) vectored vaccine against Covid-19. The rMV produced by reverse genetics would express codon-optimised proteins of the novel coronavirus and will induce long-term speciﬁc neutralising antibodies, which will provide protection from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zydus-cadila-boosts-hcq-production-10x/articleshow/75036865.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||People’s participation helps Amreli cops tackle migrant exodus||Rajkot: While ensuring there is total lockdown, Amreli police too encountered a peculiar problem - influx of migrant labourers in hordes. This problem was multifaceted, said Amreli superintendent of police (SP), Nirlipt Rai, while talking to TOI on Monday. “To convince the illiterate people to stay put or make them understand the severity of the law was a huge task,” he said. At the same time, cops had to handle them very sensitively so as not to cause distress or agitation. Rai said the migrating population was more than 10,000 people comprising labourers and daily wage earners both from Amreli and neighbouring districts. While many were from Dahod or Chhota Udepur areas, working as farm labourers, many were also construction labourers or small-time vendors who were going back to their native places in Rajasthan or in Madhya Pradesh. “They somehow wanted to reach home and believed in the safety of their numbers, which was our biggest challenge,” he said. As the Rabi season is on currently, the police called upon the farmers to keep their labourers in their own farms and ensure that they get work as well food there. “We aggregated the migrants into two categories - farm labourers and daily wagers. While we could settle a good number of farm labourers in their own places of work by convincing the owners, many daily wagers had to be shifted to the rehabilitation camps,” said Rai. On the first day of the lockdown, Rai also put up posts on his Facebook and Twitter handle asking people to donate food items for the migrants and added two numbers where people could deposit whatever they wished to be centrally distributed. Naming this endeavour as ‘Jan bhagidari (people’s participation)’, Rai said he was overwhelmed by the support from donors who gave wheat, pulses, rice, jaggery and other food items. “So far, we have distributed 2,000 such grocery kits comprising flour, rice, pulses, oil and biscuits among the labourers which will sustain a family for minimum 21 days during the lockdown,” he said. Amreli rehabilitation centres are home to around 125 labourers at present who are being looked after by the district administration. Amid the many voluntary contributions, many officials of Amreli district traffic branch too have contributed a day’s salary to the noble cause.  Amreli police have also started serving cooked food to old, infirm beggars and recently, they also ensured blood transfusion for the thalassemia patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/peoples-participation-helps-amreli-cops-tackle-migrant-exodus/articleshow/75036755.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||MEP Infra gets HC relief on pledged shares||Swati Deshpande | TNN Mumbai: The Bombay high court came to the rescue of MEP Infrastructure Developers director Anuya Jayant Mhaiskar and toll collection company Ideal Toll & Infrastructure. In an interim relief, the HC restrained ICICI Home Finance from selling shares of MEP pledged by them against two pending loans. The relief came after Ideal Toll and Mhaiskar — who had separately approached the HC, which heard them via videoconferencing on Tuesday — offered to pay the roughly Rs 5-crore dues to ICICI Home Finance in May. After they defaulted on the payment, ICICI Home Finance issued a notice on March 31 to have them declared as non-performing assets (NPAs) by April 13. It also invoked the pledged shares for sale, prompting the filing of the petitions by advocate Ameet Naik for an urgent hearing. Justice Anil Menon heard the matter from home, and counsels Vikram Nankani for Mhaiskar and Ranjeet Shetty for ICICI argued from their respective residences too for almost an hour. The company and Mhaiskar had take two loans of Rs 5 crore each against pledged shares. While Ideal Toll still owed around Rs 1.7 crore, she owed Rs 3 crore. They said that the Covid-19 outbreak and the restrictions placed on movement by the government had “seriously affected cash flow” as entry and exit points were sealed. The company said its stock took a beating too and what was trading at Rs 35 per share on March 1 was trading at Rs 11 on April 1. “The outbreak of coronavirus and its impact is recognised as a force majeure event,” said the company’s suit in court, seeking that the lender be restrained at this point from invoking the pledged shares till the emergency measures related to Covid-19 are withdrawn. The pledge was partly invoked and 1.5 lakh shares sold, said the company. It was argued by Ideal Toll that declaring them an NPA would have a cascading effect. Besides, Mhaiskar sought to invoke the benefit of the moratorium permitted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) till May 31, by when her entire pending payment of Rs 3 crore would be made. The company would pay in instalments its due of Rs 1.7 crore by May 15. Accepting the dateline of payments, the HC restrained the lender from moving ahead with the NPA notice or sale or alienation of the pledged MEP shares till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mep-infra-gets-hc-relief-on-pledged-shares/articleshow/75036921.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Eco to shrink 4.5% in Q1FY21: ICRA||Mumbai: Ratings agency ICRA has said that early indicators point to economic growth slowing to 2.4% in Q4FY20 and to a 4.5% contraction in the first quarter of FY21. “The concerns on account of Covid-19 have morphed from the impact of imports from China on domestic supply chains, into a domestic and external demand shock, with social distancing and lockdowns leading to production shutdowns and job losses in some sectors,” said ICRA principal economist Aditi Nayar. According to ICRA, there are multiple indicators in the manufacturing and services sector pointing to a sharp deceleration of growth in March 2020. This is particularly true of sectors catering to discretionary activities like tourism, hospitality and recreation, labour-intensive activities like construction and transport. “This will have a knock-on effect on transport, freight, fuel consumption and demand for electricity,” said Nayar. “So far, some data has started trickling in which is helping us assess the impact in March 2020. Electricity generation contracted 9% in March as against an 11% growth in February. Similarly, port traffic contracted by 5% in March, as opposed to the growth of 4% in February. Growth in output of Coal India has slowed substantially to 6.5% in March from 14% in February,” she said. On a relatively positive note, the expected healthy outlook for the rabi crop would provide some buffer to enhance rural demand. Although the impact of social distancing measures on timely harvesting and procurement needs to be observed. “At present, we do still expect that the growth of agriculture, forestry and fishing would rise to around 5% each in Q4FY20 and Q1FY21,” she said. Many areas have come to a standstill during the lockdown. According to ICRA, while the relief measures for the poor are welcome, the cash transfers appear to be relatively modest at this stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eco-to-shrink-4-5-in-q1fy21-icra/articleshow/75036843.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Woman drowns three children before ending her life||Rajkot: A woman drowned her three children in a well before committing suicide at Nesadi village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district on Tuesday. Police said Hansa Shiyal (33), a resident of Visaria village of Rajula taluka, first drowned daughter Arti (7) and sons Kaushik (5) and Hitesh (3) in a well and then jumped into it. “Though her children drowned, Hansa did not as she knew swimming. Hansa then hanged herself to death from an iron grid in the well, using her sari,” said K R Oza, Savarkundla deputy superintendent of police. Preliminary investigation of police revealed that Hansa had a tiff with her husband Unjha Shiyal over cooking of pulses. She walked out of her house in a huff with her children. “She appears to have taken the drastic step in a fit of rage,” added Oza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-drowns-three-children-before-ending-her-life/articleshow/75036918.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Kondhwa roads empty, many look for groceries||Pune: Much of Kondhwa woke up on Tuesday to closed grocery shops. Vernon Fernandes, 69, could not buy eggs and bread after the police closed down all the grocery shops in his area. He said he had heard about the Peth areas being closed but was caught unawares about shops in Kondhwa being completely closed. “I had sourced veggies and fruits for the whole society. Had I known about this sudden move, I would have ordered provisions from the local store,” he said. Homemaker Pushpa Chavan said since no newspapers were distributed in their area , they did not know about the containment zones and what it means. “I thought essentials will not be affected,” she said. Some housing societies in Kondhwa have warned members about walking or any other activity on the premises. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Monday had issued the “restricted zone” list which included Kondhwa and the Peth areas. The police then implemented complete restriction of movement . The closure of grocery caused inconvenience to Rohit Ghanvat. “People haven’t stocked up the essentials for the next 7-8 days. There is no clarity about specified times when grocery shops will be open.” Another resident Anish Mathew said, “ Cases in Kondhwa locality may be rising, but communication about the containment area is not done efficiently. We haven’t refilled our grocery or daily essentials. We are using everything very sparingly.” Imran Shaikh from the area said, “I found the grocery shops closed. I am worried if alternative arrangements are not made how will one survive. I went to a mall on Salunke Vihar Road and purchased goods.” District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI that essential services will not be affected and they would ensure that shops are open for some time in the containment areas. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police station said, “As per the order issued by the municipal commissioner, we had closed all grocery shops till further order after some patients tested positive for coronavirus from Kondhwa area. Only medical stores will remain open. We have installed barricades at various places to deter people from coming on the roads. We have also intensified patrolling.” Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI that since the cases were increasing, restricted zones had to be declared. “We met the municipal commissioners, police commissioners and district collector. For these areas, the restricted zones will be implemented under Section 144 (1)(3) and areas will be specified. We have also allotted different police stations for ensuring that it is implemented properly. Police, health officials, hospitals, ambulance and Covid-19 officials will be allowed to move in this containment zone. Nobody else will be allowed in this zone. In case there is need for movement, they would have to take special permissions from district collector or district administration. For essentials, grocery shops will be open from 10am till noon,” Mhaisekar said. He added that all people should use masks in these area. All ATMs of all banks will remain operational, he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kondhwa-roads-empty-many-look-for-groceries/articleshow/75037522.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 8, 2020||Business||India Inc’s Q4 net profit may slip 14-15%||TNN Mumbai: India’s top companies are expected to see a 14-15% drop in net profit on a yearly basis in the January-March quarter, due to the coronavirus pandemic. Several sectors that were already struggling, were hit hard by the sharp slowdown in economic activities due to Covid-19 and the lockdown. A report by Kotak Institutional Equities noted that the automobile sector is expected to be hit by a steep decline in volumes, while construction materials would show a sharp fall in March. Meanwhile, metals & mining sector is expected to be hit by sharp decline in realisations, profitability and volumes. Oil, gas & consumable fuels would be impacted by lower realisation for upstream companies and inventory loss for downstream companies. On the positive side, analysts at Kotak expect banks and pharma companies to report healthy earnings growth. Banks are estimated to show lower provisions due to high provision coverage ratio and higher treasury income, while pharmaceuticals, led by domestic formulations, would show good volumes growth. The expectations are for nearly 200 top companies, the Kotak report showed. “We expect net profits (for sensex companies) to increase 12% year-on-year (YoY) and that of the Nifty to decline 16%. We note the performance of the BSE-30 Index is better than the Nifty-50 as downstream companies (BPCL, IOCL) and Tata Motors, which are a part of the Nifty but not part of the sensex, will report a sharp decline in YoY net profits,” the report said. According to a report by Centrum Broking, top consumer goods companies like HUL, ITC, Britannia and Colgate-Palmolive, together are estimated to show a net profit growth of 10% in Q4FY20, coming from an estimated revenue growth of 5.5%. For the IT sector, according to a report by HDFC Securities, the aggregate revenue growth for the top companies would be flat on a quarterly basis since the January-March period saw supply disruptions. Going forward, however, the impact of demand disruptions would be visible from the current quarter, analysts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-incs-q4-net-profit-may-slip-14-15/articleshow/75037003.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Life cos not to cite ‘force majeure’ in Covid-19 claims||Mumbai: The Life Insurance Council, an industry association constituted under the Insurance Act, has reassured policyholders that insurers will not deny death claims arising out of Covid-19 citing the force majeure clause. Broadly defined, force majeure is a term used in contracts which allows the parties to avoid their obligation if there is a totally unexpected and unforeseen event that makes it impossible to fulfil the contract. “Both public and private are committed to process any death claim pertaining to Covid-19 at the earliest. All life insurance companies have also communicated to their customers individually in this regard,” the Life Insurance Council said in a statement. It also confirmed that the force majeure clause will not apply in case of Covid-19 death claims. This step was taken to reassure customers who had reached out to individual life insurance companies seeking clarity on this clause in their contract as well as to dispel rumours to the contrary. “The spiralling global and local impact of Covid-19 pandemic has emphasised the fundamental need for life insurance in every household. The life insurance industry is taking every measure to ensure that the disruption caused to policyholders due to the lockdown is minimal, by providing them uninterrupted support digitally, be it for honouring death claims related to Covid-19 or for servicing their policy. We reiterate that all life insurance companies stand by their customers in these difficult times and the customer should not be swayed by misinformation or misrepresentation,” said Life Insurance Council secretary general S N Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/life-cos-not-to-cite-force-majeure-in-covid-19-claims/articleshow/75037085.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Interstate curfew passes issued to 750 Bihar farmers||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday said the state government has issued interstate curfew passes to over 750 Bihar farmers so that they can go to Punjab and Haryana to hire drivers and technicians to operate their combined harvesters required for harvesting standing wheat crop. The harvest season has begun in the state as the westerly winds have picked up pace and weather has also been getting gradually hotter each day. While the coronavirus outbreak and consequent lockdown has disrupted the harvesting cycle, some farmers have already started getting their wheat harvested with the available agricultural workers, who use their ‘gamchhas’ as mask. For the last two decades or so, farmers have been using combined harvesters to harvest and winnow matured wheat plants. Some also use ripper-cum-bundler/binder to harvest standing wheat crop. With the interstate passes issued to the farmers, they would now be able to go to Punjab and Haryana in their own vehicles to bring drivers and technicians, Modi said. Modi said from this year, arrangements would be made by the government to train local drivers and technicians for operating combined harvesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/interstate-curfew-passes-issued-to-750-farmers/articleshow/75035608.cms||Abhay Singh
April 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gaya couple names newborn ‘Covid’||GAYA: A baby born amid lockdown at the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) has been named ‘Covid’ by his parents. Despite the grim association of the name with the coronavirus pandemic sweeping the world, the young couple is happy with the name of their son, who was born on Saturday. “The name of the child will always be a reminder for us of the joy he brought by being born in such stressful circumstances,” said Covid’s mother 25-year-old Priyanjali. A family member, however, said the child’s father, Manish Kumar, was initially reluctant, but came around to the idea after the baby’s Mama (maternal uncle) convinced him. They are residents of Badgaon village of Tekari block in the district. The gynaecologist attached with the ANMMCH delivered Covid through caesarean section after normal birth was ruled out. “The baby is healthy and doing fine,” hospital sources said. ANMMCH has been notified as a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients of seven districts of south Bihar, including all five districts of Magadh division. Covid’s parents may have been inspired by former CM and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who had named his first child ‘MISA’ (Maintenance of Internal Security Act), the draconian law that kept Lalu and many others in jail during Emergency. “That Covid’s mother could reach the hospital during stringent lockdown and delivered a healthy baby was, itself a big achievement. The parents should have named the baby as Covid 20,” said Dr Ram Sewak, president of the Gaya chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-couple-name-newborn-covid/articleshow/75036320.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar private hospitals’ help sought to screen patients||PATNA: Moving a step ahead in combating the Covid-19 pandemic, the state health department has decided to involve private hospitals to screen patients with severe respiratory problems. Health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar wrote a letter to all district magistrates on Monday asking them to take the help of private hospitals for screening of patients with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The health department principal secretary said that this move is aimed at having a sharper focus on community and facility-level surveillance for symptomatic cases having ILI and SARI to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “In view of the magnitude of Covid-19 pandemic, there is an urgent need for effective and immediate intervention to implement ILI and SARI surveillance in public and private healthcare facilities. To involve private sector in the surveillance activity, you (district magistrates) may like to hold a meeting with district representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and representatives of major private hospitals in the district,” the letter mentions. The letter further reads, “ILI and SARI surveillance will be done in hospitals where majority patients get admitted for severe respiratory problems. ILI surveillance will be conducted in flu clinics, recently operationalized in all public health care facilities or general outpatient department (OPD) of private hospitals. All medical college and hospitals, district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals and private hospitals will act as sentinel sites for ILI and SARI surveillance.” As of now, private hospitals and testing centres were kept out of the purview of the state government. All government health establishments have Covid-19 isolation wards and the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna is the lone ‘dedicated health’ facility for Covid-19 treatment. The health department has also issued a notification for making ANMMCH, Gaya as the second dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the state. As far as testing for Covid-19 is concerned, it is presently being done at Rajendra Medical Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, AIIMS- Patna, Patna Medical College and Hospital and Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). Patna district epidemiologist Prashant Kumar told TOI that a meeting was held on Tuesday with around 40 private hospitals in the district to discuss the mechanism to report acute respiratory cases. “It might be possible that many people with symptoms like Covid-19 are not coming out due to social factors. But they will surely visit nearest private hospital, if the intensity of the ailment increases. Accordingly, private hospitals have been asked to inform the state health society about acute respiratory cases in a particular format. This will prevent chances of community spread of the disease as well as improve the testing scenario in the state,” Dr Prashant said. Earlier, the Centre had issued an advisory on March 20, asking all public and private hospitals to set aside beds, preparation isolation facilities, procure sufficient number of ventilators, high-flow oxygen masks and mobilize additional manpower to step the readiness to fight Covid-19. Private hospitals have welcomed the move of involving them in the mammoth exercise. Dr Talat Halim, regional director (east) of Paras Health Care said his hospital already has three isolation wards, a flu corner and 10 ventilators ready as preparatory set-up. “The move to involve private hospitals is the need of the hour as it will increase the search as well as treatment capacity for fighting the disease. We have also applied to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting tests for Covid-19 and awaiting a nod for the same,” Dr Halim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-involve-pvt-hosps-for-community-surveillance/articleshow/75035462.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Be it police station or field, Jiya is happy to be with her cop mom||RAJKOT: While many kids her age are inside the safety of their own homes, with their parents to look after their needs during the lockdown, 14-month-old Jiya’s little life has been divided between home and the police station, her second home at the moment. If that’s not all, she gets to meet only one of the parents in a day. This is an extreme instance of the difficulties faced by nuclear families, particularly that of working couples with a baby. The story of this warrior police couple will be incomplete if the tenacity shown by their toddler, baby Jiya, who is helping her parents do their duty with equal determination, is not elucidated. Jiya’s parents are police constables deputed on Covid duties with other police personnel. However, though in Kutch’s Bhuj town, Alka Desai and Gautam Naroda have been deputed at separate places on duty. The college friends from Patan had joined the police force after their marriage and got posted in Bhuj. With nobody at home to take care of their baby, Desai, posted in the Mahila police station of Bhuj, carries Jiya along with her to the police station and need be, to the field too. A doting mother, Desai doesn’t want to compromise on her motherhood duties, nor is she a shirker, especially now when the police force needs more hands in the field. Therefore, she hasn’t even asked anyone for desk duty and trying to balance the two extreme demands. Talking to TOI Desai said, “We both have a tough duty in this critical situation, especially during long bandobust duty hours. The superiors understand my problem but I am in force and for every uniform, duty comes first. Sometimes I get frightened that my daughter may get infected if she moves out with me but I don’t have any option.” As Naroda too is posted in the superintendent’s office, police station has become Jiya’s crèche when her mother is assigned office work. “Even couples in white-collar jobs raise children, but it becomes difficult when both parents are from the force. We both are managing tough duties by taking alternate shifts whenever possible,” said Naroda. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police Kutch (west), Saurabh Tolambia said: “We have child corner for the children of policemen in headquarters and Mundra police station. We allot duties on rotation, including field, police station and other places. In the case of constable Alka, we have shifted her to police station duty for the safety of her baby.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/be-it-police-station-or-field-jiya-is-happy-to-be-with-cop-mom/articleshow/75037040.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 8, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Agrochemical unit gutted in fire in Dahej||BHARUCH/SURAT: A major fire broke out at an agrochemical unit of Tagros Chemicals India Limited at Dahej in Bharuch district at around 2.30am on Tuesday. N P Waghela, assistant director, Director Industrial Safety & Health, Gujarat Government, said, "The fire broke out in plant number 4 of Tagros Chemicals India Limited and 10 fire tenders from nearby industries doused the blaze. The entire plant was gutted in the fire, but there were no casualties.” Falgun Modi, regional officer, Gujarat Pollution Control Board, said, "The fire broke out during handling of solvent. We have instructed the unit to ensure that no waste water comes out from the plant. We have sent our report to GPCB head office for further action in the matter." Authorities had given permission to the company to operate its agrochemical and pesticide manufacturing unit during lockdown. At least 65 workers were present in the unit when the fire occurred. It was set up a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/agrochemical-unit-gutted-in-fire-in-dahej/articleshow/75037101.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Music to revive Jamnagar people’s sagging spirits||RAJKOT: Locked up inside two room flats in high rises can be an overwhelming task even for a week. In such a scenario, when it is a matter of 3 weeks on a trot, issues are bound to crop up within the inmates, acknowledges Jamnagar district authorities. Therefore, they have found a cure in music, a panacea of all ills, particularly aimed at boosting the sagging spirits. Every evening an orchestra van will move around different residential societies of the city entertaining people by performing live band. To this purpose, the administration has roped in six artistes of the city who will not only perform live music, but at the same time spread awareness on coronavirus, their ishtyle! The colourful ambiance near the residential societies will inspire people to join the performance from their own balconies, windows and terraces, maintaining social distance. “People can sing along, play their own instruments too, or simply enjoy the moment,” said district collector Ravi Shankar, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. “Too many people confined in small spaces for a fortnight now will definitely need some type of counselling. Therefore, we got this idea of an orchestra van which will entertain and create positive energy among the people. The underlying message in it would be to hold on for a few days more and that thereafter everything will be fine like yesterday once more,” he added. From motivational and patriotic songs, to foot-tapping beats, the artistes will belt out all sort of popular songs to attract people of all age groups. According to officials the musical plan is an experiment to engage people through music and help in psychological healing. The initial pilot experiment of the ambitious orchestra van project was carried out at the G G hospital premises on Monday evening in which doctors joined in the song: “Hum Honge Kamiyab!” The district administration, in the meantime, is preparing a list of societies date wise, where the van will be sent for performance. A police van will also join the orchestra van to ensure that people stay in their own houses and all precautions are maintained for social distancing. The artistes too be will be given protective gear including masks and gloves and will maintain social distancing while performing, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/music-to-revive-jamnagar-peoples-sagging-spirits/articleshow/75036736.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 8, 2020||Surat||Surat Municipal Corporation fines 86 people for not wearing masks||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday fined 86 people for not wearing masks while moving around on roads. "We have started penalizing people who are venturing out with face masks. We also fined 167 people on Tuesday for not maintaining social distancing at various public places. This is very important to prevent further spread of Covid-19,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. "We have adopted cluster containment strategy and identified Rander and Begumpura as Covid-19 hotspots in the city. In fact, an area of three km radius in Rander has been placed under mass quarantined as 35% of the total Covid-19 positive cases are from this area,'' Pani said. Meanwhile, Surat city police have stepped up effort to strictly implement the lockdown. Chintan Teraiya, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), special branch, total 479 people were arrested in 304 cases on Tuesday for violation of notifications. "Till date, we have filed 1,840 cases and arrested 3,118 people for violating public notification. We are also using drones for effective implementation of lockdown and we found people gathering on their terraces. We have filed 159 cases and arrested 501 people in these cases till now,'' he said. 'On Tuesday, city police detained 1,535 private vehicles for violation of notifications and they were roaming around without reason. Till now, 7,764 vehicles have been detained,” Teraiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-fines-86-people-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75036719.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Surat||Three more test positive in the Surat, cases touch 20||SURAT: Three more persons tested positive of Covid-19 in the city, taking the total number of cases to 20 on Tuesday. The health authorities were worried after one Sajid Abdul Rehman Ansari, 40, a resident of Rampura who is the ambulance driver at Lokhat hospital, tested positive on Tuesday. Sajid was employed at Lokhat for the last five years and he had come in the contact with the hospital staff before being admitted in the New Civil Hospital on April 6. Health officials said that his three close contacts and the health staff of the Lokhat hospital in Rampura have been quarantined. Another patient, Zubeda Abdul Sattar Patel, 67, a resident of Rander tested positive. She was admitted in the isolation ward of the NCH on April 6. Zeenat Qureshi, 45, a resident of Adajan Patiya, who is the wife of the Covid-19 positive patient Abdul Wahid Qureshi, was also found infected with the virus. Meanwhile, eight new patients with suspected symptoms of the virus were admitted in the New Civil hospital and Seventh Day Adventist Mission mission on Tuesday. Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “The positive cases are on the rise from Adajan Patiya and Rander. Earlier, a portion of Rander town was under mass quarantine and now we have put the entire stretch from Adajan Patiya to wier-cum-causeway under mass quarantine.” MALE NURSE TESTS POSITIVE IN HIMMATNAGAR In Himmatnagar town of Sabarkantha, a male nurse name Narendrasinh Chauhan, working in isolation ward of civil hospital also tested positive on Tuesday, said chief distrct health officer Rajesh Patel. All 33 co-staffers of Chauhan have been quarantined and the block number 2 where he was living in the government quarter has been sanitized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-more-test-positive-in-the-city-cases-touch-20/articleshow/75036699.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Have patience and follow norms: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked people not to get afraid of Covid-19 as the state government is taking all steps to contain its spread in the state and maintaining a close vigil on each aspect of the pandemic. “Please have patience and follow the government’s guidelines for social distancing,” Nitish said. The CM also congratulated those who defeated coronavirus and came out of the hospitals in the state. He also said there was no shortage of food items in the state and all essential goods were being made available to the shops across the state. He said the state government was taking all necessary steps to provide all possible assistance to the migrant workers stranded in other parts of the country. Migrants hail CM’s efforts: Meanwhile, a group of Bihari migrant workers stranded in Tamil Nadu due to the nationwide lockdown, hailed CM Nitish on Tuesday for sending Rs1,000 in their bank accounts as part of special assistance from the CM Relief Fund. In a video message send through WhatsApp to the chief minister’s office here, the migrant workers led by Umesh Kumar Sahni, of Lalganj block in Vaishali district and Raj Kumar of Bhagwanpur (Vaishali) appreciated the steps taken by the CM for the migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/have-patience-and-follow-norms-cm/articleshow/75035575.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus: Three with severe co-morbid conditions succumb, Pune toll up to eight||PUNE: Three critically ill patients succumbed to novel coronavirus-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in the city on Tuesday, taking the city’s Covid-19 toll to eight. Two of the deceased persons had underlying medical conditions, including diabetes and hypertension. The other was a patient of chronic kidney disease. All the three were being treated on ventilator support. A 67-year-old man, a resident of Parvati Darshan, was admitted to the Sassoon hospital on April 1 after he complained of breathlessness. “He is a known patient of diabetes and hypertension. He had developed ARDS and was on ventilator support,” said the hospital’s dean, Ajay Chandanwale. Another victim was a 65-year-old man, a resident of Lumbininagar in Sangamwadi. He was admitted to the hospital on April 4 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He had co-morbid conditions, including hypertension and diabetes. He later developed ARDS and was on ventilator support. The third victim was a 57-year-old resident of Bhavani Peth. He was a pastor and a patient of renal failure. “He was shifted to our hospital from a private hospital five days ago. His condition was critical and was on ventilator support,” Chandanwale said. He said, “All the three patients had tested positive for Covid-19. Their infection is not linked with international travel, nor is there any traceable source of infection in terms of proximity to known infected persons. The investigation is on.” In most of the Covid-19 casualties in Pune, the victims were people from low-income group and slum-dwellers. None of them had any recent history of foreign travel or any other traceable source of contracting the contagion. Most had some or the other co-morbid conditions. Three persons, including two slum-dwellers, succumbed to the novel coronavirus-associated complications on April 4 and 5. The city’s first Covid-19 death was on March 30, when a 52-year-old man, a resident of Thane staying at his in-laws’ home in Erandwane, succumbed to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection-associated complications at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. He had underlying medical conditions, including diabetes and hypertension. A 50-year-old woman from Raviwar Peth was Pune’s second Covid-19 casualty when she succumbed to Covid-19-associated ARDS at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital on April 2. She had no other underlying medical conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-with-severe-co-morbid-conditions-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/75037524.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 8, 2020||Business||Kirana stores come to rescue of consumers||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI/KOLKATA: Consumers are at their wits’ end. They wholeheartedly endorsed e-commerce as a new medium of ordering anything and everything including grocery in the pre-Covid days, and now when they’ve got used to a new digital lifestyle, the new medium is struggling to keep pace with deliveries. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesOn the other hand, the friendly neighbourhood kiranawalla has come to the rescue of many. Not only are the local kirana store owners going the extra mile to ensure consumers get their daily essentials, they are also turning out to be more innovative than their digital counterparts. Take the case of Naren Das, a small kirana shop owner in Kolkata’s Shyambazar area, who has adopted a primitive yet useful way of maintaining supply chain during the lockdown. Das and family members run the shop, so there is no dearth of manpower. For logistics, he is relying on cycle and hand-pulled rickshaws. “I am not facing any problem. I do not have e-pass but I keep my trade licence while going to distributors or wholesalers and show it to the police, as well,” said Das. Ankit Goel, a wholesaler of grocery items in Beliaghata corroborated Das. “Yes, they are coming by cycle, hand-pulled rickshaws and cycle vans to my godown,” he said. In Delhi’s Kalkaji area, kirana shop owner Suresh Kumar is following the same principle. He rides his scooter to wholesalers to replenish stock. “People have bought enough supplies to last them through the lockdown. Let’s see what happens when it lifts.” Maratha Stores, which caters to a large section of consumers in South Mumbai’s Colaba area, is well stocked, but its manager Santosh Gupta told TOI they face a lot of hurdles in ensuring they do not run out of grocery items. “We do not have passes and we are facing a lot of issues, but we want to make sure no consumer returns empty handed. We have taken it upon ourselves as a social service. I have personally come here to a wholesale market to pick up stocks. But, we get stopped at every other place. During these tough times, we are doing it as a service to the nation,” said Gupta. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage 21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won't How to quarantine yourself at home Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Lalji Singh, the owner of Bhavani Kirana store in the western suburbs of Mumbai, is happy that fresh stock has arrived at his store from the Vashi wholesale market. He said kirana stores buy stock on 12-day credit and if they fail to pay on time, wholesalers charge 2% interest. Singh is putting restrictions on how much a consumer buys from his store. He said he will not allow any one consumer family to hoard so that “every family gets to partake in the stock and sustain”. So why have e-commerce firms, following the best practices on CRM (customer relationship management), failed the consumer in a lockdown, and seen to be limping back to normalcy? “Online players need manpower for packaging and delivery. Their warehouses are scattered. There is a problem in movement everywhere. But we are locals and know every alley and backroads, therefore we can manage to deliver goods to consumers. They got trapped in their own processes,” said Ramesh Lahoti, a wholesaler and distributor in Bengaluru. It’s not that the kirana stores are not facing the same hurdles. Kesoram Chaudhary, who runs a kirana store in Bhandup, an eastern Mumbai suburb which is also the landmark for Dream mall and Neptune mall, says he is caught in a red-tape of sorts between government departments for a pass that can help him go long distances for stock. Hari Menon of BigBasket said the online grocery giant is delivering around one lakh orders a day compared to 1.4 lakh during pre-Covid-19 days with 50% manpower. “How much better can we plan? How does one get people to come and work in such situations, despite us taking all precautions for employee safety? We currently need over 10,000 people,” he told TOI. Albinder Dhindsa, co-founder of Grofers, said 95% of retail in India is traditional brick-and-mortar small stores and that pressure won’t get transferred overnight to the organised sector. “We are serving over 60,000 households everyday but getting over 10 lakh requests a day. There are going to be consumers who won’t get the service,” he said. Amid complaints from consumers about delayed deliveries and cancelled orders, an Amazon spokesperson said, “Amazon Pantry is live and has begun accepting new orders in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai, Delhi-NCR, Kolkata, Chennai, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam to name a few.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kirana-stores-come-to-rescue-of-consumers/articleshow/75036896.cms||John Sarkar
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Three held for littering on road||VADODARA: Not just roaming around during lockdown, but even throwing tobacco wrappers or spitting on roads can invite arrest. Chhota Udepur police arrested three persons in Bodeli and Pavi Jetpur on Monday for littering around after coming out of their houses. In Bodeli, cops nabbed Kamlesh Tadvi, a resident of Vaddhari village, and Jitendrasinh Parmar, who lives in Pavi Jetpur, as they were found loitering around in Vaddhari and Kosindra villages without any purpose and also spitting tobacco that they were chewing. The duo was booked for violation of public notification and committing a negligent act to spread infection dangerous to life. In Pavi Jetpur, Jayendrasinh Solanki, a resident of Pavi Jetpur town, was nabbed as he was throwing plastic wrappers on road. “He was already chewing tobacco and had thrown several empty wrappers of tobacco and paan masala when we held him. When he was questioned, he spat out the chewed tobacco in front of us which is very harmful especially in current times,” said a police official. Solanki too was booked under similar charges as Tadvi and Parmar. “In the past few days, we have booked several people littering on road like this and roaming around for no reason,” said a police official of Bodeli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-held-for-littering-on-road/articleshow/75034781.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Coronavirus positive man flees civil hospital in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 41-year-old man living in Jangleshwar area of Rajkot tested positive on Tuesday. The source of his infection is still not known because he is not cooperating with the authorities in revealing his travel history. He also escaped from Rajkot Civil Hospital after the doctor on duty suspected him to be positive.  He was referred by a private physician after his condition deteriorated on Monday evening. When the doctor in civil hospital asked him to complete some formalities, he escaped from there. The doctor alerted health officials because his mobile number was also switched off. Police traced him after one-and-a-half hours in Jangleshwar. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman from Bhavnagar also tested positive. She is a family member of a 65-year-old man who had tested positive and is under treatment at Sir T Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ve-man-flees-civil-hospital/articleshow/75037062.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar man attacked after cigarette smoke spat dies||BETTIAH: Sunil Ram (25), who along with four others of his family were injured in a mob attack at Ambedkar Nagar Tola of Bhainsahi village in West Champaran district on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries in Patna on Tuesday. Villagers reacted violently after getting the news and a mob chased away the SC/ST police station SHO Uday Paswan and his team. Bettiah SP Natasha Gudiya and DM Kundan Kumar rushed to the village and pacified the angry kin of the deceased. The DM promised early disbursal of ex gratia payment as per rules. “We had arrested two of the accused last night,” the SP said. “We hope to arrest Sabir, the main accused, soon,” she said, adding that the police have got some clues about his whereabouts. It may be recalled that Sabir had puffed cigarette smoke on Sunil’s face on Sunday evening. The ensuing spat later led to an attack by Sabir on the Dalit hamlet. Ram sustained ‘farsa’ (sharp-edged weapon) blows on his head while Dhonrha Ram of his family received gunshot injuries. Three others in his family were also injured. Both the seriously injured victims had been referred to the PMCH where Sunil died on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-attacked-after-cigarette-smoke-spat-dies/articleshow/75036296.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar ministers making optimum use of lockdown||PATNA: The nationwide 21-day lockdown has changed the daily routine of majority of the ministers in the state. As all offices including the secretariat are closed and no socio-political events are being organised since March 25. The cabinet ministers, who usually remained occupied throughout the day holding meetings with officers or attending socio-political programmes as chief or distinguished guests, are today confined within the four walls of their official bungalows. While some are utilising their time by making frequent calls to people of their constituencies and reading books, a few are busy providing necessary guidance to those stranded outside the state. CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, health minister Mangal Pandey and a few others are busy holding frequent meetings with officials to check the spread of Covid-19 and making necessary arrangements for migrant workers returning home. However, some ministers who are not directly related to the mainstream departments, are enjoying this break with their family members. “I am in touch with the public and party workers through phone calls and reading books about prominent political personalities. As my cellphone number is in public domain for the last several years, many people who are stranded outside the state make calls seeking help. I try to help them out,” state road construction department (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav told TOI on Wednesday. “Besides these, being the cabinet minister incharge of Patna and Vaishali, I take feedback from officials of on phone. When free from phone calls, I read books on prominent personalities. Recently, I read two books on PM Narendra Modi and former Bihar CM Karpoori Thakur. At present, I am reading a book on JP movement, in which I had actively participated,” the RCD minister said. Industries minister Shyam Rajak too is utilising his time by remaining in touch with the people of Phulwari constituency. “Recently, I finished two books—‘Sanskriti Ke Chaar Adhyay’ by Ramdhari Singh Dinkar and ‘Bari Sonch Ka Bara Jadoo’. I am now reading ‘Gram Swarajya’ by Mahatma Gandhi,” Rajak said. State agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries resources minister Prem Kumar said, “I am working from home. As the state is also facing bird flu and swine flu threats and several districts are undergoing fodder crisis, work in both the departments have increased manifold. Two days back, I did a videoconferencing with some district officials from my residential office. However, in the morning, I do exercises and yoga. I also feed the four cows at my residence, and watch the ‘Ramayan’ serial in the night.” Information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar spends his days hearing public grievances over phone. “People know that I personally receive calls on my cell phone. A large number of people who are stranded outside the state, calls me up. I hear their problems and try to help them out,” Neeraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-ministers-making-optimum-use-of-lockdown/articleshow/75036280.cms||Madan Kumar
April 8, 2020||Patna||Patna: They ensure stray dogs don’t go hungry||PATNA: When the streets are deserted and restaurants and roadside eateries closed, even the stray dogs are finding it difficult to survive during the lockdown period. But there are few Good Samaritans who are feeding hundreds of stray dogs in the city every day. A family in the Exhibition Road area has been doing it since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25. Sharmila Agarwal (33) and her husband Sanjay Agarwal (41) make sure to feed the stray dogs in their locality and nearby areas. “We have been feeding stray dogs for the last 25 years. But due to the lockdown, we have started feeding even more dogs as their condition has become worse. People are hardly seen on the streets and they have no leftover available from roadside eateries or even households. I prepare food and my husband distributes it to around 35-50 dogs every day,” said Sharmila. She added: “We distribute chapatis, biscuits and rice to the furry creatures twice a day,” she added. Sharmila has also inspired several members in her family to feed stray dogs. “Earlier they were quite dicey about feeding stray dogs as they thought it was not important. However, after seeing us doing this, my relatives have also started this practice,” she said. Monu Ranjan (30), a physical education coach at National Institute of Technology, Patna, also makes it a point to pack some chapatis, rice, biscuits and other snacks to feed stray dogs in Gandhi Maidan, Bank Road, Police Lines, Exhibition Road and Frazer Road areas. He starts at 6pm and return home at 9.30pm. “It is a small initiative to ensure that the stray dogs do not suffer from hunger due to the lockdown. I started it on March 19. I do this with the help of local police personnel by maintaining social distance,” he said on Tuesday. Ranjan, a resident of Jagganpura, said he cooks food for 80 dogs and also pack food for 400 people living on the roadside. “I cook rice, chapatis, khichdi and sometimes biryani as well. But I avoid giving oily food to dogs as it impacts their fur. I want other people also to feed dogs and other stray animals in their localities because if we don’t help them, who will,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/they-ensure-stray-dogs-dont-go-hungry/articleshow/75035212.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 8, 2020||Business||Pharma stocks buck weak market trend||Rupali Mukherjee & Partha Sinha | TNN Mumbai: At a time when most sectors have taken a beating, the pharma industry has outperformed the Nifty by 16-40% in March. The domestic pharma market has been consistently witnessing a strong 10-11% growth over the last few years, driven by a healthy mix of volume and price hikes in several therapies. The market continues to be buoyed by strong growth drivers such as the rising penetration of medicines, increasing affordability (increase in government-run Jan Aushadhi stores) and a growing incidence of chronic disorders like diabetes, cardiac and oncology. Analysts believe the pharma outperformance will continue even in a slowdown as it offers a stable revenue/profit stream from a secure domestic market, along with a gradually improving outlook for exports. The demand is unlikely to be affected, and production by companies should continue unabated as medicines classified as essential commodities isolates pharma companies from being impacted by the recent shutdowns, they added. Within the sector, companies with higher contributions from domestic revenue like Abbott India, Torrent and Ipca have seen relatively stronger outperformance. The worst returns have been from leveraged companies like Aurobindo and Glenmark. The domestic business contributes around 30-40% of revenue for companies such as Cadila, Cipla, Glenmark, Lupin and Sun Pharma, with the exception of Aurobindo Pharma. “The existing growth rates should therefore be sustained, along with strong operating margins in the range of 25-35% depending on the company’s portfolio mix. The domestic business offers high growth visibility and a low probability of major disruptions. Within exports, while US compliance issues remain a concern, industry dynamics for generics are gradually improving with stable price erosion and emerging markets like Russia, Brazil, South Africa and southeast Asia having strong underlying drivers, albeit risk from currency fluctuations. The outlook for the export business is gradually improving”, a note from CLSA says. Given low per capita spending on medicines, volume-led growth should remain a central theme and help sustain the current growth rate of the industry. India’s pharma market has strong macro drivers, which should enable it to see a 10% CAGR over the next decade, it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-stocks-buck-weak-market-trend/articleshow/75036955.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 8, 2020||Business||Canara Bank to compensate Covid-19 deaths||Mumbai: Canara Bank has announced a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to legal heirs of employees in case of death due to Covid-19 up to September 2020. Earlier, SBI had announced cash compensation of Rs 20 lakh in the event of death due to the virus. “Bank employees need to interact with the public day in and day out. Bank staffers serving customers and the country at large are facing severe challenges and risks on account of the spread of the coronavirus. Considering the serious condition prevailing in the country, the competent authority has decided to pay Rs 20 lakh as compensation to legal heirs in case of unfortunate death of any employee,” the circular said. It added that in case of hospitalisation due to the coronavirus, the guidelines applicable to the Indian Banks Association medical insurance policy will apply. Meanwhile, Tata AIA Life Insurance has said it will provide additional benefits related to Covid-19 for its policyholders and agents without additional cost. Those already hold Tata AIA policies get an additional Rs 5 lakh (or an amount equivalent to the sum insured, whichever is lower) for death claims due to Covid-19. This benefit is applicable for all valid death claims with a date of death on or before June 30, 2020. Further, Tata AIA’s agents along with their spouse and children are entitled to up to Rs 25,000 hospitalisation cover if diagnosed with Covid-19 within the period as well. Besides employees, SBI has said that it will provide Rs 10-lakh compensation to heirs of its 61,000 business correspondents in case of death due to the coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/canara-bank-to-compensate-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/75036986.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Kotak sees 20% rise in FY20 deposits, loans grow 7%||Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank has reported a 19.6% increase in customer deposits and a 6.7% growth in bank loans during 2019-20, indicating that the private lender has focused on remaining liquid. The bank also said that the share of deposits in current and savings accounts, which are considered by analysts to be core long-term deposits, rose to 56.2% in March from 53.7% in December 2019 and 52.5% a year ago. This follows a 31% jump in its savings account balances year-on-year. Outstanding balances in savings accounts rose to Rs 1,04,600 crore from Rs 79,685 crore a year ago. Deposits in current accounts rose 17% to Rs 43,000 crore from Rs 36,788 crore, while total customer deposits rose 11% to Rs 2.58 lakh crore. Last month, Kotak Bank said that it was reducing the return on savings deposit balances above Rs 1 lakh to 5% from 6% earlier. During the third quarter, total customer deposits grew 11% over October-December while savings deposits jumped 14% (quarter-on-quarter). However, growth in advances during the last quarter had slowed down to 1.3%. Sources said that the bank had chosen to adopt a strategy of safety over return and had gone slow on loans to small businesses. The growth in savings deposits shows that the private bank has bucked the trend seen in smaller private banks of depositors pulling out funds in the wake of the crisis at Yes Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-sees-20-rise-in-fy20-deposits-loans-grow-7/articleshow/75037033.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Longer curbs won’t impact payment ops||Mumbai: The country’s payment systems would not be impacted even if the lockdown were to be extended as the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) has built in redundancy even if the situation worsens. NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe told TOI, “We have made a plan factoring in a possibility that a lockdown may be reintroduced. The objective is to keep employees safe. If they are safe, the operations can be managed. There are things we cannot disclose, but there is enough redundancy in case something goes wrong”. NPCI is the reason why amid a lockdown the government is able to transfer relief money to crores of bank accounts. The payments corporation also provides the backbone for UPI payments, interoperable ATM networks, online bill payments and RuPay cards. According to Asbe,, besides facilitating remote operations, NPCI has stationed 5% staff in office. “Obviously, there has been a dip in volumes as discretionary spends are near to zero but we expect volumes to pick up,” he said. On complaints by distributors of delay in cheque clearing, Asbe acknowledged that there might be the last mile problem and they were in touch with banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/longer-curbs-wont-impact-payment-ops/articleshow/75036901.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Mentally ill woman bludgeons husband to death, arrested||Rajkot: A woman with learning difficulties allegedly bludgeoned her husband to death while the latter was asleep on a cot in Hamusar village of Mithapur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka on early Tuesday morning. The accused woman was arrested late on Tuesday afternoon. Police said the accused, identified as Rupi Hathal (32), had hit her husband, Tapubha Hathal (38) with a pestle. “Rupi had been suffering from mental disorder for the past seven years, for which she had also been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Jamnagar. She appears to have committed the crime in a frenzy caused by her illness,” said S D Dangar, inspector with Mithapur police station. When Tapubha was being attacked, his 12-year-old daughter Anjali woke up. She woke up Tapubha’s nephew Rambha Hathal, who called up 108 emergency ambulance. However, by the time the ambulance arrived, Tapubha had already succumbed to his injuries. Rupi was booked and arrested on the complaint of Rambha. The preliminary investigation of the police suggests that there was apparently no motive to the crime. “Rupi’s family members said that she would often suffer fits and go into a frenzy, attacking whoever was near to her. During interrogation, she could not give any satisfactory answer, we suspect that she has killed her husband out of her mental instabilty,” said an official from Mithapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mentally-ill-woman-bludgeons-husband-to-death-arrested/articleshow/75036943.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Surat||Chartered plane flies Japanese nationals to Delhi||Surat: A chartered flight landed at Surat airport to carry stranded foreign nationals, mostly from Japan, to New Delhi on Tuesday. A group of eight Japanese people staying put in a city hotel had contacted Japan’s embassy for help to travel to their home country. Official sources said a few Japanese nationals on a business trip to Hazira got stuck in the city after announcement of nationwide lockdown and suspension of domestic and international flights by central government to combat coronavirus. Airport director Aman Saini said, “A private chartered flight was sent from New Delhi to ferry the Japanese nationals from Surat. The stranded travellers were picked up from Surat airport and flown to New Delhi from where they will be travelling to Japan.” Saini added, “Even as domestic and international flights remain suspended due to lockdown, the airport is operational for air cargo and emergency services. Our airport staff attended to the chartered flight and we ensured smooth boarding of Japanese nationals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/chartered-plane-flies-japanese-nationals-to-delhi/articleshow/75036777.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Video of attack on Dalit couple goes viral||Rajkot: A video showing a Dalit couple being beaten up by a group of eight people at Thoradi village of Savarkundla taluka in Amreli district has gone viral. In the video, accused Kana Barwadia, Janak Barwadia, Shailesh Barwadia and Bhavesh Barwadia along with four unidentified co-accused are seen beating up Haresh Parmar (32) and his wife Shilpa Parmar (29). The accused can also be seen attacking the couple with knives and bats. “The accused wanted to grab a plot belonging Haresh and his brother Atul, for which they had been pressurizing Haresh to sell it. On Sunday, the accused called up Haresh and Atul to their farm, where they attacked Haresh. When Haresh’s wife Shilpa rushed to his rescue, she too was beaten up,” said A P Dodia, sub-inspector with Savarkundla taluka police station. In the video, the accused are also heard hurling casteist slurs at the couple. Meanwhile, police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/video-of-attack-on-dalit-couple-goes-viral/articleshow/75036880.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 booked for sitting on verandah||Ahmedabad: Even if you are bored beyond endurance with the lockdown, then also don’t dare to go out even till your verandah, or else cops will book you.This has happened with two cousins living in Kalol town of Gandhinagar district who were booked by police on Monday when they were sitting and chatting on the verandah of their house adjacent to a shop. According to an FIR filed with Kalol city police, the two men, aged 30 and 26, were caught chatting on a drone camera. On Monday, the cops of local crime branch were patrolling with a drone to enforce a proper lockdown. At that time, they caught the accused and booked them under charges of violation of notification and for allegedly spreading infectious disease along with relevant sections of epidemic act and Gujarat Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulations, 2020. On the other hand, nine people had to pay the price for gathering and gossiping at a club house of a housing society in Bhat village of Gandhinagar taluka on Monday. An FIR filed with Adalaj police states that a team of cops was patrolling near Bhat village when they got an input that some people had gathered at a club house of Sumel bungalows. The police reached there and found that those people were not maintaining social distancing. The cops booked them for spreading infectious disease and disobeying the lockdown order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-booked-for-sitting-on-verandah/articleshow/75036988.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Disinfection center in Vizag soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam will get a Corona Disinfection Center (CDC) soon. Visakhapatnam district administration set up a committee, headed by the principal of Andhra Medical College, to evaluate the possible locations and other logistics. Confirming this to TOI, Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said “The committee is able to submit the study report by Wednesday, April 8. Based on the report, we will take the decision on the setting up of the disinfection center.” Vinay Chand further said that initially they will be setting up the CDC at the Indira Priyadarshini Stadium at Resapuvanipalem, where there is a temporary rythu bazaar. “Once the centre is set up at the stadium, will will try increasing the number of such centers by attaching them to main Rythu Bazars in a phased manner,” the collector said. As the number of people testing positive for coronavirus has been increasing in Visakhapatnam district, such disinfection centers are vital, the collector added. Sources said that the district administration is likely to focus on rythu bazaars which are close to areas where people who tested positive lived. The first positive case was registered at Allipuram, followed by Akkayyapalem, Thatichetlapalem and Gajuwaka. So far, Visakhapatnam has registered 20 positive cases, of which one person has recovered. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, which have CDCs, have not registered any positive cases of novel coronavirus so far. On Tuesday, Srikakulam collector J Nivas inaugurated a CDC in Srikakulam town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/disinfection-center-in-vizag-soon/articleshow/75036069.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two kids and 15 others test positive for Covid-19||PUNE: Two children were among the 17 people testing positive for Covid-19 infection in Pune on Tuesday, taking the total count of patients in the region to 158. A majority of the new cases are residents of the central Peth areas and close contacts of positive persons. Currently, the condition of five patients is critical and they have been put on ventilator support at three private hospitals in the city. “Those testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday are residents of Bhavani Peth, Nana Peth, Guruwar Peth, Ghorpadigaon, Parvatigaon, Hadapsar and Wanowrie,” a civic health official said, adding that the two children found positive were an eight-year-old boy and an 11-year-old-girl. “Most of the new patients are young adults in the age group of 20 to 37 years. Two senior citizens, including a 66-year old-man and a 63-year-old woman, are also among the newly detected cases of the contagion,” the official said. In Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits, no new cases were recorded even on Tuesday. Of the 21 cases recorded till Saturday, 12 have been discharged after recovery. The remaining nine patients are undergoing treatment, out of which one is being treated at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in PMC limits. Swabs of 561 persons from PCMC limits have been collected and sent for analysis to the National Institute Of Virology (NIV) so far. Of all the samples, 519 have tested negative so far. Till now, 1,846 persons have been kept in home quarantine. Field surveillance teams have completed survey of 2.58 lakh homes in the PCMC limits so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-kids-15-others-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75037528.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 8, 2020||Pune||Corporators mull over ways to ease citzens’ hardships||PUNE: Corporators from areas sealed to check the spread of coronavirus are flooded with phone calls of residents about the duration of the arrangement and if they could venture out to buy vegetables and essential commodities. Vishal Dhanawade, a corporator from the old city area, said, “We tried to pacify maximum citizens who approached us. Their main concern was about availability of essential commodities.” Dhanawade said he held a meeting of traders from the local vegetable “mandi” on Monday night and told them to keep the shops closed. “Nana Peth has the biggest mandis of vegetables and grocery shops. We held a meeting of the vendors on Monday night. It was decided to close down the ‘mandis’ on Tuesday. We assured the citizens that they would not face any hurdles in getting the essential items,” he said. The corporator said they were checking if some relaxation could be provided for a couple of hours once in three days so that citizens could step out for essential purchases. “We are thinking about discussing the plan with the authorities. This will bring some relief to the citizens,” he added. Ajay Khedekar, a corporator from the Mahatma Phule Peth-Khadakmalali area, said, “We are talking to the senior citizens and telling them to remain at home. We have identified locations for the vegetable vendors. If the administration permits, a market can be held for one or two hours at least thrice a week” Sainath Babar, corporator from Kondhwa, said, “Many social groups are active to supply vegetables and commodities at the residents’ doorstep. We will see how this can be improved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporators-mull-over-ways-to-ease-citzens-hardships/articleshow/75037530.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi admin releases quarantined Pilibhit woman, asks her to stay at home||PILIBHIT: A Pilibhit woman, who was quarantined at Terapanh Bhawanat in South Delhi’s Chhatarpur area upon her return from abroad on March 19, has been released by the Delhi administration after her quarantine period expired on April 5. However, the woman — was sent to Pilibhit on a transit pass — has been directed to quarantine herself at her house for 14 days. A copy of her transit permit was sent to Pilibhit superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit. According to Dixit, the woman has not reached Pilibhit till Tuesday evening, but the information of her release from the Delhi-based quarantine centre has been shared with the health department. The woman would be monitored during her home-quarantine here, said Dixit. The SP, meanwhile, said a joint team of police and health department raided as many as 80 residential premises in different localities under Pilibhit kotwali on Tuesday in search of people who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation in Delhi or those who came in contact with an attendee of the meet. During the search operation, police did not find any such person living in kotwali area, but the operation would continue till the time the central government kept sending lists of such persons, added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-admin-releases-quarantined-pilibhit-woman-asks-her-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/75036072.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||PCMC set to cordon off 4 places today||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is set to seal four areas, mainly in the suburbs, on Wednesday. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “Kharalwadi in Pimpri, Gharkul in Chikhali, Padwalnagar in Thergaon and a housing society in Dighi are the four areas that would be sealed. A detailed order would be issued tomorrow (Wednesday). The containment zone order would be in effect until the lifting of the lockdown.” Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the corporation, said, “Few of the infected people or their contacts stayed in these places and the step to seal the areas is aimed at preventing the spread of coronavirus.” Additional commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) Ramnath Pokale said police restricted the movement of people at Padwalnagar, Kharalwadi and Gharkul from Saturday. (With inputs from Aseem Shaikh, Mihir Tanksale and Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-set-to-cordon-off-4-places-today/articleshow/75037535.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two-fold rise in sales of fruits and vegetables||VISAKHAPATNAM: The demand for fruits and vegetables has doubled in Visakhapatnam city following the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, MVP Rythu Bazaar estate officer Nalla Maha Raju said usually nearly four to five quintals of fruits are sold at their rythu bazaar. “But since March 21, we have been selling nearly 10-12 quintals of fruits every day. The demand for fruits has increased following the coronavirus scare,” Raju said. Certain Vitamin-C-rich fruits like orange, guava, grapes, lemons and watermelon are selling like hot cakes, he added. On the rise in demand for vegetables, G Prasad, estate officer of another Rythu Baazar in the city said before the lockdown they used to supply nearly 300 quintals of vegetables per day to the main rythu bazaars, while now they are supplying nearly 400-500 quintals of vegetables every day. “We are not facing any difficulty in providing the requisite number of essential food items to the public as all vegetables are locally available,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-fold-rise-in-sales-of-fruits-and-vegetables/articleshow/75036095.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 8, 2020||Madurai||11 new cases reported in south TN||Madurai: The Covid-19 positive wife and two sons of the 54-year-old Madurai man (who died of Covid-19)), who were under isolation, have tested negative in the first confirmatory test. “The second confirmatory test will be done on Wednesday and they are likely to be discharged if they test negative again,” Madurai collector T G Vinay told TOI. It may be recalled that the man from Anna Nagar in the city who tested positive on March 23 died on March 25, the first Covid-19 death in the state. On the other hand, 11 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the southern districts on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the region to 172. The fresh cases are from Tuticorin (6) and Madurai (5) districts. Out of the five cases in Madurai, one is a Delhi conference attendee while others were close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. It takes the total positive cases in the district to 24. A 49-year-old man from Anna Nagar who tested positive for Covid-19 had returned from Delhi on March 25 and remained asymptomatic. Another man aged 49 is from Elumalai, a containment zone, and had been working at the milk depot of a Covid-19 patient. The remaining three cases are family members of a Covid-19 patient from Elumalai. Since all the patients are from containment zones, there is no further expansion of zones. Vinay said that a total of 382 primary contacts have been identified for those who had tested positive so far and are being monitored. As many as 73,396 families in the containment zones are being monitored by 902 health department teams. The six new Covid-19 positive cases in Tuticorin district take the total tally in the district to 17. The new cases include four women and two men. Three of the new cases are kin of two men from Patemanagaram and Athoor who had attended the Delhi conference. The three others are from a family in Tuticorin city. They have been identified as a couple and the husband’s mother. It is learnt that the woman is a lab technician at a private hospital. Samples have been collected from her colleagues and the results are expected on Wednesday. “We don’t know the exact travel history of the three people in the corporation limit. But they have not travelled outside the state. We don’t know the source and are trying to establish and trace all contacts,” district collector Sandeep Nanduri said. The trio went to a private hospital in the city with symptoms and were referred to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital. The locality was already covered under the containment plan after a resident in the area who had returned from Delhi testing positive. Nanduri said that so far seven people from the district who returned from Delhi tested positive and they have identified 273 close contacts. “We have classified them as high risk (around 120) and low risk (150). Those in the high risk are tested. Some of them have tested positive. This includes six who tested positive on Monday and Tuesday,” he added. Those in the low risk category are under home quarantine and identification of the close contacts of the six people who tested positive on Tuesday has also begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/11-new-cases-reported-in-south-tn/articleshow/75037544.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Asha workers face opposition while conducting survey for pandemic||JAIPUR: Asha Sahyogini Kiran Sharma (name changed), who has been assigned to conduct survey for possible coronavirus suspects, had to face stiff opposition in Kalyan ji ka Rasta area here. On Monday, a crowd of around 100 people surrounded her and accused her of trying to gather information for the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Standing alone in the midst of the mob, Kiran was taking photos and videos of people as per instructions given by the government, but someone snatched her phone. Scared of the crowd, Kiran sought police help. Kiran said, “We have been asked to take photographs of people who refuse to cooperate. Small mistakes can be dangerous for hundreds. But these people refuse to listen. They keep alleging that we were there to conduct NRC survey.” Similar experiences were faced by many other Asha workers in several parts of Walled City. On Tuesday, Asha workers declined to go for the survey in those areas where they faced opposition. Asha workers have been assigned to get information on people suffering from cold, cough or fever. They have been asked to check each and every person in the Walled City for an exhaustive data. Shivani Verma (name change), another Asha worker, said she tried tired to reason with people in Tokhana and Jalupura areas on several occasions. “I showed them my reports of the survey what we were doing. I tried to assure them that we are not here for NRC, but they tore off the documents and shouted at me saying they won’t [rovide any information nor will they let me continue with the survey. This has been going on since many days and we have written to authorities, but no action has been taken against them,” said Shivani. Police were present at the scene, but they did not act, sources claimed. Sources in the police department told TOI that they were aware of the incidents and if anyone was found positive in these areas where they refused to cooperate, than those people would be dealt legally. Another Asha worker Rashmi Maheswari (name changed) said they did not inform authorities earlier because they didn’t want to give it a communal angle. “The government is already busy dealing with the pandemic and we didn’t want to stretch the issue. But Monday’s incident forced us to think about our safety as well. We are conducting survey in other parts of Walled City without any problems, except a few pockets,” said Rashmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/asha-workers-face-opposition-while-conducting-survey-for-pandemic/articleshow/75037547.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||No permit needed for essential good manufacturers: State||Pune: The state chief secretary has clarified that manufacturing units of essential commodities do not require any written or electronic permission to continue operating in Maharashtra. The district authorities must ensure a single-point movement permission, if required, for labour/workforce requests put in by these units, a note of clarification, issued in the wake of the March 25 revised lockdown order, stated. Similarly, a self-declaration sticker on the vehicle would be enough for transportation of essential commodities, it said. Copies of the clarification note have been issued to the police units. “Earlier, there was confusion among the police and industries over the issue . Hence, vehicles were not allowed to ferry any material. This had caused a huge trouble to industries in the district. Now, transportation related issue is getting addressed immediately,” Federation of Chakan Industries secretary Dilip Batwal told TOI. Among other things, the note stated that manufacturing units of essential commodities, including food and related items, their dealers and those engaged in their transportation did not require any permission to operate. It also covered those engaged in manufacturing and distribution of vaccines, sanitizers, soaps and detergents, mask, medical equipment, their ancillary and support services.The note stated that these units should operate on barest minimum staff and adhere to the guidelines related to internal hygiene, social distancing and health monitoring, among others. Even those industries which produce raw materials for these manufacturing units are allowed to operate. Pune rural superintendent of police Sandeep Patil said, “We have established 32 points at various locations and police stations where these units can get required transportation permit. Besides, we have made an arrangement to issue passes to such vehicles through WhatsApp.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-permit-needed-for-essential-good-manufacturers-state/articleshow/75037536.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 testing can now be done in Wenlock||Mangaluru: Six days after the trial run commenced at the newly set up virology research and diagnostic lab at Wenlock Hospital on April 1, Indian Council for Medical Research has given its nod for testing swabs of people suspected to have contracted coronavirus there. At present, swabs are sent to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), 171km away, and it takes HIMS at least 48-hours to submit its report. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari tweeted on Tuesday: “With approval of ICMR/NIV today, Covid-19 (confirmatory) tests will be carried out at Wenlock and reports received in a few hours. This will stop dependency on an external district for reports. I thank the central and state governments for responding to our needs.” Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA, also nodal authority to deal with medical hospitals in Dakshina Kannada, stated in a tweet, “Covid-19 lab starts functioning in Mangaluru. Headed by nodal officer Dr Sharath, microbiologist Dr Madhusudahan E, chief technologist Ashok and 3 more technicians.” Dr Shetty had said recently, that certain changes that ICMR had suggested for running the lab has been attended to. The virology lab has the PCR kits to conduct an average 80-100 Covid-19 tests per day, he said. “The nod for the diagnostic lab by the authorities is a major boost to the efforts of the district administration, that is working overtime to ensure that the process is expedited to containg the spread of the disease, and reports will now be available in hours,” said Dr Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-testing-can-now-be-done-in-wenlock/articleshow/75036133.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||No negligence in handling 10 Malaysians, says collector||Madurai: There was no violation in the quarantine norms and in handling the 10 Malaysian nationals who visited Tenkasi and stayed back in the district for three weeks, the Tenkasi district administration has said. The men were issued a road pass from Tenkasi to Chennai after their tests returned negative for Covid-19, so that they could return to their country, district collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan said on Tuesday. They were detained before boarding a Batik Air special flight from Chennai to Kuala Lumpur on Sunday. Elaborating on the incident, Thayalan told TOI that the men had reached Delhi on March 5. After attending a religious conference there, they reached Tenkasi on March 14 and were involved in religious activities in a mosque at Sengottai town. On receiving information about their presence on March 22, the mosque where they were staying was made a quarantine facility. “Based on the directions from the health department they were shifted from the mosque on March 26,” he said. They were shifted to a lodge in Courtallam and quarantined in separate rooms. On March 30, samples were collected from them for testing and when the results came out the next day, it turned out negative. “They continued to be under quarantine in separate rooms till April 2, when they completed 28 days of stay in India,” the collector said. Thayalan added that meanwhile they received communication from the Malaysian embassy in India seeking details of their nationals who had completed 28 days and also tested negative for Covid-19. “We shared their details with the embassy,” he said. An official said the Malaysian nationals ended up in trouble as they had mentioned a wrong reason to obtain a tourist visa instead of stating that they are attending a religious conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-negligence-in-handling-10-malaysians-says-collector/articleshow/75037551.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||11,000 industrial units struggle to meet salary bill in Pune||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 11,000 small-scale industrial units in Pimpri Chinchwad have run into financial headwind due to the lockdown and are unable to meet their March payroll, affecting four lakh workers. The Pimpri Chinchwad Small Industries Association (PCSIA) and the Forum of Small Industries Association (FSSIA) have asked larger units to clear their bills so that they could pay salaries to their workers. They have also sought a bailout from the state and the Union governments. “The small-scale units depend on orders from medium and large-scale units. We have paid loan instalments and taxes for the last month of the fiscal and suddenly, the lockdown was imposed, bringing production to a sudden halt,” PCSIA president Sandeep Belsare said. “The big industrial units to clear their outstanding bills to help us tide over this crisis,” he added. Small-scale manufacturing units had been shut since March 24. As a part of the demanded bailout, Belsare said there should be a 50% reduction in the industrial and commercial power bills for three months, 50% GST for one year and halving or waiver of interest on loans, apart from 50% property tax for this fiscal. “We are sending these demands to the state and Union governments via emails,” he said. FSSIA president Abhay Bhor said, “We also want bigger units to make advance payments to help smaller units survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11k-industrial-units-struggle-to-meet-salary-bill/articleshow/75037549.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vehicular movement banned in closed zones||PUNE: The sealed containment zones in the central parts (Peth areas) of the city and Kondhwa would remain out of bounds for all types of vehicles, barring essential services, from 7pm on April 7 till the midnight of April 14. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve on Tuesday issued a fresh order on Tuesday under Section 144 (1) [3] of the Code of Criminal Procedure specifying the restricted areas. The move follows Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad’s order on Monday sealing the Peth areas and Kondhwa to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The order specifies that grocery shops in the containment areas would be allowed to operate only from 10am to 12noon. All banks in those areas would remain shut but ATMs would be open, the order stated. It stated that people in the containment areas would have to follow the advisory issued by the health department regarding the preventive measures like wearing masks, hand gloves and use of sanitizers. Earlier, Shisve told TOI that people would be allowed to step out of their homes only in case of an emergency or for fetching essential commodities from their neighbourhood shops during the two-hour window. Else, strict compliance of the lockdown orders would be ensured. He said police would also deploy drones for monitoring the movement of people in these areas. “Social distancing is the only way to curb the spread of Covid-19 and our efforts are aimed at this direction,” he said. Shisve said, “The containment zones have been identified by the PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) authorities and our priority is to provide all the necessary assistance to the civic administration in enforcing the measures. People from these zones will not be allowed to move out and the outsiders won’t be allowed to enter there. People will get essential goods in their neighbourhood. The local police and the administrative officers, too, will help them.” He said the police had been keeping a tab on the home quarantined people (about 1,400) on a daily basis by using a selfie software, wherein the home quarantined people are required to upload their selfies twice a day on their smartphone application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vehicular-movement-banned-in-closed-zones/articleshow/75037542.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Biowaste collectors soldier on||Ahmedabad: They are the unsung heroes at the forefront of the Covid war. These 1,100 biowaste collectors employed at 25 incineration facilities across the state now handle the most dangerous biohazard known to humans. Each day, more than 1 tonne of Covid biomedical waste is destroyed in the state by the workers of these facilities. These workers’ families plead with them to quit such a high-risk job. But fighting the stigma and placating their loved ones, the workers return to Covid isolation facilities to collect waste and take it to incineration plants to destroy it. And yet these workers are not considered on a par with other health workers for compensation or insurance announced by the state recently for the Covid war. More than 350 vehicles collect biowaste across the state with 25 to 30 vehicles operating in Ahmedabad’s four facilities alone, the highest in any city. Ahmedabad generates 500-600kg of waste every day. “I have a small kid at home. Every day my wife and my mother implore me to quit the job,” says a worker at a facility in Ahmedabad who did not want to be identified. “But each day I feel determined to do my duty, which is important for my future and that of all children,” he says.“Our workers have just five to seven minutes to incinerate biohazard bags once they disembark from our van at our incineration facility,” says national president of Association of Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facilities (CBWTFs)Vinod Kachhadia. “Each day we collect 1,000-1,200kg of Covid waste,” he says. “The load is increasing by the day, but we are determined to carry on. The waste is very dangerous one has to be careful.”He explains that biohazard vans have to be disinfected before the waste is loaded and unloaded. “We cannot compromise the sequence of waste handling or we will pay with our lives,” says an Ahmedabad incineration facility owner, Prakash Vaghela. “We have 5,000 sets of protective gear for our employees because of the intricate work involved in disposing of the waste,” Vaghela says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/biowaste-collectors-soldier-on/articleshow/75037046.cms||Paul John
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Panels for action against residents not cooperating with medics||JAIPUR: As the state capital wrestles with the pandemic, the district administration is facing an avalanche of fake news about the virus on digital platforms and other problems including suspects escaping from quarantine centres and not cooperating with medical staff for tests. To curb the practice and take immediate action against the culprits in such cases, the district administration has constituted committees at the district and subdivision levels. At the district level, the committee is headed by the CEO, Zilla Parishad. Similarly, at the subdivision level, the committee is under chairmanship of the subdivision magistrate concerned. These committees will take action against the person concerned by taking cognizance at its level. These actions will be taken under The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957 and The Disaster Management Act 2005. In this regard, Jaipur district collector Jogaram issued an order on Tuesday. As per the orders, the committee will penalise or register a case against a person who will be found guilty for spreading misinformation or rumour in the context of coronavirus infection or receives government assistance in a fake manner. “In the last few days, it has been observed that people who were having a stock of ration were also demanding it from the government after calling government centres. Due to this, panic was created. When the team arrived at their homes, there was sufficient amount of ration and essential items. Efforts will be made to curb such practices,” said an official. The administration will also take strict against people in Jaipur district who have symptoms of coronavirus infection and are intentionally not undergoing health tests and also not following the home isolation rule. Apart from this, those who are not getting their health tests and are not in home isolation despite coming in contact with a coronavirus positive victim, will also have to face strict action. An official further said, “If a person tries to escape from the quarantine centre, a case will be registered against the culprit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panels-for-action-against-residents-not-cooperating-with-medics/articleshow/75037557.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Koregaon Bhima to observe lockdown for a week||Pune: As part of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the villagers of Koregaon Bhima have unanimously decided to close all commercial establishments, including those selling vegetables, groceries and milk, from Wednesday till the end of the lockdown period (April 14). Groceries and milk will be supplied door-to-door after placing orders. The area had earlier observed a complete lockdown on March 27-28 and April 3-4. There are no instances of Covid-19 positive cases in the area. “We will observe this for seven days from Wednesday. During this period all pharmacies and hospitals will remain open,” village development officer Rajendra Satras told TOI. Inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Shikrapur police they would keep an eye on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/koregaon-bhima-to-observe-lockdown-for-a-week/articleshow/75037553.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 8, 2020||Pune||Koregaon Bhima to observe lockdown for a week||Pune: As part of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the villagers of Koregaon Bhima have unanimously decided to close all commercial establishments, including those selling vegetables, groceries and milk, from Wednesday till the end of the lockdown period (April 14). Groceries and milk will be supplied door-to-door after placing orders. The area had earlier observed a complete lockdown on March 27-28 and April 3-4. There are no instances of Covid-19 positive cases in the area. “We will observe this for seven days from Wednesday. During this period all pharmacies and hospitals will remain open,” village development officer Rajendra Satras told TOI. Inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Shikrapur police they would keep an eye on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/koregaon-bhima-to-observe-lockdown-for-a-week/articleshow/75037554.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Man killed for stopping marriage of Tamil Nadu minor girl||MADURAI: A 24-year-old man from Rajaman Nagar in the city was hacked to death by a man and his relatives on the suspicion that he tipped the cops who stopped his marriage to a minor girl a week ago. A city police team had stopped the marriage based on an alert that the girl did not attain 18 years of age. Police said the accused bridegroom, K Vijayakumar, and his relatives Ranjith, Karuppuraja, Manikandan and a few others committed the murder late on Monday night. The victim, N Ramamoorthy, was, a load man who had recently married and settled in Kannan colony on Chinthamani Road. His parents and his siblings were residing nearby at Rajaman Nagar. According to police, Ramamoorthy visited his parents on Monday night and his father R Nallusamy was dropping him home on his bike when Vijayakumar and others intercepted the vehicle. On seeing them, Ramamoothy started running for his life, but the gang, which was armed with sharp weapons, chased him down and attacked him. On hearing his screams, his wife Jothi rushed to the spot. Nallusamy and Jothi tried to save him, but he had suffered multiple cut injuries and died on the spot. A police team from Avaniyapuram reached the spot and shifted the body to the government Rajaji hospital for postmortem. Based on a complaint from Nallusamy, a case was registered and a search was under way for the accused. The police said that Vijayakumar strongly suspected that Ramamoorthy was the one who informed the police about the marriage. Ramamoorthy was a neighbour of the minor’s girl’s family and the two families were not on good terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-murdered-for-stopping-marriage-of-minor-girl/articleshow/75037559.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||More than 350 vehicles collect biowaste across Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: They are the unsung heroes at the forefront of the Covid war. These 1,100 biowaste collectors employed at 25 incineration facilities across the state now handle the most dangerous biohazard known to humans. Each day, more than 1 tonne of Covid biomedical waste is destroyed in the state by the workers of these facilities. These workers’ families plead with them to quit such a high-risk job. But fighting the stigma and placating their loved ones, the workers return to Covid isolation facilities to collect waste and take it to incineration plants to destroy it. And yet these workers are not considered on a par with other health workers for compensation or insurance announced by the state recently for the Covid war. More than 350 vehicles collect biowaste across the state with 25 to 30 vehicles operating in Ahmedabad’s four facilities alone, the highest in any city. Ahmedabad generates 500-600kg of waste every day. “I have a small kid at home. Every day my wife and my mother implore me to quit the job,” says a worker at a facility in Ahmedabad who did not want to be identified. “But each day I feel determined to do my duty, which is important for my future and that of all children,” he says. TimesViewPeople concerned with waste management, in particular biohazardous material, should be considered on a par with government health workers for insurance benefits and compensation for their role in the war on Covid. Passes should be issued to workers of incineration facilities so that biomedical waste is disposed of efficiently. Staff associated with the maintenance of incineration facilities should also get passes. Biomedical waste collection should be considered an important element in the list of essential services.“Our workers have just five to seven minutes to incinerate biohazard bags once they disembark from our van at our incineration facility,” says national president of Association of Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facilities (CBWTFs)Vinod Kachhadia. “Each day we collect 1,000-1,200kg of Covid waste,” he says. “The load is increasing by the day, but we are determined to carry on. The waste is very dangerous one has to be careful.” He explains that biohazard vans have to be disinfected before the waste is loaded and unloaded. “We cannot compromise the sequence of waste handling or we will pay with our lives,” says an Ahmedabad incineration facility owner, Prakash Vaghela. “We have 5,000 sets of protective gear for our employees because of the intricate work involved in disposing of the waste,” Vaghela says||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/biowaste-collectors-soldier-on/articleshow/75037022.cms||Paul John
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Malaria cases go up in Bareilly, 198 cases in March||BAREILLY: Malaria is on the rise in the district, even as the country is locked down amid the novel coronavirus scare. Cases of malaria doubled in March this year compared to the number of cases reported in the same month last year. Officials said 198 people have tested positive for malaria in Bareilly in March, compared to 82 in the same month of 2019. Data accessed by TOI shows that between January and March, 2019, the Bareilly health department had screened 12,097 people for malaria, of whom, 98 tested positive for plasmodium falciparum (PF) malaria, while 210 were found carrying plasmodium vivax (PV) malaria. This year though, 558 cases of PV and 54 cases of PF have been detected during the same period, after health department examined the blood samples of 30,893 people in Bareilly. PF is a deadly form of malaria while PV is a milder form. In March 2019, the district reported 75 cases of PV and seven cases of PF. The numbers rose in March 2020 to 188 PV and 10 PF. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have screened more people this year in comparison to 2019. Our strategy is to detect and treat all patients.” Bareilly district has been reporting malaria outbreaks since 2018. According to the health department, Bareilly reported 37,482 cases in 2018. Of these, 17,425 were PF cases. The total number of malaria cases rose to 46,717 in 2019. Of these, 11,753 were PF and 34,576 were PV. A senior official said, “We have received nearly 30,000 long lasting insecticide nets (LLINs) which ASHA and ANM will distribute in PF affected villages. LLINs are mosquito nets with a coating of insecticides. It kills mosquitoes when it sits on such nets. We are busy with novel coronavirus and hence, the distribution of LLINs has been postponed.” Officials said households where maximum number of members tested positive for malaria last year, will get priority in receiving LLIN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/malaria-cases-go-up-in-bareilly-198-cases-in-march/articleshow/75036166.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||You are heroes for 7.5 cr people of MP: Shivraj tells cops||Bhopal: To boost morale of police personnel on the front lines in the battle against corona, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called SHO, Aishbagh Ajay Nair on Tuesday and appreciated the efforts of the cops on the field. The chief minister told the SHO that police are the heroes of the 7.5 crore people of the state. Chouhan also called traffic constable Anju Parihar and thanked her for the efforts that police are taking for the safety of people. Expressing concern for cops who were infected by Covid-19 during duty, the chief minister directed Nair to share his message with all cops on the field to take precautionary measures and protect themselves from the virus. The first cop to test positive for corona was deployed at Aishbagh police station. SHO Nair told TOI that the CM called him around 11:45am and asked about his health. Chouhan told Nair that through him, he wants to send a message to all the cops deployed across the city that their efforts are being appreciated. The CM told Nair that residents of the state owe a lot to the cops as they are working in difficult situations to fight Covid-19. He said, the entire 7.5 crore population of state is with the cops and they are heroes for everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/you-are-heroes-for-7-5-cr-people-of-mp-shivraj-tells-cops/articleshow/75036178.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Two Covid-19 patients from Budaun & Shahjahanpur shifted to level 1 hospital in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Two Covid-19 positive patients from Budaun and Shahjahanpur have been shifted to the community health centre (CHC) in Bithri Chainpur, which has been designated as Bareilly’s level 1 hospital. Officials said two teams, each comprising 25 members, have been constituted for their treatment. When one team will be on duty for eight hours, the other will be quarantined at a hotel. Additional director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey said, “The CHC in Bithri Chainpur has been designated as a level-1 hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, while serious patients of novel coronavirus will be treated at level 2 and 3 hospitals. We have designated two private medical colleges in Bareilly as level 2 and 3 hospitals.” Officials said as per the directions of the higher authorities, if a district recorded one or two cases, then the patients would be shifted to a division-level government hospital, but if a district reported a higher number of patients, then they would be treated there. Hence, one patient each from Budaun and Shahjahanpur was shifted to the CHC in Bareilly. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have set up two teams comprising 25 members each. A team has doctors, nurses, ward boys and sweepers. When one team will be on duty, another team will be quarantined at the hotel. Members of both teams will be actively quarantined at the hotel and they will not be allowed to go home as a precautionary measure.” Besides, a third team is treating Covid-19 patients at the district hospital. Six people belonging to a family are undergoing treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-covid-19-patients-from-budaun-shahjahanpur-shifted-to-level-1-hospital-in-bareilly/articleshow/75036183.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 8, 2020||Pune||PMC starts centre to provide essential items to physically challenged, senior citizens||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started a centre at its headquarters in Shivajinagar to provide essential items to the physically challenged, needy and senior citizens. Non-governmental organisations (NGO), corporate social responsibility (CSR) wings of firms and social organisations will have to coordinate with this centre. The centre will also look at providing better civic health facilities to the people. According to the PMC officials, they have already started reaching out to the CSR wings across the city. They have sought help for building the infrastructure of health facilities. "The centre will be a key contact point for people to help coordinate demand and supply," said Shreenivas Kandul, coordinator of the centre. Since the outbreak of the virus in the city, the PMC has been appealing to corporates for funds for improving municipal hospitals. The PMC officials said that civic hospitals are in need of beds, ventilators, celing fans, tables, water tanks / coolers and other such items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-starts-centre-to-provide-essential-items-to-physically-challenged-senior-citizens/articleshow/75037563.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Seven booked in Devgadh Baria while returning from jamaat||VADODARA: Seven people were booked in Devgad Baria in Dahod district after they were found moving around together on Monday. It came to light that the group was returning to the town after attending a jamaat at Vesma village in Navsari. Devgadh Baria police spotted the group when it was walking towards the town. It came to light that these people were coming from Godhra. They told the police that they had stayed in Godhra at Meda Plot area on their way back from Vesma. The seven people told the police that they had come to Godhra in a private vehicle and then reached Devgadh Baria in a van. All seven members of the group were booked for violation of the notification for lockdown. Dahod health officials were informed regarding the group and its members examined at the place where they were stopped. The group was then taken to a quarantine facility at the sports complex in the town. Sources said the samples of the seven people were being collected for COVID-19 testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-booked-in-devgadh-baria-while-returning-from-jamaat/articleshow/75034795.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Boost to 112 helpline to deal with call deluge: DGP||LUDHIANA: To tackle heavy rush of calls on 112 helpline, the number of operators had been increased from 32 to 83 post-lockdown. Soon, more call operators would be put on the job, said Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta while replying to a TOI query during a live interaction on Facebook on Tuesday afternoon. The DGP went live on the site at 12noon to get feedback of people on the lockdown. The TOI has been highlighting inconveniences suffered by residents with the government and the administration’s helplines remaining engaged most of the times. When the TOI questioned the police approach of locking up curfew violators in open jails without giving them a hearing, Gupta said, “Police are strict with the violators to check spread of coronavirus.” When a city resident, Rachit Bansal, told the DGP that some Ludhiana cops were charging money from vegetable sellers, he said, “Such things will not be tolerated. Some complaints of cops involved in bribe cases were received… stern action has been taken in these cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/boost-to-112-helpline-to-deal-with-call-deluge-dgp/articleshow/75036171.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Man shoots dead 16-year-old son over glass of milk||PILIBHIT: Enraged over scanty quantity of milk offered by his son, a 45-year- old farmer allegedly shot dead the 16-year-old at Sohanna village under Puranpur Kotwali police station. The man then turned his .315 bore licenced rifle and shot himself dead. The incident took place at around 9.15 pm on Monday. Both died on spot while the farmer's younger brother, who tried to intervene, sustained serious bullet injury. He was shifted to the district hospital in Pilibhit. Senior police officials, including superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit, have inspected the spot. According to CO of Puranpur circle Yogendra Kumar, Gurmukh Singh asked his son, Jaskaran, a Class XII student, to fetch a glass of milk for him. It seems he lost his temper when he saw the half-filled glass. Gurmukh Singh's wife and daughter were away at the time. “The police are yet to find out what exactly happened," said the CO. On hearing the gun report, Gurmukh's brother rushed to the room. He,too, was shot. By the time, Gurmukh's older brother and his wife came to the spot, it was too late. They saw Gurmukh place the rifle under his chin and shoot himself, the CO added SK Singh, SHO, said a complaint was filed by Gurmukh Singh’s brothe, Balvir Singh. An FIR was lodged against the deceased, Gurmukh Singh, under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to kill).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shoots-dead-16-year-old-son-over-glass-of-milk/articleshow/75036176.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||45-yr-old man detained for murdering daughter||Madurai: A 45-year-old man, who was said to be mentally unstable, was detained by the Tuticorin district police for murdering his 20-year-old daughter on Monday over a dispute. The accused has been identified as S Anthony of Punnakayal and the victim as Anthonysita. According to police, the woman fell unconscious after her father hit her with a log on her head. She was rushed to a hospital in Athoor. As her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Thoothukudi government hospital. Police said the woman was unable to respond to their queries and died the same night. The accused was initially booked for attempt to murder. The case was later altered to murder but Anthony could not be arrested as his family said he has been mentally disturbed over the last six months. Meanwhile, Anthony was admitted in the Thoothukudi hospital as he became aggressive. A police officer said he was administered medicines to bring him under control and they could not conduct inquires with him till Tuesday evening. “We have got some clues on the reasons behind the murder. We are trying to ascertain facts if he is mentally affected,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/45-yr-old-man-detained-for-murdering-daughter/articleshow/75037566.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Muslim body donates PPE to doctors||Hyderabad: The Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Hyderabad, donated a hundred personal protective equipment (PPE) to doctors at Chest, Niloufer and Fever hospitals on Tuesday. The kits were handed over to principal of Osmania Medical College P Shashikala Reddy by Hamed Mohammed Khan, state president of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH). JIH said the city chapter of Doctors Association for Relief and Education (DARE) , which was working closely with resident doctors, identified and decided to fulfil PPE requirements of medical staff by approaching different organisations. “Healthcare personnel in the state must have adequate PPE,” Khan said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslim-body-donates-ppe-to-doctors/articleshow/75037061.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Warriors who deliver your favourite newspapers daily||Edited Pics by Arvind Sharma Jaipur: At a time when people remain cocooned in their homes to protect themselves from coronavirus, Tarachand Gurjar leaves for work at 3.30 am daily. Seasons don’t matter. Chilly winters, sweaty summers, unfriendly rains – he does his job unfailingly. A newspaper hawker, Gurjar hasn’t skipped work even for a day during the lockdown. Gurjar firmly believes that his role to deliver the truth at your doorstep is extremely important in times when fake news is spread easily through social media. Gurjar, who is aged 58 years, works in two shifts – morning and afternoon. He delivers newspapers in Walled City areas like Johri Bazaar, Subhash Chowk, Govind Devji Temple, Galta Gate and in several government offices. Gurjar has been in this profession for around 20 years, which he says makes him accountable in times of crisis. “My customers have always been very supportive and pay bills on time. If in crisis people don’t receive newspapers, how are they going to be aware about the current siruation. It is not about money or business but my duty,” said Gurjar. Newspaper hawkers are among the front line warriors in the battle against corona. There are around 2,800 vendors and more than 4,000 hawkers who are currently involved in distributing newspapers in the city. Ajay Yadav, the president of Newspaper Vendors Association in Jaipur, said everyday his wife asks him to stop going out until the lockdown is over. “But I cannot sit at home or else the supply chain will stop. In the initial days, many hawkers stopped working, but we convinced them. Masks, gloves and hand sanitisers have been provided to them. We maintain proper hygiene in our offices and make the public aware that in no way newspaper can spread coronavirus,” said Yadav. The moment they return home, all vendors and hawkers take a bath before touching any members of their family. Newspaper vendor Sanjay Yadav who lives with his elderly parents and young children said he changes his clothes and takes a bath before touching anything at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/warriors-who-deliver-your-favourite-newspapers-daily/articleshow/75037571.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Case against foreign Tablighi Jamaat visitors for visa violation||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad police have registered several cases against foreign nationals, who were part of the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) congregation, for violation of visa rules. Managers of worship places have also been booked for hosting these foreign nationals. Several foreigners, who had attended the Nizamuddin congregation in mid-March, have been booked for indulging in preaching activities across different parts of the country. While 10 Indonesians were booked by Karimnagar police on Monday, Hyderabad police registered 10 cases against 84 persons. The cases were booked under the Foreigners Act, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. According to police sources, 64 foreign nationals, who were part of the congregation and TJ’s activities in Telangana, have been placed under quarantine at the Nizamia General Hospital. Panjagutta police booked a case against nine Kyrgyzstan nationals, while Banjara Hills police booked a case against six Malaysians. Another eight Indonesians were booked by Habeebnagar police, while Asifnagar and Humayunnagar police have registered cases against eight foreigners and 11 Thai nationals respectively. In this regard, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued orders to DGPs asking them to take legal action against foreigners involved in such activities.  “Under the directions of home minister Amit Shah, MHA has blacklisted 960 foreigners, presently in India on tourist visas, for their involvement in TJ activities,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-foreign-tj-visitors-for-visa-violation/articleshow/75037066.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Two SIs found involved in liquor sale, shunted to police lines; probe ordered||BAREILLY: Two sub-inspectors have been shunted to reserve police lines by Lakhimpur Kheri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Poonam, following a complaint lodged by Sampoornanagar police station SHO who allegedly caught them red handed while helping a liquor shop owner in selling liquor illegally amid the lockdown. Meanwhile, a departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the sub-inspectors — Rakesh Yadav and KK Yadav, both posted at Palia police station — which will be carried out by Nighasan circle officer Pradeep Kumar Verma. Divulging details, the SHO told TOI, “Acting on a tip-off about the SIs, we first collected evidence and then raided the shop and seized liquor. During investigation, it came to light that the dup was supplying liquor to the shop. As selling liquor is prohibited during the lockdown, I immediately informed the SSP and she shunted them to the reserve police line and ordered the CO to probe the matter.” The CO said, “I have asked the SHO to record his statement and share the evidence that he has collected. I am yet to speak with the SIs. If they are found guilty, the department will take action against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-sis-found-involved-in-liquor-sale-shunted-to-police-lines-probe-ordered/articleshow/75036191.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||From day 1 to day 2, 80% drop in no. of home delivery orders||Bhopal: The stress on home delivery system of essential goods eased on the second day of complete lockdown on Tuesday as number of orders — which touched around 20,000 on the first day — came down to 4,000 till 4pm on Tuesday. “Maybe because it was the first day, therefore too many people were booking orders, but on the second day, orders were reasonable. We also decided not to supply non-essential things ordered on the first day and rejected 300-400 orders, where people were asking for non-essential items. As the situation eased, we got the chance to supply more than 6,000 orders pending from Monday and also delivered the orders booked on Tuesday,” said food safety officer, D K Verma. Some people complained that one of the online supermarket delivery chains in Bhopal was showing ‘no slot till April 14’ when they tried to book their orders. On another online delivery chain, most grocery items were ‘exhausted’ or ‘not in stock’. Verma said that his team is monitoring the situation closely so that the retail stores and supermarkets don’t refuse to entertain orders on pretext of “no stock” or “no slot available”. He said it was in this context that a team of food safety department made a surprise inspection of a supermarket in Misrod on Tuesday to find out if the stock was available there, and also to check the quality and prices of the products. Verma said that in more than 10 days since they have started home delivery of essential goods, products have been delivered against more than 40,000 orders so far. He said almost everything is available in plenty, including potatoes and onions, but there seems to be a shortage of green vegetables. The food safety department is also providing food to the needy; 4,000 packets of cooked food are being distributed to “hungry” through Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) and NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/from-day-1-to-day-2-80-drop-in-no-of-home-delivery-orders/articleshow/75036200.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||District police come to the aid of the underprivileged||Madurai: The district police have come to the aid of underprivileged people, whose lives have been hit due to curfew restrictions, by providing them with essentials. Police received information about 20 families of visually challenged families in LKB Nagar near Sakkimangalam struggling without any relief.  A team of officials reached there on Tuesday and provided them relief materials. Each family was given five kg of rice, one kg dal, oil, and a vegetable bag containing 15 varieties. Similar relief materials were given to around 20 families hailing from Uttar Pradesh, who reside on the roadside in Viraganoor area. The team also provided masks, hand sanitisers, soaps, disinfection liquid and eatables to children staying in homes in Chatrapatti and Kadachanendal, after the requirements were brought to their knowledge by the district child welfare committee member, B Pandiaraja. The police team included ADSP S Vanitha, Oomachikulam DSP Nallu, DSP training Prasanna and Silaiman inspector Madasamy. Meanwhile, a team of people from various walks of life came together to provide 25kg of rice to each of the 30 people working in Thathaneri crematorium on Tuesday. Project director of Kerala state transport project M G Rajamanickam, who is a native of Madurai district, civil supplies tahsildar Balaji, Madurai college board members Amudhan, members from Irai Arul Mandram and residents of Lakshmi Sagar Apartments and social workers V P Manikandan mobilized the requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/district-police-come-to-the-aid-of-the-underprivileged/articleshow/75037569.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Daily parcel special service train to run between Chennai Egmore and Nagercoil||Madurai: Southern Railway will run a daily parcel special service train between Chennai Egmore and Nagercoil. The special service will be run in both directions from April 9 to 14 (six services). Public can avail this facility to send and receive parcels.Train no. 00657 Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil daily parcel special service train will leave at 5am and reach Nagercoil at 7pm the same day.Train no. 00658 Nagercoil – Chennai Egmore daily parcel special service train will leave at 8am and reach Chennai Egmore at 10pm the same day.Stoppages of the two trains (arrival/departure) are as mentioned below:Train no. 00657: Chennai Egmore – 5am (departure); Villupuram – 7.50am /8am; Vriddhachalam – 8.50am/9am; Ariyalur – 9.45am/9.55am; Trichy– 10.50am/11am; Dindigul – 12.30pm/12.40pm; Madurai – 1.40pm / 1.50pm; Virudhunagar – 2.40pm/2.50pm; Tirunelveli – 5.30pm/5.40pm; Nagercoil – 7pm (arrival).Train no. 00658: Nagercoil – 8am (departure); Tirunelveli – 9.20am /9.30am; Virudhunagar – 11.50am /12pm; Madurai – 12.50pm /1pm; Dindigul – 2pm /2.10pm; Trichy– 3.50pm/4 pm; Ariyalur – 4.50pm/5pm; Vriddhachalam – 5.50pm/6 pm; Villupuram – 7pm/7.10pm; Chennai Egmore – 10pm (arrival).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/daily-parcel-special-service-train-to-run-between-chennai-egmore-and-nagercoil/articleshow/75037572.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Advise, don’t criticise: Health minister to opposition||TIRUPATI: Health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has appealed to opposition parties to advise the government but not criticise it during this crisis hour. Accompanied by deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha, finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, and other elected representatives, state health minister Krishna Srinivas reviewed the Covid-19 scenario in the district on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after the review, the health minister said, “Today the state government has tested 3,930 samples from across the state, of which 304 patients tested positive, while the remaining 3,270 patients tested negative. Even among the patients who tested positive, six patients tested negative during the second round of tests, and a few patients were treated successfully and discharged.” He pointed out that ‘‘In Kadapa district, a total of 402 patients were tested, of which only 27 tested positive, while all remaining patients tested negative. All the coronavirus positive cases reported in Kadapa district are linked to the Delhi event”. The minister directed the district administration as well as elected representatives to assure people that the state government is effectively dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/advise-dont-criticise-health-minister-to-oppn/articleshow/75036208.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Civil hospital in Ludhiana to use gas, electric crematoriums for Covid victims||LUDHIANA: The district administration plans to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims in gas and electric mortuaries. It has sought information about these chambers from the municipal corporation. The ministry of health and family welfare has issued certain guidelines to handle bodies of Covid-19 victims. Specific lists will also be prepared on the name of the cremation ground and the person who will perform the last rites. Personnel of the district administration will also be given training on how to cremate the bodies. In the district, a 42-year-old woman from Amarpura was cremated earlier at Gau Ghaat Cremation Ground near Division 3. And on Sunday, the city’s second casualty — a 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri — was cremated at a ground in Dana Mandi, after her family members allegedly refused to claim the body. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal told TOI, “Guidelines have been formed for taking precautions with bodies, like preventing the infection from spreading, and disinfection of the surrounding environment. We are getting ready with gas and electric crematoriums. There is one gas crematorium in Model Town, and the MC has an electric one, which is lying non-functional. However, we are exploring the possibility of making it functional, and we will also seek help from cremation grounds.” Municipal commissioner Kanwalpreet Brar said, “There are only two crematoriums in the city — one gas and another electric — but they have never been used, perhaps due to the religious beliefs of people. To kickstart them, it might take a day, as our staff too is not familiar with their functioning, but we are working out a way.” Guidelines The guidelines claim that attendants and family members of coronavirus victims will claim the bodies and cremate them according to guidelines, and in the presence of members of district administration. If any family member refuses to claim the body, then the hospital and medical superintendent should inform the police station of the area concerned immediately. Then, the head of the police station will take action against the family member, or may state the body ‘unclaimed’ and perform the last rites, in which case, the district administration will assign a team, which includes a senior district magistrate to coordinate with police officials, health department, and the local council as duty officers, along with the caretaker of the cremation ground. Before the cremation, the team will convince the family members to perform the last rites, and they will be allowed to follow their rituals. Apart from this, the civil surgeon should ensure that the cremation team is provided sufficient PPE kits, for which a nodal officer would be appointed to confirm the provision of sufficient stock. It is pertinent to mention that it is the hospital’s duty to send the body to the cremation ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hospital-to-use-gas-electric-crematoriums-for-covid-victims/articleshow/75036202.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Kasaragod records four new coronavirus cases; Kannur, three||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Nine more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in state on Tuesday, taking the total cases in Kerala to 336. Among the nine, four came from abroad, two had attended the Nizamuddin prayer meet and three were infected due to direct contact. Four cases were reported in Kasaragod, three from Kannur and one each from Kollam and Malappuram. On Tuesday, 12 patients tested negative. At present, 263 patients are undergoing treatment in isolation wards of various hospitals. The number of persons under observation has come down further. At present 1,46,686 people are under observation of which 752 people are admitted in various hospitals. Till date 11,232 samples of suspect cases were sent for testing, of which 10,250 came as negative. MP Fund: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the Centre to allow MPs to use their funds for Covid prevention activities in their constituencies. "It is unfortunate that Centre decided to scrap MP funds for two years. Already, a few of our MPs had utilized their funds for various Covid prevention and related healthcare activities. Now, this will be hit," he said. MP funds are meant for development activities in respective constituencies. People benefit from this fund and hence Centre should immediately reconsider the decision and such a move goes against the federal structure of the country, he said, adding that the fund allocated to state by Centre for Covid prevention activities is insufficient. The MLA fund can be used for purchasing hospital equipment. Already V S Achuthanandan, P J Joseph, Raju Abraham, Mons Joseph and PT Thomas have expressed their willingness to contribute their funds for purchasing equipment for hospitals in their constituencies. Medicines, ventilators, PPEs, masks, etc will be purchased using the funds. Finance department has given special sanction for this move. The chief minister said this is a model that all MLAs can emulate. On the border issue, the chief minister said based on the Supreme Court verdict, Karnataka government has agreed to allow people who want medical attention to cross the border. They have assured that a medical team will be set up at Thalappady which will certify the patients crossing the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kasaragod-records-four-new-cases-kannur-three/articleshow/75036240.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Four mask-makers try to meet city’s demand||Given the scarcity of masks in the market, four women have taken it upon themselves to make masks and distribute them to those in need. Preeti Biswas catches up with them Joining the mask India movementOn noticing that several people did not have masks to protect themselves from coronavirus, Van Fleming, wife of UK deputy high commissioner to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Andrew Fleming decided to make masks at home. “My wife has been busy using left over Nigerian cloth from her dresses to make masks for our security, policy and less fortunate members of the community in our area,” tweeted Andrew Fleming in a response to sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik’s sand art on #MaskIndia movement. “I had a mask which was given by my mother when I was in Nigeria. I used it as a template to stitch more masks. Now I intend to make more masks for others such as vegetable vendors,” said Van Fleming. No plans of selling masks, says homemaker Plavachana Reddy, a resident of Patancheru, is making masks for those who cannot afford them. “I tried to purchase masks in the market, but couldn’t find any. Considering I have learnt tailoring, I decided to stitch mask at home,” said Reddy. Soon after she made the masks, many people from her locality approached her to make them in bulk. That’s when she decided to make masks for the underprivileged. “I have no plans of selling them. I give them away for free as I want people to benefit from my efforts,” said Reddy. Former nurse gets down to businessWith over 30 years of experience as a nursing professional, Saraswathi Kaninnekanti, 60, understands the need to use masks and how to make it. Kaninnekanti, who has worked as a nurse in the middle east, uses old vests and dupattas to stitch masks. “Since I have worked as a nursing professional, I had a rough idea of how to make a mask at home. I took old vests and dupattas and washed them thoroughly before using them as raw material,” said Kaninnekanti. 2,000 masks and counting Madhulika Chowdhary’s team makes masks using a high-quality cotton. The masks, which were initially made for protection against pollution, are in high demand following the outbreak of coronavirus across the country. “I started producing masks against pollution and did not plan them for the coronavirus outbreak. But now, they are selling like hot cake,” said Chowdhary. She recently had five orders of over 100 pieces each. With floral prints, made of high-grade cotton and double filter fiber inside, these masks are washable and reusable and cost Rs 60 per piece. “We have made over 2,000 masks so far,” said Chowdhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-mask-makers-try-to-meet-citys-demand/articleshow/75037076.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ajmer||25 arrested for misbehaving with survey team in Ajmer||AJMER: Police on Tuesday arrested 25 people of Chistiya Nagar locality in Ramganj of the city for misbehaving and threatening a survey team that went there to know about the people who came from outside. The accused not only threatened the team, but also pushed the female members of the team. The matter came to light when some of the residents uploaded the video of the incident on social media in which the accused were challenging the administration that they can’t rein in coronavirus by collecting names. Police registered a case under Sections 188, 332, 147, 148, 149, 270, 336, 295 and 353 against Abdul Mazid, Abdul Latif, Wasim Zuber, Sahil, Nadeem, Nizamuddin, Sahil, Javed, Rahman, Arif and others. Police warned the residents that they should not misbehave with the staff coming for screening and survey in any locality. According to police sources, the survey team that went to Chistiya Nagar asked people to provide information about those who are ill, having fever or if any guest from outside Ajmer is still residing in their houses. But some of the residents misbehaved with the team. On the complaint of the medical team, police registered a case against 25 residents and arrested them. After the incident came into light, students of government nursing college also staged a protest demanding action against such people as well as security to the teams that are going for survey. Officials said about 190 teams are conducting survey in the city and also trying to find out if anyone returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat programme in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/25-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-survey-team-in-ajmer/articleshow/75037575.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||ICSE boards yet to be over but Class XI online lessons start||KOLKATA: Some of the papers for ICSE Class-X board exams are still left, but schools have already started online classes for Class XI. CBSE, which managed to complete its Class X board exams, has also instructed its affiliated instituites to start Class XI lessons. “We believe learning process should not be hampered owing to the current lockdown. Students who will begin their Class-XI curriculum is being initiated into the syllabus. If they attend online classes, they can make up for the lost time. We do not have any unsuccessful candidate in ICSE. We do not see any need to keep the classes suspended,” said Modern High School director Devi Kar. Even Ram Mohan Mission High School, which any way starts Class XI classes much before the boards results are published, is gearing up for online teaching. “We consider the Class-IX annual reports and the scores of pre-selection and selection tests to determine who all can join Class XI coursework . No one is usually exempted from attending classes,” principal Sujoy Biswas said. CBSE schools, where all its students have already completed their board exams, can start online lessons for Class XI without a worry. “We will offer provisional admission to students and start with the Class XI curriculum from May 2,” said Birla Bharati School principal Apala Dutta. “We do not want to lose on valuable time owing to this lockdown. Every year, we offer provisional admission to students before the boards results are published. Same is being done this year as well. We now have to determine the number of students qualifying for the new class.” At Vivekananda Mission School, which is affiliated to CISCE, the list of students selected for Class XI has already been published. “We are only waiting for the school to open for a few days to start the admission process while considering the provisional list of students which has been brought out looking at their performance in internal examinations,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee. “We have the study materials ready and those will soon be uploaded and shared through online portals. Some of the Class-X boards papers are yet to be completed but we would want the students to at least see what the Class XI curriculum would be like,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/icse-boards-yet-to-be-over-but-class-xi-online-lessons-start/articleshow/75037089.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Police warn shops against hoarding essential items||Madurai: Disruption in supply chain has resulted in the unavailability of many commodities in grocery stores in residential areas. Even if they are available, the items are sold at a higher price due to dwindling stocks and increasing demand, complain residents. The city police is now taking efforts to ensure that commodities are available and sold at reasonable price.City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham on Tuesday urged the public to inform the police about the unavailability of essentials items in their respective areas. He said that people can contact the control room at 0452-2531044 and 0452-2531045 to provide information. He also asked the public to lodge a complaint against shopkeepers selling commodities at a higher price. Appropriate action will be taken against those who hoard essential items to be sold for a higher price. He added that those who provide correct information will be rewarded. The same information has also been shared on social media and there has been a good response. While many have used the platform to congratulate the police effort, others have shared information that essentials like bread, biscuits and eggs are available in their areas.Police officials said they are taking various efforts to ensure that groceries are available to the public by avoiding crowds.Efforts are also being taken to address people coming out on the roads unnecessarily. Officials said that a total of 1,177 cases were registered for violating curfew restrictions and 1,252 people have been arrested. In a stringent measure, more than 1,500 vehicles have been seized. “While most people have extended cooperation to the police, about 5% still creating nuisance. The number of cases registered against violators is increasing day by day. However, some have not realized the seriousness of the issue and prefer to loiter unnecessarily,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-warn-shops-against-hoarding-essential-items/articleshow/75037576.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||No fixed power charges: Some foxed, some happy||LUDHIANA: Chief minister Amarinder Singh’s directions to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to exempt medium supply (MS) and large supply (LS) categories of industrial meters from fixed charges for two months, starting from March 23, has got a mixed response. While on one hand, the city industry is considering it as its big win, on the other it is confused and demanding clarity on the order. Businessmen are fearing levying of some other charges instead. The reason for their scepticism lies in the fact that along with the CM’s orders, a letter written by principal secretary, power, to PSPCL chairman has surfaced on social media in which the department has been asked to fix energy charges instead of fixed charges. This letter has created confusion among the industrialists because they are of the view that if the orders in this letter are implemented by the PSPCL, they will still be charged by the department on some other pretext. Besides, the CM’s orders for exemption of fixed charges for two months have also raised apprehensions that the lockdown may be extended beyond April 14. The TOI had been highlighting the worries of the businessmen about fixed charges and late payment fees. The fixed charges are levied on the industrialists in case of non-usage of power or less usage in comparison with the sanctioned load. Ever since Covid-19 lockdown, the businessmen had been demanding full waiver of fixed charges, which, according to them, range from several thousand to lakhs of rupees per factory, as per the load. Jagbeer Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “Fixed charges are imposed by PSPCL according to the load of the power connection and go up to several lakh rupees per factory and levying these at this time when factories are closed is totally illegal. We are thankful to the government for taking the decision of waiving the fixed charges. But if we go by the letter of the principal secretary, power, it seems that PSPCL has been instructed to levy some other charges instead. Therefore, the CM should clarify whether the fixed charges have been fully waived or not and if some other charges have been levied. It should also be clarified on what basis will these be charged from us.” Asserting that that the orders indicate that the lockdown may be extended, he said the waiver was for two months from March 23 to May 23, so the industrialists must start preparing themselves for it. Welcoming the decision, DS Chawla, president of United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association (UCPMA), said, “We have been aggressively pursuing the matter since Day One and had brought it to the notice of the chief minister and other ministers. We had also taken up the matter legally. Our hard work has paid off. We are thankful to the government.” Rajeev Jain, general secretary of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), said, “It’s by the good efforts of all the business units that these decisions have been taken. But orders need to be studied thoroughly. We feel there might be some loopholes in the orders and there is high probability that we might still end up paying heavy charges under the garb of energy or some other charges. Therefore, PSPCL must clear its stand.” In another breather, the CM has also allowed extension of due dates for bill payment for MS and LS connections till April 20 and that too without any late fee. ‘No consumption, no bill’ Ending confusions, a senior PSPCL officer said in case of units that are completely shut, there would be no fixed charges. “When there is no consumption of power, there will be no bill. But if the units are running, they will have to pay single rate charges,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-fixed-power-charges-some-foxed-some-happy/articleshow/75036232.cms||Mohit Behl
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludiana hospital denied treatment, doctor misbehaved: Cop||LUDHIANA: A 32-year-old woman constable faced a harrowing time when a private hospital “denied” her treatment and referred her to civil hospital, where a doctor allegedly misbehaved with her. And when she called up the police control room to lodge a complaint, no cop came to record her statement. Constable Mandeep Kaur is deputed at Ludhiana commissioner of police office’s complaint branch. She said, “On Monday afternoon, I went to a private hospital on Chandigarh Road for a check-up as I had severe pain in chest. After an ECG test, I was waiting for its report when I started coughing. This scared the hospital staff. I had lemon-sprinkled salad, which affected my throat.”  “On seeing me coughing, the staff said I had coronavirus. Saying they won’t treat me, they referred me to civil hospital and did not even give me the ECG report. I then called up senior cops, who took me to civil hospital. There, I told doctors that I have severe pain in chest. But ignoring that, the doctors took my sample for Covid-19 test,” she added. “In the name of treatment for chest pain, they gave me an injection and admitted me to the hospital. Around 5am on Tuesday, I again suffered severe chest pain and my left arm went numb. I asked a nurse to call a doctor. But she took me to another building. There, when I asked a doctor for medicine, she started shouting at me. When I told her I was a cop, she said I should take off and save my life rather than working. She misbehaved with me and did not give me treatment for pain,” Mandeep said. Thereafter, Mandeep called up police control room to lodge a complaint against the doctor. But, nobody came to record her statement till afternoon. When the TOI took up the matter with police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal, he asked officials to probe into it and take quick action. CM Captain Amarinder Singh has warned private hospital of action for denying treatment to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosp-denied-treatment-doc-misbehaved-cop/articleshow/75036218.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj forms team of 10 officials to tackle Covid||Bhopal: A team of ten top bureaucrats is working round the clock along with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in Madhya Pradesh. Supervised by chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, the ten-member team comprises director general of police, Vivek Johri; additional chief secretaries, Mohammad Suleman, ICP Keshari; principal secretaries, S N Mishra, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, Sanjay Shukla, Manish Rastogi, Sanjay Dubey, and secretary P Narhari, who are leading from front to tackle pandemic in the state. Bains, who was appointed as chief secretary on March 24 after Chouhan took oath as chief minister for fourth time, handles the reviewing and monitoring part. He updates Chouhan on all developments. He also coordinates with district collectors and gets from them a report from each district. DGP Vivek Johri, who took over on March 12, oversees the law and order situation. Every evening, he gets an overall report of the entire state, briefs the CM and then reviews it with him. Principal secretary Manish Rastogi, who replaced Ashok Barnwal on March 29, lines up all review meetings of the CM on corona crisis and tracks their agenda. Rastogi also coordinates with district collectors and plays a critical role while taking important decisions. Rastogi reviews the situation twice everyday. Principal Secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai, who given the charge as MP Health Department Commissioner on April 1 released a health bulletin on Monday. Apart from handing this responsibility, Kidwai supervises medicine supply and arrangement of logistics. Chouhan has tasked principal secretary Sanjay Shukla with arrangements for medical treatment, hospital management, including arrangement of ventilators and isolation wards. Shukla receives reports from hospitals and medical colleges. Additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman manages the coordination part and plays a crucial part in the decision-making process. He is also reviewing a possible post-lockdown scenario. This involves taking a call on what all services could be restarted. Additional chief secretary, ICP Keshari takes a stock of after the availability of essential goods and services; and ensures state-level coordination. He also coordinates with the district collectors to make sure there is no shortage of essential goods during the lockdown. Principal Secretary Sanjay Dubey monitors the corona situation in the urban areas of the state. He also manages screening and other arrangements. Principal Secretary S N Mishra supervises the implementation of lockdown. Whereerver reinforcements are needed Mishra ensures it and takes crucial decisions in case of for contingencies. Information, contact and communication is being supervised by secretary P Narhari is. He ensures that government initiatives and decisions on corona crisis are effectively communicated to the people. Apart from this ten-member team, another team of IAS and state administrative service officers is monitoring the situation across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-forms-team-of-10-officials-to-tackle-covid/articleshow/75036236.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||2,000 people to undergo random testing in Ramganj||JAIPUR: The state government on Tuesday announced to carry out random testing of 2,000 people in Ramganj area which has emerged as a hotspot. The decision was taken by principal secretary (power) Ajitabh Sharma while taking a review meeting on coronavirus. He said, “The affected Ramganj area will be divided into clusters on the basis of cases. Over 2,000 persons will undergo test on a random basis. This exercise will help to gauge the gravity of the situation which is important for our roadmap.” The move is done to access the spread of the virus in the Walled City which has registered over 80 positive cases. For random sampling, the government is exploring the possibility of getting a test van on the lines of Mumbai. He has also directed the officials to carry out Covid-19 test of all secondary contacts of those found positive to the coronavirus outside the Walled City. “The secondary contact of these positives to be done in the coming days,” said Sharma. The meeting was held after health workers completed the first round of screening of the entire Walled City spread in seven police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2k-people-to-undergo-random-testing-in-ramganj/articleshow/75037587.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha government plans online classes for Class X students||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government is planning to offer online classes to Class X students after the lockdown period gets over on April 14. “We are readying online teaching materials for Class IX students, who have computers with them. It was not possible before because all the officials and teachers were engaged in emergency duty due to the Covid-19 outbreak in their respective areas,” said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. He said the matter has been discussed with department officials. “We are concerned about the loss to studies of students but during this emergency period, I would advise students not to come out of their homes and follow all safety measures like frequently washing their hands and maintain social distancing,” Das said. Students having desktop, laptop and internet facilities in their homes can download Diksha App and continue their online studies from home. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has launched Diksha App as a national interactive platform for school activities, with which teachers, students and parents can interact and discuss various subjects of different classes. Through this app, the students can revise lessons, practice academic exercises, find additional materials on difficult topics as well as get immediate feedback from their teachers. “Teachers will also be asked to help students for using this app and guide them,” Das said. By scanning the QR code in their textbooks students can also access different lessons on the app. Several private schools in the city have started online classes for the students, while students in government schools are deprived of the teachings due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-plans-online-classes-for-class-x-students/articleshow/75044689.cms||Minati Singha
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Farmers worry as wheat yet to be harvested in most areas||Bhopal: Hit by lockdown and lack of availability of farm labourers and resources, farmers are a worried lot in Madhya Pradesh. With time passing by each day and standing crops turning dry in harsh summer, wheat crops in a large area of the state are yet to be harvested.MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Couhan had announced to start wheat procurement across the state from April 15 and had directed the government machinery to make necessary arrangements.But in the present situation, wheat procurement is likely to be affected at major centers including Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain districts battling with Corona virus.Wheat harvest needs a suitable weather which ideally kicks off after Holi festival. Bus with the Coronavirus spread and the lockdown, and temperatures soaring across the state gradually the standing wheat crop is getting damaged. “The summer is getting harsh by the day and grains have started falling off. This may result in lower yield,” said farmers’ leader, Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakkaji. Khargone district in the state on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 45 degree Celsius.It is not just the rising mercury that is bothering the farmers. There are other problems as well. “Due to lockdown, getting sacks or gunny bags has become a big problem,” he said.Farmers in Madhya Pradesh mostly depend on Rabi crops with a high sowing area of over 120 lakh hectare. More than half of this accounts for wheat. Besides, cash crops like gram, pulses and mustard too are grown in the Rabi season.Urging the government to intervene on an urgent basis, Sharma said, “The government must resolve the issue of crop harvest. Lockdown is necessary in the fight against coronavirus, but harvesting of crops is also important and the time is running out.”As labourers are not venturing out from their houses, farmers and their family members are struggling to harvest their crops. “In absence of labourers, my wife and family members have pitched in for harvest. It is a skilled job, and we are not used doing it on our own,” said Imrat Lal, a farmer on living the oustkirts of Bhopal.At places like Ashoknagar and Sehore — the wheat bowls of MP — there are farmers who own harvesters. They have been helping out others also in harvesting the crops. In Ashoknagar, the harvester owners of Punjab and Haryana reach as early as February, much before the coronavirus crisis started.Worst-hit farmers belong to places like Bundelkhand, Chambal and Vindhya Pradesh regions. In some districts, the district collectors have started allowing the farmers to harvest the crop, but they have been asked to restrict the number of people deployed in the fields.Meanwhile, the government is busy in completing formalities for procurement of wheat under MSP from April 15. Strategies are being chalked out to ensure that large number of people do not assemble at procurement centres and social distancing is maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmers-worry-as-wheat-yet-to-be-harvested-in-most-areas/articleshow/75036268.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government plans online classes for Class X students||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government is planning to offer online classes to Class X students after the lockdown period gets over on April 14. “We are readying online teaching materials for Class IX students, who have computers with them. It was not possible before because all the officials and teachers were engaged in emergency duty due to the Covid-19 outbreak in their respective areas,” said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. He said the matter has been discussed with department officials. “We are concerned about the loss to studies of students but during this emergency period, I would advise students not to come out of their homes and follow all safety measures like frequently washing their hands and maintain social distancing,” Das said. Students having desktop, laptop and internet facilities in their homes can download Diksha App and continue their online studies from home. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has launched Diksha App as a national interactive platform for school activities, with which teachers, students and parents can interact and discuss various subjects of different classes. Through this app, the students can revise lessons, practice academic exercises, find additional materials on difficult topics as well as get immediate feedback from their teachers. “Teachers will also be asked to help students for using this app and guide them,” Das said. By scanning the QR code in their textbooks students can also access different lessons on the app. Several private schools in the city have started online classes for the students, while students in government schools are deprived of the teachings due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-plans-online-classes-for-class-x-students/articleshow/75035242.cms||Minati Singha
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for theft at his father’s house in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The son of a burglary victim was arrested on Tuesday for the alleged theft from his father’s house in Valasan village of Wankaner taluka in Morbi district. Police said the accused, identified as Faizan Bhorania (20), had committed the crime at his father Ibrahim Bhorania’s house on last week Saturday. “Faizan had stolen Rs 1.55 lakh cash and gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 2.40 lakh from his father’s house. We had received a tip-off that Faizan was involved in the crime. Our suspicion strengthened after we found that Faizan was splurging money. After we rounded him up and interrogated him, he confessed to the crime,” said R P Jadeja, sub-inspector with Wankaner taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-theft-at-his-fathers-house/articleshow/75037102.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||‘No shortage of kits, MMC can process up to 250 samples a day’||MADURAI: Amid allegations of shortage and delays in arrival of Covid-19 test kits, dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Dr J Sangumani has assured that adequate kits were available and the virology lab at the Madurai Medical College (MMC) could process as many as 250 samples per day if required. “We have adequate test kits and have the capacity to perform 250 tests per day. An associate professor and assistant professor are present round-the-clock and the lab team is working 24x7 to ensure efficient processing of samples. Currently, around 30-35 samples are being tested each day. We are likely to begin rapid testing as soon as the required kits arrive,” Sangumani told TOI. The MMC virology lab is getting samples from Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Madurai districts. A screening polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and a confirmatory Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test are conducted for Covid-19. On April 2, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan had written to the director of National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune pointing out that there was a delay in arrival of Covid-19 confirmatory test kits to MMC though the lab was already functional and was carrying out screening tests. The confirmatory tests were being done only by the Theni Medical College then. However, from the very next day, confirmatory tests began at MMC. “There was a delay in arrival of raw materials for the Covid-19 confirmatory test kits. However, both screening and confirmatory tests are performed at MMC only. Further, the samples are usually processed in batches only, so if some test results are taking time, they shouldn’t be considered as delay in testing,” said a hospital source. The test usually takes around six hours to be completed for results to be obtained.The dean also said that as per protocol, GRH is screening all those with severe acute respiratory illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-shortage-of-kits-mmc-can-process-up-to-250-samples-a-day/articleshow/75037584.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||As cancer care takes a hit, poor patients bear brunt||MADURAI: With only a few general consultations for cancer screening coming in every day and lesser people being referred for treatment in both government and private hospitals, cancer care has been taking a hit in the lockdown. Patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiation are also facing difficulties in logistics to go for treatment, thereby remaining exposed to infection amid the Covid-19 scare. “Hardly a few patients are coming in for general consultations in government hospitals because many can’t afford to arrange for transport. Cancer is not simple to just diagnose and start treatment. Usually, people consulting physicians with minor ailments are referred for cancer screening. In the current situation, people are not likely to visit hospitals unless it is an emergency,” said Dr M Ramesh, head, department of surgical oncology, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). However, doctors said that if the lockdown is not extended and at least gradually relaxed for beyond 10-15 days from now, there is nothing to be alarmed about. Cancer surgeries continue to be performed for those requiring it in all hospitals. However, surgical oncology departments are also seeing less number of patients coming in because there are lesser referrals. “All emergency surgeries are being performed. In some cases, the surgery could be postponed if the tumour is in the initial stage and we advise management by chemotherapy. However, for cancers affecting bone, soft tissues or oral cancer, surgery is the only solution and we perform it immediately,” Dr Ramesh said. It has not been easy for cancer patients availing of routine chemotherapy and radiation therapy, particularly for poorer sections and those from rural areas. 102 Ambulances are currently ferrying such people . Around 50-60 cancer patients have so far made use of the ambulance in Madurai district alone in the past ten days. “No cancer patient should be stranded at his home town sick and unattended. Less toxic chemotherapy regimens with lesser hospital visits and oral chemotherapy regimens may minimize exposure of both patient and the caregiver to Covid-19 sources. Certain planned chemo schedules may be delayed, however patients requiring chemotherapy for day-to-day control of disease may continue their therapy under strict monitoring. Oncologists can also decide to postpone or modify radiation therapy depending on the clinical situation,” said Dr Krishnakumar Rathnam, head, Department of Medical Oncology, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-cancer-care-takes-a-hit-poor-patients-bear-brunt/articleshow/75037582.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||‘Gave Nagpur University the ignition to march towards success’||NAGPUR: Sitting in the chair for the last time in his office on Tuesday, Nagpur University vice chancellor SP Kane was smiling. On the day of demitting his office, the outgoing VC had a sense of satisfaction on his face. On the same day in 2015, Kane had taken charge of one of the oldest universities in the country. In his mostly successful tenure, where he brought about revolutionary changes in association with former pro-VC Pramod Yeole, he was also subjected to intense criticism. While handing over the charge to Amravati University VC Murlidhar Chandekar, Kane spoke from the heart. Excerpts...How would you describe your tenure?Mostly satisfactory, primarily because of the fact that we’ve been able to expedite the result declaration process, which was the biggest thorn in NU’s flesh and was directly connected to the students. During my tenure, we succeeded in declaring over 90% results within the stipulated period of 45 days. You have also taken many tough decisions.When you are in the hot seat, you have to take tough decision in the larger interest of the institution. We have to keep personal relations aside. My intentions were very clear right from the beginning of my term and therefore, I didn’t succumb to any kind of pressure. Many tried to malign my reputation and also dragged my family members unnecessarily. I’m happy that I could give the university the ignition to start its march towards success. NAAC accreditation couldn’t take place in your tenure.We tried our best, but somehow we couldn’t send the self-study report to NAAC. The change in rules added to our problems. Your dream project of 50:50 exams remained only on paper.When I was aggressively pitching for the project, many senior academicians and the Principals’ Forum vehemently opposed the concept, citing one excuse or the other. When I tried to convince them that the NU would bear the entire cost of the students, the same people took a U-turn. I then constituted a committee which failed to submit its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gave-nu-the-ignition-to-march-towards-success/articleshow/75037124.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||Coronavirus scare: Rajasthan’s patient had stayed in Godhra too||VADODARA: Following the death of an elderly Covid positive man in Godhra, the health officials in Godhra are on their toes after a man tested positive in Dungarpur district in Rajasthan. It has come to light that the man returning from a jamaat in Gujarat had also made a stopover in Godhra. Sources said that the man who had tested positive belongs to Simalwada, located near the Gujarat-Rajasthan border. He was part of a group that had attended the jamaat and while returning to Rajasthan visited Godhra. Members of the group were from different places in Rajasthan. Health officials in Godhra said that they while they have been informed about the man testing positive, they are awaiting further details about his movement from Simalwada and who else were with him. “The police will work on these details after which work can begin,” said an official. He added that they are still not aware of the area where the group or the man who had tested positive had stayed in Gujarat, or in Godhra. Even in the case of the elderly Godhra man who tested Covid-19 positive and died recently, the Godhra administration is yet to ascertain how he got infected though he had no travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rajasthans-patient-had-stayed-in-godhra-too/articleshow/75034819.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kozhikode||At last, Karnataka opens border to critical patients||KANNUR: Finally, Karnataka government has budged to the demand that the borders should be opened for patients from Kerala, especially Kasaragod. But the permission is conditional, based on which the border at Thalappady would be opened for patients travelling to hospitals in Mangaluru . The decision has been taken in the wake of the criticism that Karnataka was not permitting patients from Kerala despite intervention of the Supreme Court, which settled the case on Tuesday. The apex court settled the matter based on the declaration of the Centre that both the states have reached an agreement. On Tuesday evening, Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu received the official intimation. Only patients with serious health problems would be permitted, subject to the condition that they are not Covid patients. Moreover, only those ambulances that are government owned would be permitted, said the circular. The patient should carry an affidavit by a medical officer, declaring that he/she is not Covid positive and does not have any symptoms of the disease. Moreover, it should be certified that the treatment for this patient is not available in Kasaragod and could not be taken to Kannur. Moreover, the ambulances should be disinfected as per the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Further, only one bystander, driver and a paramedical staff would be allowed in the ambulance, said the order. Karnataka would deploy a medical team at Thalappady to verify if these conditions are followed and only after they are convinced that the patient would be permitted entry to Mangaluru. The district collector has appointed medical officers to handle cases based on the intimation. On Tuesday too, many vehicles carrying patients had reached the border at Thalappady, in the hope that they would be able to go to Mangaluru hospitals, said Aslam Kunjathur, an ambulance driver. As they were denied entry they had to return. The conditions mooted by Karnataka are tough to follow, and if they continue not permitting genuine patients by raising trivial issues, it would be taken up legally, said Manjeshwar MLA and IUML leader M C Kamaruddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/at-last-ktaka-opens-border-to-critical-patients/articleshow/75036360.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mysuru||Quarantined people’s kin denied groceries, SP issues warning||Mysuru: After family members of a quarantined person were denied essential commodities in Bannur town, Mysuru district police have warned those indulging in social boycott of legal action. After a complaint by the victims, superintendent of police C B Rishyant visited the town on Monday. From a loudspeaker, he told the public: “Some persons have been home quarantined in Bannur town and the district administration is monitoring their health. But we have received complaint that their family members were denied ration, milk and vegetables and were asked to leave the town which is inhuman,” he said. Rishyanth said that denying essentials commodities to such families and socially boycotting them is against the law. “We will be forced to take stringent action against the persons who are involved in such illegal activity. The family should get ration, milk and vegetables. The district administration has identified the persons who have symptoms and have given proper treatment. There is no need for people to be afraid,” he said. People residing close to the houses of quarantined people have been living in fear and asking the authorities to shift those isolated at home to hospitals. Such incidents were reported in Nanjangud where more than 750 are home quarantined. More than 20 tribals left their haadis in HD Kote taluk after 11 employees of Jubilant Life Sciences were quarantined at Ekalavya Boys Hostel near their locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/quarantined-peoples-kin-denied-groceries-sp-issues-warning/articleshow/75036266.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||On a high: Jaipur Municipal Corporation staff gulp sanitisers||JAIPUR: Mistaking hand sanitisers for liquor, some sanitation workers were found consuming them. Reason: Their packaging bears a close resemblance to country-made liquor bottles which is posing a major problem for the district administration and corporations. These sanitisers have been manufactured by the state-owned Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (GSM) Limited The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has issued a warning to its workers not to confuse the sanitisers with liquor. A source at JMC said, “The pungent odour and packing of this sanitiser resembles that of country-made liquor. Some of the civic body workers are overjoyed at the thought that amid the lockdown, the government is providing them with subsidised liquor, without realizing that it is not fit for consumption. We issued the advisory and asked the distributors to educate the workers too”. Sources said, many of the sanitation workers are habitual drinkers of country-made liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-a-high-jmc-staff-gulp-sanitisers/articleshow/75037663.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Star hotels, fine-dining restaurants take special lockdown dishes to doorstep||KOLKATA: People confined to their homes can now enjoy food from star hotels without venturing out and breaking the lockdown. Three star hotels—Park Hotel, Hyatt Regency and JW Marriott—have opened their so-far-closed kitchen, brought out fresh menu and started delivering food to doorsteps. Most loved dishes from JW Kitchens (Indian and Mughlai) and Vintage Asia (Chinese and Thai) have been put on Marriott’s special menu—From our Hearts to your Home—and are being delivered by the chain’s own band of people in its own vehicles. Though the number of dishes is curtailed, the hotel management said appetizers to snacks, such as sandwich, roll and pizza, to full-course meals were available for online order between noon and 9 pm. From biryani, kebabs, club kachoris and samosas, to a special Bengali spread of chingri malai curry and kosha mangsho, to pasta and wood-fired pizza, there’s something for everyone on the lockdown home delivery menu drawn up by chef Sharad Dewan of Park. Chef Vikas Singh of Hyatt has added five varieties of tea in their ‘Stay In, Order In’ menu that includes Indian, oriental and continental favourites. Fine-dining establishments as well as other eateries pointed out that online order had more than doubled. Sweet shop chain Balaram Mullick claimed its delivery orders had incrsaed by 10 times than normal. “We are on our toes, packing sweets for orders on food delivery app. Given the demand, I have also started delivering Bengali thali lunches,” said owner Sudip Mullick. Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta have also started taking home delivery orders for the past two days. “We are doing a limited menu but even then, we are flooded with orders,” said spokesperson Debashish Ghosh. Three fine-dining restaurants, Afraa, Sonar Toree and Orient, had started delivering food to households this week, and Conclave, Capella of Altair, East India Room and Loafer’s Café and Uno Pizzas would follow suit, said Nitin Kohli, spokesperson for Ambuja Neotia Group’s hospitality sector. “Select Tea Junction outlets will also start delivering tea and snacks from Wednesday,” he added. Some restaurants, like Oudh, have apparently been receiving more orders from north Kolkata than south. Owner Shiladitya Chaudhuri rued that supply of mutton that came from Bihar, was drying up and it might lead to loss of business. “Our home delivery menu has been restricted to a few biryanis, gravies and kebabs but the orders are encouraging,” he said. Low supply of raw materials is also bothering Mama Mia Gelato, which has been delivering ice cream from five outlets. “We source our raw materials from Bangalore and other places by flights. We have supplies for 10 more days,” said owner Adhiraj Thirani. Flury’s has started delivering through apps as well as its own system. “We are taking bread and cakes to big housing societies in the mornings; the rest is through apps,” said chef Vikas Kumar. Bar B would also send food home in a couple of days, said owner Rajeev Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/star-hotels-fine-dining-restaurants-take-special-lockdown-dishes-to-doorstep/articleshow/75037125.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Covid-positive UK man with kidney ailment discharged||VADODARA: A 55-year-old man from the UK who had tested positive last month was discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Tuesday afternoon. Nikhil Patel was the eighth patient to test positive of Covid-19 in Vadodara. After repeat tests of his samples tested negative, he was discharged from the Gotri hospital where doctors and nurses treating him bid farewell amid clapping and cheer celebrating his recovery and discharge. The UK resident is the sixth patient who has recovered after getting infected from the deadly virus. In a a video call with Vadodara district collector, Shalini Agrawal, Patel thanked the district administration and medical team at Gotri too for ensuring his speedy recovery. “I thank all the staff, especially the dedicated nurses, who really made a difference in my recovery,” said Patel, who was handed over a discharge card with certificate of recovery and his negative reports by the team of doctors and nurses. Patel had come to the city from Mumbai on March 18 to undergo ayurvedic treatment for kidney-related ailments and through yoga. While he was undergoing the ayurvedic therapy, he started suffering from high-grade fever after which he was taken to the Gotri hospital on March 26. His Delhi-based friend who was accompanying him had also tested positive later and is currently under treatment at the same hospital. As a kidney patient, the UK resident had to undergo regular dialysis. Looking at the condition of the patient, the state government had made special arrangements by equipping the hospital with dialysis facility at the isolation ward where he was admitted. An RO plant and a water pipeline was also laid to ensure that the patient can undergo dialysis uninterruptedly. The city so far has recorded 12 cases, of which two have died, six have recovered and four are under treatment now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-positive-uk-man-with-kidney-ailment-discharged/articleshow/75034921.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Garbage load drops, roads a lot cleaner than ever||Coimbatore: The lockdown seems to be helping the city a bit more than just containing the spread of Covid-19. Ever since the curfew came into force, the city roads have been cleaner than ever before, with less garbage strewn around. The waste being generated by the city has also reduced by 200 tonnes a day. According to a source with the civic body, the city’s garbage load has come down to 800-850 tonnes from 1,000-1,100 tonnes. A senior city corporation official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “We have been seeing a considerable difference in the quantity of garbage that the city generates a day after the lockdown came into force. As most of the commercial establishments and eateries remain shut, the garbage load has come down by 200 tonnes a day.” While the wet waste collected from households in certain areas are sent to the micro composting centres directly, wet and dry waste from other areas are taken to the dump yard at Vellalore, he said. There are 20 micro composting centres that are functional in the city. Pointing out that they earlier used to collect a lot of cardboard boxes, which were used by e-commerce sellers, and plastic boxes that were used by online food delivery services, the official said those two items were hardly seen in garbage piles nowadays. A sanitary supervisor said, “Cool drinks bottles were a major part of the garbage earlier. Today, the number of bottles has also come down by 50%.” He said people have started using vegetables and other essential items carefully as they were afraid that might be in short supply soon. “As a result, the quantity of wet waste that is generated in houses has come down. The households that were producing 500g of wet waste earlier are generating just 250g or less today. In the case of dry waste, we do not get anything other than covers and papers.” He said they had strictly instructed the public to segregate the waste while handing that over to them following the widespread coronavirus scare. “We refuse to collect the mixed waste. So, most of the households have started to segregate the waste at source.” Explaining that only the people, who were not segregating the waste, were dumping the same in garbage carts, the sanitary supervisor said the cart clearing trucks were making only a trip presently, instead of two to three trips in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/garbage-load-drops-roads-a-lot-cleaner-than-ever/articleshow/75037122.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Many step up to put masks on faces||Bhubaneswar: With the Odisha government making it mandatory for people to wear masks while stepping out of home to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus, there has been a surge in women, professional and amateur tailors as well as homemakers, making cloth masks for their families and others. “I am not a professional tailor. Stitching is more of a hobby. When the Odisha government announced that wearing mask has been mandatory from Thursday, I brought out my sewing machine and stitched two masks for my husband as he has to go out to buy milk and vegetables,” said Sarita Sahu, a homemaker and resident of Sashtri Nagar. She said in the last two days, she has stitched at least 20 masks using old cotton clothes and distributed them among neighbours. Many women said they are taking help from YouTube videos and the internet to make masks at home. “There are several methods for making masks. With my rudimentary sewing skills, I made several types of masks,” said Meera Udgata, another homemaker. Following the government order, several agencies that used to make masks have increased their production. “We are making ISO certified disposable masks. We have received orders from various organisations and are producing around 20,000 masks each day. But since the demand of masks will increase, we are ready to provide masks to retailers and medicine stores,” said Ranjan Acharya, an entrepreneur and proprietor of My Eco-friendly Shop in Jagannath Nagar area of the city. Several voluntary organisations have also come forward to make masks. Girls of Shikharchandi slum the city, who learnt stitching as skill training under Project Cheysta, have also been stitching masks. “We are stitching around 1500-2000 masks every day after completing our household chores. If the demand goes up, we will increase our production,” said Jyothi Reddy, a youngster. In Ganjam and Kendrapada districts, the administrations have already imposed fines on those seen without a mask. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/many-step-up-to-put-masks-on-faces/articleshow/75035262.cms||Minati Singha
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||300 docs register for telemedicine||Bhubaneswar: Over 300 doctors come forward to provide voluntary services to people with Covid-19 symptoms through the telemedicine helpline (14410 number), which would be made functional by the state government from 11 am on Wednesday. Anyone, who is suffering from Covid-19 symptoms like cough, fever, tiredness and respiratory problems can dial the telemedicine helpline to seek medical advices from qualified doctors, who have registered themselves to provide medical advices to the suspected Covid-19 cases. It is a free service. The telemedicine helpline is besides the 104 helpline set up by the health department to register names of persons returning from Covid-19 affected areas within and outside the country and to give medical advice to people, who are in quarantine. The 104 helpline number also facilitates general medical assistance to general public. The 104 helpline is now getting 12,000 to 14,000 calls a day. Since the number of positive cases are increasing, there is an apprehension among people over Covid-19 symptoms. “We expect that the number of calls to the existing helpline may go up in the next few days. Keeping that in mind, we have decided to launch a new telemedicine helpline number (14410),” said works secretary Krishan Kumar, who monitors functioning of the 104 helpline. A Delhi-based firm (Step One) has developed the telemedicine platform, which is a interactive voice response (IVR) system-based module that enables the dial pad for identification, segmentation and routing of callers to the appropriate persons. “When people dial to the telemedicine number, it will seek certain queries about their travel history, symptoms and other details. Based on the response of the dialler, a history-sheet will be prepared. The doctors (whoever will be available at that time) will be alerted about the call. The doctors through a mobile app will immediately dial the person concerned and prescribe him medicines or advice him to go for Covid-19 test,” said Kumar. The new platform will give a better experience to the people seeking medical advices at the moment, said Kumar adding the Medical Council of India has relaxed the guidelines for telemedicine consultations in view of the Covid-19 situation. Both the 104 helpline number and telemedicine platforms are interlinked, said an official source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/300-docs-register-for-telemedicine/articleshow/75035249.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shutdown may delay real estate projects by a year||KOLKATA: Those who had booked apartments and were hoping to move in after the lockdown ends, be prepared for a long wait and pray the builder does not go bankrupt. Leading developers say the lockdown will lead to projects being delayed by a year. A prolonged lockdown could even push a section of builders against the wall. Covid-19 has stalled the construction of around 40,000 units that were to be delivered between now and 2023. Speaking to TOI, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) Kolkata chapter president Nandu Belani said the Covid-19 outbreak would result in at least six months delay for projects beyond the lockdown period as men and material would have to be mobilized afresh. “The Covid-19 lockdown has disrupted all timelines. All activity in the real estate sector was suspended when the lockdown came into force. Most of the workers have returned home. Manufacturing of materials has been suspended and supply is on hold. To get everything restarted will take at least three months. But that will happen only if this situation is resolved next month. But if the situation persists for a while, workers will only return after the monsoon. And that means a setback till at least September,” said Belani. Sushil Mohta, who is president of Credai’s apex body in West Bengal, warns the recovery could be a long and painful one unless the industry receives support from by the Centre and the state. “The supply chain of goods and materials required will take months to restore. Our cash flows from new sales and collection from the sold units have been severely affected. Licence fees/rentals from tenants in retail malls and office complexes have taken a hit after the lockdown. If the lockdown continues for a long period, around 20-25% developers will be in deep distress with some even facing liquidation,” he warned. Mohta has written to Union FM Nirmala Sitharaman, demanding a slew of incentives to prevent companies from going bankrupt and triggering a crisis that would leave home buyers in the lurch. Belani has also appealed for revision of circle rates so that developers can sell the inventory at attractive prices soon after the lockdown is lifted. Sales at prices lower than circle rates currently attract penalty on buyers and developers by way of higher stamp duty and I-T as the difference between the two rates is deemed as personal income on the part of both buyers and developers. Global real estate services firm JLL pegged the unsold inventory in Kolkata at 29,555 units worth Rs 15,300 crore. “Customers and tenants have stopped payments. Developers are starved of funds. They will have no option but offer deep discounts to sell commercial, residential or undeveloped land to generate funds. We expect the government to understand the situation and help,” Mohta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shutdown-may-delay-real-estate-projects-by-a-year/articleshow/75037603.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||For famished monkeys of Poondi temple, there are feeding hands||Coimbatore: A group of residents of Semmedu village near Velliangiri hills have come forward to feed famished monkeys at the Andavar temple in Poondi near the city. The monkeys, which lived off food given by visitors to the temple situated at the foothills of the hills, were starving since the lockdown due to no footfall at the temple. There are around 1,000 monkeys that live around the temple, situated close to the forest. When the temple was open, devotees and visitors usually gave food and fruits to the primates. After the temple was closed for devotees due to the 21-day lockdown, there was nobody left to bring food for the monkeys. On hearing about this, R Rajkumar, a social activist from Semmedu, approached his friends with a plan to arrange food for the monkeys. “We heard that the monkeys were starving, so we decided to feed them. We made tomato rice and bought several packets of biscuits and fed them to the monkeys,” he said. Rajkumar led a group of local residents and well-wishers to the temple on Tuesday to feed the monkeys . “This was the first time we went to the temple since the start of the lockdown, and for a noble cause.” The group has requested some farmers near the temple to supply fruits for the monkeys regularly. Local residents, impressed by Rajkumar’s initiative, have also planned to visit the temple once in two days to feed the monkeys. S Muthu, another resident from Semmedu, said he cooked food at his village and carried it to the temple to feed the monkeys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/for-famished-monkeys-of-poondi-temple-there-are-feeding-hands/articleshow/75037133.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||80 shifted from containment zones to quarantine homes||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has so far moved 80 people from the city’s three containment zones to government quarantine facility here. Bhubaneswar currently has 31 active coronavirus cases. Suryanagar, Bomikhal and Kapilaprasad-Jadupur are its three containment zones. Officials of the BMC said the people who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients, or were likely to come in contact with them if allowed to stay on in the containment zones, were the ones who had been moved to a government quarantine facility. Also, people who are suspected to have come in contact with the positive person but did not have space in their houses for proper quarantine had also been moved. “In such circumstances, many people don’t agree to come to government quarantine. We have to counsel them,” said a BMC officer. The BMC has been supplying food and other essential items on a daily basis to the facilities. According to the guidelines, if a person shows symptoms of Covid-19 during the quarantine period, he or she will be tested. If the test returns positive for the novel coronavirus, he or she will be shifted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. So far, no one has had to be moved from government quarantine to hospital. The BMC, however, is facing a tough task to maintain the quarantine facilities. People in the localities where they are located are fearful. “The persons to be quarantined are brought from containment zones and other areas in an ambulance,” the officer added. At the government quarantine, each person gets his or her own room. No room is occupied by two persons. Hotels that had offered paid quarantine are now finding themselves without any customers. Initially, 27 people had opted for paid quarantine in the eight hotels designated for the purpose by the BMC. With most having completed their stay, the hotels now have only four persons in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/80-shifted-from-containment-zones-to-quarantine-homes/articleshow/75035268.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Rajkot||History-sheeter attacks doctor at Tankara Civil Hospital, held||Rajkot: A histroy-sheeter allegedly attacked a doctor in Tankara Civil Hospital, after the latter refused to admit him on Monday. The accused Nitin Solanki (50) was arrested late on Tuesday afternoon. It was revealed during investigation that Solanki had a fight with one of his neighbours over some issue and in order to frame him in an atrocity case, Solanki wanted to get admitted to the hospital.Police said Solanki, had hit Dr Narendrasinh Zala with a wooden stool following an argument. Dr Zala received severe head injuries and had to take four stitches. One of his hands was also injured. According to police, Solanki had approached Dr Zala, saying that he had suffered head injury and need to be admitted to the hospital. “When Dr Zala said he couldn’t see any injury marks on his head, Solanki got incensed, picked up a stool and hit the doctor with it. After committing the crime, Solanki fled from the spot,” said L P Bagada, sub-inspector with Tankara police station. Solanki had also allegedly threatened Dr Zala with dire consequences. During questioning, Solanki told the police that he wanted to frame his neighbour so he had approached the doctor. Police said that Solanki has several cases registered against him including bootlegging and making false accusations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-attacks-doctor-at-tankara-civil-hospital-held/articleshow/75037143.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||CM transfers Rs 562 cr to pensioners, welfare schemes||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday transferred online a sum of Rs 562 crore for two-month expenditure towards various pension schemes to the pensioners' accounts. The online transaction benefited 46.86 lakh pensioners, said an official statement. Out of the total amount of Rs 562 crore, the chief minister transferred Rs 15.69 lakh of Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme, Rs 5.36 lakh of Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme, Rs 99,924 of Indira Gandhi National Disabled Pension Scheme, Rs 57,790 of Mukhyamantri Kanya Abhibavak pension scheme, Rs 75,514 for financial assistance to mental multi-disabled and Rs 23.46 lakh of social security pension. The chief minister also reviewed preparations for the supply of drinking water ahead of summer season. Chuhan said that due to good rains, the water level at all the resources is sufficient. In water deficit areas, the government will supply one time water in two days. In the meeting, it was informed that of the total 378 civic bodies, 297 are getting water supply daily. In 77 civic bodies, water supply is being done twice a day. In some areas like Sardarpur of Dhar, Suvasara of Mandsaur, Tonkkhurd of Dewas and Meghnagar of Jhabua, water will be supplied once in three days. The chief minister has also instructed to set up state and district level control rooms to monitor and conduct regular supply of 55 liters of water for every individual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-transfers-rs-562-cr-to-pensioners-welfare-schemes/articleshow/75036298.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Clarity on summer exams in 2-3 days: SUK||Kolhapur: A decision regarding the summer examination of universities across the state will be taken in the next two-three days, informed Shivaji University, Kolhapur’s (SUK) vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde on Tuesday. “During a video-conference with chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday, the vice-chancellors of the state universities were asked to look for a uniform schedule for the summer exams,” Shinde said. Academic calendar for 2020-21, summer semester exam, e-learning facilities, role of National Service Scheme (NSS) in disaster management and management of disaster funds were the aspects that were discussed during the meeting. “Since the exam schedule of all public universities is stuck, a solution is likely to be drawn within the next 2-3 days. We have been asked to work out two possibilities. The first scenario is about conducting exams after the lockdown is lifted, while the second possibility is to find alternatives if the lockdown is extended,” Shinde said. It should be noted that over 2.5 lakh students appear for the semester examination, which sees over 500 examinations for different courses. The SUK has 293 affiliated colleges across Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts. Being asked about the possibility of synchronizing the exam schedule, he said it is difficult in bigger universities where the number of affiliated colleges is high, while universities with a relatively less number of affiliated colleges will not have a problem in having a uniform schedule. “The university’s NSS wing has offered the assistance of around 1,000 NSS volunteers to deal with any disaster situation across Sangli, Satara, and Kolhapur districts,” Shinde added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/clarity-on-summer-exams-in-2-3-days-suk/articleshow/75037135.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||992 people might have attended Nizamuddin meet, say Rajasthan cops||JAIPUR: Rajasthan police have identified 992 people who are currently in the state and might have attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. According to police, they include people from other states as well as 10 Nepalis. The state intelligence department claimed that it had almost completed the exercise of identifying people who might have attended the meet and the number was not expected to rise. According to officials, 290 are from Rajasthan who might have visited Delhi at the time of the congregation. The rest 599 are from other states in addition to the 10 Nepalis who have been listed as foreigners. Of the entire lot, 899 most probably went as ‘Jamaat’ (group) while 93 others are suspected to have gone in individual capacity. However, police is unable to confirm yet as to how many actually went for the congregation which was spread between March second week and third week. ADG (Intelligence) Umesh Mishra told TOI, “We have identified over 992 people who might have visited Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz but it cannot be said with certainty that they all visited during the time of the congregation. It is difficult to say as to how many were actually physically present in Delhi for the Tablighi Jamaat.” The official added that they have taken into account all people who had some kind of association with the Tablighi Jamaat indicating the possibility of them participating in the large gatherings in Delhi last month. Few of the persons identified in Bharatpur last week were those who had attended a similar event in Mumbai. After receiving information about the Jamaat gathering, cops had been working relentlessly to identify people who in all likelihood attended the meet and the exercise for collecting information was ongoing since March 31. The officials added that depending on the results, it will be decided if they have to be quarantined or kept in self isolation. Curfew in Alwar villageCurfew was imposed in Khohra village in Alwar after a person out of the 15 who attended Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi tested positive. Following this, a medical team started door-to-door screening of the villagers but additional police forces had to be called in as the locals refused to cooperate in getting themselves screened. District administration and police had to make announcements from the local mosque appealing to the public to cooperate with the team. Till now 20 people from the village have been kept in isolation after being suspected of being infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/992-people-might-have-attended-nizamuddin-meet-say-cops/articleshow/75037601.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||KLE Technological University starts production of face-shields||Hubballi: The battle against Covid-19 in India has been marked as much by shortage of various commodities as it has by the willingness among people from all walks of life to do their bit to help the country in a time of crisis. The Karnataka Lingayat Educational (KLE) Technological University is the latest addition to the list of benevolent institutions that have come forward to supplement the efforts of the government. Taking cognisance of the acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for healthcare personnel in the country, the varsity has started preparing the shields at the behest of its vice-chancellor Ashok Shettar. KLE Technological University vice-chancellor Shettar told TOI, “Dr Shrinivas Deshpande and Dr Umesh G from Lifeline Hospital, which is leading a voluntary group fighting Covid-19, approached us seeking help to bridge the supply gap for 3d-printed face shields. The duo informed us that many doctors, nurses and healthcare personnel were among those struggling to get their hands on face-shields. At this critical juncture, we felt it was our duty to help those fighting the virus for us, and directions were issued to our professors to start manufacturing the face shields.” Head of the mechanical engineering department at KLE Technological University Prof Basavaraj Kotturshettar is heading the team of teachers involved in the manufacture of the shields. The varsity VC said that the faculty members were using the ‘Makers Space’ printing facility at the university laboratory, where work has begun on making the headbands needed for the shields. “As of now, three 3D printers are being used for production, and with the raw material that we have at our disposal, we should be able to produce 500 face shields by the end of the next week. We are trying to augment our stock of raw materials to prepare for the future,” said Ashok Shettar, who said that they could produce up to 60 to 70 shields in a day. Dr Deshpande, anaesthesiologist and intensivist, said that the face shield was an innovation of healthcare professionals. “It is not a replacement for a mask, but it is safe and ensures basic protection. We wear masks, over which we don the face shields. These shields are very helpful to those working in places where the risk is high. Dr Umesh conceived the idea, and the first sheild was designed with the help of Ravindra Koulagi,” he said. Dr Deshpande reiterated the gaping shortage of PPE kits, which he said had jeopardised the safety of healthcare personnel at the front line. “The face shield will certainly minimise the risk of doctors and nurses contracting the infection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kle-technological-university-starts-production-of-face-shields/articleshow/75036324.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Uncertainty looms large over status of trains after April 14||Bhopal: Potential passengers are making queries in large numbers about the restoration of train operations after April 14. Bookings have already been started, but there is still not any official information about the starting of trains from April 15 onwards. Individuals and travel agents have started their enquiries regarding booking in the railways. Ankit Sahu, a city-based travel agent, said that he is getting many enquiries regarding booking of tickets on a regular basis. Most of them are business travel enquiries. He said that his office is closed due to the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. “I really do not know what will happen after April 14. No one is actually clear whether trains will start operating or not,” said Prakash Dixit, a banker by profession. Most passengers say that it is a very confusing state for them. “I am told that trains will not stop on stations of those towns and cities where coronavirus positive cases are being reported. In such a case, Bhopal will be surely be kept out of train schedules even after April 14,” said a Kamal Verma, a Bhopal-based entrepreneur. Umakant Sharma, father of an engineering student, said that he is desperate to bring back his daughter, but he is in an utter confusing state of mind. “I can understand that the lockdown was indeed the need of the hour, but as a father I am really worried about my daughter. She is staying with one her friends in Jaipur. It will not be possible for her to stay there for a long time,” he said. Sources said that Railways will decide on April 12 about whether to start train operations after April 14. When contacted, the public relation officer of Bhopal railway division, I S Siddiqui said that there were no specific guidelines yet to start the functioning of trains from April 15. “As of now, we are sanitising the trains and engines on a regular basis. We are literally on our toes. If we are asked to operate from April 15, we will be ready to resume train services,” added Siddique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/uncertainty-looms-large-over-status-of-trains-after-april-14/articleshow/75036323.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||IB office, staff colony quarantined||Bhubaneswar: The state government has quarantined Centre’s intelligence bureau (IB) office in Bhubaneswar after one of the bureau employees came in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Suryanagar area here a few days ago. Apart from asking all the IB employees to stay in home quarantine for 14 days, the government has declared their residential colony on Bidyut Marg as a restricted zone. “We immediately quarantined the IB office and its residential colony on Bidyut Marg following our contact tracing exercise, involving Covid-19 positive persons. One of the positive persons in Surya Nagar came in contact with an IB employee recently,” Bhubaneswar municipal corporation (BMC) commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said. Sources said at least 55 personnel work in the IB office, a premier internal intelligence agency in the country, in Bhubaneswar. The office had been running with less number of staff in the wake of corona outbreak. Not less than 150 people live in the IB residential colony located close to the bureau office. The state government has requested the IB employees to insist their family members to stay in home isolation for 14 days. The government has also started collecting blood and swab samples of the IB personnel and their family members for Covid test. “We are on the job of sample collection and testing. We urged everyone to not panic and cooperate with the government in containing the spread of Covid-19,” Chaudhary said. Sources said the BMC in collaboration with the Odisha fire service will soon spray disinfectant on the IB office premises and the residential colony. The Surya Nagar locality was sealed by the state government on April 2, a day after a 60-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19. The Surya Nagar area subsequently turned out to be a corona hotspot following detection of seven more positive cases (the 60-year-old positive man’s wife, daughter and tenants) on April 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ib-office-staff-colony-quarantined/articleshow/75035276.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||ESI hospital sees dip in biomedical waste||Coimbatore: The biomedical waste generated by the ESI Hospital has come down by half after it was designated to treat Covid-19 cases in the district. This is despite the use of personnel protection equipment (PPE) kits going up astronomically in the facility. Hospital authorities attributed this to the sudden drop in the number of patients. The hospital usually has 504 patients on an average, with each of them generating 300g biomedical waste a day, which would roughly translate into 151kg. However, after it was made an exclusive facility to handle Covid-19 cases, all other patients were moved out. Presently, the hospital has only 100 patients. A hospital administrator said, “These 100 patients also generate 300g each biomedical waste a day which if put together adds up to just 30kg.” Pointing out that at least 99 PPE kits, each of which weighs 0.5 to 0.75 kg, were used by the doctors, lab technicians and nurses in the hospital, the source said, “This constitutes another 50kg of biomedical waste a day. In total, we generate 80kg of waste a day. This is collected by biomedical waste handler Technotherm.” The biomedical waste, which mostly contains PPE kits, is left in the yellow bags, which are collected by Technotherm staff, who also use PPE kits while at work. “The yellow bags are first immersed in a disinfecting liquid and then put into another yellow bag, before handing them over to Technotherm staff,” the official said. A health department official, meanwhile, said they were ensuring that the hospital staff use only one or two kits a day. “We also ensure that they don’t remove it until their shift ends. Sometimes, they tend to remove it after around 10 or 20 minutes into wearing it, as it is very hot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/esi-hospital-sees-dip-in-biomedical-waste/articleshow/75037145.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 56% drop in murders amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the lockdown, there has been a significant drop in crime rate in Telangana. There was a 56% drop in murder cases between March 22 and April 5 when compared to the number of murder cases registered between March 1 and 21. In fact, a majority of the crimes that took place during this 15-day lockdown happened in the Hyderabad police commissionerate. Narayanpet district saw the least number of cases reported. Ten murder cases — two each in Adilabad and Suryapet, one each in Nagarkurnool, Rachakonda, Mahbubabad, Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Warangal — were registered in this period. Before the lockdown in March, 32 murder cases — four in Kamareddy followed by Nagarkurnoool and Rachakonda with three each — were registered. “Due to lockdown, cases like accidents, burglaries and grave offences have come down. Cases booked under section 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by public servant) that fall under other IPC category have gone up due to lockdown rule violations. We have registered over 20,000 cases, including 3000 cases under the IPC in connection with lockdown related law enforcement,” additional director general (law and order) Jitender said. Surprisingly, there were no murder for gain cases during the lockdown and prior to the lockdown in March, there was only one case was registered in Nizamabad. During the lockdown, day burglaries’ percentage reduced by 94% and night burglaries by 75% There was an 80% fall in kidnapping and 75% drop in rape cases. Missing cases reduced by 53% and other IPC cases ( predominantly lockdown-related) increased by 98% .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-56-drop-in-murders-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75037162.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha cops warn against cyber frauds||BHUBANESWAR: After the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) recently asked banks to offer their customers a moratorium of three months for repayment of loans in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Odisha police have advised people to ignore telephone calls from fraudsters. “We have come across a new form of cyber crime in some states. Customers get telephone calls asking them to share their OTP in order to postpone their loan equated monthly instalments (EMIs). Once the OTP is shared, money is immediately siphoned off by the fraudsters,” a senior police officer said. Though no such case has been reported in Odisha yet, police urged people to remain alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-warn-against-cyber-frauds/articleshow/75035279.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||Containment plan gives government hope||NEW DELHI: There is cautious optimism in government that the targeted strategies to manage Covid-19 hotspots and highrisk zones are paying off with the infection rate remaining within bounds, barring incidents like the Tablighi Jamaat outbreak that could potentially upset all calculations. The efforts of the Centre, along with states, to intensively track thousands of Tablighi members and their contacts are seen to have been effective and there is guarded hope that the worst of the incident may have been addressed. There remain concerns, however, that hidden infection zones such as the Tablighi Markaz, even on a smaller and scattered scale, might prove a challenge to health officials. At the government briefing on Tuesday, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said, “We have adopted two strategies for Covid-19 management. One is cluster containment strategy and when cases are higher in a particular area, we implement strategy for ‘outbreak which is amenable to management’. We have also oriented states and particularly district collectors of specific districts to implement these strategies accordingly.” Officials cautioned that even a relatively moderate infection curve may not be enough to allow the government to lift restrictions as the possibility of a resurgence if free movement of people was permitted could not be ruled out. The strategies of isolation and containment used in areas like Worli and Wockhart Hospital in Mumbai, villages in Palwal and Nuh in Haryana or at Bhilwara in Rajasthan are seen to be valuable lessons in preventing a virulent local transmission getting outof hand. Agarwal said the strategies had started showing positive results in districts like Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar and East Delhi. The ministry has also issued guidelines for cluster containment and outbreak containment. Technology-led initiatives for undertaking surveillance, monitoring quarantine facilities, tracking the health of suspected patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine have helped. The monitoring system has also provided up-to-date information to citizens, making predictive analytics using heat maps, with real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services, virtual training to doctors and healthcare professionals and telecounselling being conducted across various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/containment-plan-gives-government-hope/articleshow/75038058.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty tightens physical distancing norms||Udhagamandalam: The district administration has been strictly enforcing the physical distancing norms at vegetable markets, grocery stores and milk booths ever since four of the eight Tablighi Jamaat meet attendees from the district tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening. The district administration has also extended the local containment plan period in the sealed areas of Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri towns, from where the Covid-19 patients hail. While collector J Innocent Divya is daily inspecting vegetable markets and other public places in Ooty, teams of police and revenue officials are also keeping a close watch on the shops & markets.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-tightens-physical-distancing-norms/articleshow/75037157.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ajmer||42 more found infected with Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Forty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday taking the total figure to 343. Among them are 13 from Jaisalmer, Jodhpur (9), Banswara (7), Jaipur (6), Bharatpur (3), Bikaner (3) and one from Churu. In Jodhpur, six are family members of a person found infected on Monday. The wife of another person, who was found infected also on Monday, has also been diagnosed with the disease. A private hospital staff has tested positive in Jodhpur. He came in contact with his colleague who was carrying the ailment. Another person from Jodhpur’s Udai Mandir area was found infected. She had symptoms of influenza-like illness and during door-to-door survey health teams identified her as a suspect case. Her report was issued on Tuesday showing that she had been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jaisalmer, seven persons have been diagnosed with Covid-19, all of them came in contact with a person who was infected with the virus in Bikaner. Six more persons, relatives of a person related to the Tablighi Jamaat, were found infected with the virus. In Banswara, all seven persons who were in close contact with an infected person tested positive. In Churu, a 27-year-old person, who had a travel history to Nizamuddin in Delhi, has also tested positive. In Jaipur, six more persons were found infected from Ramganj, taking the total number of positive cases from the area to 95. The health department has started cluster testing in Ramganj to find out if the virus had spread in the community. Three persons have been found infected in Bharatpur, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat. In Bikaner, three persons have tested positive for Covid-19. They belong to the family of a person linked to the Jamaat who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/42-more-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/75038265.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Udaipur||42 more found infected with Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Forty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday taking the total figure to 343. Among them are 13 from Jaisalmer, Jodhpur (9), Banswara (7), Jaipur (6), Bharatpur (3), Bikaner (3) and one from Churu. In Jodhpur, six are family members of a person found infected on Monday. The wife of another person, who was found infected also on Monday, has also been diagnosed with the disease. A private hospital staff has tested positive in Jodhpur. He came in contact with his colleague who was carrying the ailment. Another person from Jodhpur’s Udai Mandir area was found infected. She had symptoms of influenza-like illness and during door-to-door survey health teams identified her as a suspect case. Her report was issued on Tuesday showing that she had been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jaisalmer, seven persons have been diagnosed with Covid-19, all of them came in contact with a person who was infected with the virus in Bikaner. Six more persons, relatives of a person related to the Tablighi Jamaat, were found infected with the virus. In Banswara, all seven persons who were in close contact with an infected person tested positive. In Churu, a 27-year-old person, who had a travel history to Nizamuddin in Delhi, has also tested positive. In Jaipur, six more persons were found infected from Ramganj, taking the total number of positive cases from the area to 95. The health department has started cluster testing in Ramganj to find out if the virus had spread in the community. Three persons have been found infected in Bharatpur, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat. In Bikaner, three persons have tested positive for Covid-19. They belong to the family of a person linked to the Jamaat who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/42-more-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/75038264.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||42 more found infected with Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Forty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday taking the total figure to 343. Among them are 13 from Jaisalmer, Jodhpur (9), Banswara (7), Jaipur (6), Bharatpur (3), Bikaner (3) and one from Churu. In Jodhpur, six are family members of a person found infected on Monday. The wife of another person, who was found infected also on Monday, has also been diagnosed with the disease. A private hospital staff has tested positive in Jodhpur. He came in contact with his colleague who was carrying the ailment. Another person from Jodhpur’s Udai Mandir area was found infected. She had symptoms of influenza-like illness and during door-to-door survey health teams identified her as a suspect case. Her report was issued on Tuesday showing that she had been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jaisalmer, seven persons have been diagnosed with Covid-19, all of them came in contact with a person who was infected with the virus in Bikaner. Six more persons, relatives of a person related to the Tablighi Jamaat, were found infected with the virus. In Banswara, all seven persons who were in close contact with an infected person tested positive. In Churu, a 27-year-old person, who had a travel history to Nizamuddin in Delhi, has also tested positive. In Jaipur, six more persons were found infected from Ramganj, taking the total number of positive cases from the area to 95. The health department has started cluster testing in Ramganj to find out if the virus had spread in the community. Three persons have been found infected in Bharatpur, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat. In Bikaner, three persons have tested positive for Covid-19. They belong to the family of a person linked to the Jamaat who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/42-more-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/75037605.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jodhpur||42 more found infected with Covid-19 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Forty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday taking the total figure to 343. Among them are 13 from Jaisalmer, Jodhpur (9), Banswara (7), Jaipur (6), Bharatpur (3), Bikaner (3) and one from Churu. In Jodhpur, six are family members of a person found infected on Monday. The wife of another person, who was found infected also on Monday, has also been diagnosed with the disease. A private hospital staff has tested positive in Jodhpur. He came in contact with his colleague who was carrying the ailment. Another person from Jodhpur’s Udai Mandir area was found infected. She had symptoms of influenza-like illness and during door-to-door survey health teams identified her as a suspect case. Her report was issued on Tuesday showing that she had been diagnosed with Covid-19. In Jaisalmer, seven persons have been diagnosed with Covid-19, all of them came in contact with a person who was infected with the virus in Bikaner. Six more persons, relatives of a person related to the Tablighi Jamaat, were found infected with the virus. In Banswara, all seven persons who were in close contact with an infected person tested positive. In Churu, a 27-year-old person, who had a travel history to Nizamuddin in Delhi, has also tested positive. In Jaipur, six more persons were found infected from Ramganj, taking the total number of positive cases from the area to 95. The health department has started cluster testing in Ramganj to find out if the virus had spread in the community. Three persons have been found infected in Bharatpur, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat. In Bikaner, three persons have tested positive for Covid-19. They belong to the family of a person linked to the Jamaat who was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/42-more-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/75038263.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Supply chain failure brings more woes||Bhubaneswar: The 48-hour shutdown in Bomikhal, Suryanagar, Kapila Prasad and Jadupur areas of the capital city has come as a double whammy for the residents. First, the containment measure itself had caught most off guard and now that it has been lifted, many are finding it difficult to get hold of essential supplies. That’s because many of the vendors had left the city on account of the shutdown, resulting in closed shops and depleted counters. “On Sunday evening and Monday, no vendor visited our locality. On Tuesday evening, I got some essential items after a prolonged wait. It’s very painful,” said Ramesh Sahu, a resident of Bomikhal. “The BMC should engage more authorized vendors so that people don’t have to wait endlessly to buy vegetables and groceries,” he said. “There is no prior information about where the vendors would come and when. They are not going door-to-door. They are setting up stall at certain places. I waited for close to two hours to buy some vegetables,” said Meeta Sahoo, a resident of Jay Durga Nagar under Bomikhal. Kamaljit Das, the deputy commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) who is in charge of the supply chain to these areas, admitted there was some disruption, but said it was restored on Tuesday evening. “Many vendors had left the city because neither the markets were open and nor were the vendors permitted to supply essential commodities in the restricted zone. It was on Tuesday evening that we managed to re-organise the authorized vendors and asked them to sell the essential items. Different vendors have been asked to supply different items,” said Das. For Bomikhal containment zone, four mobile grocery vans and vegetable counters each, one fruit van, two Omfed milk vans and one egg van have been authorised while for Suryanagar, two vegetable and grocery vans along with one milk and egg vans each have been pressed into service. Similar number of vendors have been authorised for Jadupur and Kapila Prasad areas. The BMC on Monday sent mobile ATMs to the containment zones to help people withdraw cash. The doorstep facility has been introduced to stop people from leaving their homes. The BMC has also put up phone numbers and names of vendors so that residents can call and order essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/supply-chain-failure-brings-more-woes/articleshow/75035284.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Comprehensive plan in place to meet any emergency in Ekm||Kochi: The district health department has estimated that 3.2 lakh people in Ernakulam district will be infected with coronavirus. This comes to around 10% of the total population in the district. In order to deal with such a situation, the district administration has prepared a comprehensive plan. As per the plan, authorities will set up facilities to quarantine those coming from outside the state or those with symptoms of the disease at ward level. There will be Covid first line treatment centres (CFLTCs) at panchayat levels. The patients who require secondary and tertiary cares will be sent to taluk hospitals specially designed for the purpose and Covid treatment centres. Primary care will be required for up to 80% of the people in the district with a population of 3.2 million. They can be treated at the CFLTCs. “Ernakulam district is all set to face any emergency. The precautions we have taken will boost the confidence level of the people in the district,” district collector S Suhas said. “The grassroots level facilities will be functional as and when the situation warrants for,” he said. Of those who may contract the disease, around 79% will have only minor symptoms. Home isolation will be enough for this section of people. “For providing assistance to those with suspected symptoms, mainly to those quarantined at home, telehealth helpline will be set up at panchayat level. There is also plan to start supply of medicine on the lines of online food delivery facilities,” officials with health department said. A multi-level surveillance headed by district surveillance officer will be set up. Asha workers and volunteers will be part of the system. There will be surveillance system at ward, panchayat and district levels. More centres to collect swab of the suspected patients will also be set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/comprehensive-plan-in-place-to-meet-any-emergency-in-ekm/articleshow/75036347.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Shifting of markets add to misery||BHUBANESWAR: It was a harrowing time for a large number people, including women and elders, on Tuesday morning as they returned empty handed from various city markets as these markets were either sealed or shifted to other locations. They also alleged that no mobile van selling grocery and vegetables is coming to their localities forcing them to come out from their houses. “Two days back I went to Unit-4 market and got some essentials and vegetables. But today (Tuesday) morning when I went there most of the shops were closed and police were asking a few others to close down. I returned empty handed without vegetables and don’t know what to cook,” said Manju Sinha, a 56-year-old woman of Baunsha Gali. On Tuesday morning, daily markets like Unit-1, Unit-4 and Gandhi markets remained closed and shifted to other areas, causing severe inconvenience to people. Most of the announcements by BMC are on Twitter and except a few elites most of the residents are not friendly with Twitter. “I don’t know Twitter. I used to get news from newspapers but due to lockdown I am not getting it. In TV news all detail information is not provided. So I went to buy vegetables to the nearby market but found it closed,” said Rangadhar Patra, a resident of Behera Sahi, who used to buy vegetables from the field in from of Nabard office. People are facing inconvenience as restrictions have been imposed on people coming to markets on two-wheelers, said a citizen. The BMC has also announced on Twitter that mobile vans will provide groceries and essentials in different localities so that people need not come out from their houses. However, a large number of areas have yet to get the mobile van services. “In the last 14 days, not a single mobile van had come to our area to sell grocery or vegetables. The announcements are seems to be in pen and paper only,” said Subrat Kumar Sabat, a resident of Sastri Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shifting-of-markets-add-to-misery/articleshow/75035291.cms||Minati Singha
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Horticulture dept to help farmers sell, store veggies in the Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Farmers have been advised to contact horticulture officers in their taluks to either market the vegetables that they harvested or about to harvest, or use the cold storages in the district free of cost. Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department, said while a section of farmers were hesitant to harvest their crops as they were in dark about how to market them during the lockdown, others who had harvested were holding up the produce without marketing. “We have advised the farmers to contact the horticulture officer or agri-marketing department officials in their area, seeking help to sell their produce. The farmers are also welcome to sell their produce directly at uzhavar sandhais in their taluks,” the official said. He said the farmers could use the cold storage facility at the rose garden in Ooty to store the excess produce. While the cold storage at the rose garden has a capacity of 500MT, there are eight more cold storage facilities under the agri-marketing department across the district which could also be could by the farmers free of cost, Samraj said. The official said the farmers could contact the control room at the district collectorate at toll-free number 1077 for help to market their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/horticulture-dept-to-help-farmers-sell-store-veggies-in-the-nilgiris/articleshow/75037163.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Parel BEST staff building sealed after 2 of conductor’s family members test positive for Covid-19||MUMBAI: A BEST staff quarters in Parel that houses 60 families was sealed by the BMC on Tuesday after a bus conductor’s daughter and granddaughter tested positive for Covid-19. The conductor’s entire family has been quarantined and their swab samples have been sent for tests. A bus driver who would accompany the conductor regularly has been quarantined as well. BEST drivers and conductors are frontline workers during the Covid-19 crisis and ferry essential staff from far-flung suburbs to the city. It is learnt that the conductor’s married daughter has a residence in another locality in Parel. Her husband had recently tested positive for Covid-19 and had high fever. He was admitted to a hospital while his wife was asked to home-quarantine herself. Instead of heeding the directions, she moved in with her parents in the BEST staff quarters taking her three-year-old daughter along. Both have tested positive, said a BEST official. The conductor’s aged mother, wife and son have submitted swab samples for testing, the results of which are awaited. “A few of the conductor’s colleagues have come forward too, saying they want to get tested voluntarily,” said Nitin Patil, president of BEST Employees’ Union. Patil, who is in touch with drivers and conductors and their families at the Parel staff quarters, said more than 200 people, including family members of staffers, are now under quarantine. BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade said the BMC has sprayed disinfectants in the area. While the staff quarters has several buildings, only one where the conductor lives has been sealed. Shashank Rao of BEST Workers’ Union said conductors come in contact with several people during work. “We are awaiting his report.” The unions had asked the management to reduce drivers and conductors and give them alternate shift duties. “They should ideally take samples of every driver and conductor at day’s end and send these to the labs. If anyone is found positive, he should not be asked to report to duty the next day,” said Patil. A BEST foreman from the electricity supply division was found positive on April 3. Union leader J M Kahar said social distancing is not maintained at depots and in buses. A senior traffic wing official said they are serious about maintaining social distancing in buses.“We will ensure there are no standees in buses henceforth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parel-best-staff-bldg-sealed-after-2-of-conductors-family-members-test-ve/articleshow/75036376.cms||Somit Sen
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||‘Hello Khushroo, mee mukhya mantri boltoy’||NAGPUR: “Mee Uddhav Thackeray boltoy” (This is Uddhav Thackeray speaking). These words numbed city’s 53-year-old Khushroo Poacha for a second as he held on tightly to his mobile phone and acknowledged the caller in a few syllables. It was around 11am on Tuesday and though Poacha had been expecting this call since early morning, it was still too surreal. The chief minister had called to thank Poacha, a railway employee, for running a free food distribution chain that reached out to thousands of needy people without taking even a single rupee as donation. The build up to Thackeray’s call started exactly 12 hours ago. Principal secretary Vikas Kharge called up Poacha and appreciated his work. “Kharge had heard about our recent contribution for Yavatmal farmers. We had sent a truckload of food kits following an appeal by activist Kishore Tiwari. He said the CM was amazed to hear that everything happens without financial donation and will himself be calling the next day,” said Poacha, a TOI Nagpur Heroes awardee. After an anxious wait, the call finally came. “When the call did not come by 10am, I was convinced that it’s not going to happen. After all, he’s the CM who has an extremely busy schedule. And just as I started to get into my routine, the phone rang at 10.55am,” said Poacha. The person on the other line spoke in Hindi, revealing that he was calling from Matoshree (Thackeray’s home) and that the CM wishes to speak to him. “He patched the line through and almost immediately I heard the man himself,” said Poacha. In a very ‘gentle and polite’ way, the CM introduced himself and started expressing his appreciation. “I interrupted him and apologized that I did not understand Marathi very well,” said Poacha, to which the CM laughed. “In that cheerful tone itself he said don’t worry we will speak in Hindi and asked me how I function if no financial donation was taken,” said Poacha. The CM was told about how volunteers donate ‘time’ or ‘actual food items’ rather than money, and how the entire chain now works on autopilot in a self-regulating manner. Seva Kitchen provides food to the needy in not only hospitals, but also in slums. Thackeray told Poacha that it was matter of pride that people like him are working in India. “The CM added that he was also happy because I belong to Maharashtra. The man had no airs of obliging with a call. There was gentleness in his voice, a sense of humility and genuine appreciation,” said Poacha. Thackeray asked Poacha how the government could help. “I told CM about my concept of a community kitchen for slums and have been asked to share details with his officials,” said Poacha. When Poacha expressed his gratitude for the leadership Thackeray was providing to state, he replied saying he ‘too was human and trying to do the best possible in the current scenario’. Later, principal secretary Kharge called back and told Poacha that the divisional commissionerate will be in touch with him from now on. Thackeray’s call coincidentally came in the month when Poacha marks the 20th year of his foray into social activism. “I started in the year 2000 with a blood donation helpline. To know that the state’s most powerful person took time to call and appreciate what we are doing, is a big motivation to keep going further,” said Poacha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hello-khushroo-mee-mukhya-mantri-boltoy/articleshow/75037610.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to release 25% chloroquine stock for arthritis patients||JAIPUR: Taking into account the shortage of hydroxychloroquine, a drug showing effective results in treatment of Covid-19, the state government on Tuesday issued order to make the medicine available in the market for patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. The order says that 25% of the stock recovered from the dealers will be returned to them. But, the health department also mentioned that it should be given to patients on prescription adding that those found involved in black-marketing will be dealt strictly. In earlier orders issued on March 27 and March 28, the health department had directed its drug controllers to acquire all the available stock of hydroxychloroquine from the market. Following the directions, the drug controllers had collected all the stocks of hydroxychloroquine from the market which caused scarcity of the drug leaving rheumatoid arthritis patients in lurch. The higher authorities of the health department have started receiving complaints from doctors and patients of rheumatoid arthritis as it was not available in the market. Moreover, some doctors claimed that they require the drug for prophylaxis purpose as they need to treat the Covid-19 suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-release-25-chloroquine-stock-for-arthritis-patients/articleshow/75037607.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bereaved collector continues with Covid-19 duties||Cuttack: Cuttack collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani continued to monitor the situation in the three containment zones within his jurisdiction though his father passed away on Tuesday. State spokesperson for Covid-19 Subroto Bagchi lauded Chayani’s action at the start of his 4.30 pm briefing for the press. Informing with regret that Chayani lost his father, Damodar Chayani, who had superannuated as Athgarh sub-collector, Bagchi said the Cuttack collector has decided not to take leave. Damodar Chayani was 98 when he died at the Cuttack collector’s residence at 6.55 am on Tuesday. The vehicle carrying his body left for Puri at 11.45 am for his final rites at Swargadwar. Chayani accompanied his father in his last journey, but not before taking stock of the situation and of the contact tracing process in the containment zones during a meeting with ADM (Revenue) Purna Chandra Mishra, ADM (General) Bijay Kumar Khandayatray and sub-collector (Sadar) Subhransu Mishra. He also held a meeting with chief district medical officer Dr Satyabrata Chotray to review the door-to-door blood tests in the containment zones. On Monday, the district administration had declared areas in Salepur and Nischintkoili tehsils as containment zone to prevent spread of Covid-19. The step was taken after it was detected that a person from Jajpur district, who has been found to be Covid-19 positive visited Jairampur village in Nischintkoili tehsil and Kanpur village in Salepur tehsil on March 21, 2020. As it required comprehensive contact tracing, the two containment zones were declared to prohibit movement of people. An area within one km radius covering Pension Lane-Pattapole-Sutahat had also been declared containment zone following detection of a Covid 19 positive case in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bereaved-collector-continues-with-covid-19-duties/articleshow/75035299.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Nath urges Centre to acquire rabi crops from MP farmers||Bhopal: After writing letters to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on the issue of acquisition of Rabi crops from farmers, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Tuesday shot a letter to Union minister for rural development Narendra Singh Tomar on the same issue. On Sunday, Tomar had tweeted that the Union government has decided to acquire masoor, gram and mustard at MSP (minimum support price) from 13 states, including Bihar, Rajasthan, Punjab and West Bengal. However, Madhya Pradesh was not in the list of states. In his letter, the senior Congress leader argued that the main reason for writing to the Union minister is the Centre’s decision to buy these rabi crops at MSP from various states while leaving out Madhya Pradesh. “In Madhya Pradesh, 4.64 lakh farmers have registered for government acquisition of gram at MSP, 1.14 lakh farmers listed to sell masoor and 1.05 lakh for mustard,” Nath wrote. “Not including Madhya Pradesh in the Union government list have put a lot of distress on farmers here,” the former chief minister argued. He said that Madhya Pradesh along with the rest of the country is battling the spread of the coronavirus epidemic. With the persisting lockdown, livelihood is a huge dilemma before every sections of the society while the “state government doesn’t seem to be bothered about it,” he alleged in the letter. “The biggest victims are our farmers who have harvested rabi crops while the state’s acquisition which was to start from March 25 has not begun yet. Neither does the government seem to be making preparations to start the acquisition,” Nath wrote. “Our farmers can no longer wait. They have no storage facilities and have kept their produce near their homes,” Nath added in the letter. The senior leader and state Congress president further said, “I am stunned that the Madhya Pradesh chief minister is not showing any interest in the acquisition of grains from farmers and is silent on the Centre’s decision, which is ignoring the farmers of the state.” Nath urged Tomar to include Madhya Pradesh in the list of states for acquisition of gram, masoor and mustard at MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-urges-centre-to-acquire-rabi-crops-from-mp-farmers/articleshow/75036351.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||More buses for sanitation staff in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Following the incident of GHMC sanitation staff being transported from one place to another in a crowded bus, authorities have increased the number of buses to enable social distancing. Videos of the incident did the rounds on social media on Monday. Many of the sanitation workers were also travelling without wearing masks GHMC additional commissioner Rahul Raj said, “We have arranged for 25 buses to transport workers coming from long distances. The facility has not been not arranged for all GHMC staff. This is only for people coming from long distances like Shamirpet, Shasmahabad and Ibrahimpatnam are provided with transport .” He added, “The local sanitation workers forcibly entered one of the bus that was not allotted to them. We have kept a sanitary field inspector to monitor each bus. His duty is to ensure social distancing in the buses.We are running 36 buses.” GHMC will take attendance of sanitation workers every day. “We have initiated criminal action against a local who forced everyone to enter the bus,” Raj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-buses-for-sanitation-staff/articleshow/75037167.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||HLL develops rapid test kit, gets ICMR nod||Thiruvananthapuram: HLL Lifecare Ltd has heeded the call of the central government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for augmenting coronavirus testing capacity in the country by developing a rapid antibody diagnostic kit of its own. ICMR has validated and approved the kit and given its nod for mass production. With the Centre placing major import orders for the kit, the news of HLL’s achievement would come as a major relief. The city-based PSU will produce two lakh kits in the first week. The kit will be marketed under the brand name ‘MakeSure-Covid IgM/IgG antibody detection’. “This is a one-step novel coronavirus antibody detection kit, which uses human serum, plasma and/or whole blood obtained from the patient to test for signs and symptoms of respiratory infection,” said a senior official with HLL. The kit manufactured at HLL’s rapid diagnostic kit manufacturing facility in Manesar, Haryana, has also been validated by the National Institute of Virology in Pune for use in the country. It is designed to aid in the rapid differential diagnosis of Covid-19 infection through widespread screening in the country. This will play a key role in the management, control and treatment of the disease. “Test results can be obtained within 15 to 20 minutes,” the official added HLL is the first government company to receive ICMR approval to manufacture and supply the rapid antibody kit. The company is also in the process of manufacturing viral transport medium, which is in short supply in the country. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hll-develops-rapid-test-kit-gets-icmr-nod/articleshow/75036384.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Mahoba paan of Chhatarpur withers amid Covid lockdown||Bhopal: In a huge loss to betel leaf growers during the lockdown, standing crops have started withering and drying in Chhatarpur district, famous for the Mahoba variety of desi paan, that is popular across the country and abroad. The variety gets its name from Mahoba district of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where a Paan research Institute also helps the farmers grow the leaves. The paan baraj, or the betel leaf fields, are spread over 1,500 hectares of land in Chattarpur.During the times of corona lockdown, the farmers have not been able to sell the leaves in the mandis of Chhatarpur from where it is transported to distant places like Mumbai, Delhi, Lucknow and Saharanpur. The paan grown here is also famous in Pakistan, said Jitu Chourasia, a paan farmer.He said that farmers have been plucking the dry and damaged leaves and disposing them in water bodies. Had there been no lockdown, Chourasia said that 5 to 6 quintals of betel leaves would have been sold every day.On an average, one farmer is incurring a loss of Rs 10,000 every day, said Maharaj Chourasia, another farmer. He said, “Crops were damaged because of the extreme winters last year. We thought we would compensate the loss in the summer crops. But as luck would have it, the coronavirus spread has shattered the hopes of farmers.”Chourasia said like wheat or pulses, betel leaves are not on the government’s priority list, so there was no question of compensation. Old-timers in Chhatarpur say the number of betel farmers has been dwindling rapidly over the last few years. A crispy flavour and its delectable aftertaste makes the Mahoba paan a favourite with connoisseurs in several states of northern India and abroad, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mahoba-paan-of-chhatarpur-withers-amid-covid-lockdown/articleshow/75036375.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam village sealed||Berhampur: The Ganjam district authorities have declared Lalment under Chikiti block as a Covid-19 containment zone and sealed the village. This was done as more than 200 residents of the village recently returned to it from coronavirus-affected areas of Bhubaneswar. This is the second village in the district, after Matiasahi in Kukudakhandi block, to be sealed in the past three days. “A containment zone is an area where a Covid-19 case has been found. It can also be an area where high or low-risk contacts of the patient live. The zone is sealed and no person in that area is allowed to step out of their home,” sources said. Meanwhile, the people who returned to Lalment are now being screened. The process, which began on Monday, was expected to continue, said sub-collector (Berhampur) Shinde Duttatraya Bhausaheb. tnn “If symptoms are seen in any person, he or she will be moved to MKCG Medical College and Hospital here for testing,” he said, adding that Lalment was being disinfected as well. The residents of Lalment will be provided grocery, vegetables, medicines and other essential products at their home. All roads leading to the village have been cordoned off. Police have been posted at all entry and exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-village-sealed/articleshow/75035305.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 26,000 apply for 6,000 posts in health department||HYDERABAD: A recruitment drive for filling up 6,000 posts for medical professionals across districts, has attracted a huge response despite the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Nearly 26,000 applications have been received for the contractual jobs. The staff will be recruited as part of a ‘centralized pool’ of staff, including ayurvedic doctors and pharmacists apart from doctors, nurses and paramedics, who will be available to health department for recruitment anywhere in the state. Seeing the overwhelming response, the last date for applications was extended from April 3 to April 6 by the state government. “Within the first few days itself, more than 6,000 applications were received and now it is touching 26,000,” said a source from state health department. While the state health department has taken up the exercise on war-footing to fill up vacancies in view of the Covid-19 crisis, this is probably the first time the notification to allow posting of the staff recruited in the drive in any of the health facilities across the state. “This new notification issued directly by special secretary to state health department, will allow appointment of staff recruited anywhere required,” said the source. The state has also attempted to attract in the large pool of retired professionals. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26k-apply-for-6k-posts-in-health-dept/articleshow/75037174.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||For some, waiving rent not an option||Vijayawada: The recent appeal by the Centre directing landlords to postpone rent collection by a month has left a section of citizens worried. The central government’s order, issued under the Disaster Management Act, bars landlords from demanding rent from poor workers and migrant labourers for a month. It also provides for strict action against landlords who forcibly evict their tenants. But a section of the middle-class live on the rent that they collect. Around 65% of the city’s population live in rented accomodations. Following the lockdown, while a majority of landlords voluntarily came forward to give moratorium on rents, a few working in the unorganised sectors are insisting on rents being paid. “I’m a carpenter and I used to make Rs 700 a day. I lost my livelihood with the lockdown. I don’t have any option but to insist on my tenants paying rent. How will I run a family without money,” K Narasimha Rao from Ayodhyanagar told TOI. “As the new financial year has begun we are supposed to pay property, sewage and water taxes to VMC. This while allowing a moratorium on rent,” he added. “We lost our livelihood with the lockdown. Although the Union government has given a moratorium on term loans, the middle class and BPL families are facing severe problems. Payment of monthly bills like power, cable, milk and house rent is a burden on us. The government should think of us and extend necessary help,” said Sk Rabbani a resident of Luna Center. Opposition parties have demanded that the state government declare a moratorium on power bills and property taxes. “The government should come forward to help the poor and needy,” CPM secretariat member Ch Babu Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/for-some-waiving-rent-not-an-option/articleshow/75036369.cms||Venu Lanka
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 pandemic hits wedding industry in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The wedding industry has taken a severe blow in the state as the Covid-19 outbreak has forced postponements and even cancellations of weddings. Hoteliers, caterers, wedding planners, and others in the business fear that things will only go downhill in the next few months and the industry will be able to recover only by November. According to some of the prominent wedding and event planners in the state, the major cause behind the setback is cancellations by NRI clients who had made bookings for destination weddings in Uttarakhand. Vineet Kumar Jain, an event and wedding planner in Rishikesh, told TOI, “The lockdown resulted in cancellations from our NRI clients as postponing dates would have been cumbersome for them considering the situation of foreign travel. This has caused massive losses. While most of the events and weddings scheduled for March and April have been cancelled, we are still trying to persuade the clients to settle for dates in November this year.” Along with the wedding planners, the venue owners too are bearing the brunt as most events have either been cancelled or postponed. Vishal Mishra, owner at foothill garden in Dehradun, said, “I don’t see any event taking place for at least next three months. I just hope things improve in a few months so that the industry could revive from November onwards”. The event planners estimate that every business would lose at least Rs 5-Rs 10 in April due to cancellations. Some fear that the people who couldn’t get married in the state in April might shift to destinations in southern India for wedding in November. However, other wedding planners speculate that they would face enormous pressure in November due to multiple bookings and may have to let go some of the events. “Most people want to get married only on auspicious dates and as a consequence, the pressure on venue owners and wedding planners would keep on mounting due to limited dates even in November this year,” added Jain. Meanwhile, Ravi Goel, owner of Big Daddy Events Company, told TOI, “Event and wedding planning is one big umbrella which shelters many more business like wedding photography, catering, and flower decoration, among others. The lockdown has affected each one of these. March and April had many auspicious dates and thus, several events got cancelled in these months. The crisis will persist for the next few months and we hope for better days only in November.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-pandemic-hits-wedding-industry-in-ukhand/articleshow/75036401.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||10 fall ill after trying TikTok remedy in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: Taking a cue from TikTok videos proffering cure for coronavirus, 10 persons in Chittoor district fell ill after drinking a home-made remedy. According to Byreddipalle SI Muni Swamy, two families who are neighbours in Alapalli village, were alarmed over the spread of coronavirus. On Tuesday, the two farmers’ families led by the elders Nagaraju (70) and Laxmiamma (40) drank juice made of Ummetha puvvu seeds (Datura, a genus of nine species of poisonous Vespertine flowering plants belonging to the family Solanaceae, which are also known as devil’s trumpets) as a measure to prevent catching the virus. All of them, including six-year-old boy Hemanth, fell sick. The neighbours shifted them to Byreddipalle government hospital. They were, however, discharged in the evening. Doctors asked people not to believe in such messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-fall-ill-after-trying-tiktok-remedy-in-ap/articleshow/75037180.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Students & teachers connect in these times of social distancing||NEW DELHI: The online classes, which have been started for Class XII government school students amid the Covid-19 lockdown, are offering both sides a novel experience. On the second day, the subjects were mathematics and history and the participating students not only met their teachers through a screen while sitting at home but also witnessed a different classroom that came alive through slides, graphics and even a BBC documentary. For teachers, too, it’s a learning experience. Soon animations and even movies will be added as online teaching tools. While internet accessibility is an issue and the number of online students are not many, the participants seemed to be happy with the new classroom. The new academic session has started on April 1. On the Zoom app, a mathematics class began at 8.30am with a protocol for students. “Sit at a quiet place, make sure you have a good internet connection, sit on table and chair, and not bed, and keep a notebook with you... We will also give questions for you to practise,” said teacher Madhulika. Vidya Sagar Malik, another teacher, explained matrix through regular slides. As continuous interaction was not possible, Malik made use of polls on the app to know if the students understood the problem. “There was difficulty with screen sharing but it was encouraging when 97% of the participants said on the poll that the concept was clear to them. I now plan to use animated tools and link math problems with real life,” Malik told TOI. With a chat box in place, the students could post queries and share their feedback. A history teacher, Harita Arora, said students thanked her in large numbers after the class. She began her class on Harappan Civilisation with the 1957 documentary on Mohenjodaro by Mortimer Wheeler. While explaining the content of chapter 5 — the history of writing by foreign travellers — Arora even sang ‘Ibn-e-Batuta bagal mein joota’ to help the students connect with the subject. “I will use audio-visual aids, documentaries in every class. ICT tools can go a long way to make teaching meaningful,” said Arora, whose mind maps, a comprehension tool, is already a hit among students. For the Partition class, Arora has asked students to watch the movie Tamas. Besides its collaboration with Career Launcher, Delhi government is also trying to engage Khan Academy to introduce customised learning programmes for the students of Class IX onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-teachers-connect-in-these-times-of-social-distancing/articleshow/75037851.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Startups develop ventilator at ASIET||KOCHI: Three startups working under the Technology Business Incubator (TBI) at the Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering & Technology (ASIET), Kalady has developed an emergency ventilator with artificial respiration support and all essential features at its campus to support the government overcome the Covid-19 crisis. Named Adishankara Jeeva Vaayu, the ventilator is awaiting certification after which ASIET will go into mass production. The product was developed by iCube Design Studio, RIOD Logic Pvt Ltd and Machbee and incubated at AdiShankara Technology Business Incubator under the supervision of Ajay Basil Varghese (nodal officer, TBI, ASIET). While iCube has done the mechanical works of the ventilator, RIOD and Machbee have done the electronic and electrical works. The ventilator features all technical specifications like pressure monitoring, volume control, airflow monitoring and backup battery system. Jeeva Vaayu also provides visual and audio alarm systems to alert low supply pressure, airway pressure, leakage detection, power failure, low battery indication. It was built according to medical standards with the help of an expert team from the department of biomedical engineering and Lisie Hospital, who validated the parameters. “Adishankara Jeeva Vaayu is the first emergency ventilator developed by an engineering institute under APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. The entire cost of the product is around Rs.25,000 and we are planning to reduce the cost by making some modifications. To cut down the cost, we are removing the screen and the vitals can be accessed on mobile screen. For this we are developing an android application,” said Varghese. As the lockdown due to the pandemic has affected the supply of components, the ventilator was developed with the help of various departmental laboratories at the institute. “Lack of availability of a motor to automatically compress the ventilator’s bag that helps a patient inhale the oxygen was a challenge. The team finally repurposed the windshield wiper motor of a Tata Nano car to power a small caster wheel that pushes down on the bag to control oxygen flow,” said Varghese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startups-develop-ventilator-at-asiet/articleshow/75036405.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Parents give their children haircuts||MANGALURU: Worried what the lockdown is doing to your unruly mane? From cricketer Virat Kohli to Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai most people have taken to cutting their own hair.  Worried parents are not far behind giving children haircuts, at a time salons and beauty parlours are closed. Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the 21-day lockdown, the Mangaluru City Corporation had ordered closure of all salons and beauty parlours four days prior to the announcement, on March 20. C K Rimju, who works for a private company in the city, has given his children haircuts at home. His children Rithuparna and Abhyutha, are happy after they got haircuts from their father. Rimju, a resident of Kumpala near Thokkotu, said that in times of crisis, there is nothing wrong in helping one’s family in all possible ways. “It is a different experience, at a time when I have been working from home. My children feel uncomfortable when they don’t get their haircut on time,” he said. Many parents in Dakshina Kannada are giving their children haircuts, to be self-sufficient during the lockdown. “I cut my son’s hair yesterday. What worries me is when will I get a haircut. I will have to wait till the lockdown ends,” said Sukumara, a resident of Panemangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/parents-give-their-children-haircuts/articleshow/75036397.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Brother of dacoit held in Dholpur after 15 years||ALWAR: The Dholpur police claimed a major breakthrough after a combing team arrested notorious dacoit Jagan Gujjar’s brother Pappu Gujjar on Tuesday. Pappu had been on the run for the last 15 years and had a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head and was wanted by police of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Mridul Kachawa, SP, Dholpur, said, “since Jagan Gujjar’s arrest we had been on the lookout for other members of his gang. Various teams were deployed in Chambal region to find the dacoits. We received information that Pappu was hiding in Chambal region and teams from various police stations immediately started a combing operation following which the wanted criminal was arrested.” According to officials, around 40 rounds were exchanged between the cops and the dacoits before they arrested Pappu. Along with him another accomplice was also arrested. Cops had previously arrested three members of the gang. The dreaded dacoit of Chambal Jagan Gujjar had surrendered last year before Dholpur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brother-of-dacoit-held-in-dholpur-after-15-yrs/articleshow/75037664.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Forest department mulls more technology to track health of animals||DEHRADUN: To enhance surveillance of wild animals and to monitor their health in the wake of possible transfer of coronavirus from humans to animals, state’s forest department is mulling more CCTV cameras and drones to keep a track on the health of wildlife. The move comes after Union ministry of environment and forest alerted authorities of all the zoo and national parks/sanctuaries to remain on high alert and keep track of the health of animals.  “Our teams deployed in all parks and sanctuaries are active but we will make more use of technology to reduce their interaction with wildlife. The prime focus would remain on usage of drones, thermal cameras, and CCTVs at all the important locations,” said Harak Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand forest minister. Further, to increase vigilance across all the national parks and sanctuaries, more daily wage staff would be employed wherever necessary, the minister added.  The forest department also aims to train youths for eco-tourism so as to facilitate the department and the villagers staying in forest fringe areas. “These people will not only get jobs but also help us in keeping a check on movement of animals and any incident,” added Rawat. Departmental officers also maintained that due to the ongoing lockdown, keeping the forest and wildlife safe from poachers and hunters has become a herculean task. Thus, technology addition will provide a major respite in this regard as well. “Due to the lockdown, some of the groups of hunters and poachers have become active. On Monday, six poachers in Chugadh forest area tried to shot at our staff members in Haldwani forest division. Hence, technology addition will be very beneficial for us in checking any illegal activity,” said a senior IFS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-mulls-more-tech-to-track-health-of-animals/articleshow/75036380.cms||Shivani Azad
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Helping hands buoy up VMC homeless shelters||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Krishna district administration have taken on the task of providing for the homeless in the city. Around 4,200 homeless persons are taking shelter at government schools and hostels across the district in view of the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Initially, officials at the civic body supplied food prepared at the Kanaka Durga temple to the shelters. Several voluntary organisations and welfare associations, such as Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association, Vijayawada Jain Samaj, Amrutha Hastham and other associations, soon stepped up to provide meals to the homeless at the 10 shelters. “It is our responsibility to ensure that no one starves during this crisis time. We have provided shelter for the homeless and destitute and are working hard to help them. We are happy that many organisations are coming forward to help them. One should get inspired and come forward to extend the help,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. The VMC has shifted around 1,250 homeless persons to 10 different shelters in the city. Officials provided clothes, towels, blankets, beds and other essential items to these persons and masks and sanitizers were handed out at the shelters. Videos on creating awareness about Covid-19 are being played at the shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/helping-hands-buoy-up-vmc-homeless-shelters/articleshow/75036393.cms||Venu Lanka
April 8, 2020||Bhopal||Why delay in isolating corona-positive health officials? MPHRC to chief secy||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) chairman, Justice Narendra Kumar Jain, on Tuesday issued notice to the state chief secretary asking why despite testing positive for coronavirus, several senior health officials of MP were not following the set protocol and taking precautions. The commission stated that as per media reports, two senior health department officials of MP went to the hospital two days after being diagnosed as corona-positive. The commission sought a report from the chief secretary on the matter that has to be e-mailed by 5 pm on April 9. The human rights panel has further asked the chief secreatry about the date and time when the health department officials in question were diagnosed as corona-positive, also questioning why the officials were not immediately taken to isolation wards in hospitals. It has also sought information about the number of health department officials and employees who are corona-positive and the number of people they came in contact with after they were diagnosed. The district administration and health department were responsible for taking the officials found corona-positive immediately to the hospital, the commission stated, asking what action was taken against them for not doing so. The MPHRC notice to the chief secretary comes in the wake of a tweet by senior advocate Vivek Tankha who had urged the state human rights commission to take cognizance of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/why-delay-in-isolating-corona-positive-health-officials-mphrc-to-chief-secy/articleshow/75036402.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Erode||Cases filed against foreign nationals for flouting visa norms||Salem/Erode: Police in Erode and Salem have registered cases against foreign nationals from Thailand and Indonesia for flouting visa norms. The foreign delegates had arrived in India on tourist visas and had attended and conducted religious congregations.Erode police have registered cases against six Thailand nationals who came to the city on March 11. Police said they spent time in three mosques till March 15.Out of seven Thailand nationals who came to the city, one person died at Coimbatore government medical college on March 16 due to renal complications, police saidOn March 21, doctors in Erode confirmed two people as positive for Covid-19. Later, a few others who were in contact with the Thailand nationals also tested positive, police said.“They had attended religious meetings in three mosques,” a police officer said.Police registered a case under various sections including 269, 270, 278 of IPC along with the Foreigner’s Act 1946 and the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act 1939.“We haven’t arrested the six people as they are being treated for Covid-19 in IRT government hospital in Perundurai,” a police officer.In Salem, police officials registered cases against 11 Indonesian nationals under the same sections for violating visa norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cases-filed-against-foreign-nationals-for-flouting-visa-norms/articleshow/75037179.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Congress alleges foul play in ration kit distribution||RUDRAPUR: Alleging foul play in the ration kit distribution scheme, the Congress party on Tuesday attacked the BJP government and demanded a probe. Former Congess MLA Tilak Raj Behar has alleged that the scheme, which aims at helping the down-trodden and the needy amidst the Covid-19 scare, is being misused to help people who are close to district officials. The statement comes a day after a functionary of the Devbhumi Traders' Union (DTU) submitted his resignation to the senior office-bearers claiming that the ration kits for the poor was procured at a high price causing a loss to the public exchequer in times of such a crisis. Vijay Futela, city general secretary of DTU, resigned from his post on Monday and wrote a social media post regarding the alleged scam. Futela told TOI, “The district administration had asked for quotation to supply 4.66 lakh ration kits to the needy across Kumaon region. I quoted the price at Rs 710 per kit but the work order was given to another trader who is affiliated with RSS and who had quoted the price at Rs 800 per kit for the same commodities. Moreover, the officials did not even float the e-tender for the same and the work order was given over the quotation only (a copy of which is with TOI).” He further said that this is a crime under Disaster Management Act (DMA). “When I took the matter to social media, I was served notice by the authorities and they also ordered me to supply 20,000 kits at the price I had quoted. They threatened me that if I don’t follow their order, they will book me under the DMA. I have agreed to supply the kits and I will also be donating profit I generate from it to the CM’s relief fund.” Behar questions as to why the administration gave the contract to the trader who quoted a higher price. “A scam is being carried out in guise of helping the poor. Such a scam cannot take place without the connivance of administration. The public exchequer has lost crores of rupees due to the scam. Congress demands the state's chief minister to form a special investigation team to probe the matter and all the officials involved in the scam must be transferred for a fair investigation,” he said. Meanwhile, Sanjay Juneja, president of Pranteeya Udyog Vyapar Mandal (PUVM), told TOI, “The administration’s intentions behind this scheme were never right. They never called PUVM, the biggest traders' union of the state. We have ample members and industrialists who are willing to help the needy and the cost of the kits would have been far more less. This is a scam and it should be investigated.” Local BJP legislator Rajkumar Thukral has also asked the senior officials of the district administration to intervene and conduct a probe of the matter. However, the District Supply Officer Shyam Lal Arya did not respond to the calls made by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-congress-alleges-foul-play-in-ration-kit-distribution/articleshow/75036419.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 8, 2020||Business||Retail industry staring at 20% job loss: RAI survey||Bengaluru: Small retailers expect to lay off about 30% of their workforce, while mid-sized ones by 12%, and large by 5% due to the near-halt of their businesses on account of the coronavirus, a survey by the Retailers Association of India (RAI) said.Overall, a 20% layoff is expected in a sector that is still vastly unorganised. Only 25% of India’s retail landscape is organised, employing about six million people, while the remaining employs the bulk of the total 30 million. RAI represents 500,000 stores in India, including brands like Madura Fashion, V-Mart, Shopper’s Stop and Future Group. In the survey of 768 retailers, small retailers are those that employ less than 100 staff. They formed the bulk of the respondents. Medium retailers are those with 100 to 1,000 staff and large retailers those with more than 1,000.The impact of the lockdown on non-food retailers is bigger as non-essential items are currently not being sold by e-tailers and many brick-and-mortar stores remain shut, or not getting supplies. These companies expect a 60% plunge in their revenue in the next six months. Food retailers expect to earn 56% of last year’s revenues in the same period, the survey said.Retailers want the government to provide for employee and rent support. 40% of retailers also want relief on GST, taxes and loans, and have also requested for additional 60 days for payment of electricity charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-industry-staring-at-20-job-loss-rai-survey/articleshow/75037185.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Vigil tightened in Kannur even as some turn negative||Kannur: With Kannur making progress in the number of Covid patients getting discharged as consecutive tests were negative, the officials in the district are somewhat relieved. However, they don’t want to take chances and are prepared to handle any emergency situation even though there is no fear of a community spread in the present condition in the district. In the last few days, 25 patients who tested positive earlier were discharged and so far there are no complications at the health front in the district, according to Kannur district medical officer K Narayana Nayak. Five were discharged on Tuesday. “A total of 56 cases tested positive in the district so far and out of that 25 have been discharged after they tested negative in consecutive tests. For the first time in Kerala these many patients have been discharged is a short period,” he said, adding that no other district in the state has made such an achievement so far. Barring the first patient in the district, from Peringome, who was discharged on March 20, all others were discharged in the first week of April. Presently, there are around 1,000 beds, 98 ICU beds and 60 ventilators in place for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, in four centres — Kannur District Hospital, Thalassery General Hospital, Kannur Medical College at Anjarakkandy and Kannur Government Medical College, Pariyaram. If needed, more beds can be arranged, and also there are devoted teams to handle patients in every hospital and measures have been taken to ensure their safety as well, he said. Surveillance strengthened in Kannur, KasaragodSurveillance has been strengthened in Kannur and Kasaragod to ensure that the lockdown is enforced effectively and social distancing is maintained in the marketplaces. In Kannur, the regulations would be stringent in the places, including fish markets, said district collector T V Subhash. Since many people are coming out to procure medicines, the district administration said that those who need medicines can contact call centres set up by the local bodies and it would be delivered at their doorsteps. Though police have strengthened measures to enforce lockdown, if it continues, there should be a more efficient system to ensure door delivery, said some officials, they said. In the wake of a recurrent increase in number of Covid-19 patients in Kasaragod the police have strengthened surveillance. Presently, Chengala, Mogral Puthur, Chemmanad, Madhur, Uduma, and Pallikkara panchayats, as also Kasaragod municipality have been declared Covid containment zone, and surveillance using drone has been introduced here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/vigil-tightened-in-kannur-even-as-some-turn-negative/articleshow/75036448.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Salem||Eight sheep electrocuted in Namakkal||Namakkal: Eight sheep died of electrocution after a live wire snapped and fell on them in near Tiruchengode in Namakkal district on Monday. A farmer from Kilapalayam village, K Varadharajan, 57, had taken his pack of sheep for grazing in a nearby farmland. An overhead live wire snapped when he was returning to his house with his flock of sheep. “When I was crossing a farmland at Kootali kadu, due to a whilrwind, an overhead wire suddenly snapped and fell on my sheep, killing eight of them, and injuring the remaining seven,” he said. Elachipalayam police officials have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/eight-sheep-electrocuted-in-namakkal/articleshow/75037182.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian firm, Australia university team up for vaccine||HYDERABAD: Human and animal vaccines manufacturer Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL) has joined hands with Australia’s Griffith University to conduct exploratory research to develop a vaccine for the dreaded Covid-19 virus. The Hyderabad-based IIL and Griffith University will be working on developing a ‘Live Attenuated SARS – CoV-2 vaccine’ (Covid-19 vaccine) using the latest codon de-optimization technology, which was zeroed in on after evaluating various options being followed across the world, IIL said. The Hyderabad-based vaccine maker said the technology looks promising for developing a vaccine for prophylactic, active, single dose immunization against coronavirus in humans and is expected to provide long-lasting protection with a single dose administration with an anticipated safety profile similar to other licensed vaccines for active immunization. “Our live-attenuated vaccine is expected to provide long lasting immunity against SARS – CoV-2 following a single immunisation and cross-protection against other coronaviruses (e.g. MERS, SARS-CoV-1). As this vaccine will be a live attenuated vaccine, it is expected to be highly effective by providing very strong cellular and antibody immune responses against the virus. The other benefit of a live-attenuated vaccine is a proven track record for economical large-scale manufacturing and well-known regulatory approval pathway,” explained Prof Suresh Mahalingam, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Australia. IIL managing director Dr K Anand Kumar said the research will explore both, intra-muscular and intranasal delivery mechanisms for the vaccine and the company expects to invest Rs 15 crore-Rs 20 crore in animal studies for the vaccine. The animal studies, including mice and monkeys, are planned to be conducted in labs in US and France. He, however, did not give a timeline on when the vaccine could go into human trials. The latest collaboration comes even as IIL and Griffith University are conducting research and development of Zika virus vaccine, which is in pre-clinical toxicology testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-firm-oz-univ-team-up-for-vaccine/articleshow/75037189.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Extend tax holiday for IT SEZs, Nasscom tells govt||Bengaluru: With the IT/ITeS sector reeling under the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, IT industry body Nasscom has asked the government to extend the tax holiday to IT SEZs for the 2020-21 fiscal. The direct tax benefits under the sunset clause expired on March 31.“The Covid-19 crisis has had global ramifications and even planned investments from entities based in India, the EU, the US, etc, will take some time to be operationalised. Hence, it is important to extend the scheme,” Nasscom said in response to a TOI query. The government has given a three-month relief to all SEZ units that got approval before March 31 and couldn’t commence operations due to the pandemic. They now have time till June 30.The scheme for IT SEZs allows for 100% income-tax exemption on export income for the first five years, 50% for the next five years, and 50% of the ploughed back export profit for the following five years. New SEZ occupiers commencing operations beginning April 1 will not be eligible to receive direct tax benefits, but they will continue to receive benefits such as exemptions on GST. It is estimated that in 2018, software accounted for $43.2 billion of the total SEZ exports of $85.6 billion.Rohan Sharma, director of research India in Cushman & Wakefield, said the vacancy levels in IT SEZs in 2019 were lower by over 590 basis points compared to the Indian vacancy level of 13.2%. Tech cities are likely to continue playing a significant role in the SEZ landscape, having a major share of the upcoming supply between 2020-22. Chennai leads the pack with 55% of space off-take, followed by Hyderabad and Bengaluru at 44% and 40% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/extend-tax-holiday-for-it-sezs-nasscom-tells-govt/articleshow/75037196.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to run fodder depots, cattle camps in locust hubs||JAISALMER: The state government has directed to run fodder depots and cattle camps at eight locust-hit districts including Jaisalmer and Barmer. All tehsildars of the districts have been directed to identify villages where the damages have been 33% and more. According to Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta and Barmer collector Vishram Meena, the disaster management, relief and civil defence department has issued directions to approve fodder depots for distribution of fodder on subsidized rates in scarcity-hit areas and cattle camps in locust-hit districts of Barmer, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar, Pali and Sirohi. Moreover, extending its earlier notification, the disaster management authority has decided to run cattle protection activities for 60 days as per need in locust affected districts. “On the directions of the state government, cattle camps and fodder depots will be run in those villages where locusts had attacked and crops have suffered damage of 33% and more. These activities will not take place in scarcity-hit villages in kharif season,” Mehta said. In locust affected areas, there is lack of fodder. Based on the collector’s certification and requirement, the cattle camps will be approved where small and marginal farmers had left their cattle due to scarcity. The fodder depots will provide fodder to the small and marginal farmers in ratio to the cattle raised by them. The small and marginal farmers who had left their cattle at cattle camps will not get subsidy on fodder. These fodder depots will be inspected by the district collector and other administrative officers as per the standards prescribed by the state government. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said that the tehsildars have been directed to prepare panchayat-wise report for opening fodder depots and cattle camps. As per the SDRF norms, the collector will give online approval for opening cattle camps and fodder depots based on the proposal received from gram panchayat, gram seva cooperative societies and milk producer cooperative societies. No action will be taken on offline proposals. The applicant has to register on www.sso.rajasthan.in and has to apply through DMIS application of the department. The online process has been started. The cattle in the camps will be provided fodder and food based on their size – big and small cattle will be given fodder and food for Rs 70 and Rs 35 per day, respectively. Big cattle will be served 1kg food while small cattle will be given 500gms of food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-run-fodder-depots-cattle-camps-in-locust-hubs/articleshow/75037665.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan to run fodder depots, cattle camps in locust hubs||JAISALMER: The state government has directed to run fodder depots and cattle camps at eight locust-hit districts including Jaisalmer and Barmer. All tehsildars of the districts have been directed to identify villages where the damages have been 33% and more. According to Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta and Barmer collector Vishram Meena, the disaster management, relief and civil defence department has issued directions to approve fodder depots for distribution of fodder on subsidized rates in scarcity-hit areas and cattle camps in locust-hit districts of Barmer, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar, Pali and Sirohi. Moreover, extending its earlier notification, the disaster management authority has decided to run cattle protection activities for 60 days as per need in locust affected districts. “On the directions of the state government, cattle camps and fodder depots will be run in those villages where locusts had attacked and crops have suffered damage of 33% and more. These activities will not take place in scarcity-hit villages in kharif season,” Mehta said. In locust affected areas, there is lack of fodder. Based on the collector’s certification and requirement, the cattle camps will be approved where small and marginal farmers had left their cattle due to scarcity. The fodder depots will provide fodder to the small and marginal farmers in ratio to the cattle raised by them. The small and marginal farmers who had left their cattle at cattle camps will not get subsidy on fodder. These fodder depots will be inspected by the district collector and other administrative officers as per the standards prescribed by the state government. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said that the tehsildars have been directed to prepare panchayat-wise report for opening fodder depots and cattle camps. As per the SDRF norms, the collector will give online approval for opening cattle camps and fodder depots based on the proposal received from gram panchayat, gram seva cooperative societies and milk producer cooperative societies. No action will be taken on offline proposals. The applicant has to register on www.sso.rajasthan.in and has to apply through DMIS application of the department. The online process has been started. The cattle in the camps will be provided fodder and food based on their size – big and small cattle will be given fodder and food for Rs 70 and Rs 35 per day, respectively. Big cattle will be served 1kg food while small cattle will be given 500gms of food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-to-run-fodder-depots-cattle-camps-in-locust-hubs/articleshow/75038296.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur cop booked for giving shelter to German woman||UDAIPUR: Udaipur police has registered a case against a constable posted in the District Special Branch (DSB) after a German national was found living in his cottage in Osho Dhyan Vihar at Sethji ki Kundal under Goverdhan Vilas police station area on Tuesday. There are many cottages in the centre. The one in which the foreigner was living is reportedly owned by constable Sajjan Singh. He did not report about her stay to the local police station or the administration even after a fortnight. Goverdhan Vilas SHO Chena Ram Pachar told TOI, “Kyara Marki had come to India on February 5. After visiting several places, she reached Udaipur on March 18. She had been living in the Osho Ashram since then.  However, Sajjan Singh did not report about her arrival to the local police or the SP office, which is mandatory and more importantly so in the present lockdown situation”. Germany has over one lakh people infected with coronavirus and 1,810 deaths so far. Police were tipped off about a few foreigners residing in the ashram. On verifying the register, they came to know about the German woman. The police have confiscated the woman’s passport, got her screened and medically examined while a case has been registered against the constable under the Foreigners Act, 1946. Under the Act, any hotel, guest house, institute, hotel or others who provide accommodation to foreigners must submit their details in Form C to the registration authorities within 24 hours of the arrival of the person at their premises. This is to help the registration authorities in locating and tracking the foreigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-cop-booked-for-giving-shelter-to-german-woman/articleshow/75037667.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Poaching, not corona, bigger threat to tigers: K Ullas Karanth||NAGPUR: A tiger in the Bronx Zoo in the US testing positive for coronavirus has caused alarm bells to ring in several quarters. But Dr K Ullas Karanth, a world-renowned authority on tigers, has said that coronavirus was highly unlikely to cause a decline in tiger population. Wild tigers have high birth rates and high annual mortality rates (up to 20%), Karanth said. They have been facing even more virulent infections like rabies, canine distemper etc floating for decades with practically no impact on population. “I find excessive focus and impractical instructions issued by higher officials have received too much media attention compared to an emergent real threat to tigers as a consequence of virus-related lockdown,” Karanth said. “This specific virus is known to affect domestic cats and it is no surprise tigers can get it too,” he said. Karanth said poaching remained the biggest threat to tigers. In tiger habitats in Western Ghats, there appears to be a surge in poaching, with hunting of tiger’s prey species ratcheting up because patrol intensity and protection have declined under the lockdown, he said. Unemployed rural workers deprived of wages and sources of domestic animal protein are also turning to wild meat as was the case in 1950s and 60s, he added. The police being busy otherwise and forest officials facing constraints of movement, courts being closed etc, are emboldening poachers, as reports from Kodagu and Shivamoga show. “This resurgence of poaching will be hard to control given other social pressures in play. The mass media and senior officials would do well to focus on this issue,” said Karanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poaching-not-corona-bigger-threat-to-tigers-karanth/articleshow/75037197.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||2 discharged from hosp in Karwar||Karwar: Two out of eight Covid-19 patients, who were quarantined in INHS Patanjali in Karwar, were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday evening, after they tested negative for Covid-19, said Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner Harish Kumar. They were the residents of Bhatkal town, and had returned from Dubai. They were admitted to a hospital in Bhatkal in the beginning, and then shifted to INHS Patanajali. The DC said that they had been quarantined for 14 days. Sources said that they will not be allowed to go home, and will be kept under observation for a few more days, in a hotel. Six family members of the two who were discharged on Tuesday, are still in INHS Patanjali, and are recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-discharged-from-hosp-in-karwar/articleshow/75036458.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi zoo sanitises campus, keeps watch on animals||NEW DELHI: Following the news of a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 at Bronx Zoo in New York and the directive by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) instructing 24x7 vigil, Delhi zoo has started disinfecting its premises with a 0.5% sodium hypochlorite spray. Its staff, meanwhile, have been asked to be vigilant and maintain a distance while feeding the animals. A mix of disinfectants are being sprayed inside the enclosures, on all the roads, while the railings and boards are being sanitised too, a zoo official said. Suneesh Buxy director, Delhi zoo, said limestone powder was being used on the roads, another disinfectant — Virkon S — was also being sprayed. “We have been instructed by CZA to sanitise the premise thoroughly. The animals will be inspected 24x7 by using both physical checks and CCTV surveillance. No one, barring essential staff, is allowed on the premises,” Buxy added. Another zoo official said that ever since the discovery, extra precautions were being taken, including boiling the animal feed and sanitising it. “We are being careful with how the animal is being fed. A majority of the staff who feed the animals are also well-equipped with masks, gloves, sanitisers and PPE kits,” he added. CZA on Monday stated that “all the zoos in the country are advised to remain on the highest alertness, watch animals 24x7, using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms, keepers/handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear, preferably PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals and have least contact while feeding them.” CZA said that mammals like carnivores, especially cats, ferrets and primates needed to be prioritised and monitored. It added that a fortnightly samples of ‘suspected’ cases should be sent to the animal health institutes for testing, including National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal and National Research Centre on Equines in Hisar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/zoo-sanitises-campus-keeps-watch-on-animals/articleshow/75037860.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Infected cop’s family, 6 colleagues quarantined||HYDERABAD: Along with the colleagues of 55-year-old head constable from Hyderabad who tested positive for Covid-19, police also quarantined eight of his family members. After the 55-year-old head constable of Hyderabad commissionerate tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, his eight family members including wife, three sons, two-daughters-in-law and two grandsons have been placed under quarantine. Four cops of the police station where the head constable works and six traffic cops who worked with him during the lockdown duties, have also been sent for quarantine. On April 4, an ACP noticed that the head constable posted at Telugutally flyover checkpoint was coughing continuously. He advised him to go for a check immediately. is sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infected-cops-family-6-colleagues-quarantined/articleshow/75037202.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: District needs 4.2 lakh PPE over next 2 months||KOCHI: Ernakulam district needs 4,24,080 PPE (personal protective equipment) for staff in ICUs of hospitals treating Covid-19 patients for next two months. Since PPEs can be used only one time, hospitals should ensure the availability of adequate number of PPEs for the safety for both staff and patients. As per the action plan report released by the administration, if 300 ICU rooms are functional for Covid-19 patients, each staff will have to man each room per shift. If there are six shifts per day, 1,800 personal protection equipment is needed per day. There will be need for 1,08,000 PPEs per day for running 300 ICU rooms for two months. As per the emergency plan report of the district administration, there are a total of 1,178 adult ICU beds in government and private sector together. Hence, the district will have to ensure there is 4,24,080 PPEs available for staff manning 1,178 ICU beds for two months. As on April 4, there were only 2,202 PPE kits left in the district. While district officials said startups have already started work on developing PPEs to meet requirement in future, private hospitals, designated by the government to be functioned as tertiary care Covid centers in Ernakulam, have also initiated steps to strengthen their healthcare system. The state government on Tuesday gave permission to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences to transport essential components, materials and equipment’s needed to develop bio-medical devices for corona patient support. “Engineers in our university are working on developing monitoring system, PPEs and other equipment to be used before the hospital starts functioning as Covid care centre. We will have to transport the material from other states too. The equipment developed here also need to be double-checked before it’s put into use,” said an official in the hospital. K R Jyothilal, principal secretary, said the government will give permission to the hospitals, which approach them for permission to transport medical devices, after studying each case. “No other hospitals have approached us so far raising similar requests. But we will give permission after studying each case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-needs-4-2lakh-ppe-over-next-2-months/articleshow/75036470.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Surveillance teams to intensify checks||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh on Tuesday directed surveillance teams to intensify the door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 cases. The commissioner addressed a meeting with health wing officials of the civic body at the Tummalapalli Kalakshetram and enquired about the condition of persons in quarantine. Officials of the civic body said two medical teams are conducting surveys in each ward secretariat. Each team has a doctor and paramedical staff, along with the ward secretary, ward volunteer and an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) worker. Venkatesh directed staff to enquire about the conditions of patients with chronic ailments such as diabetes, asthma, allergic bronchitis and provide the poor with necessary medication and treatment. The commissioner said the VMC is preparing to arrange special medical camps at containment zones across the city to help the poor and the eldery who have been unable to attend routine checkups with the lockdown in place. The commissioner also called upon the public to make use of the health camps and receive treatment free of cost. He also appealed to the public to not neglect symptoms of Covid-19, such as a dry cough, a cold and fever. Chief medical and health officer Dr Shalini and senior officials of the health wing attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/surveillance-teams-to-intensify-checks/articleshow/75036445.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||70-year-old killed in wild boar attack in Rudraprayag||DEHRADUN: A 70-year-old man was killed by a wild boar in Baadav village under Augustmuni town of Rudraprayag district on Monday afternoon. The victim Kundan Singh was out in the nearby forest to take his goats for grazing when the animal attacked him. Furious over the death, the villagers have demanded culling of the boar and an ex-gratia worth Rs 3 lakh from the forest department. “The victim’s family should be given compensation money by the forest department. I have been told by the villagers that his goats ran helter-skelter during the attack,” said Suman Devi, gram pradhan of Baadav village. However, the forest department officials are yet to confirm the death as an outcome of wild boar attack. “We are yet to get the post-mortem report. Only after getting the autopsy report, we can ascertain that a wild boar killed the man. Our staff members have told us that the victim’s body didn't have any apparent major marks of a wild boar attack,” said Vaibhav Singh, divisional forest officer of Rudraprayag. Incidentally, state government has requested the Centre to allow culling of wild boars but hasn't received any response yet. Notably, the state government, in its annual state wildlife board meeting last year, had cleared the proposal to declare monkeys and wild boars vermin (nuisance animals). In 2019, around a dozen people were attacked in various parts of the state and one person was killed in Pithoragarh district by wild boars. In Rudraprayag district, no casualty has been reported in a wild boar attack in the past 4-5 years, as per forest department data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/70-yr-old-killed-in-wild-boar-attack-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/75036456.cms||Shivani Azad
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Internet disruptions for some, others don’t have a smartphone in first place||NEW DELHI: Mohammad Sajid, a Class XII student of a government school in Jaffrabad, attended his first online class on Tuesday after his elder brother recharged his mobile phone number online with a Rs 199 pack, which offers 1.5GB data per day. But not everybody is as lucky as Sajid. Only half of his classmates could attend the history class. The rest either couldn’t recharge their phone due to the 21-day lockdown or didn’t even have a smartphone. For Tuesday’s mathematics and history sessions for Class XII students, the overall attendance was 2,200 and 385, respectively. According to the education department, 9,000 students have registered for the online classes while around 1,000 government schools have 1.6 lakh students in Class XII, who were promoted on the basis of inetrnal assessment due to the lockdown. “The online class was good, though the voice kept breaking once in a while. I was lucky I could attend it. As mobile recharge shops are closed, many of my friends couldn’t recharge their phone. Out of the 62 students in our section, only 30 were present,” said Sajid. At a Ghitorni school, the overall attendance was just 20%. “As my my father couldn’t recharge his phone, I could not attend the session. A friend said a video would be uploaded; I hope to see that,” said a boy whose father is a private car driver and is without work since the lockdown has started. Delhi government has decided to give Rs 200 for the data packs through the direct-benefit-transfer mode. But money is not the only issue. At some schools, students are yet to receive the registration link from the directorate of education. The Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya at Rohini Sector 8 is one of them. “We have divided students into WhatsApp groups and are sending them YouTube links,” said its principal. Mridula Koshy, director of the Community Library Project that recently ran a #InternetKholo campaign, said, “During the anti-Covid-19 lockdown, many people don’t have the same level of access.” While students need it for Zoom classrooms, many others want to apply for e-ration cards. “In Khirki village, we saw that the government’s WiFi hotspot is already overwhelmed. The government needs to create more hotspots,” Koshy said. Assuring that no student will be left behind, an official added they were working on ramping up the accessibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/internet-disruptions-for-some-others-dont-have-a-smartphone-in-first-place/articleshow/75037856.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Sanitation tunnels opened in Thrissur||Thrissur: The district administration on Tuesday installed Kerala’s first sanitizer tunnels at the government general hospital and near the vegetable market close to the bus stand in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The tunnels disinfect people walking through it by spraying a sanitizer on them. While the one near the bus stand is installed in front of the market the other one has been fixed at the entrance gate of the general hospital. At the market entry, movement of people is allowed only in one direction and people have to walk through the sanitizer tunnel, said deputy mayor of Thrissur corporation, Raphi Jose P. “Several people come from various areas to the vegetable market and can contribute to the spread of virus. Hence, the authorities decided to install such a tunnel here," said the deputy mayor. The district administration is planning to install sanitizer tunnels at Thrissur Government Medical college and the taluk hospitals at Chavakkad, Chalakkduy and Irinjalakkduda, said officials. “The corporation will set up a washroom for lorry drivers who come to the vegetable market from Tamil Nadu. In addition, we will also provide facilities for handwashing to interstate drivers," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sanitation-tunnels-opened-in-thrissur/articleshow/75036477.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Different pitch: Two friends bat for needy, form teams to beat hunger||NEW DELHI: Their love for cricket brought them together. And now they have turned into Good Samaritans for hundreds on the streets who have been battling hunger owing to the lockdown. For the past one week, Tahseen Haider (38) and Anurag Kaushik (33) have been pooling in money and taking contributions from friends and family to give meals to the needy. While Haider, who lives in Indirapuram and is currently working from home, has carefully marked his schedule to pack and deliver the food packets, Kaushik oversees the preparation. Both then venture out on their motorcycle and car to a different area of east Delhi every day to distribute the food. They initially started out by feeding 100 people matar pulao, but are now distributing 200 meals daily. They soon plan to distribute masks too. “No one should sleep hungry, especially in these trying times. We are just doing our bit with the help of our near and dear ones,” Haider said. Kaushik, who owns a logistics business and lives in Mayur Vihar, is also involved in a similar initiative with his friends in west Delhi. “It costs us Rs 3,000-4,000 daily. My wife, in-laws and a couple of friends are also helping out. The food is cooked in a hotel and then packed at my home. We then load it in my car and distribute it in east Delhi,” he said. To avoid getting in trouble with police, they duo has put up a sign of “langar sewa” on the car’s windshield. They also inform the SHO of the local police station to help them out. Asked if they were scared of putting themselves and the people around them at risk of novel coronavirus infection, Haider said, “We take all precautions by using gloves, masks and sanitisers. We maintain social distancing as much as possible. I take off my clothes and take a bath immediately after reaching home.” Initially, funds were an issue for them. “We could have sustained our endeavour for just 3-4 days. But now we have the support of many people and can continue even if the lockdown gets extended. If not physically, many are helping financially,” said Kaushik. It all started when Haider went to an ATM to withdraw cash and saw a hungry kid crying and begging. He rushed home and asked his wife to prepare some food. “I wanted to do more and kept thinking about it. Later, Anurag called me saying that he was thinking about distributing food. We started in the next couple of days,” he said. The two friends have fed the needy in Madhu Vihar, Mayur Vihar, near GTB Hospital, Karkardooma court and Laxmi Nagar. And support has been pouring in through Facebook and social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/different-pitch-two-friends-bat-for-needy-form-teams-to-beat-hunger/articleshow/75037866.cms||Ritam Halder
April 8, 2020||Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir refuses to take back 47 student evacuees from Iran||JAISALMER: The second batch of 53 Indians who were airlifted to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 have tested negative. Among them are 47 students from Jammu and Kashmir who had gone to Iran to study. However, when J&K asked Rajasthan not to send the students and continue keeping them keep them in quarantine, students have become disappointed. A team led by SDM even went there and persuaded the students by motivating them. According to information from senior official sources, 484 Indians were airlifted from Iran in three batches. Of them, 53 Indians in the second batch mostly comprised students who had gone to Iran to study. Sources said that since the number of cases was increasing in J&K, the administration told Jaisalmer administration not to send the students now and keep them in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jk-refuses-to-take-back-47-student-evacuees-from-iran/articleshow/75039821.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir refuses to take back 47 student evacuees from Iran||JAISALMER: The second batch of 53 Indians who were airlifted to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 have tested negative. Among them are 47 students from Jammu and Kashmir who had gone to Iran to study. However, when J&K asked Rajasthan not to send the students and continue keeping them keep them in quarantine, students have become disappointed. A team led by SDM even went there and persuaded the students by motivating them. According to information from senior official sources, 484 Indians were airlifted from Iran in three batches. Of them, 53 Indians in the second batch mostly comprised students who had gone to Iran to study. Sources said that since the number of cases was increasing in J&K, the administration told Jaisalmer administration not to send the students now and keep them in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/jk-refuses-to-take-back-47-student-evacuees-from-iran/articleshow/75039890.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Free of cost dialysis units launched||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration has inaugurated 15 dialysis centres across the district that will provide treatment to kidney patients free of cost. Eleven private hospitals are among the hospitals that will provide treatment. The decision comes in wake of the death of a dialysis patient on Sunday after private hospitals denied treatment fearing Covid-19 infection. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that they are committed to providing quality treatment for the needy. “Kidney patients are facing problems in getting dialysis with the lockdown. We have spoken with private hospital management and convinced them to provide dialysis to them. The government will bear all expenses for the procedure,” Imtiaz said. Nephrology units at Vijayawada, Nuzvid, Machilipatnam and Jaggiahpet will remain open throughout the day and provide dialysis to patients, the collector said. Kidney patients can get free treatment at Ayush Hospital, Kamineni Hospital, Capital Hospital, LifeLine Trimurthy Hospital, Andhra Hospital Governorpet, Sentini Hospital, Nagarjuna hospital, Time Hospital, Swaroopa Super Specialty Hospitals, Anu Hospital, Andhra Hospital Bhavnipuram in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/free-of-cost-dialysis-units-launched/articleshow/75036475.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Multi-pronged treatment plan mooted to fight virus||KOCHI: As part of a long-term strategy to fight the novel coronavirus, the state government is planning to introduce multipronged facilities for treating the patients. The government has chalked out a detailed plan to set up Corona Care Centres (CCCs) at the grassroots level. First-line treatment centres for Covid-19 will be at panchayat- and taluk-level hospitals, and tertiary care centres at general hospitals and medical colleges. These facilities will also ensure that non-Covid and Covid treatment are not mixed up. The plan is to be prepared for catering to the needs in different conditions. Keeping this in mind, the authorities have prepared a plan spanning three phases. In the first phase, the patients to be admitted in the treatment facilities like CFLTCs are returnees from the disease-affected areas, positive cases and symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases, etc. In second phase, the number of symptomatic or positives cases would go up or there will be evidence of local community spread or the bed occupancy reaches 50% of each identified centres. Process of converting other hospitals, including private hospitals and hospitals attached with the private medical colleges, should be initiated at this phase. District collector should coordinate these activities. In the third phase, there will be evidence of multiple clusters or large community spread. Here, more seriously-ill patients are anticipated, and more ICU beds will be required. Wards in the hospitals should be converted into ICUs with amenities like oxygen. Health department, in association with local bodies, should identify facilities which can be converted into CCCs where people who came from other states or countries are to be quarantined. These centres will help successful isolation and management of asymptomatic cases. There should be independent single rooms with attached toilets, proper electricity, water and internet connectivity, adequate food and drinking water besides proper security. Since there are no inbound flights to Kerala now, the care centres can be used for those who don’t have home isolation facilities. “We have given instructions to local bodies and health officials in each area to set up these facilities,” a top official with health department said. “Other hospitals like primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs) and general hospitals in each district should take care of non-Covid patients, while the dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 at different levels will cater to the needs of the patients infected with coronavirus,” the official said. Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) are facilities exclusively for treatment of all mild and moderate symptomatic persons under surveillance as well as treating positive cases. Community centres, auditoria, schools, etc, should be converted into CFLTCs. “Instructions have been given for setting up at least two model CFLTCs in each district immediately. Based on the model, other CFLCs should be rolled out later,” an official with health department said. If the condition of patient under treatment at CFLTC worsens, he or she should immediately be transferred to Covid hospitals. Covid hospitals are are generally tertiary care centres with critical care facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/multi-pronged-treatment-plan-mooted-to-fight-virus/articleshow/75036481.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jammu and Kashmir refuses to take back 47 student evacuees from Iran||JAISALMER: The second batch of 53 Indians who were airlifted to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 have tested negative. Among them are 47 students from Jammu and Kashmir who had gone to Iran to study. However, when J&K asked Rajasthan not to send the students and continue keeping them keep them in quarantine, students have become disappointed. A team led by SDM even went there and persuaded the students by motivating them. According to information from senior official sources, 484 Indians were airlifted from Iran in three batches. Of them, 53 Indians in the second batch mostly comprised students who had gone to Iran to study. Sources said that since the number of cases was increasing in J&K, the administration told Jaisalmer administration not to send the students now and keep them in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jk-refuses-to-take-back-47-student-evacuees-from-iran/articleshow/75037670.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC quashes FIR against Twitter chief Jack Dorsey||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday quashed the FIR against Twitter chief Jack Dorsey in a case related to allegedly hurting the religious sentiments of Brahmin community. The FIR, filed by Jodhpur-based Raj Kumar Sharma, stated that Dorsey had posted an offensive picture on Twitter with a poster in his hand mentioning “Smash Brahminical Patriarchy” during his India visit. Allowing the miscellaneous petitions by Dorsey and a journalist, Justice Sandeep Mehta said, “I am of the opinion that allowing investigation in the matter is absolutely uncalled for.” Petitioner’s counsel Nishant Bora said, “The court did not find the offence made out against Dorsey and said that allowing investigation in the matter by the police was absolutely uncalled for. The court did not find the FIR having ingredients of cognizable offence warranting investigation furthermore,” he said. A complaint by Sharma was filed in November 2018. Dorsey and a journalist Anna M M Vetticad had moved court with a criminal miscellaneous petition praying quashing of the FIR. The court, however, did not quash the FIR but had stayed the arrest. The post in question, however, had been removed later and an apology had also been tendered for the post amounting to hurting the sentiments of Brahmin community. Referring to the phrase ascribed as offensive by the complainant, the court stated that these words could not be construed as having any direct link with the religious sentiments of any section of society. “The words in the poster best convey the feelings of the concerned person regarding being strongly opposed to the Brahminical patriarchal system and desirous of denouncing the same,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-quashes-fir-against-twitter-chief-jack-dorsey/articleshow/75037668.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||WhatsApp imposes new restrictions on forwards||Bengaluru: Popular messaging platform WhatsApp said it has imposed new restrictions on forward messages to just one person or group amid rising cases of misinformation about Covid-19. The Facebook-owned firm said the limit kicks in once a message has been previously forwarded five times or more.WhatsApp, which has 400 million users in India,the largest, has one of the strongest viral effects in terms of messages or videos reaching to scores of Indias. People aware of the matter said this has been in the works for a few months and now implemented it globally when people are spending more time on the app and are often getting unverified updates on Covid-19. Earlier, the company, along with other social media platforms, was pulled up by the government for inadequate action to curb fake news and hate speech instigating violence. “We’ve seen a significant spike in number forwardings which can make the receipient feel overwhelming and can contribute to the spread of misinformation. We believe, it’s important to slow the spread of such messages to keep WhatsApp a place for personal conversation,” the Menlo Park-based company said. WhatsApp’s India spokesperson told TOI it has seen a rise in messages, voice and video calls during the outbreak.One of the most common forwards on WhatsApp has been text messages or videos claiming the deadly virus is just like another flu and extreme measures, like social distancing or self-quarantine when showing symptoms, is not necessary. What adding to the woes is a high number of positive cases, out of the total confirmed cases, being linked to the attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, as some are sending messages with communal touch, thus spreading hate.Experts tracking the space said there is no count of how many videos or messages aof this sort are being forwarded in India but it is significant enough for the company to limit uncontrolled forwarding by further tightening the policy. Last year, WhatsApp said one can’t send a forward message to more than five people in one go, which led to a 25% drop in forwards being sent globally.“Rumours have always been there. What happens with WhatsApp forwards is the virality. So, the potential of damage through this kind of virality is much higher than any other medium,” said Arvind Narrain, founding member of Alternative Law Forum(ALF)a lawyers’ collective which focuses on critical research and sustained legal interventions in social issues.WhatsApp is also hoping that the new limits would encourage people to think twice before sharing a forward that need not have been shared even five times. The messaging platform, with 2 billion users globally, has been working with central and state governments here to create awareness among users and send verified information to people.Apar Gupta, executive director, Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF)--an internet law advocacy platform, said the basic objective of the limitation is to stop the re-circulation of the forwarded messages, which people have been gaming by sending messages from different numbers.“The way to prevent WhatsApp messages (forwards) is to look at the content factories which actually engage in misinformation and fake news which quite often are done on lines of communal issues, hate speech..... beyond just looking at design side changes of WhatsApp, we need to look at it much more seriously on fixing accountability for people beyond technical measures through legal frameworks,” Gupta said explaining the root of the issue. This is where the government has been pushing Whatsapp to enable traceability on its platform so it can find accounts spreading rumours or fake news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-imposes-new-restrictions-on-forwards/articleshow/75037204.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Pensive Nepalese labourers, stranded by lockdown, yearn to return home||Pithoragarh: Evening in Dharchula, one of the two border crossings with Nepal in Uttarakhand, now closed from both sides under lockdown. Sitting on the ramparts ofDharchula stadium, a pensive Nem Bahadur, daily wager from Jajarkote in Nepal, could be heard singing: Usae aayo Bhukhmari ta, Usae aayo Haija, Keta Hamlai goli thok de, Keta Firta keja (On one side, there’s hunger, on the other Haija Either shoot us or take us back) Nem Bahadur has been stranded here for a week, and has no clue when he and his fellow countrymen would be able to return to their homes. Speaking to TOI, he said that he has no idea what Covid-19 is. All he knows is that Haija (cholera) is an epidemic that wreaks havoc in his village every year. Across Dharchula tehsil — in the stadium, government inter-colleges at Baluokote, Baram and Jauljibi — the local administration had made temporary camps for 1,016 Nepalese labourers, said Dharchula SDM A K Shukla. He added the labourers are part of a large contingent of Nepalese citizens who cross the open border to work in the stae. They have been trying to return home ever since the lockdown was imposed, but by the time they reached the border crossings, Nepal, too, had gone into lockdown, preventing the cross over, leaving them stranded. Dr M K Jayaswal of the Community Health Centre, Dharchula, said, “Our medical team is regularly checking them for corona symptoms. They are healthy, but anxious to reach home. We have advised them to engage in physical activity and sing songs to keep their morale up.” Nem Bahadur was working with a road construction firm in Malpa, when the lockdown left him jobless. He said that the labourers have another cause for worry. Bispat (Visvat Sankranti on April 14), the Nepalese new year, is a big festival in the country, when all Nepalese try to be at home. "If we don't reach home by then, it is considered very inauspicious," Bahadur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pensive-nepalese-labourers-stranded-by-lockdown-yearn-to-return-home/articleshow/75036480.cms||Prem Punetha
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Would serve in Covid ward again: Doctor from Lucknow who recovered||LUCKNOW: The discharge of three Covid-19 patients, including a doctor, after full recovery from King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Tuesday came as a morale booster for other patients and the medical team serving infected people round the clock. Brimming with confidence after recovery, Dr Tausif (25), who had contracted infection while examining Lucknow’s first Covid-19 patient, told TOI: “I have no complaints about getting infected while treating a patient because it’s a doctor’s job. If allowed, I would like to serve again in the same ward.” He is a non-PG resident doctor at KGMU’s department of medicine. Dr Tausif advised doctors to be extra careful as they are the ones who shoulder the responsibility of steering the country out of crisis. “The 21-day stay in isolation ward was altogether a different experience. I took the same drug that I used to give to patients and underwent similar mental trauma as they do. But believe me, staying positive makes it easy to defeat the virus,” he said. Dr Tausif said he utilised the period of hospitalisation to study more about Covid-19 on the internet. “I used to make video calls to my parents thrice a day to allay their apprehensions. I also spent time studying and getting my dose of entertainment on the internet,” he said. Kaif Ali Abdi (20), a postgraduate management student at Lucknow University, who was also discharged on Tuesday said he got infection from his cousin. “Initially, I was stressed but counselling by doctors, paramedical staff and even by sanitation workers helped him a lot. I used to talk to my family thrice daily. Pep talk by my parents helped me overcome the crisis,” he said. “I am passionate about cars and utilized my time reading about latest cars and their specifications. I also watched web series, movies, news and educational videos,” he said. The third patient, a 19-year-old student who got infected during his UK visit for a conference, could not be contacted for comments. KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt said, “Dr Tausif recovered in 21 days, Abdi in 24 days and the 19-year-old student in 23 days. They have been advised home isolation for next 14 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/would-serve-in-covid-ward-again-doc-who-recovered/articleshow/75037621.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Infant among 40 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 23-day old infant is among 40 new coronavirus cases that were reported in the state on Tuesday, raising the total number of positive cases to 404. Altogether 17 new cases were reported in Hyderabad, 10 in Nizamabad, nine in Jogulamba-Gadwal district and three in Mahbubnagar district. Mahbubnagar district collector Venkatrao said the baby contracted the disease from his father, who attended the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. But his wife tested negative for the virus test. Two more cases were also reported in Mahbubnagar, tallying to nine cases. Gadwal district reported nine new cases and all were related to the Delhi meet. “Of them, seven persons hail from Gadwal town and two more from Rajolu mandal. All have been shifted to Hyderabad for treatment,” the official said. There has been a surge in the Covid-19 cases in Nizamabad with 10 new cases on Tuesday. The district minister Vemula Prashant Reddy announced that among the 39 cases, 22 were from Nizamabad, five from Bodhan, one each from Renjal, Nandipet, Armoor, Bheemgal, two each from Balkonda, Makloor and four from Mosra. Another district, Adilabad, also reported one case which is also related to Markaz. Health minister Eatala Rajender and municipal minister KT Rama Rao visited a private medical college at Moinabad and Gachibowli stadium to convert them into a coronavirus hospital. “The 1,500 bedded Gachibowli stadium would be converted to a hospital and all necessary arrangements would be completed within a week,” the ministers said. They said 22 private medical colleges would also be utilized for isolation wards with 12,000 beds if required. Rajender said all the required equipment including PPE kits and N95 masks were procured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infant-among-40-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/75037217.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Muslim groups ask people not to step out for Shab-e-Baraat||JAIPUR: Fearing Tablighi Jamaat-like backlash, Rajasthan’s Muslim groups, including the Ajmer dargah, have urged people to observe Shab-e-Baraat festival while staying indoors. The festival will be observed on Thursday. It is marked by visiting graveyards and Sufi shrines to offer prayers. The groups have asked the government to punish those who violate the lockdown norms. Dargah Dewan Syed Zainual Abedin Ali Khan released a video saying that Muslims can observe the day even without visiting the graves of elders and loved ones. “As the country is fighting the coronavirus epidemic, it is the duty of every citizen to abide by the existing law. If the law says to follow social distancing, it should be followed without any question,” said Khan. Every year, hundreds of people gather at mosques and pray for the whole night and offer flowers at the graves on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat. Warning people of zero tolerance, Rajasthan Waqf Board chairman, Khanu Khan Budhwali, who is incharge of 95% of graveyards and dargahs, said that those flouting rules will face severe action. “I have asked the incharges of all the religious places to not allow any person for prayers, else they will also be held responsible,” said Budhwali. Other Muslim organisations have intensively launched a campaign on WhatsApp groups warning people that any irresponsible behaviour would come with a heavy price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muslim-groups-ask-people-not-to-step-out-for-shab-e-baraat/articleshow/75037671.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Road Central Prison receives order to make over one lakh masks||NASHIK/PUNE/ KOLHAPUR/AURANGABAD: Inmates in prisons across the state have joined the Covid-19 fight by making thousands of units of protective face masks — a key component in checking the coronavirus spread. Convicted prisoners in Nashik Road central prison, Pune’s Yerawada central prison, Kalamba central prison in Kolhapur and Aurangabad central prison have been enlisted for the task. The Nashik Road central prison has received orders from various hospitals in the city to make more than 1 lakh masks. The prison has been making these masks over the past couple of weeks. “We are continuously receiving orders from various hospitals. The civil hospital itself has asked us to supply 70,000 masks as soon as possible. We received orders to make 1,20,000 masks recently,” said Pramod Wagh, SP, Nashik Road central prison. Apart from the civil hospital, other hospitals too also asked for 10,000-15,000 masks each, he added. The prison has nearly 3,000 prisoners and 30 of them have been engaged in making the masks. “They work in batches of 15 from 8 am to 11 pm in two shifts,” the SP added. The prisoners are making 1,500 masks per day and have already prepared nearly 35,000 masks in the past two weeks, he said. This prison has been making masks regularly. Earlier, the inmates used to make nearly 2,500 masks every week with 10-12 prison inmates working on them. “The masks that we had made earlier were given to our staff members to use inside the prison. We have also instructed the prisoners who are making the masks to wear masks themselves to ensure that the production is safe,” Wagh added. Inmates in Kolhapur’s Kalamba central prison too have produced 40,000 masks since the lockdown came into effect. Their masks have been distributed to local government agencies in the city. Sharad Shelke, jail superintendent, told TOI, “In the initial phase, the jail inmates stitched more than 3,000 cloth masks. These were distributed among the prisoners to stop the virus from spreading inside the prison. We then received inquiries from the civic administration about the possibility of making more masks. We immediately issued orders to the jail inmates to produce masks as per the requirement.” “Till date, we have produced more than 40,000 masks and most of them have been handed over to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation and other agencies working to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the district, including police and the medical staff,” he said. “The price of a single mask is a nominal Rs 12. In this way, we earn revenue as well as do social service for the community,” he said. “As many as 50 prisoners have been deployed to produce the masks and they can make 300 masks a day,” Shelke said. Pune’s Yerawada central prison has received an order to supply 500 three-layer cloth masks for a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in Vimannagar. The authorities at the Aundh Chest hospital too have contacted the prison officials with their mask requirements. The jail officials authorities said the prison will provide masks to the institutions placing bulk orders with proper specifications. “The inmates who are trained to stitch are working in the stitching section of the prison,” prison superintendent U T Pawar told the TOI. He said that the masks, which are made of fine cloth, can be washed and reused regularly. The design is similar to surgical masks. Pawar said if someone wants the masks in a particular colour or in multiple colours, they can approach the prison authorities with the cloth and prisoners will stitch the masks. The Aurangabad central prison, one of the largest prisons in the state, is preparing and supplying high-quality washable masks for Rs 17 per piece. Prison superintendent Hiralal Jadhav said: “Considering the sudden demand, there is not enough supply. So we decided to cater to the needs at a reasonable price.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-road-central-prison-receives-order-to-make-over-one-lakh-masks/articleshow/75036487.cms||pragya jain
April 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Teachers in a fix after university asks them to complete syllabus online||PANAJI: As Goa University and affiliated colleges remain shut due to the lockdown, the university has issued a circular to affiliated institutes asking to complete whatever is left of the syllabus through the online mode. The circular has, however, led to confusion among college teachers, who said their class sizes are too big for such teaching through the online mode. Teachers were also concerned as they have neither conducted online classes earlier nor do have they been trained for it. “In view of the ongoing lockdown of Goa University and its affiliated colleges due to the prevailing Covid-19 virus situation in the country, the teaching faculty of Goa University and its affiliated colleges is required to complete the remaining syllabus for the courses in the current semester in online mode. However, the course content taught in online mode will not be evaluated at the semester end examinations,” the circular states issued on April 5. Goa University has 33 affiliated colleges across Goa offering programmes in the general stream. The final exams for the undergraduate programmes were deferred due to the lockdown in force till April 14. “The announcement of the lockdown was sudden and I have left my course material in college. Besides this, we are not trained in conducting classes online and have never done it before. Also, the online mode is suitable to some subjects only and not to subjects like accountancy or some science subjects which require problem-solving,” said one college teacher. Teachers also said that the circular does not add up as it asks to conduct classes online, but, at the same time, not to test students on these topics at the upcoming UG programme exams. “In many parts of Goa, the internet connectivity is poor, which is a well-known fact. We are unlike other states in this sense. Also, most colleges have upto three divisions with 30 students in each class. How is it feasible for the teacher to monitor the teaching of upto 90 students in each class through the online mode. Also, the choice based credit system is in force for UG programmes and what has been suggested by the university is not compatible with this pattern,” said another teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-in-a-fix-after-university-asks-them-to-complete-syllabus-online/articleshow/75037647.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown heroes: Rub of the green, he keeps people fed||NEW DELHI: Every time someone approaches Rajveer these days, the first question they ask the ever-present vegetable vendor at Jangpura Extension is whether the prices of vegetables have increased. As they start examining the fresh potatoes and tomatoes, Rajveer quietly tells them that the price has gone up Rs 5 per kilo. There are groans and interminable attempts to beat the seller down to the previous day’s rates. Rajveer claims to have little energy in these coronavirus-centric days to explain to each and every person how difficult it is to procure vegetables from the wholesale market and the risk he takes in going there to get fresh produce. For the 25-year-old and his family, residents of Taimur Nagar in southeast Delhi, vegetables are their livelihood and the nationwide lockdown changes nothing for them. To procure stocks from the Okhla Mandi each day, Rajveer, his elder brother and father wake up early enough to be able to reach the mandi at 3am. “There is plenty of items available,” Rajveer admits. “But we don’t sleep when the neighbourhoods do. We are at the mandi, buying our daily stocks amid absolute chaos each morning. From trucks being unloaded of their goods to tractors and carts being loaded by vendors, it is a mad rush to get whatever one can,” says Rajveer. They return home around 5am and catch a few hours of sleep before setting out with their freshly laden carts. “It takes me an hour to walk from Taimur Nagar to Jangpura, but these days vegetables, especially fresh vegetables, are as precious as gold so my cart doesn’t last till the evening,” the young vendor says. “And for all the hard work we put in, shouldn’t we also get our fair share of earnings?” In Jangpura Extension, Rajveer tells TOI that he pushes his cart around the lanes of the locality in the morning before settling down at one spot. “Those who know me come by to buy vegetables from me each day,” he says. “We know how important we are in times like this and I am glad I am able to help people out.” While there were reports of policemen not allowing vegetable hawkers and other essential service providers from moving around the city in the first week of the lockdown, Rajveer himself hasn’t faced problems. “I was stopped a couple of times, but when I told the cops that I was required by people at such times they let me enter the colonies. People also wait for us on their balconies,” he says. In the past two weeks, Rajveer has felt special. “I understand how important it is to take vegetables to people’s home and I feel the love I get from them,” he smiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rub-of-the-green-he-keeps-people-fed/articleshow/75037223.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 8, 2020||Meerut||Covid+ man flees quarantine facility, found after 13 hours of nerve-racking search||Meerut: In a shocking incident, a 65-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Nepal fled from the community health centre in Baghpat after breaking a window pane of the first floor and using bedsheets as rope even as policemen and health staff stood guard at the gate. The patient, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, was later found with the help of locals at a brick kiln after 13 hours of a frantic and nerve-racking manhunt.Inspector general (Meerut range) Praveen Kumar told TOI, “Timely circulation of the patient's details on the social media helped us catch him before it could lead to colossal damage. He was identified at the brick kiln, three kilometres from the health facility, by the locals who immediately informed us. Initially, he tried to run away and it was again a challenge to convince him to turn himself in as he could not be touched. It was an unprecedented situation for police department, which is trained to catch criminals. But somehow we calmed him down and then the health team took over. He was brought back to quarantine centre.”“He was admitted to the community hospital in Baghpat on April 4. He was part of a group of 27 people from Nepal, who had attended the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat gathering. He managed to flee from the hospital after breaking a window pane and using his bedsheet," Baghpat chief medical officer RK Tondon said.Denying a security lapse at the quarantine facility, district magistrate Shakuntala Gautam said, “There is only a special team of doctors that can walk into the quarantine wards and nobody else, including security staff, is allowed inside. We had policemen posted at the facility’s gate but he managed to escape. We will certainly strengthen the security at other centres after the incident.”“It’s a learning experience. Security cannot be set up outside a quarantine ward owing to the fear of contamination, but technology can come in handy. We are working on a model where all such facilities can be monitored at a control centre through CCTVs. Any unusual activity can be addressed in real time,” the IG said.The Markaz Nizamuddin gathering in Delhi has been linked to 30% of novel coronavirus cases across India. States have been tracking down and quarantining members of Tablighi Jamaat.Till Sunday, Uttar Pradesh had reported 278 cases, about half of which were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin. The state has so far reported three deaths – one each in Basti, Meerut and Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-man-flees-quarantine-facility-found-after-13-hours-of-nerve-racking-search/articleshow/75037218.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Virtual lab at NITK a boon in the time of pandemic||Mangaluru: The Student Online Laboratory through Virtual Experimentation (SOLVE), the virtual laboratory set up a decade ago at NITK Surathkal, is playing a prominent role at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. The lab is helping colleges in Karnataka, Goa and Kerala to continue their academic activities through e-learning. The speciality of this facility is that it offers experiential learning. Virtual Labs is an initiative of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) under the National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT). It was set up in 2010. NITK is among 12 institutions to set up their own lab, while others had theirs designed by expert professionals. Among 12 such labs, eight are in IITs. It was set up with the primary objective of experiential learning of the basic concepts in engineering and science. It is available at the learner’s time, pace and place, with the aim to make it easier to conduct experiments, said K V Gangadharan, coordinator for Virtual Labs in NITK. Gangadharan explained that other education institutions including VTU, Belagavi, have realised that e-learning is handy when a student cannot attend regular classes. “The Virtual Labs have content for all engineering students, which they can access by sitting at their homes,” he added. Centre for System Design (CSD), NITK Surathkal, is one of the participating institutes engaged in the development, maintenance and outreach of this novel initiative of MHRD, through collaboration with higher educational institutions in the region. It is the only NIT involved in the Virtual Labs project as a participating institute, alongside six IITs, IIIT Hyderabad, College of Engineering Pune and two private universities While simulation-based labs are set up based on a mathematical base, there are also experiment-based labs, where experiments are conducted and students are given a feel of the data. The third type is the remote lab, where an actual lab is made available to users through any device connected through the internet, like an iPhone, Android device or PC. “Essentially, we are providing a take-home lab where we share costly laboratory equipment through the remote triggered lab infrastructure. It is free of cost,” says Pruthviraj U, a Virtual Labs developer. Interested students and faculty can log on to: http://rtlabs.nitk.ac.in/?q=page/simulation-labs or http://vlab.co.in/||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/virtual-lab-at-nitk-a-boon-in-the-time-of-pandemic/articleshow/75036496.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||India Post to ensure doorstep banking||Thiruvananthapuram: Doorstep banking facility by India Post will begin in Kerala on April 9. Using this facility, Aadhaar-linked account holders of 93 scheduled banks can be withdrawn through post office. The amount thus withdrawn would be delivered to the customer at his doorstep by postmen/women. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac launched the service with special focus on those who are stuck at homes owing to lockdown. There will be no service charge and using this facility, customers can withdraw Rs 100 to Rs 10,000 a day. Customers are supposed to book the service a day in advance. The Aadhaar-enabled payment system was launched in September 2019 against a certain service charge. Customers need not have debit cards for withdrawing money. Only prerequisite is that their accounts should be Aadhaar-linked and customer should have a mobile phone. Customers can also check their account balance and last five transactions. A day after booking service over designated telephone numbers, postman will reach the customer’s home with a mobile device. When customer details are fed into the device, he/she will receive an OTP. Upon providing Aadhaar number and reading the fingerprint on the device, cash would be delivered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/india-post-to-ensure-doorstep-banking/articleshow/75036502.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||This super cop guards our city, feeds the hungry & raises Covid-19 awareness||HYDERABAD: Beyond his 15 hours of police duty every day, Chandrayangutta’s inspector has been lending a helping hand to the people in his locality amid the lockdown. Inspector Rudra Bhaskar, soon after the lockdown, conducted awareness programmes among the people, especially those living in slum areas, about coronavirus. The police officer says work starts at 9am and can stretch up to as late as 12am in case of emergencies. “The staff along with the inspector went to a few localities to spread awareness about coronavirus. He realised that some people in those localities do not have ration cards and have no clue whom to approach for help,” said John Victor Paul, a constable in Chandrayangutta police station. The inspector bought essential commodities such as rice, dal and vegetables for them with his money. “We distributed over 150 kg of essential commodities to some of the people who were in dire need and couldn’t afford anything. In the initial days of the lockdown, there was a huge shortage of masks in medical stores. I sponsored some 400 masks for vegetable vendors and people in need of it,” Bhaskar said. As the area covered under his jurisdiction is huge, the inspector could only spread awareness in selected localities. “However, there is a greater need for educating people about the virus. There should be a door-to-door awareness programme carried out covering small localities,” he said. The cop and his staff have also been checking on the elderly people. “I found out about an 80-year-old woman who has been staying alone in a slum area. Her son is not with her here,” said the inspector. Concerned about how the elderly woman would manage during the lockdown, the inspector bought her grocery for a month. Colleagues also recall the generous side of their boss. “Last month, while we all were on duty near a crossroad and had to eat dinner on the roadside, the inspector saw a visibly weak dog. He fed the dog. That was a very kind gesture,” recalled John. “As all the hotels are closed, stray dogs are among the worst hit,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-super-cop-guards-our-city-feeds-the-hungry-raises-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/75037219.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana veering towards extending lockdown, awaits Centre’s nod||HYDERABAD: As people wait with bated breath, indications are that the lockdown could be extended for a longer duration in Telangana. Dropping enough hints in this regard, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday said lockdown is the only way to contain the spread of coronavirus and reiterated that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is ready to extend it to combat the virus. The chief minister, who had on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown by at least two more weeks, is likely to continue with the clampdown even if the Centre relaxes the lockdown, sources said. “However, the government wants to wait till the Centre announces its decision,” sources said. Officials recalled that the state government had declared a lockdown days before the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown on March 24. The government had also sealed the inter-state borders. “The CM had even asked the Centre to stop international flights. The state government has powers to impose restrictions and implement lockdown under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. But, issues like allowing flight movement does not come under the state’s purview,” a senior government official said. “The lockdown should be lifted only after ensuring that there is no local transmission of Covid-19,” KTR, who is also working president of TRS, told the media on Tuesday. He said it is not possible to carry out tests for all the people in a country which has a population of 130 crore. “If the government allows private hospitals and diagnostic centres to conduct tests, it will lead to panic. The government cannot allow such mass screening except at hotspots,” he said. The government believes that there will be clarity on the number of Covid-19 positive cases, especially attendees of Tablighi Jamaat and their primary contacts, by April 10. “Their 14-day incubation time will be completed by April last week,” sources said. KCR has instructed party floor leaders — Nama Nageswara Rao and K Keshava Rao —to strongly express the government’s view during the video-conference with PM at the all-party meet in Delhi on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-veering-towards-extending-lockdown-awaits-centres-nod/articleshow/75037215.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt details procedure on handling virus deaths||NEW DELHI: Delhi health secretary, Padmini Singla, has issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed if a death due to novel coronavirus infection occurs outside a medical facility. The guidelines, which will be adopted in case of advanced stage of the coronavirus spread, fix agency-wise roles and responsibilities. A senior public health official said that they are hoping that the situation will be contained and Delhi will not see a community spread at mass level. However, these guidelines have been issued for the local agencies to be ready to tackle any eventuality. The guidelines which were sent on Friday last week stated that relatives of the family of suspected corona death case would have to contact the district magistrate who would be the nodal officer in anti-corona efforts. “The district magistrate will immediately inform the designated Covid-19 hospital,” the SOP added. The designated hospitals in the city include Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. The designated authority in case of unclaimed bodies on the streets will be Delhi Police which will have to take proper precautions so that people coming in contact with it do not get infected. “Delhi Police will handle the body in accordance with the guidelines issued by the GOI and bring it to nearest designated hospital,” the order states. The government official added that police will have to use full body personal protective equipment and disinfectants while dealing with such bodies from now onwards. Once the body reaches the hospital, the trained healthcare workers will handle and pack it in body bags after disinfecting them. “The hospital shall provide hearse van to carry the body for cremation and burial to ensure no further infection is caused. The van must be brought back to the hospital and disinfected,” the SOP adds. The corporations have been asked to sensitise and train the staff for handling of such bodies at the cremation grounds. “Neither crowding by relatives will be allowed, nor any ritual involving touching of the body,” the corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-details-procedure-on-handling-virus-deaths/articleshow/75037870.cms||Paras Singh
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||LMC community kitchens a boon for needy, serve over 4.6 lakh in 13 days||LUCKNOW: At least 200 people are working at eight community kitchens of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation for over 12 hours a day to ensure food to the needy during lockdown. In last 13 days, these kitchens have fed over 4.68 lakh people. LMC officials said, on an average, around 36,000 food packets were being distributed daily from LMC’s community kitchens. Around 120 workers, 15 each in every community kitchen, have been hired for cooking and packing. At least 20 are involved in supplies of raw material to community kitchens and delivering packets at doorstep in mini-trucks. In a reality check of three community kitchens in Mahanagar, Indiranagar and Bangla Bazaar areas, TOI found that all workers sanitise themselves before starting work at 6am. The workers also sanitise their surroundings before starting preparation for cooking. At every community kitchen, nine persons are engaged in cooking and six for packaging. The in charge of community kitchen takes orders on phone and decides how many packets are needed in a day. Every needy family is supplied food twice daily. In charge of community kitchen at Bangla Bazaar Rakesh Kumar said, “We have fixed three days in a week for cooking and distributing ‘poori-sabzi’, two days for ‘daal-chawal’ and two days for ‘khichdi’.” Community kitchens have been set up at mini-stadium Rajajipuram, LMC’s community centres in Mahanagar, Jiamau, Anandnagar, Jail Road, Indiranagar, and LDA’s community centre in Chowk and Virat Khand (Gomtinagar). Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “LMC has allocated Rs 2 crore for these kitchens. We are also getting donations from public. LMC employees donated a month’s salary. We have Rs 55 lakh in the fund that can last 10 more days. We appeal people to donate more – both in cash and kind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-community-kitchens-a-boon-for-needy-serve-over-4-6l-in-13-days/articleshow/75037632.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra University of Health Sciences begins virtual classrooms for undergraduates||NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) is teaching its undergraduate students through virtual classrooms from Monday. Being a health university, it has decided to keep teaching-learning process going on so that the medical students do not miss out on their studies in view of Covid-19 outbreak. Deelip Mhaisekar, vice chancellor of MUHS, said “We have decided to make optimum use of information and communications technology (ICT) in our teaching-learning process to make use of time and let the students study while staying at home.” There are total 373 affiliated colleges with the university in which 60,000 students are doing various undergraduate courses. The university has taken the initiative after receiving a letter from University Grants Commission (UGC) to make effective use of ICT in online teaching. “We have instructed all the colleges affiliated with us to begin virtual teaching. Our medical education minister, Amit Deshmukh, played a key role in guiding us about how to follow the instructions by UGC,” he added. The undergraduate students of the university now join the classes on their mobile phones, laptops, tablets, etc. and are able to interact with the teachers and fellow students through the application. “All of our teachers have started taking classes on Zoom application from their respective colleges. The students easily join the classes and have effective interactive sessions,” he added. Through the application, the teachers also share tables, pictures, diagrams, excel sheets and perform live demonstrations for the students. The lectures are also being recorded and uploaded on YouTube too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-begins-virtual-classrooms-for-undergraduates/articleshow/75036498.cms||pragya jain
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Private hospitals order linen kits to tackle PPE shortage||KOCHI: As the shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks becomes a concern in India, private hospitals in Kerala have decided to use sreusable linen gowns, caps and shoe covers and are getting them stitched. They have also decided to treat and reuse N95 masks. The decision comes in the wake of more doctors and nurses testing positive for Covid-19 in India due to the lack of PPE kits and N95 masks. Private hospitals had requested the government to provide the same without much success. In Kerala, only government hospitals have been converted into Covid-19 hospitals. But, it hasn’t stopped a person, with a travel history abroad in Covid-hit nations showing signs of fever, breathlessness and cough, from going to fever clinic in a private hospital that lacks adequate protection. “We are waiting for government to give us protective kits. At the moment, there is a shortage of PPE kits in our hospitals due to which many of us have been forced to use cloth masks and gowns. Due to this, many hospitals are sending suspected Covid-19 persons to government hospitals. How can we put our doctors and nurses at risk when despite repeated requests, government is yet to give us the promised kits,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. However, some of the big hospitals are trying to overcome the shortage by sourcing their own protection equipment locally. “Except the N95 mask that needs technical expertise, the rest can be developed locally. We have decided to use linen for gowns, caps and shoe covers. Initially, it was plastic and hence disposable. But linen can be washed and reused 50 times. We are buying linen material and getting it stitched by local tailors,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, a consultant at Aster Medcity’s department of infectious diseases & hospital infection control. The hospital has placed an order for 3,000 linen kits. Studies have validated that the N95 mask can be reused five to 20 times provided it is not soiled or dirty. In order to protect the N95 mask, hospitals are locally-producing transparent face shields. “We have a dedicated team for sterilizing N95 masks. We are setting up a UV ray sterilisation unit at the hospital to treat N95 masks. We have made plastic visors for staff in high-risk departments like ophthalmology, dental and ENT. We are making visors that can be sterilized and reused,” said KIMS healthcare group chairman Dr M I Sahadulla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-hospitals-order-linen-kits-to-tackle-ppe-shortage/articleshow/75036500.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Maharajbagh, Gorewada take steps to protect animals, handlers||NAGPUR: After a 4-year-old tigress in Bronx Zoo in the US was tested positive for coronavirus, the Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) has directed all 13 zoos and animal shelters in the state to take up health screening of keepers and animal handlers on top priority. MZA has geared up to ensure these zoos and shelters follow all guidelines issued by the Central Zoo Authority. On Tuesday, Ravikiran Govekar, MZA member-secretary, inspected Maharajbagh Zoo. There are 36 tigers, five lions and 88 leopards in captivity in Maharashtra. “Though the situation in state zoos is better, in view of CZA directions, we have asked all of them be sanitized and disinfected and see animal keepers tested for Covid-19. In Bronx Zoo, coronavirus was transmitted to tiger through humans,” said Govekar. Maharajbagh officer in-charge Dr SS Bawaskar said, “We disinfected the zoo by using kohrsolin chemical during the lockdown period. Zoo keepers are taking foot bath of potassium permanganate before entering the cages and staff has been given sanitizers and masks. No tests of staff have been done and we also don’t have PPEs.” Nandkishore Kale, divisional manager of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) monitoring Gorewada Rescue Centre, said, “We don’t have PPEs but will consider procuring them. We are not allowing anyone except the handlers near the cages. Animals are released in crawl area only after it is disinfected.” MAFSU’s Wildlife Research & Training Centre (WRTC) director Dr Shirish Upadhye said, “A five-pronged strategy is being implemented in Gorewada. As coronavirus can transmit from humans to animals or vice-versa, too much human presence and outside vehicles’ entry is prohibited.” “Animal feed is checked at the main gates. Besides, no doctors, guards and keepers are allowed inside without masks and sanitizers. Teams of labourers have been allotted quarters who share them on rotation basis. As of now there are no issues with workers or animals,” he said. Veterinary doctors have been told to keep a watch on animals at least twice a day. Guards have been told to monitor animal behaviour from 5-10 metres every two hours. ICAR SOPs has asked all the zoological parks to provide dungaree, gumboots, and facemasks to zoo keepers and labourers involved in animal care. It has also said that any vehicle passing through the main entry gate should pass through tyre bath with 0.5% of sodium hypochlorite or on strip of dry slaked lime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharajbagh-gorewada-take-steps-to-protect-animals-handlers/articleshow/75037212.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 8, 2020||Meerut||Pleasant March weather & lockdown effect make migratory birds stay longer in northern wetlands||Bijnor: With flutter of wings they lifted their tiny frames into the air, one after the other, stirring the still water of the lakes in Terai region of northern plains. There was no traffic around to drown the din, and to fill the void left by their departure. As the mercury soars, flocks of migratory birds are taking flight back to Central Europe, Russia, Tibet, Mongolia and other colder regions. While some are off to the wetlands in other parts of the country. They stayed longer this time, over two weeks. And in some parts of Hastinapur Wildlife sanctuary, falling in Meerut and Bijnor districts, parcel of migratory birds can still be spotted.Forest officials and experts attribute the birds’ prolonged stay to the cold weather in March and also to the factors arising out of negligible human activity due to the lockdown, including the absence of emissions.“These birds usually start their retreat from the wetlands in the mid of March when mercury shoots up. But, this year, they have started it now. Even at this time, some species are being spotted on the banks of wetlands in Harewali and Amangarh areas,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) M Semmaran.“It is because of low temperature and pollution-free atmosphere,” he added.GS Khusharia, a wildlife expert and former DFO, said, “Incessant rain and several spells of hailstorm led to a pleasant weather. Entire March was cold and the wetlands had enough water to retain the birds’ interest. The lockdown also helped in making the climate favourable for the birds. There was no emission, no traffic on roads and negligible human interference in the region. It all led the prolonged stay of the migratory birds.”A treat for bird watchers, Hastinapur sanctuary hosts over 20,000 birds of 267 species. “For a break, humans find themselves outnumbered by birds here,” says DFO Semmaran. Of the total species counted, about 100 go out of the country while the rest migrate to other states.The birds return to the higher reaches during the summer season due to the abundance of nesting territories. With the melting of snow, they also find weeds and grass in plenty there.The birds spotted in the sanctuary were identified as Greylag Goose, Bar-headed goose, Ruddy Shelduck, Gadwall, Eurasian Wigeon, Spot-billed duck, Northern Sholveler, Northern pintail, Eurasian teal, Red-crested Pochard, Common Pochard, Ferruginous Duck, Tufted Duck, Little Grebe etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pleasant-march-weather-lockdown-effect-make-migratory-birds-stay-longer-in-northern-wetlands/articleshow/75037216.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 8, 2020||Meerut||7 more test positive for Covid-19 in Meerut zone||MEERUT: Seven people tested positive for novel coronavirus in the Meerut zone on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 35. These included two new cases in Meerut district, three in Bulandshahr and one each in Saharanpur and Baghpat. All the new patients had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. There are a total of eight Covid-19 positive cases in Bulandshahr, 14 in Saharanpur (12 of them admitted in Lucknow hospitals) and three in Baghpat. “The two from Meerut who tested positive are both Jamaatis from Khiwai town of the district. Their contacts are being traced,” chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said. Now, the number of Jamaatis testing positive in Meerut has reached 15, out of total 35 cases in the district. “A total of three cases in Bulandshahr, two in Meerut, and one each in Saharanpur and Baghpat tested positive. Their samples were tested at LLRM Medical College,” said Dr Amit Garg, head, microbiology department, LLRM Medical College. Until Tuesday, Meerut had sent 2,304 active case survey teams to 3,72,084 houses and covered a population of 17,75,347, of which, 642 were found symptomatic. Baghpat CMO Dr RK Tandon said, “One person has tested positive in Baghpat on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to three. He was quarantined in Balauni village in Baghpat where containment action plan is being undertaken.” Saharanpur CMO Dr BS Sodhi confirmed that one positive case – originally from Andhra Pradesh – is a Jamaati. His contacts are being traced, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/7-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-meerut-zone/articleshow/75037222.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Slow testing makes it difficult for Vidarbha doctors to deal with suspects||NAGPUR: With over 350 samples from all over Vidarbha are yet to be tested, it has become difficult for respective district hospital authorities in the region to convince suspects to stay in the isolation wards and wait for their results come. For example, in Yavatmal, as many as 47 suspects without any symptoms, are staying in the isolation facility at Government Medical College and Hospital since last Wednesday just because their samples are yet to be tested in Nagpur. “These suspects include some Tablighi returnees, some having USA travel history and some close contacts of the earlier positive patients,” said Dr Milind Kamble, dean of Yavatmal GMCH. Many of these suspects have themselves approached the hospital and got admitted for testing. Their samples are pending from April 1. “In Nagpur, the presumptive patients are kept in institutional facilities like MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati. But, we have our own limitations. We have created good facilities, but the Yavatmal suspects are all in hospitals only. It’s difficult to convince people that they have to stay here unless their results come out,” said Dr Kamble. Government hospitals in Buldhana, Gondia and Amravati are also facing same problems. As district authorities and police admit suspected persons and go away, entire responsibility of dealing with them comes to doctors and staff in government hospitals. Most of the suspects are asymptomatic and it’s difficult to convince them that they need to stay in hospital until results come. “We are doctors and our job is to treat patients. These suspects keep on asking us how many more days they have to wait here in hospitals. As part of standard practice, we must get results within 24 hours of sending the sample. But this is not happening since last week,” said Dr Premchand Pandit, civil surgeon of Buldhana. The snag developed in IGGMCH laboratory in Nagpur is one of the reasons behind delay in testing of samples. Authorities at this lab claimed that the snag has been repaired and lab has started functioning from Tuesday. Total 62 samples from Nagpur division were tested here on Tuesday, and all turned out to be negative. The AIIMS lab in Nagpur is now dealing with samples coming from Amravati division. On Tuesday, it tested 49 samples. One of them from Akola and three from Amravati tested positive. But, the problem still continues as more than 350 samples from Vidarbha have been piled up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/slow-testing-makes-it-difficult-for-vid-docs-to-deal-with-suspects/articleshow/75037224.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||12-year-old rape survivor moves Bombay high court to terminate pregnancy||NAGPUR: A 12-year-old rape survivor has knocked the doors of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court for termination of her 22-23 weeks old pregnancy. Hailing from Shegaon village in Chandrapur, the minor was sexually exploited by her father’s friend, Yogesh Dohtare, who was later arrested under the stringent POCSO Act and section 376 of the IPC. Justice Vinay Deshpande on Friday directed the Chandrapur Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean/civil surgeon to constitute a medical board comprising five doctors, including two lady doctors, such as a gynaecologist, radiologist, cardiologist, neurologist, and pathologist. The board was directed to examine the teenager on Monday and submit a report a day later, on Tuesday. Accordingly, the board members examined the girl and a report was submitted in a sealed envelope to the court registry. The envelope will be opened on Wednesday during the hearing. The petition wasn’t listed, but was taken on priority on Friday because of its urgency after the girl had lodged a police complaint with the help of her mother. As the girl hails from a poor family, the court allotted counsel Sweety Harish Bhatia through its legal aid cell. Bhatia drafted the petition in just 30 minutes and submitted it before the court which heard it the same day and pronounced a series of directives. While issuing the notice to the state health secretary, through additional public prosecutor NS Rao, the court directed the registrar (judicial) to communicate its order to the GMCH civil surgeon/dean in Chandrapur. District child protection officer Ajay Sakharkar had brought the survivor’s parents to court. “Due to the sexual atrocities committed on the minor, she became pregnant. The GMCH documents show that she’s carrying a pregnancy of 22-23 weeks. She has been asked to obtain the necessary orders from the court for the medical termination of her pregnancy,” the judge said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-yr-old-rape-survivor-moves-court-to-terminate-pregnancy/articleshow/75037220.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Sanitizing tunnel for railway staff||NASHIK: Central railway’s Electric Loco Shed department at Bhusawal has developed an in-house sanitizing tunnel for the safety of its employees. The tunnel has been developed within two days at a cost if over Rs 15000. Railway officials said that some employees still coming to work at the shed despite lockdown imposed in the country in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The tunnel will ensure safety of these employees, said officials. “The tunnel can disinfect a person fully from head to toe in just three seconds and the solution used is completely harmless. The tunnel can screen one person at a time,” added railway officials. The structure of disinfection tunnel is made by MS pipe with covered by Tarpaulin sheet. PVC piping and spray nozzles are provided to spray the solution. “One set of three nozzles will spray as people walk for a duration of between three to five seconds inside the tunnel. Upon contact on surfaces, it is efficient enough to kill the virus. The employees have been advised to raise their hands, their palms facing front while entering the tunnel to ensure efficient disinfection,” added officials. The disinfection tunnel can work uninterrupted for 16 hours and requires refilling only once a day. To save energy and water, a two-way switch is provided so that the person at the entry can switch it on and put it off at the exit. The designing of the tunnel was done by a team headed by senior divisional electrical engineer Himanshu Ramdeo and was made under the supervision of senior section engineer Mukesh Chaudhary. “The Electric Loco Shed, Bhusaval, is developing more such sanitizing tunnels to fight against Covid-19 in Bhusaval railway division,” added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sanitizing-tunnel-for-railway-staff/articleshow/75036511.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Authorities yet to learn how Saudi returnee tested negative||Malappuram: Health authorities suspect that a 45-year-old man in Keezhattur, who was sent to home quarantine on arrival from Saudi Arabia on March 11 after umrah, recovered from Covid-19 without showing major symptoms. He visited several places in Keezhattur, attended functions and prayer meets. On April 2, his 85-year-old father tested positive for Covid-19 and authorities suspected that he had transmitted the infection and Malappuram police had then decided to register a case against him for violating quarantine rule. The man and his family were shifted to isolation wards at Manjeri medical college on April 3. On Tuesday, he, wife and children tested negative for Covid-19. Malappuram DMO K Sakeena said medical authorities suspect that he recovered without showing major symptoms. “We have to conduct detailed tests such as Immunoglobulin G and Immunoglobulin M blood tests to confirm that he was infected earlier. We will keep him under observation at medical college until remaining tests are done,” she said Meanwhile, with one more person from the district testing positive on Tuesday, the total number of positive cases increased to 13. District administration said the 45-year-old woman is native of Kannamangalam near Vengara. She had recently visited Nizamuddin and Mumbai with her husband and five family members. They had left from Tirur to Thiruvananthapuram on February 14 and departed for Nizamuddin with five other families. From Nizamuddin, they arrived in Mumbai on February 21, where they stayed for one month. The team returned from Mumbai to Karipur on March 23 in AI flight 581. The woman and her family were advised home quarantine after returning from Mumbai. Sakeena said the woman’s family were admitted to the isolation ward at Manjeri medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/authorities-yet-to-learn-how-saudi-returnee-tested-negative/articleshow/75036531.cms||T P Nijeesh
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University picks up research pace by 60% during corona lockdown||LUCKNOW: Some cheer in time of gloom. The lockdown has snapped the laggard tag on Lucknow University at least in research departments, which witnessed a dramatic 60% rise in productivity in last 10 days — March 25-April 5. The LU faculty took this opportunity to complete 60 research papers, pending for months due to a busy academic calendar. This works out to an average of six papers per day. A five-year number crunching shows only one paper was completed every day. Many papers completed during lockdown were sent to international journals for publication. The completed research papers include 50 of the science faculty, four each of arts and commerce and one each of education and law faculties. The physics department wore the crown with 22 finished papers, followed by zoology (15). “Earlier, papers sent to international journals including Springer, Elsevier, Nature, Royal Society of Chemistry and Cambridge, were sent back to professors for review. We utilised this time to revise and send it back to journals, which accepted and published them,” said head physics department, Prof Poonam Tandon. Some teachers utilised free time to draft papers on wound-up research projects, but not penned down because of busy schedule. Now, they have sent these papers for publication, said head political science, Prof Shashi Shukla. Teachers who accelerated research process are Prof Poonam Tandon (physics) with 12 papers, Prof Monisha Banerjee and Geetanjali Mishra (zoology) four each and Prof Rajiv Manohar (physics) with three papers. The faculty also used the time to complete or edit at least 10 books. Prof Ashutosh Shukla (botany) edited four books, Prof Ruby Yadav (zoology) two, Prof Shashi Shukla (political science) revised two books while Prof Amarjeet Yadav (yogic science) completed writing two books. LU VC Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “Our teachers are utilising the lockdown period in the best possible way. The actual output in research could be more than statistics available now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-picks-up-research-pace-by-60-during-corona-lockdown/articleshow/75037638.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Courts to remain in lockdown till April 30, skip summer break||HYDERABAD: All the courts in Telangana will remain closed till April 30 irrespective of the lockdown. Another important decision taken on Tuesday was to cancel this year’s summer vacation. This means the high court and district courts will function from May 1 to June 5, which is the annual vacation period. These decisions were taken by a full court comprising judges of the Telangana high court after they met through a video-conference. They also interacted with Bar leaders and medical experts to assess the Covid-2019 situation. With regard to the lockdown, the full court meet presided over by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan interacted with K Shankar, director of Institute of Preventive Medicine, who suggested a phased lifting of the lockdown instead of opening all the sectors in one go which, he said, could lead to overcrowding. The court took into confidence Bar Council chairman A Narasimha Reddy, Bar Association president Suryakaran Reddy and decided to extend the lockdown of courts till April 30. The full court would again meet on April 25 to review the situation, said registrar general A Venkateswara Reddy. The courts, including HC, will continue to hear urgent cases in a virtual mode, he said. It is learnt that courts in the coming weeks could take up final hearing matters through virtual mode if the lockdown is extended. “As judicial employees have come forward to donate one-day’s salary towards Chief Justice Relief fund, the same will be deducted from their April salaries and forwarded to CM Relief Fund,” the registrar general said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/courts-to-remain-in-lockdown-till-april-30-skip-summer-break/articleshow/75037226.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Meerut||First Shamli Covid-19 patients cured & discharged; Meerut girl tests negative||Meerut: In some good news for western Uttar Pradesh, the first coronavirus patient from Shamli was cured and discharged while a 20-year-old Covid-19 positive girl in Meerut, who has been at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, was tested negative on Tuesday. The health department is optimistic that she will be discharged after the completion of the 14-day quarantine period, which will be over in three days.Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, chief medical officer, Shamli, said, “The 40-year-old Kairana resident in Shamli district, a Dubai returnee, has been tested negative for coronavirus. He was admitted at the quarantine facility here days after he returned here. He was discharged only after his treatment was completed — two of his reports were tested negative after 22 days.”“The 20-year-old patient from Meerut has been tested negative for coronavirus, and after completing the 14-day quarantine period, she will be discharged,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/first-shamli-covid-19-patients-cured-discharged-meerut-girl-tests-negative/articleshow/75037229.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 8, 2020||Delhi||All is not well at Delhi's Narela quarantine centre: Cops||NEW DELHI: Inmates of the Narela quarantine centre, one of the bigger ones in northern India, have been raising concerns about the lack of proper facilities though this has been disputed by Delhi government officials. About 1,170 people have been accommodated in 625 DDA apartments at the facility. Out of this, about 1,000 are from the Nizamuddin Markaz. The facility, which was started on March 18, initially housed 255 people, mostly foreigners. Between March 31 and April 1, one thousand and six people from the Markaz were brought here. The apartments can accommodate 2,500 people, but but more than half of them are not furnished. Sources at the centre say that apart from the lack of proper food, residents have been raising concerns about sanitation facilities and water supply that is scarce. The inmates are seen lining up for drinking water and food. There is also a lack of PPE suits, with none provided to the people deployed for security. Cops guarding the centre have been earlier doing with raincoats which can be reused after washing. On Sunday, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat had visited the facility. Due to lack of doctors, the Army has been sending their medical teams. A police officer working at the quarantine centre claimed that food, hygiene and sanitation are major problems being faced by the inmates and it has been brought to the notice of the authorities. The officer pointed out that the queue for collecting food and water is long which defeats the entire objective of isolation. The centre is also short of staff. “People living here complain of both quantity and quality of food. One of the inmates complained that only ‘10 spoons of rice’ was served to them. Some said they stay hungry as the quantity is not enough and asked if they could order from an online food delivery service,” an officer said on the condition of anonymity. Another officer said since bathrooms are choked, sometimes water reaches the corridors, making them non-usable. Some of the foreign inmates have posted complaints that there were no western style lavatories available in their section of the centre. An assistant commissioner of police, an inspector and 70 other police officers have been deployed for security and safety of the inmates. They say the civic authorities had not provided them masks, sanitizers, PPE suits and gloves. “We had to approach our senior officers and Delhi Police had to procure the suits from elsewhere and provide it to us. Initially, we were using raincoats as PPE suits since we can wash them and re-use them. The department could arrange for 10 PPE suits with limited resources and we are using them in turns while going inside,” an officer stationed at the quarantine centre said. The cops complain that they don’t have proper details of the persons who are residing at the centre, raising a security concerns. “It is difficult to verify the antecedents of the suspects from the details. We have to use technical means to track them down,” said a police officer. There are three entry and exit gates but currently only one of them is operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-is-not-well-at-narela-centre-cops/articleshow/75037238.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 8, 2020||Delhi||NDMC to hire DTC buses to ferry staff||NEW DELHI: The New Delhi Municipal Council has planned to hire buses from the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) to transport its employees involved in essential services during the Covid-19 lockdown period. The civic agency has written to DTC for seven low-floor, non-airconditioned buses that will run on seven routes and cover all far-flung areas. “These buses are likely to pick up staff from designated spots near their houses and drop them back there. Those living at the border areas can also take these buses. These will run on a trial basis on Wednesday and Thursday and the final decision will be taken based on the feedback,” said an NDMC official. The routes and stops will be at the discretion of NDMC and the buses will cater exclusively to its employees. The routes are Palam-Moti Bagh-Palika Kendra, Badarpur Border-Mehruali-Palika Kendra, Khajoori-Karawal Nagar-Moti Bagh, Sultanpuri-Nehru Park-Moti Bagh, Harsh Vihar-Dilshad Garden-Moti Bagh, Narela-Palika Kendra, and Nangloi Depot-Palike Kendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-to-hire-dtc-buses-to-ferry-staff/articleshow/75037872.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: CSIR-Neeri will complete 62 years today||NAGPUR: The CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-Neeri) will complete 62 years of its journey on April 8. Like each year, the event was expected to happen at a bigger level with participation by stakeholders across India. However, the size of the event was scaled-down amid unprecedented situations arising out of coronavirus pandemic. The event will now be held online complying the guidelines of local authorities in view of COVID-19. CSIR-Neeri has linked its 62nd Foundation Day with the theme – ‘public health’, as the main reason behind the genesis of CSIR-Neeri has been to foster and promote research on environment to improve the public health. On the occasion, personal protective equipments (PPE) including gloves, hand sanitizers, masks, etc will be distributed to the corporators, NGOs and other institutions who are involved in helping the needy people. Various experts including Prof Rup Lal, NASI senior scientist platinum jubilee fellow, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), New Delhi, and Dr Rajan Welukar, former vice-chancellor, GH Raisoni University, will share their thoughts with special reference to COVID-19. Shekhar Mande, director general, CSIR and secretary, DSIR, and Rakesh Kumar, director, CSIR-Neeri will also address on the occasion. The proceedings can be watched live on the CSIR-Neeri Facebook from 3pm on April 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/csir-neeri-will-complete-62-years-today/articleshow/75037228.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Bawarchi locality in Chowk sealed, sixth in Lucknow’s tally||LUCKNOW: A day after a 50-year-old resident of Bawarchi locality in Chowk, who gave shelter to 10 Tablighi Jamaat members, tested positive for coronavirus, the area was sealed on Tuesday, making it the sixth locality to face total lockdown. Barring medical emergency, nobody will be allowed to venture out of homes, said police. The Jamaat members, who hail from Andhra Pradesh, have been booked by police along with the Chowk resident who sheltered them. Their presence at the Nizamuddin markaz is being probed. Additional deputy commissioner of police (west zone) Vikas Chandra Tripathi said, “An FIR was lodged against 11 persons, including Tablighi Jamaat members after a resident of Sangibeg locality in Bawarchi tested positive for the virus.” They were charged with negligence causing spread of disease, disobedience of prohibitory orders under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005. “We decided to seal the entire locality as a precaution. The lab report of the Jamaatis is awaited, said Tripathi. At least 100 policemen were deployed at 13 entry and exit points of the area to enforce sealing. “During a medical exigency, police need to be informed for safe passage,” said assistant commissioner of police, Chowk, DP Tiwari. He also said those who will violate curbs will be booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bawarchi-locality-in-chowk-sealed-sixth-in-citys-tally/articleshow/75037645.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Man-animal conflict rates plummet||KOZHIKODE: Even as wild animals were spotted exploring new spaces outside their normal habitats during lockdown, there has been a steady decline in the number of man-animal conflicts in state, data compiled by the forest department showed . "There has been a decline in man-animal conflict in many forest divisions from where data was collected," said principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden, Surendrakumar.While the number of incidents in high range circle comprising Munnar, Marayoor and Kottayam was 60 from March 1-23, it dipped to 12 from March 24- April 2 (lockdown). Also, the number of conflict in wildlife north circle, Palakkad comprising Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and other divisions declined from 141 in the pre- lockdown period to 57 after lockdown began. Also the number of conflicts in Palakkad circle, has dipped from 91 to 35 during this period "Though wild animals are straying outside forests in some areas, they are going back without creating much conflict. It could be due to the fact that animals aren’t being disturbed by people who are indoors. Earlier, if an elephant strayed outside forests, people used to assemble to scare it away and this would lead to conflict. Also, human presence in traditional elephant corridors that allow movement of animals between secure habitats is absent," Surendrakumar added. Though the data collected before and after the lockdown is not for the same duration, the declining trend is perceptible, said forest officials. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife- northern region), B N Anjan Kumar said that as people are staying at home, they aren’t noticing the movement of animals. "Before lockdown, the mere presence of wild animals near human habitations was reported as conflict. From the data collected, we can see that merely seeing an animal or encountering it is not being reported as a conflict during lockdown," Kumar said. Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti president, N Badusha said this conflict reduction in hotspots like Wayanad was partly due to lesser human transgressions in forests in the form of grazing livestock, fire incidents and lack of traffic on forest roads that reduced disturbance for wild animals in their habitat. "Also, human presence in forest fringes has also reduced and it is preventing occasional stray incidents from developing into major conflicts," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/man-animal-conflict-rates-plummet/articleshow/75036524.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Surfers likely to miss half-a-season||Mangaluru: Covid-19 has hit the surfing industry in India. In the last 15 years, the industry that has only seen growth, with the mushrooming of surf schools on the west and east coasts of India, but has for the first time come to a standstill. Rammohan Paranjape, one of India’s early surfing pioneers, surf photographer and vice-pesident of Surfing Federation of India (SFI), said, “SFI has sent out emails to all surfing schools to remain closed. Almost three weeks ago, most surfing schools were carrying out activities in full-swing. It had been a good season till February. Towards the end of February, confusion prevailed as some states had issued notices for the closure of schools. As the suspected cases of Covid-19 increased, all schools have decided to close down, due to which surfers are expected to miss half a season of surfing this year. Surfing schools operate till the end of May, and remain closed from June to September. This is going to cause huge losses. Mantra Surf School at Mulky has already incurred losses to the tune of Rs 15-20 lakh in terms of revenue, in a month’s time,” he said. Being a niche sport, most of the schools have a strong base for new and returning guests, which includes a mix of Indian and foreign guests. Speaking about Mantra Surf School, Rammohan said, “A decade ago we used to host a majority of international guests, but the trend has changed in recent years. With growing awareness on surfing, we are hosting at least 80% of people who are from within the country.” Competitive surfers will also feel the heat of the shutdown. “The Covid-19 outbreak will definitely lead to an economic slowdown, due to which it could be difficult to find sponsors for events this year. The World Surf League has also cancelled events for the time being. Travel will slow down and people coming to India to surf will also reduce. March to May is the peak season for surfing, due to summer vacations for children. Offshoots of surfing like stand-up paddling, kayaking and camping will also be affected,” he added. Tushar Pathiyan, co-founder, The Shaka Surf Club, Udupi, said, “Most surf schools operate from fishing villages on the coastline, and it is best to shut them down, as the safety of the community they are based in is the top priority. Schools receive guests from across India and abroad. I don’t think schools will be able to resume operations this season. It was a huge loss for surf schools, as we ended up refunding bookings. No camps will be held till the situation returns to normal. My request would be to postpone your surfing trip, rather than cancel support to the Indian surf school community” Surfing in India The surf season generally begins in September and ends in May for the west coast. Surfing Federation of India was established in 2011 by a group from Mantra Surf Club, Mangaluru, India’s first surfing club. More than 15 schools or clubs are attached to the federation. Beaches like Sasihithlu in Mulky near Mangaluru, Covelong Beach near Chennai and Mahabalipuram are now recognised as premier surfing destinations. There are several other spots in Karnataka, Kerala and Andaman and Lakshadweep island groups. Surfing has become an alternative source of income for fishing communities and has empowered them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/surfers-likely-to-miss-half-a-season/articleshow/75036523.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Over 26k quarantined in state so far||Dehradun/Nainital: The Doon district administration has acquired three private hotels in the city, which will be used as quarantine centres where Covid-19- positive patients will be kept for treatment and monitoring purposes. The three hotels acquired on Tuesday include Hotel Viceroy Inn, Hotel Saffron Leaf and Hotel Doon Castle. Meanwhile, aday after Nainital district administration sealed two localities of Haldwani, the administration deputed a magistrate to each of the quarantine centres in the district. The administration has also ordered the officials to make sure that the food packets as well as wrappers and other items used in supply of food and other essential items to the quarantine centers are burned to avert the chances of people contracting the virus. "We have decided to send magistrates to the quarantine centres. They will be assisted by the police and will prepare the details of the people living in quarantine centres which will then be forwarded to chief medical officer (CMO) so that they can come to the spots and take samples for testing," said Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal. “We have also directed all our workers and the magistrates to make sure that a no item which is not of use is kept open,” said Bansal. Till now, Nainital district has reported six Coronavirus-positive cases, five of which were reported from Haldwani while one was reported from Ramnagar. The administration meanwhile has also directed the municipal corporations and municipal councils of the areas to conduct regular sanitisation exercises in all the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-26k-quarantined-in-state-so-far/articleshow/75036527.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat event: Delhi Police scan mobile locations||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is scanning through the mobile phone locations of more than 2,000 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s programme in March. The persons who have now spread across the country will be tracked down and sent to the Covid-19 test centres for isolation. A Crime Branch team visited the venue, along with a forensic team, on Tuesday. A probe revealed that on March 24, police had arranged for evacuation of more than 1,200 residents of Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. Even on that day, about 2,000 more people had reached the headquarters in batches. Police sources said that about 2,340 people were present at the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters when the lockdown was enforced. A number of people attended and left the premises before that. Cops suspect that they too might have carried strains of the virus. The technical data of mobile phones operating in the area for all the three days are being analysed to identify such people, sources added. Even though the Markaz authorities maintained a log of the visitors, their addresses or mobile phone numbers were not verified. Some of the numbers were either registered with someone unrelated or found to be switched off. When a team led by the area SDM and officials from the health department had visited the premises between March 26 and 30, they had found almost 1,300 people staying there. The Markaz officials claimed that they could not identify them and they were staying there at their own risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-event-police-scan-mobile-locations/articleshow/75037231.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Street vendors’ enumeration on to disburse Rs 1K assistance||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Tuesday began the enumeration exercise of street vendors to provide them the state government’s cash assistance of Rs 1,000. Around 150 vendors in each of the four zones furnished the necessary documents and identification proof on Tuesday to avail the financial assistance, a corporation official said. The government had announced the cash assistance to street vendors whose livelihood was affected by the lockdown. Subsequently, the corporation said that it had received orders from the district administration and commissionerate of municipal administration (CMA) to start the enumeration. All four zonal offices started collecting details and proof of bank, Aadhaar, family card and street vendor ID card provided by the corporation. “Field workers (animators) equipped with hand gloves and facemasks are collecting the personal details of the street vendors in all four zonal offices. Social distancing is being ensured,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/street-vendors-enumeration-on-to-disburse-rs-1k-assistance/articleshow/75037233.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Doctors warn heart patients against skipping medication||Trichy: Expressing concern over negligence by patients with heart ailments in taking their medication, citing lack of availability of medicines during the lockdown, cardiologists in the city have warned people to take symptoms seriously and follow prescriptions. Chief cardiologist of Rana Hospitals, Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy, said that people tend to mistake some of the serious symptoms associated with cardiology to normal health issues. “It happens even during the normal period because of justification of symptoms wrongly. Our appeal is they should not allow the lockdown to come in their way of protecting their life. You should not ignore or neglect symptoms. In case of cardiac symptoms, they should not postpone the visit to doctors despite lack of availability of doctors, police enforcement or inconvenience in transportation,” said Dr Senthilkumar. He also lists out some symptoms. “If chest pain occurs on exertion, walking or climbing stairs, the person needs medical attention. The person should be rushed to a hospital equipped with cardiac facility,” said the doctor, adding that chest pain associated with breathlessness or giddiness and the person facing palpitation with blackout also require the treatment to avoid further cardiac complications. Chief cardiac surgeon and executive director of Kauvery Heart City Dr T Senthil Kumar shared his experience of cardiac patients being rushed to the hospital with critical health condition due to irregular consumption of medication during the lockdown. “While we are all focussed on Covid-19, there is also a need for caring other patients also. Some patients are pointing the lack of availability of medicine in the rural area and confusion over availability of doctors to bring down medication. It is completely wrong,” said Dr Senthil. He added that stopping of medication for diabetic, hypertension and other ailments may lead to cardiac complications. “If hypertension shoots up due to reversal of medicine, it will lead to aortic dissection. The increase in blood pressure also may pave way for heart attack,” he said, advising people who had angioplasty and valve replacement surgery to keep tablets for one or two months in reserve during this period. Medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital said the hopital provided tablets to their cardiac patients for two months in the outpatient treatment. On Tuesday, 300 patients were given medicines for two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-warn-heart-patients-against-skipping-medication/articleshow/75037230.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||In last 2 weeks of March, UP saw 65% dip in crime rate||LUCKNOW: The scare of coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown has meant even criminals are forced to stay indoors. Between March 16 and March 31 this year, there was a 65% dip in crime rate compared to the same period in 2019. In that period in 2019, 31,441 cases of crime were reported. However, in 2020, only 10,743 cases of crime were reported in the duration. The cases included major crimes such as rape, murder, loot and crimes against women, among others.A majority of people stayed indoors in the period which included five days of the lockdown too. UP Police officials claimed the decline was due to intensified patrolling and deployment of policemen with focus on crime-prone areas and initiatives like drone surveillance. ADG, law and order, PV Ramasastry said that decrease in crime rate can be attributed to a number of factors. “We intensified patrolling by police response vehicles, while police presence at every crossing led to fear in criminals. In many districts, drones were used for surveillance, leading to a check on criminals,” said Ramasastry. He added that police were planning to continue the exercises even after the lockdown. Officials of UP 112 said that before the lockdown, the maximum number of complaints in a day (10,000) were of street quarrels and fights. However, after the lockdown, due to closure of liquor shops, such fights had become nil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-last-2-wks-of-march-up-saw-65-dip-in-crime-rate/articleshow/75037654.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 positive Goan struggles for life in US||QUEPEM: The condition of the seafarer from Salcete who is suffering from Covid-19 and is admitted in a hospital in United States has worsened, according to family sources. The seafarer’s family got in touch with the Broward Health Medical Center, Miami, Florida on Tuesday and were shocked to learn of the condition. “The last time my brother spoke to me was on April 2. We are very worried. All our relatives and friends are praying to God to cure him and bring him back to us safely,” his sister told TOI on Tuesday. The seafarer is understood to have contracted coronavirus while he was on board a cruise-liner and was admitted to a hospital in Miami on April 1. He has since needed to be put on a ventilator. The 42-year-old is among the 14 Indian seafarers from the same cruise-liner who tested positive and are now admitted to various hospitals in Miami. Doctors from the Broward health center have informed the family that the seafarer is not responding and is now unable to speak. The seafarer was found to be Covid-19 positive a fortnight ago and kept in isolation at the ship's hospital. He was shifted to an onshore hospital on March 27 after his condition worsened. He had embarked on the voyage in January on the ‘Oasis of the Sea’ cruise-liner, operated by Royal Caribbean Lines (RCL), .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-ve-goan-struggles-for-life-in-us/articleshow/75037648.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Helpline for mental health launched||T’puram: Apart from offering psychological support to people on quarantine, the helpline under the health department has started taking care of the needs of healthcare professionals, who are frontline warriors in the fight against Covid 19. Healthcare professionals, including doctors and nurses, are being provided counselling and other psychological supports through the helpline. Dr Kiran P S, state nodal officer, mental health programme, said that the service was launched recently as the healthcare professionals were facing various work-related stress. “Many are working overtime without rest. Due to stress, some have complained of sleeplessness while some are facing anxiety issues. Most of the health workers engaged in Covid19-related works are keeping themselves isolated from families. Some are on quarantine,” he said. The health helpline has also started giving calls to guest labourers. “Initially there were only complaints related to food. e have deployed persons who are fluent in Hindi and Bengali to understand their concerns,” he said.  University of Kerala has started a counselling cell to provide psychological support to students, parents and teachers to cope with the concerns over Covid 19. The cell will provide support through phone, WhatsApp or email. The service will be available from 9am to 6pm. Contact 9947357986, 8547281985, 7306998284, 7902729460, 7907088929, 9447019348, 6282689211, vimalsv21@gmail.com, psy.sujith@gmail.com. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/helpline-for-mental-health-launched/articleshow/75036548.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Delhi||16 cancer patients in Delhi under Covid-19 cloud||NEW DELHI: At least 16 patients admitted at Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) have been tested to find out whether they are Covid-19 positive. Some of them have fever and cough, the classic symptoms of novel coronavirus infection. “We collected their swab samples and sent them for testing. The results are likely to arrive by Wednesday,” said Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of DSCI. Depending on the test results, the patients will either be shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH), which is designated for Covid-19 treatment, or another cancer hospital, he added. Recently, DSCI shut down its OPD services and new admissions when a senior resident working in preventive oncology tested positive for Covid-19. Later, 18 more staff members tested positive for the disease, triggering a major scare. However, in a major reprieve, Sherwal told TOI that the test results of 42 staff members, who were suspected to have contracted the disease, came out negative. “As a precautionary measure, we have advised all staff members to remain under self-quarantine for some days. If someone tests positive, we will take care of them,” he added. Sherwal said new admissions and OPD services have been shut to save patients from contracting the infection because of lack of surety about the source. “We are still exploring whether the infection spread from the senior resident who was the first to test positive or someone else,” said another doctor. Cancer patients are immune compromised and, therefore, the hospital staff said they were most concerned about their well-being. Four days ago, there was a major scare at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) when two patients there tested positive for Covid-19. More than 100 staff members, including doctors and nurses, were advised quarantine. The hospital said in a statement that so far only one of the quarantined workers, a technician, had tested positive. SGRH has designated one its units, which is separate from the main building, for Covid-19 treatment. It has also started testing for the disease. The chairman of the hospital board, Dr DS Rana, said 32 people have been tested so far, of which three have come out positive. In the last few days, several hospitals and their staff members have been affected by the disease, triggering demands for stricter screening and availability of personal protective equipment for healthcare providers. On Tuesday, AIIMS issued an order stating all healthcare workers would be provided five N-95 masks each, which they would have to disinfect and re-use at least four times over 20 days. Directions were also issued to the staff for collecting hydroxychloroquine tablets to be used as a prophylactic drug by those involved in direct care of patients. DRDO has installed a disinfectant chamber at AIIMS to manage the spread of the disease in hospitals. Delhi has reported 576 Covid-19 cases, including 51 positive ones on Tuesday. Of this, 333 are connected to the Nizamuddin cluster. A worrying fact is that 35 people admitted in various hospitals need ICU support. Another 27 require oxygen support, which shows their lung function is compromised. Till date, Delhi has confirmed nine deaths, but this number may increase sharply given the high number of seriously-ill patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16-cancer-patients-under-covid-19-cloud/articleshow/75037243.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra board kids to learn at home with app, TV, radio||MUMBAI: While private schools in the city have embraced e-learning, it has been a month-long pause from education for state-run and aided schools. To ensure some continuity for these students, the state is planning a learn-from-home programme using a mobile application, television and radio. There are over 60,000 zilla parishad schools in the state. The state education department has partnered with UNICEF and NGO, Leadership For Equality (LFE). The existing Diksha mobile app will be used to host content created in line with the state board curriculum. "The smartphone penetration is about 50-60% across the state and we appeal to parents to allow its usage for educational purposes for at least an hour every day. We will also host content for a few hours on channels such as Doordarshan," said Banuri. The programme will be available up to May 31. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a video conference on Tuesday with state officials said that all e-content created by the Balbharti and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will be hosted online, and all officials must work towards creating a daily curriculum for students and connecting with teachers through WhatsApp. The content will currently be optional for students and parents to use. The state is also working on a contingency plan if schools do not re-open in June for the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-board-kids-to-learn-at-home-with-app-tv-radio/articleshow/75047266.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Time to unlock some lockdown art||Kochi: Kochi Biennale has reached out to artist community to share art works created by them during the lockdown. “We want to know what they’ve created during this lock-down and wish to use our platform to show how artists continue to work during such situations,” said Bose Krishnamachari in a message sent to the artists. The art works would be published on social mdia platforms including Instagram and Facebook pages of the foundation and its website, he said. “Many may not have access to art material. I myself used colour pencils of my children to create drawings,” said Krishnamachari who is at Mumbai. The first work in the series shared by Kochi Biennale is that of artist Jitish Kallat, who curated the 2014 edition of Kochi-Muziris Biennale. Kallat had also participated in the 2018 Kochi-Muziris Biennale as an artist. “The inaugural 10 weeks of the new decade have thrown several unexpected curve-balls at us, human species. Since I returned to Mumbai from the US on March 14, I hadn’t visited my home until the end of the month,” wrote Kallat in a note attached to the work shared on Kochi Biennale Instagram handle. For a fortnight, Kallat said, he was in self-imposed isolation at the studio. “I did one water colour in which fragments of discarded sculptures sit atop the drawing and lines freely run over various elements. I may never end up exhibiting this work, but it allowed me a degree of creative nonconformity, a small step towards realizing a body of photo-works that have been lying dormant,” he wrote. The foundation is not looking at finished works but things like sketches, proposals, photos, idea-maps, etc,. “We would like to show our online audience how artists continue to work even during such situations, what sort of art is created during a pandemic and what purpose art serves during times like these,” Krishnamachari said. Artists have been asked to send a high resolution image of the work and a brief text along with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/time-to-unlock-some-lockdown-art/articleshow/75036547.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Trichy||4 more containment zones in city||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has established four more containment zones with the residences of the five patients from the city, who tested positive on Monday, as the epicentre. Trichy district on Monday recorded 13 more Covid-19 positive cases of which five were reported in the corporation’s jurisdiction. Ponmalai zone recorded four cases, including two from the same family, and K Abishekapuram zone recorded one positive case. Officials from the civic body along with revenue department and police personnel blocked all the entry points to the neighbourhoods in three wards in Ponmalai zone and one ward in K Abishekapuram zone where the containment zones were established on Monday night. The cordoned off localities are Khajanagar near Mannarpuram, Balaji Nagar in Bhima Nagar, EB Colony near Trichy Airport. Barricades were placed at the entrances of the streets to restrict public movement and prevent outsiders from entering the vicinity. Similarly, Khajathoppu near Alwarthope was cordoned off in K Abishekapuram zone. It maybe recalled that Alwarthope is already covered under the containment area. “Residents in the containment zone will not be allowed to move out. Essential commodities will reach them. If required, our workers at the containment zone will buy them the required products,” a corporation official said. The local body has mobilised four mini-trucks to sell assorted vegetable bags to the residents. The streets will be supervised on a daily basis by corporation health workers to ascertain if any of the quarantined residents develop Covid-19 symptoms. “The practice will go on for the next 14 days. Hand sprayers and vehicle-mounted power sprayers are being used to disinfect all the streets in containment zones,” the official added. Besides the four new containment zones, there are already five existing containment zones in Thennur, Thillai Nagar, Palakkarai, Woraiyur and Bhima Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-more-containment-zones-in-city/articleshow/75037239.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Narela quarantine centre: Officials deny charges, say elaborate plan put in place||NEW DELHI: Delhi government officials said on Monday that they have been working on improving the facilities at the Narela quarantine centre to ensure that residents do not face any inconvenience. The number of people deployed for sanitation, food, maintenance and security has been increased, they said. More than 500 employees of different government departments – district administration, health, civil defence, corporations, DJB, PWD and DDA – apart from personnel of Delhi Police and central armed forces are posted there. Apart from providing food four times a day – breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner – in their rooms, the district administration is also supplying packaged drinking water. A caterer delivers food packets at the central disbursal point of each tower from where the civil defence volunteers carry them in a trolley to each floor. It is the responsibility of the nursing orderlies to deliver the food in the rooms. “Serving food in each room takes time but some inmates don’t have patience and sometimes they come down at the disbursal point to collect the packets despite strict instructions that they should not come out of their rooms,” another official, who looks after the arrangements at the quarantine centre, said. “For about 1,200 residents, we get about 1,700 food packets and some of them also take two helpings. There is no question of any shortage of food and water,” said the official said, adding that quality and quantity of food is ensured by the administration. The government has currently taken over eight towers and divided them into three blocks. Each tower has the capacity to accommodate 170-190 residents. Each housing unit has two rooms, one for each resident, and a common bathroom-cum-toilet and residents are provided with soaps, sanitizers and other amenities on a regular basis. The centre is monitored by 250 CCTV cameras, mostly outside the buildings and people entering or coming out of the building are watched. “In the towers where the first two batches of people were brought, we have CCTV cameras in the corridors. But we could not install cameras in the corridors of other towers where people from the Markaz have been staying,” an official said. According to the officials, each housing unit and bathroom is cleaned and sanitised twice a day apart from rooms and corridors being fumigated regularly. There are separate teams for electrical and plumbing units available round the clock in three shifts to attend to maintenance issues. “Maintenance issues can crop up in any house or building and that is why we have teams available to attend to such problems,” the second official said reacting to a question on complaints of poor sanitation The health department of Delhi government has also deployed eight to ten teams of doctors, nursing orderlies and paramedics, which are being helped by four teams of the Army deputed recently by the government. Apart from the regular tests to monitor any symptom of Covid-19, the health workers also provide medicines and treatment for any other medical issues. The district authorities, however, said some residents had not been cooperating in giving swabs for testing, forcing the officials to give them stern warnings. “We had to tell them that they will not be given food if they don’t stop being difficult and cooperate with the health teams,” said an official. A day after a case was registered against two members of Tablighi Jamaat for defecating in the corridor of the centre, senior district officials said the action was taken to send across the message that such activities would not be tolerated. They said earlier too they received reports about Jamat members spitting and urinating in public, which were initially ignored and only warnings were issued. “We are now making regular announcements that such acts would not be tolerated and strict action would be taken under the provisions of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officials-deny-charges-say-elaborate-plan-put-in-place/articleshow/75037252.cms||Atul Mathur
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Waste generation dips by 120 MT in Trichy since lockdown||Trichy: Though the Covid-19 preventive measures have put Trichy Corporation’s sanitary workers and officials on toes, the civic body is relieved when it comes to garbage management as the solid waste generated since the beginning of the lockdown has dropped by about 120 MT. Trichy city normally generates 435 MT waste a day. Around 60% of it is biodegradable waste such as food waste and vegetable waste from markets, while the remaining is non-biodegradable waste such as plastic and packaging products. The closure of commercial establishments including bulk waste generators such as food courts, wedding halls, hostels and hotels has significantly reduced waste generation. With textile outlets, street vendors and night tiffin centres not functioning, the city’s non-biodegradable waste generation also came down. Each of the four zones in the corporation has reported a 15-30% fall in waste generation. City’s waste generation due to the lockdown has slipped from 435 MT to 315 MT per day. “Sanitary workers involved in collecting waste from commercial establishments are now mobilised for Covid-19 preventive measures. Micro compost centres (MCC) that collect and recycle waste are less burdened now,” a sanitary official with the corporation said the closure of the Gandhi market alone has resulted in the reduction of 30 MT of waste. The reduction in waste besides saving the time of sanitary workers has also saved the civic body transportation cost. However, waste generated by residential establishments has not faltered. Non-biodegradable waste generated by residents has marginally increased with people consuming a lot of packed food indoors. But, biodegradable waste has come down marginally. The lockdown has also positively impacted public littering. “Public littering has not been completely stopped but it has come down,” another sanitary official added. Waste stats Before lockdown: 435 MT/day After lockdown: 315 MT/day Biodegradable: 60% Non-Biodegradable: 40% Ariyamangalam zone Normal days: 110 MT/day During lockdown: 77 MT/day Difference: 30% K Abishekapuram Normal days: 120 MT Lockdown: 84 MT\ Difference: 30% Ponmalai Normal days: 121 MT/day Lockdown: 83 MT/day Difference: 30% Srirangam Normal days: 85 MT/day Lockdown: 71 MT/day Difference: 15%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/waste-generation-dips-by-120-mt-in-trichy-since-lockdown/articleshow/75037244.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Meerut||Report or face NSA:Muzaffarnagar SSP to Jamaatis||Muzaffarnagar: District police of Muzaffarnagar has issued a warning to those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi to present themselves for medical screening for coronavirus or else they will be charged with the stringent National Security Act (NSA).Issuing the warning to jamaatis who are still hidding, Abhishek Yadav, Muzaffarnagar SSP, said on Tuesday that if people who had visited COVID-19 hotspots like Nizamuddin Merkez do not voluntarily report to the district administration, strict action would be taken against such offenders and that it would also include slapping of the stringent National Security Act (NSA).Speaking with TOI, SSP Abhishek Yadav said, "We have set a deadline for such people who have come from Nizamuddin Merkez or other Covid-19 hot spots. If such people do not declare themselves till 8 pm on Monday, we will start to find them. We also have digital data provided by different agencies. A case will be registered against such people and if we find that anyone has intentionally been avoiding detection, then NSA will be slapped on such people."It should be noted that till Tuesday, Muzaffarnagar did nor have a single case of Covid-19.The health department has sent a large number of samples of suspects, which so far have been found to be negative.With Covid-19 positive cases surfacing in the districts adjoining Muzaffarnagar, the administration and police have stepped up searches in a bid to find such people who came in the district after March 12.A large number of migrants labourers and Jamaatis are still under quarantine in different parts of Muzaffarnagar.They will be released after spending 28 days in quarantine centres, confirmed additional district magistrate, Amit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/report-or-face-nsamuzaffarnagar-ssp-to-jamaatis/articleshow/75037240.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||13K surveyed, 117 tested from Nagarwada||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has surveyed over 13,000 persons from Nagarwada, Machhipith and surrounding areas after three persons staying in the area tested positive. The civic body has come across 22 persons having upper respiratory infections during the drive. According to officials, as part of the mass testing drive 117 samples were collected by the civic body. Of these, 20 persons had tested negative while the results of the remaining were awaited. The city police and VMC have contained the entire area under mass quarantine and put up tin sheets on all entry points to the area. All supplies and other necessities are provided to the area by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13k-surveyed-117-tested-from-nagarwada/articleshow/75034932.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Due date for power bills now extended to May 20||PANAJI: The due dates of electricity bills have been extended to May 20 for all low tension consumers and May 15 for all high tension consumers with no delayed payment charges. Goa Electricity department has taken the decision in view of the lockdown imposed in the state to control Covid-19. For all low-tension consumers whose payment deadline falls within the lockdown period, the date has been extended up to May 20. Similarly the due date for payment of electricity bills generated and issued to all high tension consumers in the month of April has been extended to May 15. “No Delayed Payment Charges (DPC) will be levied on the unpaid amount of the electricity bills of consumers, if the bills are paid within the extended due dates,” chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni said. The electricity department last month extended the due date of electricity bills to April 15 and stated that no new bills would be generated during the lockdown period. To ensure that citizens are not inconvenienced by any power-related problems during the lockdown, the department has also appointed taluka-wise nodal officers who can be contacted on the help desk number. A total of 30 nodal officers — 18 for North Goa and 20 for South Goa — comprising executive engineers and assistant engineers have been appointed to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the lockdown period. Depending on its size, each taluka has one executive engineer and multiple assistant engineers who have been appointed as the nodal officers. “The help desk number 1912 can be accessed round the clock and will be monitored continuously by an officer specifically posted for the purpose,” Keni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/due-date-for-power-bills-now-extended-to-may-20/articleshow/75037661.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Barred entry into societies, domestic helps still unpaid||NEW DELHI: Anju Devi (38), a resident of east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, works as a domestic help in six DDA flats in nearby Mayur Vihar Phase-I. The mother of three hasn’t been able to go to work since the lockdown was enforced, nor has she been able to collect her salary. “My husband is a mason and has not earned anything since the lockdown. My pending salary is the only hope of sustaining ourselves. Although my employers have agreed to pay me, the housing society people are not letting me even go near the gates. The guards chase me away,” said Devi. Deepak Pal (26), a driver in a tony south Delhi neighbourhood, couldn’t get his salary as he failed to reach his employer’s house. “There is no public transport and the distance from my colony to my employer’s house cannot be covered on foot. I took out my bike, but was stopped by policemen even before I could travel a kilometre. They made me turn back despite repeated requests,” he said. All domestic helps, cooks, drivers, car cleaners, washermen, et al, are usually paid in the first week of each month. Though most people want to pay them, giving them cash is a problem and the workers are not comfortable with online transactions. In many areas, RWAs are not allowing them to enter colonies. At times, even police stop them on the roads, asking them not to loiter and return to their houses. “My maid told me that the camp they live in is being strictly watched by policemen and they are not being allowed to go out,” said Soma Dasgupta, a resident of CR Park. “Though this is for their own safety as anyone getting infected in such a congested area would be disastrous, they should be allowed to take their salary,” she added. A senior police officer said they will brief local cops to allow the workers to collect their salaries. “However, some housing societies are not allowing them entry. If they are facing any issues, they can call the helpline (011-23469526) and seek help from us,” he said. Pankaj Agarwal, general secretary of Delhi RWA Joint Front, said, “Without restrictions, everyone will start entering residential areas. Residents should cooperate and develop self-discipline. A date can be fixed for payment of salaries.” May gated colonies, however, have devised the mechanism of paying domestic helps at the gates itself. “All the maids who work in our housing society live in nearby Mandawali. They came this morning and collected their salaries. We have also decided to pay a fixed amount to washermen,” said Urvashi Sharma, a resident of IP Extension. (Names of workers changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/barred-entry-into-societies-domestic-helps-still-unpaid/articleshow/75037253.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 3 hotels in Doon to be made quarantine centres||DEHRADUN/NAINITAL: The Doon district administration has acquired three private hotels in the city, which will be used as quarantine centres where Covid-19- positive patients will be kept for treatment and monitoring purposes. The three hotels acquired on Tuesday include Hotel Viceroy Inn, Hotel Saffron Leaf and Hotel Doon Castle. Meanwhile, aday after Nainital district administration sealed two localities of Haldwani, the administration deputed a magistrate to each of the quarantine centres in the district. The administration has also ordered the officials to make sure that the food packets as well as wrappers and other items used in supply of food and other essential items to the quarantine centers are burned to avert the chances of people contracting the virus. "We have decided to send magistrates to the quarantine centres. They will be assisted by the police and will prepare the details of the people living in quarantine centres which will then be forwarded to chief medical officer (CMO) so that they can come to the spots and take samples for testing," said Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal. “We have also directed all our workers and the magistrates to make sure that a no item which is not of use is kept open,” said Bansal. Till now, Nainital district has reported six Coronavirus-positive cases, five of which were reported from Haldwani while one was reported from Ramnagar. The administration meanwhile has also directed the municipal corporations and municipal councils of the areas to conduct regular sanitisation exercises in all the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-hotels-in-doon-to-be-made-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75036550.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Strict curfew in Pokhran, banks will remain closed||JAISALMER: Local people in Pokhran who had come in contact with the attendees of Tablighi Jamaat are testing positive for coronavirus. To prevent further spread, the district administration has directed police to strictly implement curfew. Medical teams have been sent door-to-door for collecting samples and a survey was also being conducted. All banks have been closed in Pokhran. On Monday night, a government employee who works at a discom tested positive. Later, the district administration collected samples of 21 government employees the reports of which was expected. Around 109 people have been sent to quarantine centres. People from the Jamaat reached Pokhran on March 19 and stayed there and took part in many programmes. Sources said that even after PM Narendra Modi announced the lockdown from March 22, many violated it and organised a programme in which a large number of local people took part. They also took part in another programme on March 30. At that time, police did not get information and now they have swung into action to find out the travel history of Jamaat members and who all they had met. Sources added that ambulances were used to drop Tablighi Jamaat attendees to Pipad and Bikaner. Police have registered a case against one Yarun Khan for misusing his ambulance under Section 188. Pokhran MLA and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad appealed to the people of Pokhran to come forward and get tested. On Wednesday, seven new cases came to light in Pokhran. Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta and SP Kiran Kang and other officers inspected the city. The collector said those who had come in touch with infected people were being tested. Around 100 people have been kept at five quarantine centres in Pokhran. All media passes have been cancelled. Selected grocery stores have been asked to remain open who will deliver the goods at home after getting orders on phone. Kang said Khan had dropped a Tabligi Jamaat member to Pipad on March 23 and again dropped three members to Bikaner on March 31 in his personal ambulance. CMHO B K Barupal said samples of more than 100 people were taken in Pokhran who came in contact with the infected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/strict-curfew-in-pokhran-banks-will-remain-closed/articleshow/75037673.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Drone cameras to track lockdown violations in UP||LUCKNOW: To ensure strict implementation of lockdown, the home department will soon deploy drone cameras across the state. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “Drone cameras will help the government monitor and crack down on violators, particularly those misusing permissions to purchase essentials. The chief minister wants there should be no violation of curbs,” he said. Besides local police, the home department has deployed a parallel special task force to track Tablighi members, prepare their dossier along with their past history and keep an eye on their movements. Awasthi said, influx of Tablighis in the state posed a major challenge to the health department as it triggered a sudden surge in coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drone-cams-to-track-lockdown-violations-in-up/articleshow/75037662.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Rolling out masks, one stitch at a time||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: He is the recipient of Kerala state’s best actor award. A few months ago, he had received best actor award at Singapore South Asian International Film fest. But, that does not keep actor Indrans away from the profession where it all started. Known for his down-to-earth personality, Indrans donned a tailor’s role again to demonstrate production of cloth masks. This time, it is not on reel, but for real. The video featuring Indrans making masks using a sewing machine was uploaded on the Facebook page of Kerala Disaster Help Desk on Tuesday. In the video, Indrans joins the team of inmates at Poojappura central prison to explain how anyone with basic tailoring skills could make masks in their own house. Within minutes, the video went viral, with all hailing the actor for his simplicity and dedication. The actor said that he went to the prison after getting a call from the social security mission. “They asked whether I could give awareness to public about mask making. Through the video, we tell that anyone can make a mask with minimum sewing skills. It won’t even need a sewing machine. We all have unused cloth materials at home. It could be easily made even using hand stitching,” he said. To anyone who plans to make cloth mask at home, Indrans has a tip to offer: Place a non-woven fabric in between two layers of cloth. “It is the same material that we get as carrybags after the ban on plastic carry bags. Or else, another thick layer of cloth will do,” he said. Indrans said that the staff of tailoring units run by his brothers have all gone back to their native places due to lockdown or else they could be made useful for production of more masks. “With the spread of disease at this rate, all are recommended to wear masks,” he said. Indrans had a hearty laugh when told about the video going viral and he getting accolades. “I could only do what I know. That is the contribution I could make,” he said. Mask production has started in 55 prisons in the state. Over 2.85 lakh masks were produced till March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rolling-out-masks-one-stitch-at-a-time/articleshow/75036573.cms||Jisha Surya
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Results of Youth Congress polls declared||Jaipur: The state Youth Congress on Tuesday announced the results of the elections held recently. Mukesh Kumar Bhakar has been elected to the post of state Youth Congress president. Amardin (general) and Rakesh Kumar Meena (SC/ST) were elected as vice presidents. Sanjita Sihag got the post of vice president in the women’s category while the election of the fourth vice presidential candidate Sumit Bhagasara has been put on hold. Satyaveer Aloriya, Yeshveer Shoora, Roma Jain, Parmender Sihag were elected as four secretaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/results-of-youth-congress-polls-declared/articleshow/75037674.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||15 days into lockdown, salon owners flooded with home-visit request in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: After almost 15 days of lockdown, the salon owners in Dehradun are flooded with requests from customers asking them to visit their homes for haircut. While some of the salon owners are accommodating the requests, there are others who have refused to do so. Salim, who owns a salon at Chakrata Road, said, “I have received a lot of phone calls from my old clients, but since the lockdown is in place I could attend only to a few clients in the past 15 days. I have only attended to customers who live near my house. During my visit I not only carried face mask, surgical gloves but also sanitised the equipment.” Salon-owner Manvendra Rawat has gone an extra mile to motivate around 1,500 customers to stay safe at home. He has shot several videos of himself updating his customers on the lockdown and easy methods to groom themselves. Talking to TOI, he said, “There is no question of opening the shop before the situation is under control. I am in touch with the customers via WhatsApp. Since many of my clients are from other districts, I have requested them to not visit any random barber or call them home as a preventive measure.” Manvendra has also drafted a visitor’s guide for customers who will be visiting his salon once the lockdown is lifted. “I have included basic procedures such as hand washing, use of hand sanitizer and chemical solution to sterilize the scissors and blade that we use every day. I have prepared a visitors guide after consulting some doctors who are my clients. I have also placed bulk order for disposable cutting sheets which will dent my pocket but it is important for safety,” he added. Dr Himanshu Arora, eye surgeon and a resident of Green View Apartment, said, “Getting a haircut is important but not more than keeping ourselves alive. If we follow all guidelines now, the situation will be better soon and we will be able to go back to our favourite salon.” Some confusion prevailed among the salon owners two days ago, after rumors that the administration has decided to allow salons to open. Later, the administration clarified that salon services have not been notified under essential services and will open only after the lock down is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-days-into-lockdown-salon-owners-flooded-with-home-visit-request/articleshow/75036562.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Thanjavur||Trichy: Three more people including a woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Thanjavur on Tuesday pushing the total number of people infected with the virus to 91 in the state’s central region. The positive cases include a 52-year-old man from Adhirampattinam and a 51-year-old man from Ammapettai, both Tablighi Jamaat delegates. With the three cases, the number of total cases in Thanjavur touched 11, which includes one West Indies returnee from Kumbakonam. In Trichy, the test results of the six more TJ delegates with Covid-19 symptoms are awaited at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). It was expected to be released on Monday. The hospital has four more new patients with Covid-19 symptoms. MGMGH had 30 positive cases – all of them from a Delhi event. The hospital is also providing treatment to one Covid-19 patient each from Erode, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur. Trichy district administration said all of them were stable. Trichy district administration said that none of the family members/ close contacts of the 30 Covid-19 patients in Trichy showed symptoms. “I have visited Puthanatham and Thuvarankurichi areas. No family members are showing Covid-19 symptoms,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI this evening. The collector also said that he has ordered for taking samples of a 73-year-old woman and a 20-year-old pregnant woman in the area. “I have asked the health department to concentrate on aged people and high risk people in the families of the affected people to ascertain their status,” said the collector. As on Monday, 84 patients including 69 people who attended the Delhi event tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-thanjavur/articleshow/75037249.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Source segregation of waste improves during curfew||Trichy: Source segregation of waste by residents in Trichy city has bettered in the last two weeks. Apartments that usually draw flak for poor cooperation in source segregation of waste are acknowledged for practising source segregation in the absence of caretakers. Earlier, ensuring segregation of waste at source had been an uphill task for the sanitary workers. Gated communities and apartments that have employed caretakers to collect waste were often blamed for the poor response in source segregation. However, after the curfew, the situation has changed for good as far as source segregation is concerned, said the sanitary department of Trichy Corporation. “Since the caretakers in the apartments are not reporting for duty, residents are individually dumping their waste in bins placed at the entrances. Several apartments have placed two bins earmarked for biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste,” a sanitary official with the corporation said. The residents also added that convenience of working from home and staying indoors have given the residents adequate time to segregate waste. “The absence of caretakers to collect our waste in the apartment has pushed us to follow the importance of segregating waste at the source,” S Gopinath, a resident of Srirangam, said. Utilising the curfew to promote source segregation, the corporation has planned to sensitise residents about the importance of dumping waste separately as biodegradable, non-biodegradable and hazardous waste (napkins and diapers).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/source-segregation-of-waste-improves-during-curfew/articleshow/75037246.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Farmers reeling under lockdown now demand crop loan write-off||Trichy: Despite the state government taking various measures to safeguard the livelihood of the farming community following the outbreak of Covid-19, they have been unable to market their produce. Hence, farmers who raised banana, pulses and flowers have appealed to the state and Union governments to write off the crop loan availed from both cooperative and nationalized banks immediately. The worst affected are those who raised summer paddy, pulses, vegetables, flowers and banana which were ready for harvest. “As they could not transport their produce to their regular market, they were forced to sell them to traders. Taking advantage of the situation, the traders were buying in hundreds of rupees and earning in thousands”, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress Puliyur A Nagarajan said. Farmers who have cultivated maize, groundnut in Perambalur and some parts of Trichy could not harvest them due to non-availability of labourers, he added. Writing off crop loans is the only step that the government should take to protect the livelihood of farmers, he further stated. According to the secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan,the state government was doing many things to ease the business of farmers. However, for the farmers who were not tech-savvy it was not easy to book a truck online. Unlike others, vegetable and flower farmers cannot remain indoors as they have to dispose of their perishable produce. Now, they are unable to do it because of the lockdown, he added. “Government should have procured banana, vegetables and flower and sold them through Uzhavar Santhai to avert the loss incurred by farmers”, he opined. In these circumstances, the Centre should at least announce Rs 3,000 as MSP for paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-reeling-under-lockdown-now-demand-crop-loan-write-off/articleshow/75037258.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Cusat joins int’l image-based diagnosis project network||Kochi: Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has become part of international network of image-based diagnosis (INID) project using artificial intelligence (AI). This follows a collaboration with the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) that is heading the international project. With this, the computer science department of Cusat has become part of a joint international project along with medical image processing group (MIPG), Pennsylvania University, USA; College of Computer Science, Hainan University, China and AI Centre, Aizu University, Japan. The Norwegian Research Council will provide a fund of around Rs 4.5 crore to complete the project by 2023. “We are very strong in this area and our artificial intelligence & computer vision lab (AICVL) is doing a lot of research and publications on using artificial intelligence for medical diagnosis,” said Santhosh Kumar G, who along with Madhu S Nair, is co-investigator of the project. The main aim of the INID project is to establish a long-term international partnership between NTNU and world-class research groups in artificial intelligence, medical imaging and clinical decision making in diagnosis from leading countries in the topic, such as China, USA, India and Japan. Kumar said that the outcomes of INID will lead to long-term top-class research in the field, turning the collaborating institutes into frontrunners in applying basic research on AI in healthcare. “A joint PhD program will be one of the major outcomes of the project, where a candidate would be jointly enrolled at two universities (Cusat and NTNU) and spends time at each university,” he said. “The scientific aim is to study how AI can help understand large collections of medical images and assist in diagnostic decisions made by doctors or clinicians,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-joins-intl-image-based-diagnosis-project-network/articleshow/75036572.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||‘Do not demonise Islam over Jamaat incident’||Haridwar: Muslims in Haridwar have strongly condemned the alleged misbehavior of Tablighi Jamaat members towards police, doctors and other health staff, calling it unjustifiable and uncalled for. They said that because of a handful of people defying quarantine and refusing to cooperate with the administration, an entire community had been maligned, which is unfair. “Strict action as per law should be taken against those violating the lockdown and putting hundreds of lives at risk. Islam doesn’t approve of such behavior,” said Tanzim Ali, former chief finance officer of Haridwar. Maulvi Arshad, vice president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, Uttarakhand, who has been associated with the Tablighi Jamaat for over two decades, said, “We are deeply ashamed of the way the Nizamuddin Markaz incident harmed the government’s fight against novel coronavirus.” Padma shri Khalid Zaheer, a retired senior BHEL officer, said, “I feel hurt by the way an attempt is being made to paint the entire Muslim community black because of the Tablighi Jamaat incident. Islam cannot be held responsible for the action of some people.” “Tablighi Jamaat is an international organization, which acquaints Muslims with the basic tenets of Islam and has nothing to do with politics,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/do-not-demonise-islam-over-jamaat-incident/articleshow/75036571.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Allow retail vends to open: Liquor makers urge CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Requesting for opening of retail liquor vends in the state during the lockdown, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and apprised him of growing sales of illicit liquor in the state. It has added that the loss of revenue due to the closure of liquor shops is crucial as1 the state needs more funds to tackle the situation arising out of spread of coronavirus. The organisation has also asked for an extension of excise year as vendors have not been able to clear stock or renew licences and registrations. “The industry finds itself in an unwarranted situation as the excise year ended in the middle of lockdown on March 31. This prevented our members from clearing stocks and renewing licenses and registrations. We request you to extend the current excise year to April 30 or a month from the day lockdown will be lifted and allow existing licenses to continue till then without any fees,” said Vinod Giri, director-general, CIABC. Giri told TOI that the organisation had written to several states with a similar request and many of them had already extended the excise year till May 31. The validity of existing export permits, transit permits and other such permissions should also be extended till April 30 or a month from the day lockdown will be lifted to help process the stock which is stuck in transit, Giri said. The organisation further informed the government that with authorised liquor vends closed, illicit liquor sales were going up in the state. “Alcohol is one of the most important sources of revenue for state governments. By shutting down retail shops, governments are depriving themselves of tax revenue which can be utilised in fighting coronavirus spread. Some state governments have taken proactive measures and directed relaxation in the shut down orders for alcoholic beverages shops. Some have also allowed home delivery,” Giri has said in his letter. The organisation, requesting the government to permit sale of liquor from retail outlets during the lockdown period, said that measures like curtailed shop timings could be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allow-retail-vends-to-open-liquor-makers-urge-cm/articleshow/75037676.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||University exams likely in May-June||NAGPUR: Chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday said summer examinations, which were indefinitely deferred due to coronavirus outbreak, should be held in May and June if lockdown is lifted. He was interacting with vice-chancellors of all state universities through video conferencing. “He invited suggestions from VCs on how to conduct the exams if lockdown is extended,” said Nagpur University’s outgoing VC SP Kane. There were suggestions to combine the summer and winter exams in case the crisis persists beyond July. “Recommendations to conduct exams in objective pattern was also discussed,” Kane told TOI. Due to coronavirus outbreak, universities had deferred the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/university-exams-likely-in-may-june/articleshow/75037234.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Amitabh Bachchan, Prosenjit glitter in multi-starrer short film, help cine workers in time of crisis||KOLKATA: Since he returned after cutting short the schedule of ‘Kakababur Protyaborton’ in South Africa, actor Prosenjit Chatterjee has strictly been under home quarantine for 14 days. That was before the lockdown was announced. Even his social media appearance went down drastically. All that changed the day he received a call from Amitabh Bachchan asking him to be a part of a short film titled ‘Family’ that has been shot at home and is meant to support daily wage workers associated with the entertainment industry. Life in home quarantine for a busy star can be a challenge. “For 14 days, I was in total isolation. Each floor in my house is like an apartment. I stayed alone on one floor that has an attached terrace. Only my food would be sent up via the lift. I did everything else on my own,” he said. The call to be a part of the movie, ‘Family’, came after his quarantine period was over. This is the first time Chatterjee has been part of such a shoot-at-home project with multiple stars across India. “The short film is directed by Prasoon Pandey. He shot my portion and sent it to me. This was to give me an idea of how I needed to sit and what was the camera angle that would be required,” Chatterjee recalled. According to Chatterjee, these clips were sent to all the actors. That included Amitabh Bachchan, Rajnikanth, Ranbir Kapoor, Priyanka Chopra, Alia Bhatt, Chiranjeevi, Mohanlal, Mammootty, Sonalee Kulkarni, Shiva RajKumar and Diljit Dosanjh. “I think, it was Big B’s brainchild. Then, he sat with the director and came up with this concept. The idea of writing a script based on a simple pair of dark glasses to emphasize the need to stay at home during lockdown is unique. The use of humour has appealed to all. With this video, he proved that he can get all actors across India to collaborate for a cause.” The shoot took place at Chatterjee’s Ballygunje residence. “I asked my PR to come over. She just had to hold the mobile phone in the angle that was shown in the original clip. Unless we got that angle right, it would be difficult to sync it with the angles of the clips preceding and following mine. It was over in five minutes. All the actors shot their clips similarly.” Chatterjee’s clip was sent to Mumbai on Sunday. “All this was done in just three days. We were told to send the video by 10pm on Sunday. I was told that editing was done throughout the night. On Monday, we were sent a rough cut on a group mail.” The actor is happy that people are connecting with the film nationally. “With a touch of humour, the film is creating awareness. I am happy that people are liking it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/big-b-prosenjit-glitter-in-multi-starrer-short-film-help-cine-workers-in-time-of-crisis/articleshow/75037682.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 8, 2020||Amaravati||59-year-old dies in Amravati Covid-19 hospital, report awaited||Amravati: A 59-year-old man’s death at the district general hospital’s special Covid-19 unit has sparked fears of the novel coronavirus outbreak in the city though swab test report is yet to confirm whether the deceased had contracted the coronavirus or not. The patient, a mechanic and resident of Sufiya Nagar locality here, was rushed to district general hospital from Medlife Hospital on Walgaon Road on Monday midnight with respiratory disturbances. He was admitted to non-Covid ward of the Covid-19 Hospital, opened last Saturday on the premises of Super Speciality Hospital. However, the patient died around 1am of Tuesday during treatment. The deceased had no travel history for the last two years. Civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam told TOI that the patient was suffering from heart disease and had undergone bypass surgery in 2014. “When the patient was admitted to the hospital, his throat swab sample was taken and sent to Nagpur for Covid-19 test. The report is awaited,” he added. The man is survived by wife, two daughters and a son. The administration has quarantined members in his family and put them in the isolation ward of the district general hospital. Roads to Sufiya Nagar have also been sealed as precautionary measure. The private hospital where the patient was taken first has been sanitized and sealed. The doctor and nurses there have been quarantined. “Body of the deceased was buried at Lalkhadi Road kabrastan on Tuesday afternoon as per protocol,” said collector Shailesh Naval. He told TOI that whether the deceased was corona positive or not could be established only after his swab test report is out. The district as well as health administration is worried over the delay in receiving swab test reports from Nagpur lab. Even after opening a separate lab for western Vidarbha districts at AIIMS Nagpur, things do not seem to have fallen in place. The administration here is yet to receive 126 swab test reports even as nine more samples have been sent for testing on Tuesday. “We have received only six reports on Tuesday and all of them are negative,” said Naval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/59-year-old-dies-in-amravati-covid-19-hospital-report-awaited/articleshow/75037271.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham Yatra preparations to begin in full swing from April 15||DEHRADUN: Amidst the looming threat of Covid-19, work is beginning for the upcoming Char Dham Yatra in Uttarakhand. The preparations for the Yatra season will be undertaken at a fast pace from April 15 (when the lockdown is likely to be lifted), officials said on Tuesday. The officials added that they were optimistic that the preparations would be completed by the time the yatra commences. This year, the Char Dham Yatra would begin from April 26 when the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines will be opened. This will be followed by opening of doors of Kedarnath shrine on April 29 and Badrinath temple on April 30. “Snow has already been removed on a stretch of the trek route of Kedarnath shrine. The remaining work will be completed before the yatra starts,” Rudraprayag’s ddistrict magistrate (DM) Mangesh Ghidiyal told TOI. The official added that presently, the focus is on tackling Covid-19 and future preparations would be planned on the basis of the decisions taken by the government regarding the lockdown. Meanwhile, Chamoli’s DM Swati Bhadauria said that an inspection of the area around Badrinath shrine has already been conducted and the road has been cleared up to Mana village. “The remaining work will be completed within a fortnight,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-yatra-preparations-to-begin-in-full-swing-from-april-15/articleshow/75036588.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||Covid care: 8 UP ministers, 2 legislators pledge money||LUCKNOW: Support continued to pour in for fight against Covid-19 as eight ministers in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet and two BJP legislators announced contribution to the Covid Care Fund on Tuesday. Eight ministers Nand Gopal Nandi, Brajesh Pathak, Mohsin Raza, Bhupendra Chaudhary, Sidharth Nath Singh, Atul Garg, Mahesh Chandra Gupta and Ajit Singh Pal donated their local area development fund (MLA LAD) of one year amounting Rs 3 crore each. Similarly, BJP MLA Somendra Tomar donated his local area development fund of fund year and MLC Vijay Bahadur Pathak contributed his development fund of two years (Rs 6 crore) and took a 30% cut in his salary. Meanwhile, BJP MP Sanjay Seth has started a special relief camp in his place Purwa in Unnao and distributed free foodgrain and other essential items among villagers. Earlier, UP minister Suresh Rana and Anil Rajbhar had announced Rs 1 crore from their local area development fund. The CM has set a target of Rs 1,000 crore for Covid Care Fund. Most of the contribution is expected to come from legislators cutting across party lines. UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit had recently appealed to all MLAs to donate to Covid fund. After Dixit appeal, BSP chief Mayawati had also asked all her 17 party MLAs to donate in Covid care fund after which the CM called her up to thank her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-care-8-up-mins-2-legislators-pledge-money/articleshow/75037687.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Directive throws teachers into tizzy||Panaji: A WhatsApp message sent by education department officials to heads of schools at 11.30am on Tuesday created panic among teaching faculty across the state. The message gave schools just 1.5 hours to provide details of teachers who could be deputed for the house-to-house survey on Covid-19 that was announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant a day earlier. The Goa Headmasters’ Association also wrote to the chief minister seeking to know if teachers would be provided with protective gear like masks and gloves while conducting the survey. “Within minutes of announcing the house-to-house survey, the chief minister had declared that the dates were postponed and that the survey would begin from April 13. It appears that this message has not reached the education officials who have sent an urgent message over WhatsApp on Tuesday, asking school heads to provide the information by 1pm the same day,” said Vithoba Dessai former president of AGGSTA and of the Goa Headmasters’ Association. Dessai said the link provided by the education officials was not yet functional and advised teachers to react only after “an official directive comes from the directorate of education”. “Teachers will go from house to house. So how can we be certain that they will not become carriers of the virus while conducting the survey? When schools reopen, these teachers could become the source of infection for students. Also, the notice has been circulated through WhatsApp, when it should have been uploaded on the education directorate’s website or sent as an email to schools,” Dessai said. He added that aided schools belong to private managements which will prioritise the safety of their teachers in the present situation. Teachers, however, said they should not be made to risk their lives and termed as ‘high-handedness’ the WhatsApp directive issued by the directorate of eduction.“Teachers are not trained for this job. How will they ascertain the information provided is true? one teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/directive-throws-teachers-into-tizzy/articleshow/75037292.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two Jamaatis slapped with attempt to murder charges for hiding their participation||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand director general (law and order) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday said that two members of Tablighi Jamaat in Haridwar district have been booked under IPC's section 307 (attempt to murder) for hiding travel history, misleading authorities and putting lives of others at risk. Both Jamaatis, one from Haridwar city and another from Roorkee, took part in the religious congregation at Alwar, Rajasthan, in March, police said. “On the basis of their call records, we found that they attended Jamaat in Alwar and returned in March. They have been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) for hiding their participation and putting others at risk,” said the DG, adding that both have been quarantined. The cases were registered after the deadline, given by Uttarakhand DGP Anil Raturi, asking Jamaatis to show up before the police, health and district authorities, ended on April 6. Following the strict warning, as many as 180 people, including Jamaat returnees and their contacts, from Haridwar, Dehradun, Pauri and Nainital districts surrendered before the authorities. Kumar added, “We have already booked 41 people, who were trying to enter Uttarakhand clandestinely between April 1 and 5, under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. In Laksar, police registered cases against four people for giving shelter to Jamaatis.” Significantly, police have filed cases against 44 people for allegedly spreading rumours about Covid-19, while over 4,000 people have been arrested for defying lockdown order in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-jamaatis-slapped-with-attempt-to-murder-charges-for-hiding-their-participation/articleshow/75036600.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 8, 2020||Lucknow||VHP blames Tablighi Jamaat for corona spurt, demands ban||LUCKNOW: Holding attendees of Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi responsible for spurt in Covid-19 positive cases, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has demanded that the Centre should ban the Jamaat and investigate into its source of funding. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, VHP’s working president Alok Kumar said, “Not only the bank accounts of Tablighi Jamaat be confiscated but its key office-bearers should also be arrested. Members of the Jamaat are responsible for the spread of coronavirus which has claimed the lives of many people.” He alleged that the members of Jamaat were deliberately opposing treatment and misbehaving with nurses and paramedical staff. A week ago, VHP had termed Tablighi Jamaat a “factory of coronavirus” and said it could foil the government’s efforts of enforcing complete lockdown. “The entire country is in serious trouble due to the activities of Tablighi Jamaat and Nizamuddin Markaz,” Kumar said. Another VHP leader said: “When the entire country was heaving a sigh of relief that the rise in number of coronavirus cases was just 2.8% in first three weeks of March, the number of coronavirus cases jumped to over 48% by the end of March due to Jamaat’s event.” “Many continue to hide in mosques. Due to this, the possibility of community transmission of the virus has risen,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhp-blames-tablighi-jamaat-for-corona-spurt-demands-ban/articleshow/75037691.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, a ‘corona car’ to spread awareness in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A ‘corona car’ has been designed by Kanyaboyina Sudhakar of Sudha Cars Museum in Bahadurpura for spreading awareness about the pandemic.“The spread of Covid-19 has to be contained. I have designed the car in the shape of the virus which is depicted popularly so that awareness can be spread on social distancing by the public,” Sudhakar told TOI on Tuesday. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar is expected to unveil the car on Wednesday. Sudhakar said that if government agencies, including the police, show interest, he would want the car to be used so that the message gets conveyed to the public. The car has been designed and made with a 100cc engine. A six-wheeler, it has a single seat, fibre body and can travel up to a speed of 40 kmph. “It took 10 days for me to make it,” Sudhakar said. Sudhakar has placed on display several similar models that he has made so far at the Sudha Cars Museum. The cars include a handbag car, shoe car, helmet car, camera car, toilet car, condom car, burger car and many other models.He has also designed the world’s smallest double decker, in addition to the numerous bicycles. “I have always made cars to give back to the society in my own way on different occasions for different causes. Now, at this time, it is important to tell people to stay home and stay safe and the coronavirus car is meant to convey the message,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-a-corona-car-to-spread-awareness/articleshow/75037178.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Builders chip in, hold health camps, give food rations to construction labourers||Mumbai: The real estate industry— the second largest employer in the country after agriculture—is pulling its resources to reach out to tens of thousands of labourers stranded at construction sites due to the lockdown. Individual developers and builders’ associations are coordinating relief work, holding health camps and providing food rations to the workers. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region itself, MCHI-CREDAI, a body that represents leading developers, has over 70,000 labourers at 1,200 sites, said president Nayan Shah. “Soon after the outbreak, we contacted each of our members seeking details about the labourers and how we could help them,” said Shah. MCHI-CREDAI officials said the organization is coordinating with the state labour commissioner to provide mid-day meals to all registered labourers under Atal Ahar Yojana scheme. The labour commissioner’s department provides one meal a day to them while builders chip in and hand over weekly rations. Due to manpower and vehicle shortage in the department, these meals have not reached several labourers. “Every week, we give 2kg rice, 1kg dal, 1kg potatoes, 1kg onions, cooking oil and other provisions to each family. These rations are distributed at the project sites,” said Deepak Goradia, president-elect of MCHI-CREDAI. The regions covered so far are Thane, Dombivali, Greater Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Raigad district and Vasai-Virar. “We also hold periodic health camps for the workers and carry out fogging and cleaning activities at the construction sites,” said Goradia. The National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), another organization which represents builders, issued an advisory regarding the health and well-being of construction workers and professionals. “We provide rations and hold medical camps for around three lakh workers in MMR alone,” said Rajan Bandelkar, state president of NAREDCO. He said its members are also keeping quarantine facilities ready if required by local municipal bodies. Meanwhile, individual builders are also contributing to fight the crisis. Hiranandani Group recently announced Rs 5 crore for the chief minister’s relief fund, specifically to tackle the virus. Lodha Group announced special initiatives for contract workers and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/builders-chip-in-hold-health-camps-give-food-rations-to-construction-labourers/articleshow/75054633.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Sania Mirza on a mission to feed those in need||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown affecting thousands of migrants and homeless people, Hyderabadis are doing their bit to lend them a helping hand. Leading from the front is tennis star Sania Mirza. She has helped raise Rs 2 crore since the virus’ outbreak. The funds have helped in procuring and distributing 20,000 food packages to the poor, containing a week’s ration for a family of four. The pan-India effort is being carried out in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. On Tuesday, the tennis player ensured more food was distributed at LB stadium. Each package included essential commodities as well as a box of Zinda Tilismath — a herbal medicine, which is used for treating many common ailments — and a strip of crocin. “Every day we would have a few people turn up at home and we would provide them food. I also began seeing images of people going hungry, which hit me hard. We are privileged to be living in comfort, there are many who are struggling to get a meal,” Sania told TOI. She is helping NGO SAFA through a campaign called ‘Youth Feed India’ in reaching out to a much larger number of people across states. The tennis ace said till now over one lakh people have benefited. “All the amount we raise seems less considering the number of hungry people in the country,” she said. Her sister Anam is helping with the administrative work while the Sports Authority of Telangana is providing on-ground support. Several friends, including from the film industry, have backed and donated to the effort. “It looks like there is a long battle ahead. The work we are doing is just the beginning and we hope we can raise more funds,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sania-on-a-mission-to-feed-those-in-need/articleshow/75037188.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||99 US citizens given safe passage home from Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 99 United States citizens, including 98 adults and one infant, stuck in Hyderabad left the city aboard a special Air India flight to Mumbai. They are among the 200 US nationals who were scheduled to be flown back to the United States from Mumbai late on Tuesday night. Earlier, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs acting assistant secretary Alice Wells had said: “In India, we’re responding to requests for assistance from thousands of Americans located in cities and villages spread across a vast area. And so far, we’ve supported the repatriation of about 1,300 American citizens there despite what are lockdown conditions.” Flights were being mobilised from Mumbai and New Delhi. “The special Air India flight, an Airbus A-320 aircraft landed at Hyderabad International Airport on Tuesday at 3.12pm from Mumbai and departed with the US-bound passengers at 4.15pm to Mumbai,” GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL) said in a statement. It said the flight was purely domestic and operated from the main passenger terminal building of the airport. As per the flight itinerary, the passengers were to be further connected from Mumbai to their destination in US. In coordination with the US Consulate and Telangana government, the passengers arrived at the airport at around 1pm from various parts of Hyderabad. They were serviced through the fully-sanitised main passenger terminal building, which has been kept ready for evacuations. Those who were left without accommodation in the city were staying at the Park Hyatt from where they boarded buses to reach the airport. A team of GHMC officials were at the airport to carry out a health screening. One passenger, who spoke to TOI on condition of anonymity, said: “My temperature was checked twice. The process took half an hour and was fairly seamless.” At the airport, besides temperature and document check, passengers were asked to sign a promissory note by US officials as payment is not being accepted from them currently, but will be collected once they reach their destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/99-us-citizens-given-safe-passage-home-from-city/articleshow/75037165.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||MLL drives in emergency cab service||HYDERABAD: Third-party logistics solutions provider Mahindra Logistics Ltd (MLL) on Tuesday said its enterprise mobility business venture, Alyte, has rolled out a 24x7 free, non-medical emergency cab services in Hyderabad to help those affected by the pandemic. The company said the service has been initially launched with a dedicated fleet of 10 vehicles, including electric vehicles, that can be ramped up as per requirement. The servicewill focus on single mothers, disabled individuals, senior citizens, among others, who are unable to secure transport for essential services.It will also cater to doctors, nurses and others involved in providing essential services. The 24x7 service will operate within the limits of Cyberabad, Hyderabad, Sangareddy and Rachakonda in collaboration with Rachakonda police commissionerate. MLL managing director & CEO Rampraveen Swaminathan said the service, which is aimed at helping those who have been struggling to find transport during the lockdown, will be gradually extended to other cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mll-drives-in-emergency-cab-service/articleshow/75037171.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Data security experts red flag Zoom app||HYDERABAD: Data security researchers claim there are huge security and privacy concerns in video conferencing app Zoom. Citizens Lab, which had earlier exposed lacunae in messaging platform WhatsApp, identified a serious security issue with Zoom’s ‘Waiting Room’ feature. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and ex-AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and several other key departments were using Zoom in the wake of lockdown and coronavirus pandemic. High-stake business meetings, political conferences, official conferences were being conducted over platforms like Zoom and experts fear eavesdropping could be easy for intelligence networks, cyber criminals as well as spies. “There is a serious threat. Coronavirus pandemic situation doesn’t mean you give up privacy, there is increased attention on Zoom, and its practices,” security researcher Srinivas Kodali told TOI. “Zoom calls are not end-to-end encrypted, which means your video calls could be recorded or accessed by anyone with access to their servers. Countries like Taiwan are banning government use of Zoom as there are concerns over the servers being in China. In this context, the Indian defence establishment using Zoom is a security concern. With our own infrastructure by NIC being used for videoconferencing of the prime minister, it is surprising the defence ministry is using Zoom to discuss national security,” he added. Citizen Lab investigation found that Zoom claims the app uses “advance encryption standard-256” for meetings. However, they found that in each Zoom meeting, a single AES-128 key was used in electronic codebook mode by participants to encrypt and decrypt audio and video. “The use of ECB mode is not advisable as patterns present in plaintext are preserved during encryption,” the Lab said. Meanwhile, Zoom CEO Eric Yuan assured users that the company was working to improve security and privacy on the video-conferencing app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/data-security-experts-red-flag-zoom-app/articleshow/75037138.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Continue lockdown in hotspots till April 30, say doctors||BENGALURU: The lockdown enforced to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state should continue with some modifications at infection hotspots like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi till April 30, feel experts involved in handling the outbreak. They want the government to take a call on extending the lockdown beyond April 30 only after assessing how the situation unravels. Dr CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who has prepared a report for a committee set up to work out a lockdown exit strategy, said restrictions have to be continued in the worst-affected districts but with certain modifications. The report will be submitted to the government on Wednesday. “The lockdown should continue in the hotspots. No domestic and international flights should be allowed till April 30, except cargo services. Also, no interstate and interdistrict movement should be permitted. “Even Namma Metro in Bengaluru must not resume operations till April 30,” Dr Manjunath said. “However, certain industries like garment can start working from April 14 with 50% of their workers. The staff must work on a rotational basis,” he said, adding: “Construction activities too must resume..,” he explained. The committee will also suggest that the government accommodate medical staff dealing with Covid-19 patients in nearby hotels. There are chances that Uttara Kannada and Chikkaballapura districts, where eight and seven cases have been reported, could join the list of hotspots. According to Dr S Sacchidananda, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, a member of the Covid-19 taskforce, April 10-14 is a crucial period. “It’s too early to say whether the lockdown should be extended. We don’t know if there are any hidden clusters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/continue-lockdown-in-hotspots-till-april-30-docs/articleshow/75041003.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Property tax: BBMP falls short of target by 30 per cent||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has fallen short of its property tax collection during 2019-20 by 30%, racking up only Rs 2,667 crore against the targeted Rs 3,813 crore. Far from being alarmed by the under-achievement, civic officials, however, claimed their property tax collection was good. Pointing out that they had collected Rs 2,051 crore of the Rs 2,282 crore they had targeted to collect as property tax due for last year, they said the 10% shortfall is nothing given the slowdown in the economy and Covid-19, which snowballed into a major public health crisis in the final days of 2019-20. They also drew solace from the fact that the 2019-20 collection was marginally higher than the previous year’s: Rs 2,530 crore. The officials, however, admitted that the 30% shortfall in the overall target was to blame on property tax arrears that had piled up over the years. Against the targeted Rs 1,531 crore under the arrears head, BBMP was able to collect only Rs 616 crore (40%) last year. Most of these arrears are from properties that don’t house the owners as they are either vacant or have been rented. “Also, some people do not care about paying tax and avoid it,” said a senior BBMP official. According to the official, close to 50,000 of more than four lakh property owners in the city are playing truant and have been avoiding paying tax for the past 5-7 years. They are not even traceable, he added. The official said the Covid-19 crisis did not help matters either. “The first Covid-19 related meeting was held on January 22. By March 8, every civic official was deputed to handle the crisis. The first and last two months of the year are when collections and recovery operations peak,” he said, adding that officials were also busy with other work related to electoral rolls and census preparation work. Increase rebate, extend period: Residents The official said most tax compliant property owners are keen to utilise the 5% rebate offered to those who pay up early. He said they have received requests from owners that the rebate be increased to 10% and also extended beyond the current one month. He was, however, non-committal on BBMP’s response to the demand. Prahalad Bhat, a resident of Jayanagar III Block, said banks are not fully operational due to the lockdown and there’s no business being generated for people to pay property tax in time. “BBMP should increase the 5% rebate and also extend the one-month period to avail the same,” he added. Swathi K Reddy, a resident of CV Raman Nagar, said the Palike should extend the rebate period until the lockdown ends and the city returns to normalcy. Late Tuesday night, the Karnataka government extended the last date to avail 5% rebate in property tax payment from April 30 to May 31 for all local bodies, barring the BBMP, in the state. Box: April collection via online payment In the first six days of April, the first month of the financial year 2020-21, BBMP has collected Rs 20.2 crore tax towards 28,276 properties from online payments. “If people pay their tax online in this hour of crisis, we will be able to use the funds for providing better infrastructure to handle the Covid-19 crisis,” a senior BBMP official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-falls-short-of-property-tax-target-by-30/articleshow/75036816.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 8, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Continue lockdown in hotspots till April 30, say doctors||BENGALURU: The lockdown enforced to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state should continue with some modifications at infection hotspots like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi till April 30, feel experts involved in handling the outbreak. They want the government to take a call on extending the lockdown beyond April 30 only after assessing how the situation unravels. Dr CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who has prepared a report for a committee set up to work out a lockdown exit strategy, said restrictions have to be continued in the worst-affected districts but with certain modifications. The report will be submitted to the government on Wednesday. “The lockdown should continue in the hotspots. No domestic and international flights should be allowed till April 30, except cargo services. Also, no interstate and interdistrict movement should be permitted. “Even Namma Metro in Bengaluru must not resume operations till April 30,” Dr Manjunath said. “However, certain industries like garment can start working from April 14 with 50% of their workers. The staff must work on a rotational basis,” he said, adding: “Construction activities too must resume..,” he explained. The committee will also suggest that the government accommodate medical staff dealing with Covid-19 patients in nearby hotels. There are chances that Uttara Kannada and Chikkaballapura districts, where eight and seven cases have been reported, could join the list of hotspots. According to Dr S Sacchidananda, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, a member of the Covid-19 taskforce, April 10-14 is a crucial period. “It’s too early to say whether the lockdown should be extended. We don’t know if there are any hidden clusters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/continue-lockdown-in-hotspots-till-april-30-docs/articleshow/75040999.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Students looking to go abroad in deep dilemma||Bengaluru: When Ishita Gupta, a class 12 student at Inventure Academy, received an offer letter from Stanford University last week, her excitement was tinged with uncertainty. “I want to attend college in person so that I can get a better feel of the courses I want to pursue. An important part of college experience is getting to know the people there, attending university events and participating in the traditions, which may not be possible in a time like this. So, I have decided to wait and watch on how things unfold,” she said.Ishita’s dilemma now resonates with hundreds of students vying to go abroad for higher studies as several popular study destinations in the world have turned into hotspots of the pandemic. “I have applied in the UK, Canada and Hong Kong. While my parents were earlier keen on the UK, I guess the safest choice by far is Hong Kong. Safety is one major condition,” said Aditya V, who has applied for mechanical engineering.“I have three options: to take a gap year, to pursue the course online, which the university has yet not announced or to go forward if things get better. So, it’s a wait and watch game till April-end,” said Kaushik Kunal Singh, another aspirant. The story remains the same for students who want to pursue their masters in universities abroad. A helpline started by Yocket, an online consultant for students going abroad, has received 300 calls in the past five days. “The most frequently asked questions are whether to defer plans for fall 2020, how to do it and if taking online classes is worth it,” said Sumit Jain, cofounder of Yocket.A survey done by the consultancy has mentioned that about 70% of the students who have initiated the process want to go ahead, while nearly 20% said it is too early to decide. Nine per cent wanted to defer the admission and 1% plan to go ahead in India itself.Nooraine Fazal, co-founder of Inventure Academy, also pointed out that affordability could be a major concern for parents now. “Education overseas, particularly in top schools in the United States is extremely expensive. Many parents are assessing if they will get value for money/investment if the courses were to be offered online, as opposed to a campus experience. Also, with a near certain economic recession their own earning capacity would have been affected,” she said.“The current situation is fluid and international higher education is likely to be affected globally. However, universities in the US are offering flexibility to international students, keeping in mind the current situation. Many of them are pushing back the application deadline, making tests optional and are offering online classes. While our centre is closed for public access, we are continuing to share the latest official updates and offer free virtual advice to support students at this unprecedented time,” said Swetha Muthanna, director, Yashna Trust-EducationUSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-looking-to-go-abroad-in-deep-dilemma/articleshow/75037205.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Bill to repeal 163 obsolete laws passed in 3 minutes||BENGALURU: The BJP government, which was in a tearing hurry to end the budget session of Karnataka legislature last month to focus on Covid-19 outbreak, passed a bill that seeks to repeal 163 obsolete and archaic laws in just three minutes. Among these, 96 were introduced by the previous Congress and JD(S)-Congress coalition governments. Some of these laws include the revised concept of collecting forest development tax, curbing question paper leaks, conserving Bengaluru’s lakes and tanks and increasing contribution to the Karnataka labour funds. “It took three minutes to pass the bill while the opposition members were busy with other important bills,’’ said assembly secretariat sources. Law minister JC Madhuswamy admitted that the repealing of the 163 pieces of legislation was carried out “quickly” as other important bills were to be taken up for discussion on March 23, the last day of the session. “They were either outdated or redundant and have been repealed after proper assessment and with the consent of the law department,” he said. Most of the repealed bills were pertaining to the finance legislation of previous years and vote-on-account legislation taken by chief minister BS Yediyurappa in 2019, he added. In the bill, the government said the Karnataka law commission had recommended in its 53rd report to repeal 60 acts relating to the erstwhile Belgaum, Coorg, Kalaburagi, Mangalore, Kollegal and Mysore area, all which had lost their significance. “It is considered necessary to repeal 96 amendment acts from 2016 to 2019 and also laws which are redundant, as suggested by the Centre,” read the bill, which was never discussed. “We (opposition) never got a chance to study the laws that were repealed and offer suggestions. This is undemocratic,’’ said former law and parliamentary affairs minister Krishna Byregowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bill-to-repeal-163-obsolete-laws-passed-in-3-minutes/articleshow/75036823.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Continue lockdown in hotspots till April 30, say doctors||BENGALURU: The lockdown enforced to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state should continue with some modifications at infection hotspots like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi till April 30, feel experts involved in handling the outbreak. They want the government to take a call on extending the lockdown beyond April 30 only after assessing how the situation unravels. Dr CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who has prepared a report for a committee set up to work out a lockdown exit strategy, said restrictions have to be continued in the worst-affected districts but with certain modifications. The report will be submitted to the government on Wednesday. “The lockdown should continue in the hotspots. No domestic and international flights should be allowed till April 30, except cargo services. Also, no interstate and interdistrict movement should be permitted. “Even Namma Metro in Bengaluru must not resume operations till April 30,” Dr Manjunath said. “However, certain industries like garment can start working from April 14 with 50% of their workers. The staff must work on a rotational basis,” he said, adding: “Construction activities too must resume..,” he explained. The committee will also suggest that the government accommodate medical staff dealing with Covid-19 patients in nearby hotels. There are chances that Uttara Kannada and Chikkaballapura districts, where eight and seven cases have been reported, could join the list of hotspots. According to Dr S Sacchidananda, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, a member of the Covid-19 taskforce, April 10-14 is a crucial period. “It’s too early to say whether the lockdown should be extended. We don’t know if there are any hidden clusters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/continue-lockdown-in-hotspots-till-april-30-docs/articleshow/75041006.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Continue lockdown in hotspots till April 30, say doctors||BENGALURU: The lockdown enforced to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state should continue with some modifications at infection hotspots like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi till April 30, feel experts involved in handling the outbreak. They want the government to take a call on extending the lockdown beyond April 30 only after assessing how the situation unravels. Dr CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who has prepared a report for a committee set up to work out a lockdown exit strategy, said restrictions have to be continued in the worst-affected districts but with certain modifications. The report will be submitted to the government on Wednesday. “The lockdown should continue in the hotspots. No domestic and international flights should be allowed till April 30, except cargo services. Also, no interstate and interdistrict movement should be permitted. “Even Namma Metro in Bengaluru must not resume operations till April 30,” Dr Manjunath said. “However, certain industries like garment can start working from April 14 with 50% of their workers. The staff must work on a rotational basis,” he said, adding: “Construction activities too must resume..,” he explained. The committee will also suggest that the government accommodate medical staff dealing with Covid-19 patients in nearby hotels. There are chances that Uttara Kannada and Chikkaballapura districts, where eight and seven cases have been reported, could join the list of hotspots. According to Dr S Sacchidananda, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, a member of the Covid-19 taskforce, April 10-14 is a crucial period. “It’s too early to say whether the lockdown should be extended. We don’t know if there are any hidden clusters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/continue-lockdown-in-hotspots-till-april-30-docs/articleshow/75037186.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Builders chip in, hold health camps, give food rations to construction labourers||Mumbai: The real estate industry— the second largest employer in the country after agriculture—is pulling its resources to reach out to tens of thousands of labourers stranded at construction sites due to the lockdown. Individual developers and builders’ associations are coordinating relief work, holding health camps and providing food rations to the workers. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region itself, MCHI-CREDAI, a body that represents leading developers, has over 70,000 labourers at 1,200 sites, said president Nayan Shah. “Soon after the outbreak, we contacted each of our members seeking details about the labourers and how we could help them,” said Shah. MCHI-CREDAI officials said the organization is coordinating with the state labour commissioner to provide mid-day meals to all registered labourers under Atal Ahar Yojana scheme. The labour commissioner’s department provides one meal a day to them while builders chip in and hand over weekly rations. Due to manpower and vehicle shortage in the department, these meals have not reached several labourers. “Every week, we give 2kg rice, 1kg dal, 1kg potatoes, 1kg onions, cooking oil and other provisions to each family. These rations are distributed at the project sites,” said Deepak Goradia, president-elect of MCHI-CREDAI. The regions covered so far are Thane, Dombivali, Greater Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Raigad district and Vasai-Virar. “We also hold periodic health camps for the workers and carry out fogging and cleaning activities at the construction sites,” said Goradia. The National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), another organization which represents builders, issued an advisory regarding the health and well-being of construction workers and professionals. “We provide rations and hold medical camps for around three lakh workers in MMR alone,” said Rajan Bandelkar, state president of NAREDCO. He said its members are also keeping quarantine facilities ready if required by local municipal bodies. Meanwhile, individual builders are also contributing to fight the crisis. Hiranandani Group recently announced Rs 5 crore for the chief minister’s relief fund, specifically to tackle the virus. Lodha Group announced special initiatives for contract workers and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/builders-chip-in-hold-health-camps-give-food-rations-to-construction-labourers/articleshow/75053886.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Indonesians in Karimnagar sparked nationwide alert||Hyderabad: It was in the third week of March, Karimnagar, with a population of around three lakh, woke up to the realisation that coronavirus had struck the town. With 10 Indonesian preachers testing positive, alarm bells had started ringing.The group of 10 Indonesians had arrived on March 14 from Delhi aboard the AP Sampark Kranti Express. They visited four mosques in the town. The next day, they went to the Intelligence Special Branch to register their presence. By then, the fact that a IT professional who returned from Dubai had tested positive had caused consternation. “Since one of the Indonesians had shown signs of coronavirus, the SB personnel shifted them to the hospital,” Karimnagar police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy told TOI. On March 16, the group was rushed to the Gandhi Hospital where, subsequently, all 10 of them tested positive along with four others who were in contact with them. As on April 7, there are seven active positive cases from Karimnagar alone. Police have also registered cases against the Indonesians for violating the Foreigners Act. As many as 114 people are now under quarantine in hospitals and 625 under home quarantine in Karimnagar town. Interestingly, the man, who hosted the Indonesians, was not traceable but police caught him eventually and sent him for examination. He too tested positive. Two other contacts of the Indonesians had also tested positive. With the Indonesians testing positive, the Telangana government informed the central government. The railways was alerted about the coaches in which the Indonesians had travelled and passengers were asked to report for a check-up. On March 21, the Union home ministry realised the gravity of the pandemic after Telangana reported cases from Karimnagar about the Indonesian group after they had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz meet. Stepping in, Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay of BJP urged all those associated with the Markaz event to submit themselves for a check-up. Even before the lockdown was announced, Mukarampura and three other places where the Indonesians had stayed were declared ‘red zones’ and barricaded. Municipal commissioner Valluru Kranthi made arrangements for door delivery of essentials to 4,000 houses. Medical tests were conducted twice for everyone in each household. She also said documentation was being done on how the crisis was being handled. “Apart from monitoring by drones, we have fixed CCTV cameras in these areas so that no one comes out of their houses,” Kamalasan explained. Collector K Shashanka said all protocols were being followed to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the district. Karimnagar town was upgraded to a municipal corporation in 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indonesians-in-karimnagar-sparked-nationwide-alert/articleshow/75037128.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Akola man, three close contacts of Amaravati Covid-19 victim test positive||NAGPUR: The dreaded novel coronavirus (Covid-19) tightened its grip over Vidarbha with four new confirmed positive cases found in Akola and Amravati on Tuesday. A 60-year-old man from Akola was tested positive on Tuesday afternoon. By evening, three close contacts of a 45-year-old deceased from Amravati also tested positive. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha has reached 40. These include three deaths — 1 each in Buldhana, Amravati and Nagpur. In Nagpur, after death of 68-year-old person due to Covid-19 on Monday, the NMC launched door-to-door containment drive in Satranjipura Badi Masjid area on Tuesday. The NMC teams identified, examined, brought 24 persons, including family members and close contacts of the deceased, to Mayo Hospital and GMCH. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Family members of the deceased are not giving correct information. We have identified close contacts and taking help of people residing in the area.” On March 27, NMC officials had visited home of the deceased as part of the door-to-door survey. At that time, the deceased had not disclosed any health issues. “The Covid-19 victim was a TB patient. He was undergoing treatment from a local doctor from April 1 onwards. Today, we brought the doctor and also his attendants for testing. At this juncture, we can’t discuss community spread as reports of all are awaited,” Mundhe added. 24-year-old woman dies in GMCH: A 24-year-old pregnant woman, originally from Chandrapur, was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on April 5 for respiratory problems. As her condition was serious and she was showing symptoms of coronavirus infection, she was admitted to Covid-19 ward and her swab samples were sent to IGGMCH lab. Authorities informed that she died on Tuesday afternoon. Now, they are waiting for the results of her swab samples. First patient of Akola: Not a single Covid-19 patient was reported from Akola district till Monday. However, a 60-year-old man from a centrally located Baidpura area tested positive on Tuesday. “The man claims to have no travel history. He is a chain-smoker and has comorbidities like hypertension. He was admitted to the GMCH Akola on April 5 as he had breathing problem,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajkumar Chavan. The patient’s 58-year-old wife was also having similar symptoms. But, she tested negative for Covid-19, said Dr Chavan. Health authorities will now launch active surveillance of Baidpura area from Wednesday. This area is densely populated locality in Akola. “Each and every citizen residing in 3km radius of this person’s house will be checked for Covid-19 symptoms. I appeal residents to cooperate the municipal corporation teams,” said district collector Jitendra Papalkar. Now 4 cases in Amravati: By late Tuesday evening, samples of three close contacts of the Amravati deceased person were tested positive. As per officials, the positive patients include two men and a woman from among close contacts of the deceased. A 45-year-old had died of pneumonia in Amravati on April 2. After his samples were tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4, the local administration had quarantined 24 of his close contacts at Covid-19 Hospital. Out of them, three tested positive on Tuesday. Results of others are awaited. Health officials from Amravati said that the three positive patients have been shifted to isolation ward immediately. The Covid-19 Hospital in Amravati has 100 beds. Sixty of them have been earmarked for patients testing positive and rest for suspects who have to be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-man-three-close-contacts-of-amt-covid-19-victim-test-ve/articleshow/75037305.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Anand records its first Covid-19 case||VADODARA/ANAND: Milk city Anand recorded its first COVID-19 case on Tuesday with a 54-year-old male testing positive for the deadly virus. The patient is an employee of Anand Nagarpalika. He was admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad a couple of days ago. The patient’s samples, which were sent to Ahmedabad, tested positive on Tuesday. “The patient is a resident of Enterprise Society in Padariya area of Anand,” said district collector R G Gohil, adding that following this, 500 metres area near his residence has been declared as cluster quarantine. Health teams have started door-to-door survey in the area while disinfectants are being sprayed in the locality. “We have formed a dedicated team, which is probing the travel history of the patient to ascertain whether he got infected locally or due to travel. The patient is under treatment at the isolation ward of Shree Krishna Hospital,” he said. He added that disinfectants have been sprayed in 240 houses located in the area while all the houses in the 5km buffer zone will be covered under sanitization drive. “Adjacent areas are being barricaded,” he said. Timings for distribution of essential commodities, including milk, vegetables, fruits and groceries have also been curtailed. “So far, sale of such essential commodities was allowed till 2pm. Now, we are restricting this to 10am,” he said, adding that no retailer or wholesaler will be allowed to keep the establishments open after 10am. So far, 80 samples of passengers were tested in the district of which only one has tested positive. According to district health authorities, 78 individuals are currently under home quarantine and six in government facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-records-its-first-covid-19-case/articleshow/75034959.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu government notifies Mayiladuthurai district’s formation||TRICHY: The state government has issued an order notifying the formation of Mayiladuthurai district with Mayiladuthurai as capital here on Tuesday. The order has been issued based on an announcement made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in the Assembly under rule number 110 on March 24. As proposals received from the principal secretary, commissioner of revenue administration in this regard, a formal order has been issued stating the formation of Mayiladuthurai as the 38th district of the state by bifurcating Nagapattinam district. Bifurcation of the town was a long pending demand of people of Mayiladuthurai. The chief minister had promised to create a new district during the inauguration of the government medical college in Nagapattinam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-govt-notifies-mayiladuthurai-districts-formation/articleshow/75037308.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Continue lockdown in hotspots till April 30: Docs||Bengaluru: The lockdown enforced to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state should continue with some modifications at infection hotspots like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Bidar, Mangaluru and Kalaburagi till April 30, feel experts involved in handling the outbreak.They want the government to take a call on extending the lockdown beyond April 30 only after assessing how the situation unravels.Dr CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who has prepared a report for a committee set up to work out a lockdown exit strategy, said restrictions have to be continued in the worst-affected districts but with certain modifications. The report will be submitted to the government on Wednesday.“The lockdown should continue in the hotspots. No domestic and international flights should be allowed till April 30, except cargo services. Also, no interstate and interdistrict movement should be permitted. “Even Namma Metro in Bengaluru must not resume operations till April 30,” Dr Manjunath said.“However, certain industries like garment can start working from April 14 with 50% of their workers. The staff must work on a rotational basis,” he said, adding: “Construction activities too must resume..,” he explained.The committee will also suggest that the government accommodate medical staff dealing with Covid-19 patients in nearby hotels. There are chances that Uttara Kannada and Chikkaballapura districts, where eight and seven cases have been reported, could join the list of hotspots. According to Dr S Sacchidananda, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, a member of the Covid-19 taskforce, April 10-14 is a crucial period. “It’s too early to say whether the lockdown should be extended. We don’t know if there are any hidden clusters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/continue-lockdown-in-hotspots-till-april-30-docs/articleshow/75037184.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Migrants’ role in Bengaluru’s development comes to fore, thanks to Covid-19||BENGALURU: Like all big cities in the world, it’s no secret that Bengaluru was built by migrant workers. But notwithstanding their contribution to the city’s development — often without minimum wages — they remain invisible. Reason: Most governments have no data on migrant workers, resulting in non-implementation of laws that guarantee their rights. However, the Covid-19 crisis, which has hit migrants very hard, rendering them jobless and homeless, has thrown up an unexpected result. The government is now scampering to collect information about them and making efforts to provide relief. One such report submitted by various contractors implementing the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) expansion project has been accessed by TOI. It shows there are nearly 6,000 migrants working on the second terminal (T2) and other related projects at KIA. Advocate Clifton Rozario, who works closely with several workers’ unions and labourers, said: “It’s unfortunate that it took a pandemic to realise the social reality of migrant workers. They are all around us — domestic workers, construction workers, security guards, migrants from the northeast working in the hospitality industry, and so on. But most administrations and cities don’t give them their due.” KIA, one of the fastest growing airports in India, handled 33.7 million passengers in 2019, compared to the previous year’s 32.3 million. It’s people from Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh that make up most of its workforce. According to the data with TOI, at least 5,822 people from these states and a few others have been employed by contractors like L&T, AIC Infrastructure Private Limited, Starworth Infra, URCC, BICPL and others. A majority of them are from Jharkhand, followed by Bihar (see graphic). “If Bengaluru is booming today it is because of the contribution of migrant workers. But many contractors have fled, leaving workers in the lurch. The government doesn’t know all the places where workers live, and our lax compliance of the law and neglect of these workers as fellow human beings has led us to where we are,” said Vinay Sreenivas from the Alternate Law Forum. All of the city’s major infrastructure projects have migrant workers — both intrastate and interstate — as their backbone. Namma Metro has about 4,800 migrants going by official figures, but activists like Ekta M from Maraa estimate the number is much higher. Maraa will bring out a report on Metro workers later this week. NP Samy, general secretary, National Centre for Labour, while pointing out that the state government has been implementing mega infrastructure projects to transform Bengaluru, said: “But it has not taken appropriate steps to register all the workers involved in large infrastructure projects with the Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.” Needed: Better facilitiesSreenivas and Rozario argue that the government should implement the Interstate Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, which mandates registration of establishments employing them, besides making it a must for them to have access to housing, adequate allowances and other facilities. “If the labour department had paid attention to violations of this Act and registration was done, we wouldn't be in this position today,” Sreenivas said, pointing to the Covid-19 crisis. Sathya Mukund of AITUC argues that failure of the government to register all migrant workers has allowed many contractors, especially smaller ones, to exploit workers. “They are seen in makeshift tents across the city while laws mandate that they get living quarters and other allowances...,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/migrants-role-in-citys-development-comes-to-fore-thanks-to-covid-19/articleshow/75036806.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers of technical colleges get half pay||HYDERABAD: Teachers working in private technical colleges in the state alleged that majority of educational institutes paid only 50% salary for March. A few colleges assured to pay arrears of March, April and May between June and August, while others did not give any time frame for paying salaries of the faculty. “I received only 50% salary. Management just sent a message saying the pending amount will be released in due course,” a lecturer, working at an engineering college told TOI. The Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association said at least 80% of colleges paid only 50% salaries this month.Meanwhile, managements said they were not in a position to pay as fee reimbursement dues were pending since 2018. “Colleges/institutes are informed to take care of the welfare of the faculty during the lockdown period with regard to payment of full salaries regularly and not terminating them, failing which the university shall initiate stern and stringent action against the erring institutes as per the university affiliation norms,” JNTU-Hyderabad, to which technical colleges were affiliated, said in a circular late on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-of-tech-colleges-get-half-pay/articleshow/75037156.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||CM Mamata Banerjee comes up with film on Kolkata’s senior citizens||KOLKATA: How does Kolkata come in aid of senior citizens living in isolation during lockdown? That’s the logline of the short film titled ‘Jhhar Themey Jabe Ekdin’ conceived by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and will be directed by Arindam Sil. This is perhaps the first time that any chief minister of India has come up with the concept for a film to create awareness about Covid-19. The initiative is expected to raise approximately Rs 50 lakh for Tollywood’s technicians and will be supported by president of Federation Of Cine Technicians & Workers Of Eastern India (FCTWEI) Swarup Biswas. Shooting will begin on Wednesday. Paran Bandopadhyay, Prosenjit Chatterjee, Abir Chatterjee, Parambrata Chatterjee, Koel Mallick, Mimi Chakraborty, Nusrat Jahan, Subhashree Ganguly and Rukmini Maitra will shoot their portions separately. “I will be happy if I can help in creating a fund,” said Prosenjit. According to Sil, this film will be high on emotional connect. “On Tuesday morning, we discussed the idea with our chief minister. She wanted us to make a film to highlight how Bengal is coming forward to help people in distress, especially the senior citizens,” the director said. The chief minister also forwarded him an audio recording of a song by Kabir Suman and asked him to include it in the film. “The lyrics are: ‘Jhhar theme jabe/Jhhar theme jabe ekdin/parle sedin khunje nio/jhorapatagulo khunje nio/Jhhar chole jabe pata robe samadhite/parle mone rekho/ekta gaan dio/ekta koli geo/du phonta chokher jol dio’. The lyrics was penned by our CM while Kabir Suman has composed the tune and sung it. I will ask Bickram (Ghosh) to compose the background score for the film,” Sil said. Padmanabha Dasgupta has been engaged to write the script. “During lockdown, we came across many incidents of people helping out senior citizens to get food and medicine. I want to write a script based on how the city is helping an elderly gentleman on his death bed and his daughter who is unable to give him food and medicines during lockdown,” Dasgupta said. The script based on the original concept by the CM will be sent for her final approval. If that is approved, the senior citizen will be played by Bandopadhyay. Instead of colour, Sil wants to the film to be in a monochromatic tone. “During lockdown, it will not be easy to do colour- correction. Besides, people will be shooting in their own houses. To maintain continuity, monochromatic will work best,” he added.  However, he is making sure that the film doesn’t have a feel of a chamber drama that is completely shot indoors. “The script will be written in such a way that the stars are shown in their terrace, lift or driveway. That way there will be a feel of outdoors without anyone stepping outside their house for it,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-comes-up-with-film-on-citys-senior-citizens/articleshow/75037707.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 8, 2020||Goa||‘Panic, unrest among us, not mentally prepared’||Panaji: The All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association (AGSSTA) has written to the chief minister requesting him that only teachers who are willing and mentally prepared should be assigned the work of the community survey on Covid-19. AGSSTA president Dattatraya Naik has said that calling of detailed information of teachers for the survey by authorities has led to ‘great unrest and panic situation among teachers in the state’. “We had never refused the additional responsibilities like election duty and Census work, however, this time the situation is not the same. A sense of fear prevails in the mind of every teacher in a situation when hundreds of frontline workers, especially professionals like doctors and nurses are found positive of Covid-19,” Naik has said. He has said that the life and safety of teachers and the families are at risk as no proper training has been provided on how to conduct the survey safely, nor proper transport facilities available or insurance cover extended. Most of the teachers are not mentally prepared to carry out the survey under these circumstances, Naik has said. “Many government servants and teachers are willing to work, like those involved in Scouts and Guides Association. But others are not. So we request the CM to allow those unwilling and not mentally prepared to be left out from the work. Some have young children at home and elderly too, such persons should not be randomly assigned the survey work out of concern for their families,” Naik told TOI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panic-unrest-among-us-not-mentally-prepared/articleshow/75037337.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur citizens laud cops by clapping, showering petals in Gittikhadan||NAGPUR: A contingent of around 100 cops was in for a pleasant surprise during their 6-km route march through Gupta Chowk in Surendragarh locality of Gittikhadan on Sunday when citizens started applauding and showering petals on them. City police are conducting confidence-building route marches on the roads to enforce the corona lockdown. They help keep citizens at home and also keep trouble makers at bay in communally charged situations. Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu had led route marches at different places in the west Nagpur in the last couple of days including the one under Gittikhadan police station. The route march, led by Shahu along with ACP Rekha Bhaware and Senior inspector Sunil Gangurde, had started from newly constructed police headquarters. It passed through Gittikhadan chowk, Panchasheelnagar, Gawlipura, IBM Road, Dipak Nagar, Surendragarh, Gupta chowk and Friends colony before terminating at Gittikhadan police station. Shahu said that it was a unique experience in her 11 years career when cops were greeted with petals and applause on the roads by citizens. “They turned up to cheer us when we were passing through Surendragarh and surprisingly many started showering petals making us feel special,” said Shahu, who was also the first woman IPS officer in the state to be in charge of Maoist-affected Gondia district in the past. “This gesture made us feel different as in the past people had been indifferent to us despite our best efforts,” said Shahu who was also instrumental in launching state’s first mobile police station camps in Bhandara in 2017. PI Gangurde said there were some showers during the route march but DCP Shahu wanted to continue even after getting drenched. City police chief BK Upadhyay too labeled the citizens’ showering flower as ‘unprecedented’ expression of gratitude towards police for their fearless round-the-clock efforts ignoring the risk of Covid-19. “Citizens came forward to laud the hard work and commitment of the cops. It was a refreshing morale booster ‘tonic’ for us,” he said. The citizens who did so said it was a spontaneous act. “We had some flowers at home for daily puja and we used them to show our respect for the police. We decided on seeing them march through our locality in order to keep us safe from the Covid-19,” said Hemant Dwivedi and his friends Jaiprakash Mishra, Uday Mishra and Mukesh Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-laud-cops-by-clapping-showering-petals-in-gittikhadan/articleshow/75037351.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra student tests positive at ITBP camp||VISAKHAPATNAM: A student from Andhra Pradesh, who returned to India on the the Rome-Delhi Air India flight on March 22, has tested positive. This is first Rome returnee who has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The student has been in quarantine since landing in New Delhi. After the completion of the two-week quarantine period, samples were collected from 263 Indian students from Italy who had been housed at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp in Chhawala, near Delhi. On Monday, the report of one student from AP came back positive and the has been shifted to hospital. The positive test result comes as a surprise as all students had tested negative at the Indian Embassy a few days prior to boarding the flight at Rome. When the student was tested on 14th day after their return, the test came back positive, though the student did not have any visible symptoms. Another one of the people at the camp who returned Rome, and is also from AP, said, “The doctors told us that person who tested positive for Covid-19 never told them that he already had asthma. When the doctors asked him if he’d had any symptoms after he tested positive, he said that he’d felt tightness in his chest. Now, because of a person testing positive, doctors are likely to keep us in quarantine for another 14 days, though most of us want to leave.” A total of 263 students from Rome had landed on March 22. On March 15, 218 students had landed in India from Milan. In all, 481 students from Italy are being housed in the quarantine centre at ITBP Chhawala in separate floors. Earlier, two people who returned from Milan had tested positive and are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-student-tests-positive-at-itbp-camp/articleshow/75035572.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Living’ World Heritage City is now masked||Ahmedabad: For the first time ever, India’s first world heritage city – the Walled City of Ahmedabad – will be enclosed in a Covid19 buffer zone to shield the rest of the city from the spread of the disease. The main markets have been closed and 30 checkposts have been set up all along the perimeter of the walled city to control entry and exit of vehicles and people. This was mandated owing to dense dwellings within the walled city that could quicken the spread of Covid-19 spread with more positive cases coming from the area. Nearly five lakh citizens will have to pass through thermal scans and health checks before they are allowed to move in or out of the old city. “This will be the first time in the country that such a big zone with a population of 5 lakh is being put under Covid19 surveillance at this scale,” said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra. He adds that health checks will be mandatory for all who pass through the check posts. There will be heavy restrictions on movement of private vehicles now. Nehru Bridge is now locked out. The corporation has also decided that there will be no sale of vegetables or fruits from Kalupur and Jamalpur markets. Hence from Wednesday morning no private vehicle will be allowed to go towards Lal Darwaja from Ashram Road or vice versa. Only government vehicles will be permitted to move on Nehru Bridge. The notification issued states that under the relevant sections of the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, Epidemics Act of 1897, and also under the Covid-19 notification issued by the state government, movement of any private vehicles on Nehru Bridge will be banned. The commissioner said anyone violating the notification will be liable for action under the Epidemics Act 1897 and even the Indian Penal Code. Nehra said that the AMC has observed that there was crowding at shops in Kalupur and even handcarts in the market. “To curb the spread of Covid among people, we decided to stop the sale of fruits and vegetables from the Kalupur and Jamalpur markets from Wednesday.” Soon after the lockdown was imposed, on the morning of March 26, there was a mad rush at both these markets as people rushed to buy vegetables and there was chaos there. This also posed a great virus transmission hazard. As soon as reports of the crowding came in, Nehra rushed to the spot and after talking to the dealers imposed a ban on retail sale there. As there was no improvement in the situation, AMC imposed a total ban, said a officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/living-world-heritage-city-is-now-masked/articleshow/75037716.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Society in Bodakdev cluster quarantined||Ahmedabad: A small housing society in Bodakdev near NFD circle has been put under cluster quarantine after three family members of Covid-19 positive elderly patient who had died recently have tested positive. The family members include the victim’s wife, his daughter and the daughter’s mother-in-law. Hardik Thakor, assistant municipal commissioner for the new west zone, has been put in charge of all necessities that will be required by the 40-odd members of the housing society during the quarantine period. “The basic provisions for Devpreet Society members will be delivered to them by the AMC. It will be in the best interest of all that the society maintains a strict quarantine,” said deputy municipal commissioner Mukesh Gadhvi. “Regular visits for health enquiries will be made by the AMC health team,” said Gadhvi. A social media group has been formed for all the members for sharing their problems with the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/society-in-bodakdev-cluster-quarantined/articleshow/75037728.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Booth level officers await more clarity||Panaji: While the Goa Government Employees’ Association has appealed to government staff to join the Covid-19 community survey from April 13-15 without any conditions, booth level officers (BLO) who have been put on the job are awaiting more clarity and announcement of training schedules. Some say they won’t require to enter people’s homes to gather the data and are happy to do their part to stem the spread of the virus. Some others, however, fear for their little children and families back home. Then there are those who say it will not be possible to complete the entire exercise even in four days. “Training should be given to us well in advance. We told our mamlatdar to send us the form so that we can prepare for the exercise, but we are still waiting. The government keeps changing its mind everyday,” a BLO from Salcete said. Another said the exercise should have been undertaken at the beginning of the lockdown itself as it is would have provided an accurate picture of the battle the state has to fight.“We were doing absolutely nothing for two weeks. We don’t know what’s happening in our area. At least once we know the problems, we can request intervention. If we, government employees, sit at home, the state won’t get the desired results in fighting the virus,” one BLO said. When asked if he fears for his safety and that of other citizens, he said the officers will not be entering homes but will be able to maintain social distancing while asking questions for the survey. Incidentally, many BLOs have already asked their respective mamlatdars to provide them with hand sanitisers and masks. “There is still no clarity on the role we are supposed to play, but I have understood that we just have to guide anganwadi workers and teachers to the houses and they will note down information from the people. It’s our duty as government servants and we cannot say no, but I feel it is risky to go out,” a BLO from Bardez told TOI. Meanwhile, president of the Goa Government Employees Association, Prashant Devidas, said government employees should not stay home at this crucial time. “The state knows what safety measures are required and will take them. It has taken this decision (community survey) at the right time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/booth-level-officers-await-more-clarity/articleshow/75037363.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 8, 2020||Business||India allows drug exports, says don’t politicise issue||NEW DELHI: The government has opened up export of antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, depending upon availability and domestic requirements, not just to the US and other “badly affected countries” but also to neighbours dependent on India. TOI had reported on Tuesday that India has partially opened up exports of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said, “In view of the humanitarian aspects of the pandemic, India will licence paracetamol and HCQ in appropriate quantities to neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities. We will also be supplying these essential drugs to some nations which have been badly affected by the pandemic. We would, therefore, discourage any speculation in this regard or any attempts to politicise the matter.’’ The DGFT had notified lifting curbs on 14 drugs on Monday. On paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine, the government has decided to keep these in a licensed category and to continuously monitor their demand position. However, Srivastava said the stock position could allow Indian firms to meet the export commitments that they had contracted. India is among the largest producers of the drug and the government believes it has enough stock for domestic use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-allows-drug-exports-says-dont-politicise-issue/articleshow/75038094.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||14 monkeys die in 2 days in Sambhal village||BAREILLY: The death of 14 monkeys in a span of two days has taken the people of Pawansa village, under Behjoi police station in Sambhal district, by surprise. Veterinary doctors suspect that the simians may have succumbed to pneumonia. But they are awaiting the autopsy report from the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) to arrive before giving a verdict. The carcasses of three monkeys were sent to the IVRI in Bareilly for post-mortem examination. According to IVRI sources, tests showed that the dead monkeys had liver and kidney infection. They attributed this to consuming contaminated water. The water probably had insecticides used by farmers for agriculture. However, the final autopsy report is yet to come. A local veterinarian, Dr Neeraj Gautam, who had earlier examined the monkey carcasses, suspected that the monkeys may have consumed some poisonous substance. Vet Gautam said he found that the lungs of the dead monkeys were swollen and their body temperature showed they had high fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/14-monkeys-die-in-2-days-in-sambhal-village/articleshow/75035592.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 8, 2020||Goa||AAP: Team’s health must be safeguarded||Panaji: The chief minister needs to spell out a proper plan on how the door to door survey will be carried out and what will be its outcome, said Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday. “People would cooperate with anything that would safeguard their lives and health, but it would be nice to know the methodology – will there be a mass screening with workers carrying thermometers or a simple survey – the intent of the exercise is not clear,” said party member Valmiki Naik. He also pointed out the irony in carrying out the survey when there is a worldwide appeal for social distancing. “On one hand the government is telling people to stay home, and on the other, they’re trying to put 7,000 people on the ground to go house-to-house for the survey. There is a safety issue here,” he said. “We want to know the urgency and the outcome of this survey. Right now there is a concern for people who have locked themselves into their houses avoiding any contact as well as for the workers, most of who may be wondering how they will execute the survey in the absence of public transport. Will there be a training given to these people and will there be a mass gathering to attend this training?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-teams-health-must-be-safeguarded/articleshow/75037374.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telugu students ask AP, Telangana govts for spl transport||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 80 students from the two Telugu states are waiting to return home, having completed their quarantine period at Delhi’s Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp over a week ago, and have all tested negative. Among the 218 students who returned to Delhi from Milan on March 15 are 45 students from Telangana and 38 from Andhra Pradesh. The second batch of 263 students who returned from Rome have also completed their quarantine period. T Sreecharan, a student who returned from Milan said, “Those staying in and around Delhi all left in special transport arranged by their respective state governments. We are requesting our government to provide some kind of transport for those of us us from AP and Telangana. A few of us had purchased flight tickets for April 15, once the lockdown is lifted, but we were told that the tickets have been cancelled. With talks of the lockdown being extended, we are uncertain about the availability of transport and are now stuck at the camp.” A medical official from the ITBP camp told TOI: “We have already written to the government and contacted Andhra Bhavan. If the respective state governments provide transport for the students from Milan, we will issue passes for them to leave. But all students of the Rome batch will have to be quarantined for another 14 days as per guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugu-students-ask-ap-t-govts-for-spl-transport/articleshow/75035583.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, 12 convicted for lockdown violations||NAGPUR: Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) NK Meshram on Monday convicted 12 persons, fining them Rs700 each, for violating the orders of the national lockdown. This is possibly the first conviction in cases for violating curfew in the state or the region. The court order brought cheer to the police department. Court observed that the accused ‘knowingly malignantly did an act by wandering in the society which is likely to be spread the infection of Corona disease which is dangerous to life and thereby committed an offence’. The convictions will be a deterrent for others. The chargesheets were sent to the court by senior inspector Hemant Kharabe of MIDC police station under supervision of Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, Jt CP Ravindra Kadam and CP BK Upadhyay, in the cases registered between March 28 and April 2. Under Section 188 of IPC, the court slapped fine of Rs200 or in default four days of imprisonment for disobeying order issued by an official. In addition, the court had also levied fine of Rs500 or a simple imprisonment of one month holding them guilty of violating Section 270 of IPC for their act that may have led to the spread of the disease. Kharabe said it may look like small fine small but none of the convicted would be eligible for passport or even government services now. “The guilty persons paid the fine and walked away,” he said. CP Upadhyay too lauded the efforts of PI Kharabe stating such conviction may be unprecedented in the state. Meanwhile, city police kept a tight vigil for restricting any movement in the two sealed localities of Satranjipura and Mominpura due to Covid-19 related complications. Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar, who led a route march in the localities, said around 200 cops had been deployed. Police registered 321 offences against violators on Monday and seized 45 vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-12-convicted-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/75037377.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to deploy drones to disinfect Walled City||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Service has acquired three special drones for sprinkling medicines in the quarantine areas especially in the Walled City. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, chief fire officer, M F Dastoor, said that one drone has arrived and a demonstration was carried out at the AMC office in Danapith. Later the drone was used to disinfect the Matawali pole in Kalupur area. Dastoor said, the drones will be helpful to reach out in areas where the fire fighters cannot enter due to space constraints. These drones will be too useful to disinfect the entire area. A senior fire officer said that the poles are very narrow and it is not possible for the equipment to enter and spray disinfected medicine and hence it was decided to opt for drones. Earlier, the AMC had carried out an experiment to use drone for a fire fighting operations in a high rise building and hence it was decided to use these for disinfecting areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-deploy-drones-to-disinfect-walled-city/articleshow/75037727.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Congress questions govt's 'salary challenge' move||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Raising doubts over the purpose of the state government's 'salary challenge' in the wake of the Covid-19 situation, the opposition Congress party on Tuesday said that it would oppose the compulsory deduction of a month's salary of government employees and teachers. "As per our assessment, the state has received Rs 1,894 crore from the Centre -- Rs 1,277 crore towards solving revenue deficit, Rs 157 crore as Covid-19 relief and Rs 460 crore as flood relief fund. The state's current financial position is sound enough to fight the pandemic," opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said alleging that attempt was to "loot the employees". The UDF, he said, was ready to cooperate with the 'salary challenge', but the state finance minister is hiding the details of central aid. "What's the purpose of this salary challenge? Instead of transferring financial aid directly to the bank accounts of people affected by the infection and lockdown, the government is taking away whatever is left with them," he said. Addressing the media along with Chennithala, former CM Oommen Chandy and KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran too expressed the party's opposition to the move. "Threatening employees will destroy the existing unity which has provided us the confidence to fight Covid-19. People are willing to contribute, but it shouldn't be by force or by threats," Chandy said. He urged the government to sanction additional aid to local bodies -- Rs 5 lakh to panchayats, Rs 10 lakh to municipalities and Rs 1 crore to city corporations -- apart from the permissive sanction now given to use own funds to initiate anti-Covid activities. The KPCC chief alleged that the government's 'extravagant spending' led to the financial crisis. He sought government's intervention in problems faced by farmers, unskilled labourers and non-resident Keralites. The leaders also alleged that the government was trying to politicize the voluntary Covid prevention activities by blocking Congress and IUML workers and giving passes only to CPM workers. Chandy slammed the government for its 'lapse' in establishing Kasaragod Medical College, which the previous UDF government had initiated. This led to the death of 10 patients due to denial of medical help at hospitals in Karnataka and 'humiliation' the state suffered, he said. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan however said in a statement that the opposition stand reflected their narrowmindedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-congress-questions-govts-salary-challenge-move/articleshow/75047477.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Congress questions govt's 'salary challenge' move||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Raising doubts over the purpose of the state government's 'salary challenge' in the wake of the Covid-19 situation, the opposition Congress party on Tuesday said that it would oppose the compulsory deduction of a month's salary of government employees and teachers. "As per our assessment, the state has received Rs 1,894 crore from the Centre -- Rs 1,277 crore towards solving revenue deficit, Rs 157 crore as Covid-19 relief and Rs 460 crore as flood relief fund. The state's current financial position is sound enough to fight the pandemic," opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said alleging that attempt was to "loot the employees". The UDF, he said, was ready to cooperate with the 'salary challenge', but the state finance minister is hiding the details of central aid. "What's the purpose of this salary challenge? Instead of transferring financial aid directly to the bank accounts of people affected by the infection and lockdown, the government is taking away whatever is left with them," he said. Addressing the media along with Chennithala, former CM Oommen Chandy and KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran too expressed the party's opposition to the move. "Threatening employees will destroy the existing unity which has provided us the confidence to fight Covid-19. People are willing to contribute, but it shouldn't be by force or by threats," Chandy said. He urged the government to sanction additional aid to local bodies -- Rs 5 lakh to panchayats, Rs 10 lakh to municipalities and Rs 1 crore to city corporations -- apart from the permissive sanction now given to use own funds to initiate anti-Covid activities. The KPCC chief alleged that the government's 'extravagant spending' led to the financial crisis. He sought government's intervention in problems faced by farmers, unskilled labourers and non-resident Keralites. The leaders also alleged that the government was trying to politicize the voluntary Covid prevention activities by blocking Congress and IUML workers and giving passes only to CPM workers. Chandy slammed the government for its 'lapse' in establishing Kasaragod Medical College, which the previous UDF government had initiated. This led to the death of 10 patients due to denial of medical help at hospitals in Karnataka and 'humiliation' the state suffered, he said. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan however said in a statement that the opposition stand reflected their narrowmindedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-congress-questions-govts-salary-challenge-move/articleshow/75047538.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Veterinary hospital resumes outdoor after 9-day closure||KOLKATA: The West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, popularly known as Belgachhia veterinary hospital and university, resumed services from Monday. The hospital was closed for nine days, despite Centre’s revised guideline allowing veterinary hospitals and clinics to stay open during the lockdown. That the outdoor facility at the hospital is operational throughout the week from 10am to 2pm daily is bringing relief to many pet owners in the city. On Tuesday, around 12 animals, including dogs, cats and birds were taken to the outdoor of the hospital for check-up. Chanchal Guha, vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, said, “Initially, circumstances and logistic issues compelled us to suspend the service. We have decided to keep the outdoor facility open throughout the week from 10am to 2pm.”  College Street resident Dithi Mitra’s 8-year-old pug has been suffering from prostate inflammation and difficulty in urinating for the last four days. As the hospital was closed, she had to call a veterinary who suggested a few medicines over phone. Samar Sarkar, head of the medicine department, urged people to wear masks, carry sanitizers and maintain social distancing while visiting the hospital. Hidco chairman Debasis Sen said that the pet clinic at New Town has been closed temporarily, but they are trying to launch a tele-helpline, by which pet owners can consult with veterinary doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/veterinary-hosp-resumes-outdoor-after-9-day-closure/articleshow/75037386.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seven vans to collect samples in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has rolled out seven Covid testing vans, one for each zone of the city. These vans will carry out surveillance and collect samples for testing. “Since Monday, the AMC had adopted the strategy of intensive surveillance and now we have decided to carry out aggressive testing,” municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said. “The AMC had adopted the strategy of contact tracing as it was done in Singapore and now we are adopting a policy in line with South Korea’s aggressive testing.” These vans were flagged off from the AMC headquarters on Tuesday. “Each van will be have a three-member surveillance team equipped with a thermal gun,” Nehra said. “Also in attendance will be a doctor from a medical college and two interns who will collect samples.”  Initially, the service will cover clusters where coronavirus patients were found. “We are planning to check each potential case and collect samples,” Nehra said. The surveillance teams will first check the temperature of all people of a cluster. If a person is found to have fever, his or her sample will be collected. “This proactive surveillance will help us test a large number of people,” Nehra said. Nehra said that over the past 20 days, the AMC has collected 650 samples and now over the past 24 hours an equal number of samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seven-vans-to-collect-samples-in-city/articleshow/75037729.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||District has 10,000 PPE kits: Minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao assured people that the government has taken every precaution to control coronavirus and added that the public has nothing to fear. He said out of 20 positive cases in Visakhapatnam district, one person was discharged from the hospital and another 15 are doing well. The remaining are recovering. He said the government would take care of the medical staff and sanitation staff. Srinivasa Rao said that 3,117 had returned to the district from abroad. He added that there were 19 people who returned from Delhi. Along with their co-passengers, totally there were 62 people. “The district administration has taken 550 samples so far, of which only 20 positive cases have come to light,” he said. “We have 18,000 N-95 masks, 4 lakh pairs of gloves, 10 lakh medical masks, around 10,000 PPE kits, 22,000 sanitizers (20ml), 8,000 5L cans and around 2 lakh cloth masks,” the minister said. The government is prepared to supply necessary equipment and personal protection equipment to the medical staff and also sanitation staff, minister Srinivasa Rao said. He added that the district has five Covid hospitals of which Gitam medical college and NRI hospital have 950 beds each, Gayatri medical college 500 beds, Apollo hospital 40 beds and CARE hospital has 32 beds. “We have 2,168 beds ready,” he said. Srinivasa Rao said that many sample collection centers have also been set up in Pradhama Hospital, Chest Hospital, Rushikonda beach resorts, Chodavaram, Yalamanchili, Madugula, Paderu and Narsipatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/district-has-10k-ppe-kits-minister/articleshow/75035624.cms||Siva G
April 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Citizens anxious over exposure to ‘virus carriers’||PANAJI: The state government’s decision to conduct door-to-door Covid-19 survey has left citizens anxious about the potential spread of the virus as they will be exposed to the surveyors. A general practitioner from Panaji, Dr Rufino Monteiro said that there is no clarity on the procedure of the interviews. “People are yet to be informed about that. Conducting the survey may not really be the right thing. There should be a check wherein people can trust and cooperate with health workers, especially people that return from overseas,” he said. Adv Aires Pinto Furtado said that there could be people on both ends who do not want to divulge that they have symptoms. “How can the workers themselves be sure that who they’re surveying is not the patient? How can we be reassured that the interviewers are not carriers of the virus?” he added. Joe D’souza, a former Goa University scientist and an expert in microbiology, said that India is not the focal point of the virus and non-travelling citizens are therefore not the carriers. President of the Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG), Avelino Dsa said that the testing needs to be done to avoid community spread of the virus. “It is not advisable to do it at this time, but considering the seriousness of the issue, it has to be done.” A doctor from Margao said he has no problem with the government employees visiting as long as they don’t enter the house and stand outside the gate and ask their questions. “We have to do what it takes and cooperate. If the workers follow hygiene protocol, wear masks and maintain social distancing we don’t have a problem,” a Margao resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-anxious-over-exposure-to-virus-carriers/articleshow/75037387.cms||Nida Sayed
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||People say e-retailers selling rotten vegetables||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the lockdown the district administration had allowed delivery of essential commodities via e-commerce so that people did not have to leave their homes. Special permissions and passes were given to e-retailers like More, Spencers, Big Basket and Reliance. But people still have to leave their homes. Speaking to TOI, residents of a colony complained that not only is the delivery of essentials commodities taking more than a week to get delivered, but the fruits and vegetables delivered are rotten by the time it reaches them. A case in point is G Nitesh, an entrepreneur, who had placed an order for fruits and vegetables online. He said, “I did not receive all the vegetables that I ordered, but the ones I got were rotten and had to be discarded. I had made an online payment, which included delivery charges. If this continues we will be forced to go out and buy the essentials.” Rashmita, another entrepreneur, said, “Although most of the required items are not available online, I bought whatever was there. E-retailers are taking more than five days to deliver the essentials. Only a few items we receive were in good condition. I hope the quality improves.” Speaking to TOI, a senior store manager from More supermarket, said, “We have been delivering essentials to people at home for the past few days. Last week, there were a few fruits and vegetables which were made available to the people from our cold storage. Since we get our stock from Bengaluru and fruits and vegetables are perishable, it is difficult to maintain the freshness. However, we ensure that rotten fruits or vegetables are not delivered.” Meanwhile, Srinivas who runs the Vizag-based Do Ghante app, which home delivers essential commodities, said, “We are still facing problems to deliver essentials as we are not being allowed after 11 am. We are getting many orders from people but due to the time and area constraints, we are not able to reach people.” Speaking about the issue to TOI, DCP (Law and Order-1) Ranga Reddy, said, “We will look into the issue and ensure that good quality products reach people. If rotten vegetables are delivered by e-retailers, strict action will be taken. We urge the people not to pay money if they receive rotten vegetables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/people-say-e-retailers-selling-rotten-vegetables/articleshow/75035604.cms||Reshma Jain
April 8, 2020||Nashik||10,000 locked in Govind Nagar, Manohar Nagar||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed an area of 3-km radius from the Sumangal housing society in Manohar Nagar, a part of the Govind Nagar area, for 14 days after a resident of the society tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The civic body’s health teams have already traced 17 high-risk contacts of the confirmed patient and they were all admitted to the NMC’s Zakir Hussain Hospital on Tuesday. “Our health teams are tracing the people who came in close contact with the positive patient,” said municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. “We have also home-quarantined all residents of the Sumangal housing society. The NMC is sanitising the whole building and external areas,” he added. Civic officials said they have isolated five family members of the confirmed patient in the Zakir Hussain Hospital. NMC has also sent throat swab samples of 49 individuals for testing — 17 high-risk contacts of the Covid-19 patient, 19 Delhi-returned individuals and 13 other suspects. The reports of all are awaited,” said Game. The officials added that a door-to-door survey has started and 1,110 houses, with 3,895 people, have already been surveyed NMC has divided the prohibited area into a core zone and a buffer zone. There are around 1,500 houses in the core area around the Sumangal building. Health check-ups of all residents in the core area are being done. The prohibited area outside the core area is the buffer zone. The unusual calm in the area covering Govind Nagar, Manohar Nagar, Sumangal Co-operative society, etc. belies the sense of distress felt by nearly 10,000 residents here. On Monday, a resident of this neighbourhood tested positive Covid-19. Subsequently, the administration sealed the area. Residents are more than willing to comply. Otherwise, a bustling neighbourhood, this area connects the city’s east to its west. Now the streets lie empty. Residents have decided to keep the gates of their apartments and societies closed for outsiders. “Everyone is at home. They are just peeping out of their balconies, windows and verandahs. Other than the NMC health workers, who are doing a door-to-door survey, there is no one out on the streets. Even the grocery stores did not open today (Tuesday) and the vegetable vendors did not turn up. Police vans are making announcements asking residents to not venture out unless there is a medical emergency,” said Prakash Patil, a Sadugur Nagar resident. The civic administration has sealed an area of 3-km radius around Govind Nagar and Manohar Nagar. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) health officer Rajesh Tryambake said more than 10,000 people have been instructed to remain confined to their homes. Umesh Chaudhary, another resident of the area, said a list was making rounds on the social media with the details of the Covid-19 patient and the places he had visited between March 2 to 31. “Many residents are now trying to recollect if they were in the same places as the infected person,” he said. Daul Gaud, who is in the catering profession, said, “I am associated with an NGO that has been providing food to the needy people during the lockdown. We prepared around 500 food boxes. However, after the area got sealed, I could not go out to prepare the lunch boxes. Perhaps the NGO found another cook.” Mahesh Wabale, a resident of Govind Nagar, said, “Most of the members of our society have decided to not purchase any vegetables until the area is reopened. Many have stopped their milkmen as well.” Many people said that they did not how long could sustain like this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10000-locked-in-govind-nagar-manohar-nagar/articleshow/75036675.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 8, 2020||Madurai||NGO urges arrest of cop for assaulting dalit youth||Madurai: Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO has urged the Tiruvannamalai police to arrest a constable attached to the Puthupalayam police station in the district for assaulting a dalit youth in public for talking to a girl belonging to the former’s community. In a statement, executive director of Evidence, A Kathir said the youth identified as A Gowthamapriyan, 20, is an engineering graduate and a resident of Thokkavadi village in Tiruvannamalai district. On March 31, at around 4.30pm, he was talking to his sister’s friend at the Kuppanatham bus stop. Police constable Eswaran, who saw this, made inquiries with Gowthamapriyan and where he hailed from. When Gowthamapriyan mentioned that he was from Thokkavadi, Eswaran allegedly made him kneel down and brutally assaulted him with a cable wire. Gowthamapriyan, who sustained injuries, was taken to a hospital for treatment. The video of Eswaran assaulting Gowthamapriyan went viral on social media. Kathir said that when Evidence members conducted an inquiry, they found out that Eswaran had assaulted the youth as he was speaking to a girl belonging to his (Eswaran’s) community. Based on Gowthamapriyan’s complaint, the Chengam police had registered an FIR against Eswaran under IPC sections 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and sections 3(1)(r) and 3(2)(va) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act. Since he is yet to be arrested, Kathir urged the police to act immediately.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-urges-arrest-of-cop-for-assaulting-dalit-youth/articleshow/75037388.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Facilities with 4,064 beds set up in 26 districts||Gandhinagar: With the coronavirus pandemic having spread to 17 of the 33 districts of Gujarat, the state government has, in a record time of just 72 hours, made arrangements to treat 4,064 Covid-19 patients at 31 hospitals in 26 districts. The state’s largest 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad, meanwhile, became operational from Tuesday and began admitting coronavirus patients. Patients will be able to speak to their relatives through video-conferencing. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary (ACS), forest & environment, who has been given the charge of setting up dedicated Covid-19 treating facilities across the state, said that 4,064 beds meant for coronavirus patients have already been set up in 26 districts. “Each district has minimum 100-bed facility with all the required infrastructure, like isolation wards and ventilators. A few districts have over 300-bed facility. All district collectors have also been asked to seek manpower from the private sector in case of shortage of manpower. Many districts are in ready-to-use mode, while others will have all facilities in place in the next two days,” Rajiv Gupta said. Additional chief secretary, revenue department, Pankaj Kumar, who is in charge of Covid-19 response for Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar said the dedicated 1,200-bed Covid hospital in Ahmedabad has begun admitting patients from Tuesday. “The hospital has over 200 ventilators and all other modern equipment with trained medical staff available round the clock,” Kumar said. He added that the hospital is also equipped with facilities for doctors and other medical personnel, where food and resting arrangements have been made at the hospital itself and doctors or medical staff will not be required to go out. Special video-conferencing facilities have been set up at the hospital, where patients will be able to talk to their family members and relatives through video-conferencing. The entry of family members and relatives in the Covid hospital will be strictly banned to minimize possibility of community transmission of coronavirus, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/facilities-with-4064-beds-set-up-in-26-districts/articleshow/75037725.cms||Kapil Dave
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Konar hydroxychloroquine||Kolkata: The state government is going to procure 3 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and has already placed orders for it, a senior Nabanna official said on Monday. “We are expecting the supply in phases before the lockdown period is over,” the official said. The health official said Bengal had already purchased 4.5 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets, part of which was distributed in various malaria clinics in Kolkata and the districts. A fresh stock-taking exercise is being conducted on unused hydroxychloroquine tablets. “We have sufficient stock for now,” said the official. Sukumar Mukherjee, who heads the expert committee on Covid-19, said hydroxychloroquine, which is considered as a prophylactic for front-line medical staffers and preliminary responders, can also be used to treat patients. Mukherjee indicated these can also be used to treat suspected Covid-19 cases who have been quarantined. An official said they had already contacted Kolkata-based PSU Bengal Chemicals for the drug. “They informed that it was not within their capacity to supply the entire amount due to lack of raw materials,” the officer claimed. “Meetings have also been held with Wallace Pharma and IPCA Laboratories but they said they had problems in bulk production due to the lockdown,” he added. According to Raju Khandelwal of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association, the health ministry has recently made the drug a Schedule H1 category drug, which means it cannot be sold over the counter without prescription, to stop hoarding. Moreover, Khandelwal said the cost of raw material that is sourced from China had more than doubled, for which there is a shortage. ICMR has recommended the drug for healthcare workers involved in treatment of suspected or active Covid-19 patients, a health official said. According to reports, there is a rush among people to buy the drug, which is mainly used in malaria and in some cases of rheumatoid arthritis and auto-immune disease, doctors said. Santanu Sen, Trinamool MP and former Indian Medical Association president, wants the drug to be only be used by health workers and suspected cases of Covid-19. “There is a specific dose of the drug for health workers who are being directly exposed to the virus. For them, it is to be continued for seven weeks. For those who are in indirect contact, it is to be taken for three weeks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/konar-hydroxychloroquine/articleshow/75036691.cms||Debasish Konar
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Don’t spread any communal messages: Cops||Nashik: The Ahmednagar police on Monday appealed to the citizens to not spread any rumours on the social media platforms that could lead to a communal rift. Senior police officials said that they have issued a public notice that no one should use social media to post objectionable messages, photos, videos, etc regarding coronavirus. “No one can even put an objectionable status on their social media handles that could lead to a communal rift,” said the officer. The police said that on April 5, they booked a man, employed with Zilla Parishad, Ahmednagar for putting a communal threatened Whatsapp status. An offence under section 188 of the IPC and other sections of the National Disaster Management Act 2005 as well as under the Maharashtra Police Act was registered against the concerned person by the Kotwali police. The police said that similar action will be taken against other people who are found spreading rumours over Covid 19 or putting objectionable posts on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dont-spread-any-communal-messages-cops/articleshow/75036688.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Donate blood for kids with thalassaemia’||Ahmedabad: Dr Vishwas Amin, the director of Ahmedabad Red Cross Society that runs the biggest blood bank of the city, said that blood donation has taken a severe hit during the lockdown. “We have about 1,500 units of blood in stock to supply to hospitals for planned surgeries,” he said. “We might sustain the supply up to the last week of April. Afterwards, it will be difficult.” The last collection had taken place in mid-March, said officials. Daily, about 175 to 200 units were supplied before the lockdown. Now, the figure has reduced to 50-60 units. Kiran Chudgar, the president of the society, said that for 900-odd children with thalassaemia, fresh blood supply is needed. “We have appealed to the citizens to donate blood for the treatment,” Chudgar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/donate-blood-for-kids-with-thalassaemia/articleshow/75037730.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, drones will monitor the railways’ properties||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Railways has pressed drone cameras into action to protect the railways’ properties in the city. Waltair division senior divisional commercial manger G Suneel Kumar said, “It is necessary to ensure that there is no unauthorised movement of the people through railway tracks during the ongoing lockdown.” He added: “Since it is not possible to physically guard the open railway tracks, we have introduced the of patrolling through drones in the Waltair division.” Drone cameras will be operating with the permission of naval and airport authorities and the movements will be fully monitored. The drones can capture clear images from up to a height of 2km. The same project will be soon operational at Khurda Road, Bhubaneswar and Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-drones-will-monitor-the-railways-properties/articleshow/75036055.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 8, 2020||Erode||PWD releases water from Kunderipallam reservoir||Erode: Following heavy downpour in Kunderipallam dam’s catchment areas, the public works department (PWD) released surplus water from the dam from Tuesday morning. The department also sounded flood alert in 10 villages in the district. “The water level in the dam reached its full capacity of 42ft ,” a senior official from PWD said. Considering the satisfactory water level in the dam, collector C Kathiravan ordered the PWD to release the surplus water for irrigation purpose. According to PWD, nearly 2,500 acres across 10 villages, including Kadambur, Gundri, Vilankombai, Kembanur and Malliyadurgam, will benefit from the water release. Farmers had planted banana, sugarcane, turmeric and paddy. A few of them had planted crops such as ragi, vegetables and corn. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/pwd-releases-water-from-kunderipallam-reservoir/articleshow/75037392.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Approach fraught with risks: Vijai Sardesai||PANAJI: The door to door survey appears to be a piecemeal approach fraught with lot of transmission risks, said Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai on Tuesday. “It isn’t clear what the government’s exact action plan is,” he added. Sardesai said that Goa can emulate Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘5Ts-Plan’ to contain Covid-19 in Delhi which is in line with GFP’s own three-step action plan. “We as progressive and forward thinking Goemkars expect a comprehensive and concrete action plan like the one based on 5-Ts released by Delhi’s Kejriwal government, which is totally in line with the PCR (Preventive, Containment and Remedial) measures suggested by GFP earlier,” he stated. He further said that the action plan must be Goa specific. “This is the reason we had suggested forming and inter disciplinary expert team and not just a bureaucratic team which copies models of other states. We expect a Goa specific and not Bilwara model from the state government,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/approach-fraught-with-risks-vijai/articleshow/75037390.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mysuru||Three from Mandya test positive for Covid-19, first in the district||Mandya/ Mysuru: Three persons from Mandya, who were in touch with Nizamuddin markaz attendees from Mysuru, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Following the lab reports, a high alert has been sounded in Mandya district. Of over 50 attendees, eight have been tested positive and they are currently undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital in Mysuru. The new cases reported from Mandya have been moved to the Covid hospital in Mandya. According to the authorities, patient number 171 is a 32-year-old youth while P172 is 36 years old and P173 is a 65-year-old senior citizen. At least 48 primary contacts of these infected people are kept in isolation. These three persons were in touch with P134, P135, P136, P137 and P138 who are being treated at Mysuru. These five patients have a travel history to Delhi. Mandya was on high alert after it was confirmed that several people from the district attended Nizamuddin markaz meet and had contacts with Covid-19 positive patients from Mysuru. A dedicated ward has been set up to treat these patients at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS). According to sources, their condition is stable and they are responding to the treatment. Soon after the district administration received the lab reports which confirmed the first Covid-19 cases in the district, which was so far free from coronavirus, the entire Malavalli and Nagamangala taluks have been declared as prohibited areas. While the swab samples of 3 out of 7 suspects have been found positive, the reports of other persons are awaited. Now, a red alert has been sounded in the entire district, especially in Malavalli and Nagamangala taluks. A 3-km radius around Eidgah ground has been declared as containment zone and a 7-km radius around Malavalli town has been declared as a buffer zone. Meanwhile, authorities have also started door-to-door health screening. The entire Malavalli town has been turned into a garrison and peoples’ movements have been strictly prohibited. The timings to purchase essential items have been reduced from 9 to 6 hours. Similar measures are put in place in Nagamangala town. Vehicle movement has been stopped in total. SP Parashurama K held a peace meeting with the leaders of various communities. “A section of people had a few misconceptions. But we are able to clear all the doubts," said Parashurama. BOX 130 health teams formed As the district administration received the reports of three Covid-19 positive cases, the health department formed 130 teams to check the health of all those who are staying in the 3-km radius which is called as containment zone. “The health teams will screen the residents of this zone in the next 28 days," said health department officers. “We will also keep an eye on the health of those staying in the buffer zone,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-from-mandya-test-positive-for-covid-19-first-in-the-district/articleshow/75035640.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic fight a social battle: State govt panel||Kolkata: The Bengal government has taken global professionals on board to tackle the novel coronavirus pandemic, with an aim to frame a 360-degree management strategy of primary reporting from the grassroots, identifying hotspots, running random tests, and finally treatment of patients. “The entire process involves a whole lot of inputs from health workers at the grassroots to medical experts and from individuals to public policy-makers. The chief minister has taken a timely step to adopt a comprehensive management strategy,” said committee convenor Abhijit Chowdhury, hepatology head at SSKM Hospital. The global advisory team is in talks with the government over ways to increase testing of people showing primary symptoms, such as cough and fever. “Fighting a pandemic isn’t just a medical issue. It is a social battle that requires a convergence of perception by scientists, doctors, administrators and communicators. A person having fever may try to hide it if his neighbours panic and try to drive him out of the locality. It will defeat the entire purpose,” the team convenor said. The advisory board will take these behavioural insights, including the fear and apprehension among individuals, into account while framing policies. “The team, therefore, includes economists, public policy experts and communication specialists, other than doctors,” Chowdhury said. He said a pandemic has impacted the healthcare system. Public policy-makers have to leverage the resources, based on inputs from the grassroots. “Economist Abhijit Banerjee has prescribed certain cost-effective measures to tackle the virus and its effects. He wants a strong reporting system that will enable health workers to focus on areas, where the incidence of fever and cough is high,” the public health specialist said. Chowdhury who has worked with the Nobel laureate in rural Birbhum isn’t losing sight of the impact the novel coronavirus and the consequent lockdown are having on daily wage earners and land labourers as they can’t work. “The virus has an impact on labour productivity. Banerjee will study the impact and suggest ways to come over the crisis,” the convenor said. “Sets of measures have to be in place with proper coordination at local, district and state levels, apart from hospital management. The medical expert panel has already framed a standard treatment protocol for Covid-19 patients in hospitals. We need to get out of the perception that the novel coronavirus is fatal,” Chowdhury said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-fight-a-social-battle-state-govt-panel/articleshow/75037395.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||30 NRS staffers test negative for Covid-19||KOLKATA: Swab samples of 30 healthcare providers attached with NRS Medical College and Hospital have tested negative to Covid-19, much to the relief of the hospital authority and the state health department. Currently, 79 healthcare workers are under isolation at the government’s quarantine centre at New Town. More samples are being sent for confirmatory tests. “The first lot of samples were collected from those who came in close contact with the Covid-19 positive patient. Thirty four more samples were collected on Tuesday and sent for testing. Samples of all those who are quarantined will be tested to rule out the remotest chance of infection,” said a hospital source. The death of a 35-year-old in the hospital on Saturday sent a shock wave in the hospital when the patient’s test reports came positive. The patient, who was suffering from haemophilia, had come to the hospital’s emergency wing on March 30. Since he had no corona symptoms, he was admitted at the male medicine ward and later shifted to the critical care unit and was put on ventilation. His swab samples were sent when he was on ventilation. “Had the patient come with any kind of symptoms, he would be have been treated at the hospital’s isolation facility created for Covid-19 or suspected cases where the healthcare providers are equipped with protective gear. This could have saved us from a lot of trouble,” said a doctor. Even as the first lot of 30 have tested negative, the health department is likely to keep them in isolation for 14 days. According to sources, none of the 79 has developed any noticeable symptoms. But they are on hydroxychloroquine regime. “It is a huge relief that 30 have tested negative. But given this kind of situation, where a patient turns up with no symptoms and then tests positive, has made us little shaky,” said a junior doctor in the hospital. The male general medicine ward and the CCU unit remained sealed on Tuesday as well. Officials said these two units will continue to be to shut till complete disinfection. Though a few patients turned up the general medicine OPD on Tuesday, no patients were admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sumati-nrs/articleshow/75036701.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Report travel history: Lawyer urges TJ members||NAGPUR: Warning the members of Muslim community, who attended Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meeting in Delhi, but were untraceble till date, noted lawyer Firdos Mirza called on them to immediately report for quarantine to save the lives of their family members and others. Clarifying that recent surveys by the NMC and health care workers for checking Covid-19 suspects were no way related to NPR and NRC, he said both were deferred by the government due to impending threat from the deadly virus. “I say this with full responsibility and therefore, please cooperate with them.” Quoting state home minister who had claimed that about 55-56 persons who attended the TJ meet were yet to be traced, as they had switched off their mobile phones, the lawyer said they should immediately surrender to save the humanity. “While fighting the dreaded virus, the Muslims are going through one of the worst phases. Among total positive patients in the country, about one third are found to be Muslims, which means every third person from the community is infected. While hiding, you are spreading the virus in our community, which is wrong,” he said. Claiming that due to these cases the Muslims brethren were being discriminated, he said even the hospitals weren’t admitting them while people were reluctant to purchase vegetables from the vendors belonging to the community. “The time is to focus on how to improve the situation, instead of deliberating on who’s responsible for it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/report-travel-history-lawyer-urges-tj-members/articleshow/75037394.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Auction of onions resumes at Lasalgaon||NASHIK: The auction of onions resumed at Lasalgaon APMC on Tuesday, nearly a week after the first Covid-19 positive case was detected in the district at Pimpalgaon Najik village. It was business as usual at the market with farmers bringing their produce in sacks – as requested by the APMC administration. A total of 14,000 quintal of onions was auctioned at Lasalgaon, which is the country’s biggest onion market. The average wholesale onion price of both summer and late kharif onions went down by Rs 500 per quintal as compared to the price on the last working day, that is March 30. The former was sold at Rs 1,150 per quintal while the latter fetched Rs 700 per 100 kg. “We have started the auction of onions keeping the interest of the farmers in mind and also to ensure that supply is not be affected in the domestic market. The scarcity of workers for loading and unloading of onions is still there. Hence, we have decided to auction only those onions that are brought in sacks,” said APMC official. “The decision to conduct auction of loose onions will be taken after April 15. The rise in the supply as compared to the demand has led to a drop in the average wholesale prices of both summer and late kharif onions,” he added. The arrival of new summer onions has also increased at large. Of the total produce auctioned on Tuesday, around 85% were of this variety, while the remaining were kharif onions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auction-of-onions-resumes-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/75036705.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||No inquest, no PM for Covid-19 deaths||Nagpur: As per orders of the state and central government, neither an inquest nor a post mortem will be conducted in Covid-19 death cases. On Monday, the state government issued a circular relieving the police of conducting an inquiry into cases of patients who may have died either due to confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection. A few days back, the central government had asked forensic departments not to conduct an autopsy of patients “unless warranted by special circumstances of foul play”. As a result, the body of the first patient to die of Covid-19 in Nagpur was handed over to the family without an inquest or post mortem on Monday. The police had earlier approached the home department seeking exemption from performing the inquest panchnama of the suspects or confirmed patients in the backdrop of the high-risk pandemic disease. The home department, citing special clauses mentioned under Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005, stated the special exemption was extended to the cops in which there would be no “legal compulsion on them to perform the inquest”. A senior police official said that the inquest is done with two witnesses, prior to the post mortem, to record the number of injuries on the body. “In Covid-19 related deaths, there is unlikely to be any external injuries which nullified the requirements of the inquest. In addition, cops are not trained to scientifically and technically protect themselves from the close contact of a person dying from a pandemic disease, making them highly susceptible to infection,” he said. Doctors TOI spoke to said Covid-19 guidelines clearly stated that post mortem must be avoided. “Since cause of death is also clearly stated as due to coronavirus, it is not necessary,” a doctor at IGGMCH said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-inquest-no-pm-for-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/75051123.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: For MSMEs, it’s an uncertain road ahead||COIMBATORE: Industrialists in the district are keeping their fingers crossed on the course of action after the 21-day lockdown ends on April 14. Many of them are unsure whether to start operations at one go or in a staggered manner. Some said they were confused as norms of physical distancing do not work for labour-intensive industries. R Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia), said the Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises on Tuesday had asked industry associations to spell out their plans post lockdown, on maintaining precautions and physical distancing, but several industrialists were uncertain on the course of action. In some units such as injection moulding firms, maintain physical distancing is not practically feasible. “We are mulling whether to start operations with 50% capacity or to have a shift-based system,” Ramamurthy said. A few industrialists are apprehensive of starting their operations altogether. “Even if one worker is infected, the entire facility would be quarantined… the best way would be to wait till the Covid-19 curve gets flattened,” he said. Owners of micro enterprises said they were staring at a threefold uncertainty — orders, workers and machines. J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said many were not sure whether the orders they had received before the lockdown would still stand after April 14. “Also, guest workers have started asking employers to get them tickets back home once the lockdown is over. We are not sure if they’ll return to work,” said James. Maintenance of equipment in micro enterprises is also a prime concern. Automated machines have to be run once in two days at least, to ensure continuity. “Or else, their batteries would get affected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/uncertain-road-ahead-for-msme-units-post-lockdown/articleshow/75037396.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||495 ventilators for 8 districts in M’wada||Aurangabad:As the administration is gearing up to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, it has found that eight districts of Marathwada have only 495 ventilators, of which, just 191 are with the government hospitals. The remaining 304 ventilators are with the private hospitals scattered across the region. Sources in the administration said that it is yet to be ascertained if all these 495 ventilators are in working condition. An official said, “Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar is personally monitoring the issue and is already in the process of improving the tally of ventilators in the region.” For now, the administration’s plan is to rope-in the ventilators owned by private hospitals in case the situation goes out of hand and the government hospitals need more ventilators. As per the figures obtained from the government authorities, in all, 16 dedicated buildings and hospitals for Covid-19 have been set-up in all eight districts, of which, two each are established at Aurangabad, Hingoli, Latur, three at Osmanabad, four at Nanded and one each at Jalna, Parbhani and Beed, having a total capacity of 1,300 beds. In terms of isolation buildings, other than dedicated government hospitals, a total of 64 isolation buildings have been reserved. Of which, 42 have been reserved in Parbhani, 14 in Latur, four in Beed, three in Aurangabad and one in Jalna. These buildings have a total bed capacity of 4,595 beds, of which 1,092 are reserved for Covid-19 suspect patients. A total of 69 private hospitals from Marathwada region have reserved isolation buildings and beds. Of these, 19 are in Aurangabad, 12 in Osmanabad, 16 in Nanded, five in Jalna, eight in Parbhani and nine in Latur. These hospitals have a total bed capacity of 6,343, of 609 beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. No private hospitals in Hingoli and Beed have come forward with any such facilities. For the purpose of institutional quarantine, 99 hospitals with a total bad capacity of 8,314 have been reserved for the purpose. Of these beds, about 10% have been reserved for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/495-ventilators-for-8-districts-in-mwada/articleshow/75036702.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Covid hospital: 35 patients yet to be shifted out of MR Bangur||Kolkata: With only 35-odd patients still to be shifted to other hospitals, administrative officials of MR Bangur Hospital said they were ready to operate as a full-fledged covid-19 hospital with the entire new superspeciality complex ready to take in patients infected with novel coronavirus. The old complex will also be ready to accommodate covid-19 patients in a day or two. “In the last three days, we have shifted over 220 odd patients from the old building and have discharged more than 50 others. Now, only 26 patients in the burns unit, two children in the neonatal care unit and a few more in the critical care unit are left to be shifted. All these patients are in extremely critical condition and until we have standard relocation facilities available for them, it is difficult to shift them,” said Sisir Naskar, the hospital superintendent. “We had a total of 32 patients in the burn unit. On Monday, we could shift six to SSKM Hospital. By late tonight, six more are likely to be shifted there, but we need to maintain extreme caution while dealing with such patients. Even a minor infection can be fatal. Hence, unless we get the beds in the burn units allotted for them, it is difficult to shift them and keep them in some other ward,” said another senior official of the hospital. According to plastic and vascular surgeons, though burn patients are susceptible to infections, shifting them is not difficult provided the patient’s condition is stable. “Burn patients are barely put on ventilation. But if a patient is in intensive care, such patient can be shifted using a critical care ambulance,” said plastic and vascular surgeon Anupam Golash of CMRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-hospital-35-patients-yet-to-be-shifted-out-of-mr-bangur/articleshow/75036713.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Municipal Corporation gives safety equipment to 1,500 sanitation staff||NASHIK: The civic body has provided all safety equipment — sanitisers, face masks and gloves — to more than 1,500 sanitation employees deployed across six divisions of the municipal corporation. Safety equipment has been provided to the employees at the municipal corporation headquarters Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan as well. All the six divisions have also been provided with 960 litre of sodium hypochlorite to disinfect the areas. The Nashik Municipal Corporation has already procured 2,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for the medical staff working in the hospitals to treat the Covid-19 patients in quarantine or under isolation. NMC officials said over 1,500 sanitation employees are working across six divisions, engaged in sweeping roads and colonies. “We always provide safety equipment to our sanitary workers. Given the Covid-19 outbreak, we have bought safety equipment and distributed the same to all workers,” said civic officials. The safety equipment provided for sanitary workers in all six divisions include 3,915 masks, 6,000 gloves, 436 bottles of sanitisers (500 ml each), 3,300 litre of phenyl bottles etc. The civic body has also provided and 960 litre of sodium hypochlorite to be sprayed in areas, including 160 litre in each of six divisions. Only 4ml of the chemical is used in 1,000ml water to disinfect the areas. Meanwhile, all the garbage vans are operational across the city and lifting over 5,000 tonne of garbage every day. NMC has cleared all the garbage black spots on open spaces and along the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gives-safety-equipment-to-1500-sanitation-staff/articleshow/75036717.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK to foot the bill of Amma canteens||Coimbatore: Starting from Tuesday till April 14, the AIADMK would bear the expenses of 15 Amma canteens in the district, state municipal administration minister S P Velumani said. Speaking to reporters at the district collectorate on Tuesday, the minister said the move was to help people get food free of cost. “More that 20,000 people daily visit 12 Amma canteens in the city and one each in Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Valparai. The district AIADMK unit will bear the expenses at these canteens till April 14,” he said. The minister, who was at the collectorate to attend a review meeting on the prevention of Covid-19 spread, said of the 37,000 guest workers in the district, 19,000 were provided with food by their employers and other 18,000 were by local bodies and district administration with aid of NGOs. Urging people to maintain social distancing, Velumani asked them to avoid going to shops every day, and advised them instead to buy and store goods needed for 5-7 days. “This will prevent people’s movement.” The minister warned traders against jacking up prices of essential commodities. “Also, private companies should not lay off their employees or cut their salaries. If they were found violating the norms, they would face stringent action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-to-foot-the-bill-of-amma-canteens/articleshow/75037400.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Those mocking steps of Modi, EPS are anti-socials: Min||Madurai: Milk and dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji has said that people mocking the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to contain the spread of Covid-19 would only be anti-social elements.The minister was speaking while inaugurating two disinfectant tunnels set up with the support of AAA College of Engineering College and Technology at Sivakasi and Thiruthangal municipal limits in Virudhunagar on Tuesday.Bhalaji said PM Modi has been taking several effective steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The nine-minute lights-out-and-lighting-of-lamps exercise was to show the world that the people of India are united.  Following the effective steps taken by the district administration with the support of several voluntary organisations, the spread of Covid-19 is under control in Virudhunagar district, he added. A disinfectant tunnel sponsored by Theni MP O P Ravindranath Kumar was also set up in front of the Theni medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/those-mocking-steps-of-modi-eps-are-anti-socials-min/articleshow/75037398.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Around 9 lakh people get training in Covid prevention||KOCHI: Creating awareness among those at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 on how to handle the situations they face daily is key to curbing spread of the disease. Keeping this in mind, the health department has given training to close to 9 lakh people, including doctors, nurses, other health staff, ambulance drivers, attenders, bank officers, police, volunteers, students, Kudumbashree and Asha workers. The training focused on how to protect themselves as well as those associated with them while dealing with the general public. Police, bank officials, healthcare staff, ambulance drivers, etc, are more prone to contract the disease easily if they don't adhere strictly to the protocol. "In the first phase in February, 7.48 lakh people, including 4.87 lakh students, were imparted awareness on how to avoid getting the disease. In the second phase which started after March 15, we imparted training to doctors, nursing staff, bank officials, cops, etc. Now, the focus is on patient management," said Dr K S Shinu, executive director, executive director, Kerala Health Systems Resource Centre. The massive training is being imparted through videoconferencing. "In the first phase we had given training to those running beauty parlours, banks, shopkeepers etc also. Now, we are giving training to mainly health staff, bank officials, cops etc," said Dr Vidya, district surveillance officer, Alappuzha. "The government has issued separate advisories on how to give training to people in different sectors. Bank officials, for example, are given training on handling currency, how to interact with customers, etc," she said. Now that the measures to create awareness among the public regarding checking the spread of Covid-19 is almost complete, the health department officials are planning to focus on giving training to medical staff on patient management. "We had already given training to doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on patient management. Now, doctors with a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram will impart hands-on training to staff of various hospitals regarding patient management in intensive care units," said an official. "Training is given to doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on how to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) and remove them safely. We are also identifying gaps in the programme and filling them," the official said. Officials associated with the project said that training will be given to staff of more private hospitals. "We had already given training to the staff of some private hospitals. Now, staff in more private hospitals will be given training in patient management. Once the positive cases rise, the facilities with the government hospitals alone may not be enough. Private hospitals may also have to be roped-in for treatment," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/around-9-lakh-people-get-training-in-covid-prevention/articleshow/75047549.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Around 9 lakh people get training in Covid prevention||KOCHI: Creating awareness among those at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 on how to handle the situations they face daily is key to curbing spread of the disease. Keeping this in mind, the health department has given training to close to 9 lakh people, including doctors, nurses, other health staff, ambulance drivers, attenders, bank officers, police, volunteers, students, Kudumbashree and Asha workers. The training focused on how to protect themselves as well as those associated with them while dealing with the general public. Police, bank officials, healthcare staff, ambulance drivers, etc, are more prone to contract the disease easily if they don't adhere strictly to the protocol. "In the first phase in February, 7.48 lakh people, including 4.87 lakh students, were imparted awareness on how to avoid getting the disease. In the second phase which started after March 15, we imparted training to doctors, nursing staff, bank officials, cops, etc. Now, the focus is on patient management," said Dr K S Shinu, executive director, executive director, Kerala Health Systems Resource Centre. The massive training is being imparted through videoconferencing. "In the first phase we had given training to those running beauty parlours, banks, shopkeepers etc also. Now, we are giving training to mainly health staff, bank officials, cops etc," said Dr Vidya, district surveillance officer, Alappuzha. "The government has issued separate advisories on how to give training to people in different sectors. Bank officials, for example, are given training on handling currency, how to interact with customers, etc," she said. Now that the measures to create awareness among the public regarding checking the spread of Covid-19 is almost complete, the health department officials are planning to focus on giving training to medical staff on patient management. "We had already given training to doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on patient management. Now, doctors with a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram will impart hands-on training to staff of various hospitals regarding patient management in intensive care units," said an official. "Training is given to doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on how to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) and remove them safely. We are also identifying gaps in the programme and filling them," the official said. Officials associated with the project said that training will be given to staff of more private hospitals. "We had already given training to the staff of some private hospitals. Now, staff in more private hospitals will be given training in patient management. Once the positive cases rise, the facilities with the government hospitals alone may not be enough. Private hospitals may also have to be roped-in for treatment," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/around-9-lakh-people-get-training-in-covid-prevention/articleshow/75047577.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Dist court commences hearing on bail pleas||Madurai: The Madurai district court has commenced hearing of urgent bail applications through conference calls.Following the announcement of nation-wide lockdown, the court operations were suspended in the state and alternative arrangements were made to hear urgent cases at the courts. According to sources, the principal district judge (PDJ) A Nazeema Banu heard a total of 14 bail applications from her camp office on Monday. Of these 14 cases, bail was granted in 7 cases while the rest were adjourned to a further date. The advocates had filed bail applications through an e-filing system. The PDJ heard bail applications through a conference call with the public prosecutor and the advocates of the applicants.The orders in these urgent bail applications would be uploaded online. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dist-court-commences-hearing-on-bail-pleas/articleshow/75037402.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nashik||Coronavirus in Maharashtra: Ahmednagar gets 3 hotspots, 25 cases in district||NASHIK: Three areas in Ahmednagar district — Jamkhed, Sangamner and Mukundnagar — have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots with as many as 17 residents testing positive. With three new positive cases on Monday night, the total number of patients in the district has swelled to 25. District collector Rahul Dwivedi told TOI that the administration has put in place the cluster containment action plan at these three places to restrict the spread of the virus. “We have already sealed these three places and an extensive survey is under way to check the health of every resident,” he added. If district officials come across any suspicious case, the person is being quarantined and swab samples are collected for tests. According to district officials, of the 25 positive cases so far, 21 are linked to the Tablighi Jammat members or their contacts in Ahmednagar. A total of 35 people, including 29 foreigners, who had attended the Jamaat’s congregation in the Hazrat Nizaumuddin area of Delhi had come to Ahmednagar in three batches and continued to stay at mosques. After the district administration came to know that these people had taken shelter in Mosques, all were quarantined. Among the group, four foreigners tested positive for Covid-19. “The 17 local residents of Jamkhed, Sangamner and Mukundnagar, who came into contact with those who attended the religious congregation in Delhi, have tested positive,” district officials said. Four of the 25 cases have no connection with the Delhi event. Two of them had returned from Dubai, one was a local doctor and the other was a resident of Shrirampur. Both have no travel history. Meanwhile, Ahmednagar guardian minister Hassan Mushrif held a review meeting on Covid-19 with district officials. The district authorities briefed him about the positive cases and what steps they have initiated to prevent the spread of the virus in the district. Mushrif appealed to the people in the district to remain indoors and help the local administration in preventing the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-gets-3-hotspots-25-cases-in-dist/articleshow/75036733.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: VHP, HM members booked||COIMBATORE: Police on Tuesday registered separate cases against a Hindu Munnani functionary and a Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) functionary for posting hate messages against a minority community on social media. The Sulur police registered a case against Hindu Munnani functionary Ananth for posting a message on his Facebook page connecting the spread of Covid-19 with a minority community. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by U Mujibur Rahman, 40, of GM Nagar at South Ukkadam, and district secretary of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK). Police registered a case against Ananth under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc.,) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. Similarly, the Anaimalai police registered a case against VHP functionary Ganesh Babu for posting images and messages criticizing a minority community and their religious practices on his Facebook page. The case was registered under sections 294 (b), 295 (A) and 505 (1) (B) of the IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vhp-hm-members-booked/articleshow/75037403.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt could extend lockdown in Mumbai and Pune by 2 weeks||MUMBAI: The state cabinet on Tuesday discussed whether to extend the lockdown by two weeks in Mumbai and Pune which have reported a high number of cases. In an indication that the lockdown may not be lifted on April 15, the cabinet cleared two proposals. One for subsidized foodgrains to be provided to even saffron ration card holders (family income of Rs 15,000 to Rs 1 lakh a year). Two, the Shiv Thali Scheme will be implemented at the taluka level at Rs 5 per plate for three months; it was available for Rs 10 earlier. For the first time in its history, the state cabinet meeting was held via video-conferencing. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and some cabinet members joined in from his official residence, Varsha. Some connected from Mantralaya and the rest from their respective areas. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesA senior minister said though no decision was taken on Tuesday, there was a general consensus that the lockdown should be extended in cities such as Mumbai and Pune and some relaxation given in areas where there are few or no cases. “Most of us were of the opinion that even in case of relaxation, inter-district movement should not be allowed. A decision will be taken in the next few days, depending on the cases in the state,” said the minister. He further said the government would extend the lockdown by two weeks in Mumbai and other affected cities. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe cabinet discussed that the lockdown would be relaxed in a phased manner on the basis of the number of Covid-19 patients. Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region may witness two weeks’ extension, as of now. A minister said the discussion on the lockdown issue was cut short by Thackeray, who said the situation will be reviewed between April 10 and 14 to take a final call. “A proper decision on lifting the lockdown will be taken at the proper time,” said Thackeray. After the meeting, Thackeray wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding additional quota of subsidized grains for the state. As per the cabinet decision, nearly 3.8 crore ration cards will benefit from the scheme. Wheat at Rs 8 per kg and rice at Rs 12 per kg will be given to all those who have an orange ration card. “For this, an additional quota of 1.5 lakh metric tonne of foodgrains has been sought from the Centre. A burden of Rs 250 crore will be borne by the state,” said an official. Currently, only those covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA)—families with an annual income of Rs 59,000 or less—get subsidized foodgrains. “We have taken a decision on subsidized grains for all those with orange cards, irrespective of their income limit. A similar decision to cover those with white ration cards (family income of over Rs 1 lakh) will be taken in the next few days,” said cabinet minister Aslam Shaikh. “For those who don’t have a ration card like migrants, relief camps have been set up in the state. There are over five lakh people in these camps,” said a minister. Watch Three people die due to Covid-19 in Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-could-extend-lockdown-in-mumbai-and-pune-by-2-weeks/articleshow/75036742.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police distribute homeopathy immunity boosters to personnel & families||Aurangabad: The city police has procured a homeopathy medicine, believed to boost immunity, in bulk quantities for distribution among its personnel who have been given the reponsibility of keeping a check on unruly citizens venturing out amid the lockdown. The medicine has been purchased not only for the police personnel, but also for their family members. Authorities said the medicine, which goes by the name of Arsenicum Album 30C, is one of the immunity boosters most recommended by homeopathy practitioners. The medicine has already been distributed among tha families of many personnel.While being handed over the medicine, each cops istold how the medicine helps in boosting immunity. The personnel are also being asked to maintain social distancing and wash hands at regular intervals.Those posted at the police stations will get the medicine from the in-charge. For those posted at the headquarters, the medicines will be given by the officers there.Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, “Apart from taking the precautionary measures, boosting immunity remains one of the most vital ways of fighting this deadly infection.”“We had placed a bulk order and got over 3,500 medicine bottles, enough for supplying to each of the police families. The distribution has already started. We have recommended that each family member should have four pills on an empty stomach every morning for three consecutive days,” said Prasad.Police said that they had studied the cases of those who have been infected by Covid-19 and have also recovered. While studying the cases, they found that those with better immunity turned out to be the survivors. A deputy commissioner of police, who was part of the procurement process, said, “We took the decision of obtaining the homeopathy medicine after reading a series of news about Covid-19 survivors and also speaking to health experts.” The large quantity of medicine was procured with the help of a city-based homeopathy college, said the officer. Echoing the police chief, homeopathy practitioner Vilas Jagdale said, “This medicine is known for boosting immunity. With no established medicine for treating Covid-19 positive patients, boosting immunity remains a key in fighting the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-police-distribute-homeopathy-immunity-boosters-to-personnel-families/articleshow/75036741.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||CMCH, ESI Hosp, 4 markets get disinfectant tunnels||Coimbatore: The city corporation opened six disinfectant tunnels on Tuesday. They were erected in front of Sundarapuram, RS Puram markets, temporary markets at Ukkadam bus stand and Gandhipuram as well as at ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). A corporation officer said the tunnels were sponsored by associations and companies, including Casa Grande, the jewellers’ association, Kumaran jeweller, Sumangali jeweller, GRT, Zoom II and Max. “Each tunnel costs Rs 1.2 lakh. As many as 15 such tunnels will be set up across the city,” the officer said. “A solution of sodium hypochlorite dissolved in water is used as disinfectant. People who pass through tunnels would be sprayed with the solution from both sides,” the officer explained. The four tunnels at the city markets were inaugurated by state municipal administration minister SP Velumani. He directed officials to ensure markets are open till 12pm every day. Meanwhile, the civic body organized a medical camp for sanitary workers at Ammani Ammal Higher Secondary School in RS Puram on Tuesday. About 200 workers were checked for Covid-19 symptoms. “We will screen all sanitary workers within ten days. Camps would be held near their workplace,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmch-esi-hosp-4-markets-get-disinfectant-tunnels/articleshow/75037410.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Amid lockdown, rain adds to the misery of people||COIMBATORE/SALEM: Heavy rain lashed Kurinchi Nagar at Madvarayapuram in Coimbatore district early on Tuesday. The summer showers came as a surprise for residents who woke up to inundated streets. On Tuesday around 2 am, parts of Madvarayapuram, Alandurai and Sundarapuram received a steady spell of rain. Residents said there were instances of frequent water-logging in several residential areas of Kurinchi Nagar because a drainage canal had not been desilted. Local residents requested the civic body authorities to desilt the stream immediately in order to prevent water-logging in the future. By Tuesday afternoon, a team led by a village administrative officer cleared the drainage canal, an official said. P T Dharmalingam, a resident of Kurinchi Nagar, said officials responded immediately and cleared the stream. “We demanded the public works department to desilt the stream in advance,” he said. Meanwhile, rain battered across Salem district on Tuesday evening, uprooting trees and knocking off barricades placed on roads as part of the lockdown. The disinfectant tunnel erected at the Salem new bus stand was also thrown off due to strong wind. An average of 11mm rain was recorded across the city, an official said. Similarly, Dharmapuri district also received good rainfall. At Dharmapuri town, rainwater entered several houses. More than 10 trees were uprooted near Harur. A senior official from the meteorological department said the district had received a total of 77mm of rain. “While Harur has recorded 41mm of rain, Dharmapuri town received 13mm, Palacode 15mm and Pappireddipatty 8mm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/amid-lockdown-rain-adds-to-the-misery-of-people/articleshow/75045534.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Amid lockdown, rain adds to the misery of people||COIMBATORE/SALEM: Heavy rain lashed Kurinchi Nagar at Madvarayapuram in Coimbatore district early on Tuesday. The summer showers came as a surprise for residents who woke up to inundated streets. On Tuesday around 2 am, parts of Madvarayapuram, Alandurai and Sundarapuram received a steady spell of rain. Residents said there were instances of frequent water-logging in several residential areas of Kurinchi Nagar because a drainage canal had not been desilted. Local residents requested the civic body authorities to desilt the stream immediately in order to prevent water-logging in the future. By Tuesday afternoon, a team led by a village administrative officer cleared the drainage canal, an official said. P T Dharmalingam, a resident of Kurinchi Nagar, said officials responded immediately and cleared the stream. “We demanded the public works department to desilt the stream in advance,” he said. Meanwhile, rain battered across Salem district on Tuesday evening, uprooting trees and knocking off barricades placed on roads as part of the lockdown. The disinfectant tunnel erected at the Salem new bus stand was also thrown off due to strong wind. An average of 11mm rain was recorded across the city, an official said. Similarly, Dharmapuri district also received good rainfall. At Dharmapuri town, rainwater entered several houses. More than 10 trees were uprooted near Harur. A senior official from the meteorological department said the district had received a total of 77mm of rain. “While Harur has recorded 41mm of rain, Dharmapuri town received 13mm, Palacode 15mm and Pappireddipatty 8mm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amid-lockdown-rain-adds-to-the-misery-of-people/articleshow/75037411.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||Couple get engaged through WhatsApp video call||Belagavi: Despite the lockdown, a couple from North Karnataka got engaged though a WhatsApp video call on Tuesday, sending a strong message on the importance of staying indoors, to contain the spread of Covid-19. IT professional Asha and Mahantesh Arekeri, a lecturer, got engaged in an online ceremony with the blessings of elders. Asha hails from Sankeshwar town in Hukkeri taluk in Belagavi, while Mahantesh is from Bagalkot. Asha’s father, P D Patil, is the headmaster of a school. He said that the initiative for the ceremony was taken by his daughter. The family had earlier booked a hotel at Sankeshwar for the engagement, but it was then decided to hold the rituals in a manner, so that the prospective bride and groom can remain in their respective homes. “The engagement was scheduled two months back, to be held now, but the lockdown put us in difficulty. Asha then thought of having it online.” In adherence to the ban on mass gatherings, the families ensured the participation of a few hand-picked invitees, who participated in the ceremony from their respective homes. Patil said, “Not more than 14 people took part in the engagement ceremony. The government has been fighting to check the spread of Covid-19, by ordering a lockdown, and the onus is on us to follow the rules.” The families performed rituals at both ends, and a copy of an engagement agreement was sent on WhatsApp by the girl’s family. The rituals were performed in front of a family deity. Asha said that she was happy that her engagement ceremony happened online. “My engagement ceremony will be remembered for a different reason. The nation is in the midst of a mammoth crisis, and it becomes our duty to place the nation’s priorities above individual interests,” she said. Wedding held indoors Hubballi: A poor family in Hebbal village of Shirahatti taluk of Gadag district had planned to wed a member in their family in a mass marriage during the Halaswami fair on April 5, but it got cancelled due to the lockdown. They then decided to have the wedding indoors. They had arranged the marriage of Halesh, a farmer, with Rekha, who is from a neighbouring village, on April 5, in a mass marriage that was to be held during the Halaswami fair. As it was cancelled due to the lockdown, their families decided to have the marriage at the groom’s house in a simple manner, on the scheduled day of April 5, which was a Sunday. Basavaraj Sunagar, a relative of the groom, said, “We are poor, and once a wedding gets cancelled, we will not be able to perform it again, which is a bad omen . If the marriage is postponed, it will also send a wrong message, so we decided to have the wedding in a simple way, in our home.” We did not invite any of our relatives, but 10 to 15 immediate family members were present for the low-key ceremony, he said. “All the ceremonies were held indoors. We did not give any hint that the marriage was going ahead, to our relatives, to restrict them from attending it, and abide by the government’s lockdown,” he added. Those who participated in the wedding, ate the food prepared for the ceremony, by maintaining social distancing. When our relatives came to know, that the wedding had taken place, afterwards, they appreciated it that we had taken a responsible decision at the time of a pandemic, said Basavaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/couple-get-engaged-through-whatsapp-video-call/articleshow/75035680.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed police deliver groceries at home to curb virus spread||Auranagabad: With an aim to ensure the families of the personnel do not violate the lockdown rules and also reduce their chances of getting infected by Covid-19, Beed police are home-delivering groceries to the family members. It was Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar’s idea to get the groceries delivered at the doorstep of the personnels’ families. He has given the responsibility to an inspector rank officer to look after the needs of the families.Several policemen have welcomed the initiative by the district police chief. A constable said that though the orders had been given to home deliver only groceries, policemen deployed for the purpose were going out of their way to meet the needs of the families. In some cases, the policemen have even brought and delivered medicines required by the members of the police families.When contacted, Poddar said, “In order to minimise the risk of infection among police families, we are home delivering groceries in all police lines of the district. Since the head of the family is on duty almost 24x7, this is a small endeavour on our part to make things easier for these families.”As per the initiative, the grocery store nearest to each of the police lines in the district have been shortlisted for getting the order from the families. The families will have to send the list of the items they need on the Whatsapp number of the store owner. If that cannot be done, they can hand over the list of items to the policemen deployed for the task. Once the parcel is ready, the officer in-charge is apprised that the articles have to be delivered to a personnel’s family. Once the bill is cleared by the family, the officer uses the police vehicle and delivers the groceries at the doorstep of the personnel’s house. Sources in the police said that while discussing the implementation of the idea, it was suggested that the order from the police families be given to a central provider to avoid any glitches. However, the idea had to be dropped given the vast size of the district and also the fact that many police families resided in areas more than 100km away from the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-police-deliver-groceries-at-home-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/75036759.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 8, 2020||Nashik||At the helm of affairs to safeguard people, but isolated at home||done. Nashik: Ever since Covid-19 struck the nation and Nashik city felt its ripples, Deputy Commissioner of Police (zone 1) Amol Tambe and his wife Archana, Deputy Commissioner of the Social Welfare Department, have been at the forefront of efforts to prevent the spread of the infection. Now, nearly a month into the battle, the couple has decided to stay away from each other as well as their family members. On April 2, Archana Tambe would have celebrated her birthday but during these times there is no scope for celebration, says the DCP. “Given the nature of our duties, we have decided it is better if we do not interact. While I have completely isolated myself from my family members, Archana has limited access to our children Rajwardhan (12) and Varadvardhan (10).” He stays in his room and does not meet the family members. “I have told the children that they can’t come and see me. In fact, they have put up a poster to that effect on my door. Everything I use, including the utensils, are separate so there is less risk of exposure for the rest of the family,” he says.  Tambe has seven police stations of zone 1 under his jurisdiction and 26 ‘nakabandi’ points working round the clock. He has to oversee the functioning of all the nakabandis and the barricading as well as instruct those who work under him to take action against those violating the lockdown orders. So far, over 700 people have been booked. “I rush from one place to another in my jurisdiction, Archana oversees all the arrangements and requirements at the 18 shelter homes where migrants and labourers have been put up,” he says. Tambe has appointed 300 ‘police mitras’ to assist the police at the nakabandi points. Not only has he to motivate his subordinates to carry out their duty with a firm hand, but he has to ensure that they are taking care of their health and are provided with all the necessary personal protection articles. As part of her job overseeing the 18 shelter homes, Archana Tambe has to make personal visits to see that the migrants, labourers and homeless people at the quarantine centres are provided with food, water and basic items like tooth brushes etc. If a new batch of people comes, she has to co-ordinate with the concerned teams of the shelter home and arrange their accommodation. At times the work continues late into the night. And since there is a risk of them coming in contact with a positive case, the husband and wife team have decided that living apart will help them work together to overcome the coronavirus challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-the-helm-of-affairs-to-safeguard-people-but-isolated-at-home/articleshow/75036749.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 8, 2020||Madurai||8 held, 22 booked in Sivaganga district for holding manjavirattu||Madurai: A case was registered on Monday against 30 people from Keelakottai village near Kallal in Sivaganga district for trying to conduct vadamadu manjavirattu, a bull taming event, without permission. Mass gatherings have been banned in the state with section 144 in place. The bull taming event is held annually in Keelakottai village. Police were informed about the event being conducted in the village on Monday and rushed to the spot. As Madugupatti SSI Kalaiarasu and head constable Kanagaraj reached the spot, about fifty men who had gathered in the open ground in the village to conduct the game fled the scene. One of the bulls that broke free of the leash attacked constable Kanagaraj and he sustained injuries on his face. He was admitted to a private hospital. Sivaganga taluk police registered a case against 30 people and arrested eight of them-Raman,45, Ravi,24, Prabu,20, Balaji,19, Vijayakumar,20, Rajkumar,24, Chiranjeevi, 28 and Diwakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-held-22-booked-in-sivaganga-district-for-holding-manjavirattu/articleshow/75037424.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Biomedical waste from isolation wards to be segregated during collection itself||TRICHY: Vehicles collecting biomedical waste from hospitals will have separate compartments for collecting and sorting waste from isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. Biomedical waste from eight central districts including Trichy is sent to the common biomedical waste treatment facility in Thanjavur on 13 vehicles. As medical colleges in these districts have started receiving Covid-19 cases, the treatment facility had earlier decided to collect waste from isolation wards separately. As it was not possible to operate separate vehicles for collecting waste from isolation wards, K Velmurugan, manager of Medicare enviro systems that operates the waste treatment facility, said they decided to create a partition in the vehicles so that waste from isolation wards could be collected separately. “This will ensure that Covid-19 related biomedical waste is handled separately and incinerated on priority,” he said. The waste generated from the isolated wards are packed in double layered bags and labelled as Covid-19 waste and handed over daily. The waste that the facility receives has also come down by more than 50%. Normally, the facility gets around 1,800kg of biomedical waste from hospitals, nursing homes and clinic from the eight districts, but it has come down to just 800kg in the last few days. “As many nursing homes and clinics have been closed leaving only major hospitals functional, there will not be any issues in the handling Covid-19 waste,” said Velmurugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biomedical-waste-from-isolation-wards-to-be-segregated-during-collection-itself/articleshow/75037416.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||MP flays Centre’s decision to stall MPLADS||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has flayed the Central government’s decision to stall the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years.In a statement, Venkatesan said it is important that all people and various sectors should extend their full cooperation to the government in the fight against the deadly Covid-19. But, when the disease is spreading in states, districts, and villages, what is needed now is decentralization of power and not accumulation.The announcement that the MPLADS would not be given for a period of two years, does not seem to be a decision taken in wake of the Covid-19 crisis, but to overcome the economic crisis that the country is now facing.If the government needed money for this crisis period, it could have increased the corporate tax by 1% and drawn a sum of not less than Rs 50,000 crore. Similarly, if the various concessions given to corporate firms this year are withdrawn, the government stands to gain Rs 1.50 lakh crore, the MP claimed.But, trying to take away funds meant for people’s service by this government which lacks political acumen, is a wrong decision and should be reconsidered, Venkatesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-flays-centres-decision-to-stall-mplads/articleshow/75037427.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Face shields procured for extra protection||Aurangabad: Besides providing specially stitched masks to the policemen deployed on frontline, the Aurangabad city police authorities, with the help of some locals, have prepared face shields for extra protection. These face shields are developed using local resources and technology. The team has developed two design variants — one using MDF and the other using foam. Both the variants feature a transparent polycarbonate sheet to be worn over masks covering nose and mouth. With the first production of 3,000 shields for the Aurangabad police already underway, the team is ramping up the capacity to deliver the shields to the city’s health and sanitation staff, said those associated with the project which for now is being run at no profit-no loss basis. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, “With no established medicine available to cure this deadly disease, social distancing, application of common sense, logic and maintaining of personal hygiene as per the recommended guidelines is the key to survival and we are trying to everything possible in this direction.” On Tuesday, some policemen deployed on the frontline were provided with these face shields, asking them to mandatorily use it while being on field. These shields are to be used along with the multi-layered cloth masks sourced from the Aurangabad central prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/face-shields-procured-for-extra-protection/articleshow/75036781.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 8, 2020||Coimbatore||IG warns against spread of rumours||Coimbatore: Inspector General of Police (west zone) K Periaiah has cautioned people against spreading rumours on Covid-19. Police have registered 20 cases in the zone for spreading rumours on social media. Explaining further, Periaiah said police in the west zone (comprising Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri) have registered 18,909 cases for violation of prohibitory orders till April 6, and arrested 20,726 people. As many as 14,960 vehicles had been seized from lockdown violators. On Monday, the top cop inspected Sulur police station and later sought clarification whether the rules of social distancing during vehicle checks were being duly followed. “We have been monitoring the movement of people at vegetable markets, grocery shops, pharmacies, ration shops through drones,” said Periaiah. Police personnel in the eight districts were also engaged in supplying medicines, food and essential commodities to the elderly people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ig-warns-against-spread-of-rumours/articleshow/75037426.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||City cops to keep citizens engaged in competitions||Madurai: In order to keep the people at home engaged in useful activities police has come up with various competitions. Commissioner of police S Davidson Devasirvatham, who has come up with the initiative, has put a sub-inspector in charge to conduct the competition and give away prizes to the winners. People can take part in competitions like essay writing, drawing, short film involving family members, story and poem. People can send their entries through Whatsapp to Teppakulam SI Ramakrishnan on 8940582582. The winners will be shortlisted once in 2 days and prizes will be distributed at their doorsteps. People have been advised not to venture out to shoot for short films and instead they can do it within their house premises.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-cops-to-keep-citizens-engaged-in-competitions/articleshow/75037454.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mangaluru||State allows entry of non-Covid patients from Kerala via Talapady border||Mangaluru: The Karnataka government has decided to allow ambulances carrying victims of road accidents and persons in need of emergency healthcare facility to enter the state through Talapady from Kerala, said Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner, Dakshina Kannada. However, patients suspected of Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter the state. In an official communique, the deputy commissioner stressed that patients entering Karnataka border must produce documents from local government hospitals that he/she has no Covid-19. This apart, an official document stating that the same healthcare facility is not available in Kerala must also be produced, the communique said. The communique has been issued after Karnataka agreed to allow ambulances carrying non-Covid-19 patients through Talapady border in Kerala’s Kasaragod district for treatment at hospitals in Mangaluru during lockdown. Karnataka had barred all vehicles from Kerala even as Kerala government had moved Supreme Court to lift the order. The communique further states that ambulances can enter through the border only after it is completely sanitized. The patient can be accompanied by an assistant, driver and a paramedic. Once the ambulance reaches Talapady, doctors from Karnataka will carry out a thorough check of patient and documents. It is allowed to enter only after that. Man loses 10k to OTP fraud Mangaluru: A man lost Rs 10,000 to an online fraudster after sharing his OTP in Arala village in Bantwal rural police station limits on Tuesday. According to police, a fraudster, who made a call to the victim, made him believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had deposited money in his account. Once he receives OTP message on his phone, he needs to share it with fraudster, he was told. The victim did as instructed by the fraudster and Rs 10,000 was withdrawn from his account. A similar call was received by another person but he didn’t share OTP, said police. A case has been registered at Bantwal rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/state-allows-entry-of-non-covid-patients-from-kerala-via-talapady-border/articleshow/75035745.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Rapid tests in hotspots for better surveillance, says Maharashtra health minister||PUNE: The state may go in for rapid tests in clusters or hotspots to better its surveillance, especially with many cases being reported from slum areas in both Mumbai and Pune. While Dharavi has been declared a hotspot in Mumbai, slum areas in Pune too have been listed wherein positive cases have emerged over the last week. The rapid screening tests are different from the PCR or Covid-19 diagnostic tests which find the virus in a patient’s swab sample. Rapid tests are serology tests that look for antibodies to a virus that typically develop seven to eight days after exposure. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already given a green signal for rapid test devices. Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that these will be tried out in the clusters to better surveillance. The state on Tuesday registered over 1,000 positive cases. “We can try these out to increase surveillance in these hotspots or clusters declared by the state government authorities,” he told TOI on Tuesday. He said that these rapid tests would cost less and it would only take five minutes to conduct them as blood would have to be drawn to check for antibodies. The state had sought permission from the Centre to carry out both the diagnostic test and screening test simultaneously in order to get a correct picture of the virus’s spread in the state. These rapid tests will not diagnose Covid-19 but show whether the person has already had an exposure or carries antibodies to the highly contagious virus. The minister said, “Although the state machinery has a capacity of conducting 5,000 diagnostic tests a day, we approached the Centre for permission for the rapid test method. We should be getting these kits in this week and we could deploy them in these hotspots,” he said. A screening test could also let a person know whether he is infected or not and the results can be cross-checked with the swab test if necessary. More private players approved by ICMR too can participate to increase the surveillance. For individuals, this test will help them find out if they have already been affected while for the government, it will help decide whom to quarantine, Tope added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rapid-tests-in-hotspots-for-better-surveillance-says-health-minister/articleshow/75037429.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 8, 2020||Pune||Doctors’ forum seeks change in detection pattern||Pune: A forum of health experts has emphasized on the need to conduct Covid-19 detection tests at the community level and not restrict it only to international travellers and their close contacts. The forum, called Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, has written a letter to the Union ministry of health and family welfare with a request to change the criteria of the Covid-19 tests. “We are currently using only 20% of our testing facilities because of the existing criteria. There is a fear that a huge number of people with possible Coronavirus symptoms might be left out of the test,” said Dr Anant Phadke, a Pune-based health expert and co-convener of the forum. “Denying tests of people with mild symptoms will mean failure to isolate the main sources of infection. Any amount of physical distancing will not make up for this,” stated the letter addressed to the health ministry.“Health experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have said the rate of testing in our country is very low at an approximate 20 tests per million compared to about 7,000 tests per million in South Korea,” Phadke said.The ICMR recently approved use of rapid tests for increasing surveillance at the community level.— Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-forum-seeks-change-in-detection-pattern/articleshow/75037436.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Beed farmer adds sweetness in sour times, distributes 300kg of farm produce||AURANGABAD: A farmer from Shivni taluka in Beed set an example by distributing 300kg of sweeetlime produced in his farm among the police personnel deployed on the roads to keep a check on people venturing out needlessly amid the lockdown. Farmer Sakharam Namdeo Shinde said that due to the ongoing lockdown, he was unable to sell the sweetlime grown in his farm in the market. Hence, he decided to pack the fruit in 150 packets of 2 kg each and distribute them among the cops. “I stood at every chowk in Beed city and invited policemen to take away the bags of sweetlime. I feel this will contribute to good health of the policemen who are serving us day in and day out,” said Shinde. Shinde has appealed to the government authorities and public figures to encourage people to consume seasonal fruits for their good health. Shinde, who is a winner of the state government’s Chattrapati Shivaji Vanashri Puruskar for his relentless efforts in agriculture, said that he also wanted the government to pay attention to the plight of the fruit farmers in the state amid the lockdown. “Usually, during this season, traders come to us to buy fruits. However, restrictions have been imposed on movement due to the lockdown and no traders are coming to take our produce. Grapes and watermelon yield are getting damaged. As far as sweet lime is concerned, farmers have still not pluck the fruit as they are uncertain how they will sell it. The fruit will go rotten in the summer heat if not plucked on time,” said Shinde. The Shetkari Sanghatna has also restricted the farmers from selling their produce amid the lockdown. Kailas Tawar, a member of the Sanghatna, said that grape yield was getting wasted. While many farmers themselves come to the city to sell their produce, small farmers are unable to do so. Tawar said that at a time when markets were shut, government help was much needed to help farmers tide over the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-farmer-adds-sweetness-in-sour-times-distributes-300kg-of-farm-produce/articleshow/75036796.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 8, 2020||Pune||Tope directs local firms to produce PPE and masks||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope has directed companies based in Vasai, Palghar and Amravati to increase production of masks, ventilators as well as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) because of a delay in getting the required goods from abroad. With Maharashtra requiring ventilators, N95 masks and PPEs, the minister told TOI that local companies have been asked to increase production to 5,000 units to address the shortage, if any. Tope added that the state has been waiting for the equipment for a week. “For procurement, every state had to put up its demand before the central government and, upon clearance, the state would get the material as per requirement. The state government had already put up a requirement of 2,125 ventilators, 3.5 lakh N95 masks and 3.25 lakh PPE. Even as there is no shortage currently, it is better to have local companies pitch in for the future,” said Tope. The minister added that while the state will review relaxation of lockdown after April 14, areas such as Pune and Mumbai, which have registered a high number of cases, may have to remain under lockdown. “In the current situation, it seems highly unlikely,” he said. The minister has further urged people not to rush to medical stores to buy masks as several areas have been declared containment zones. He said people should use homemade masks for general use while the N95 masks are needed only in hospital surroundings. He said that through CSR activity a consignment of over 1 lakh PPEs was expected from South Korea, which should help boost existing availability. Presently, the state has 35,000 PPE, 2.5 lakh N95 masks and 25 lakh triple-layer masks. Tope said that while this should last for a month, the remaining requirement from the centre would reach at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-directs-local-firms-to-produce-ppe-and-masks/articleshow/75037438.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Staff, tigers at Siddharth zoo get screened for Covid-19||Aurangabad: Two days after a tiger tested positive for Covid-19 at Bronx the zoo in New York, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) took note and got the Siddharth Garden zoo staff and tigers screened for the respiratory disease on Tuesday. According to National Veterinary Services Laboratories, the New York incident is the first known case of Covid-19 transmission from humans to a non-domesticated animal. Earlier, researchers from Harbin Veterinary Research Institute in China had found that cats are also susceptible to contracting coronavirus, but could not establish if humans could get infected from the felines. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele on Tuesday said that in order to ensure that such transmission does not take place at the AMC-run zoo, the screening of all the officials and workers was carried out by AMC’s health department. “None of the staff was found with any symptoms, travel history or contact with any Covid-19 positive patient,” Ghodele said. The AMC, under the supervision of zoo director Bhagwat Naikwade, also called a veterinarian (Neeti Singh) to check the health of the tigers. “There are 10 tigers at the zoo and their body temperature, diet and breathing were found to be normal,” Ghodele said. “However, the veterinarian has instructed the staff to ensure that proper precautions are taken while feeding the animals. The staff has been asked to wear gloves, gumboots and masks while feeding or going close to the animals,” he added. The mayor also appealed to the citizens to not believe or spread rumours. “The civic administration, district collector and the divisional commissioner along with the health machinery are taking all precautions to manage and contain the spread of the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/staff-tigers-at-siddharth-zoo-get-screened-for-covid-19/articleshow/75036809.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Despite warning from Karnataka CM and RSS, BJP legislators target Tablighi Jamaat attendees||BENGALURU: Despite warnings from chief minister BS Yediyurappa, some BJP functionaries continue to whip up a partisan agenda amidst the Covid-19 crisis. In Davangere on Tuesday, Yediyurappa’s political secretary MP Renukacharya said the government should “gun down Tablighi Jamaat delegates”, who refuse to undergo tests or quarantine themselves. “Despite repeated appeals made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Yediyurappa, they are refusing to be medically checked. We all will suffer because of such anti-national elements. The government should not sit quiet. It should gun down a few to ensure they follow lockdown norms,” Renukacharya told reporters. His comments came barely 24 hours after Yediyurappa appealed to partymen to avoid making divisive statements and not to target the minority community. The CM also called their comments “irresponsible”. “The entire community cannot be held responsible because of the actions of a few,” Yediyurappa said. The RSS too issued a statement endorsing his views. But that didn’t stop Mahadevapura (Bengaluru) MLA Arvind Limbavali, also state BJP general secretary, saying Tablighi Jamaat attendees who don’t turn up for tests on their own should be jailed. “Questions do arise about their intent. Why are they not cooperating? Is it to increase the number of Covid-19 cases or do they want to bring a bad name to the government?” Limbavali also recalled the assault on Asha workers and instances where some Tablighi Jamaat attendees created a ruckus because they weren’t given food of their choice in quarantine. “It is indicative of their resistance and their ill-intent,” Limbavali said. “It’s time to initiate stringent measures and allow police do their job.” Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje was the first to pass inflammatory comments against minorities saying two days ago, “Tablighi Jamaat attendees are here to spread corona jihad in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-warning-from-cm-rss-bjp-legislators-target-tj-attendees/articleshow/75036992.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Agra||Do not flout lockdown rules on Shab-e-Barat: Aligarh cleric||AGRA: Aligarh shahar mufti on Tuesday appealed to all Muslims not to visit mosques or graveyards on Shab-e-Barat which is on April 8. He has asked them to follow the lockdown rules to stay safe. Talking with mediapersons, mufti Mohammad Khalid Hameed said that usually people offer namaz and visit graveyards on Shab-e-Baraat but this year, it should be avoided at all costs in view of the risk of getting infected by the Covid-19 virus. The mufti appealed to the Muslims to offer namaz at home and refrain from bursting fire crackers as this could be counter-productive. Hameed further said that all Muslims could recite ‘duas’ at home for the well-being of the country as the nation fights the Covid-19 pandemic. “We should pray that this health crisis is over soon and every citizen of the country is safe and healthy,” Hameed said. The eve of Shab-e-Barat that falls on the 14th day of the Islamic month of Shabban is a night of forgiveness wherein devotees seek God’s forgiveness for their sins. On that night, a large number of Muslims visit graves of their family members and recite prayers and read the Quran for forgiveness of their sins and for their well-being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/do-not-flout-lockdown-rules-on-shab-e-barat-aligarh-cleric/articleshow/75035826.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Agra||16 more test positive for Covid-19 in Agra region||AGRA: At least 16 more people, including 11 with links to Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Agra region on Tuesday. Of these, 10 were in Agra district while three each were confirmed positive in Mainpuri and Firozabad districts. With the 10 new Covid-19 cases in Agra on Tuesday, five of whom had come in contact with Jamaat members, the tally for the novel coronavirus patients in the district went up to 63. The new positive cases in Agra include a 76-year-old woman, whose grandson had returned from Europe on March 15. Three others, who tested positive, had contacted the disease from infected patients. Agra chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All patients have been shifted to the isolation ward and attempts are on to identify people, who came in contact with them, for screening.” He added that out of 55 active coronavirus cases in Agra, 39 are related to Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The areas in the vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying are being sanitized. We have marked 25 places in the city as coronavirus epicentre. All these places have been sealed by the police. We have planned massive sampling to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine.” In Firozabad, three local residents tested positive on Tuesday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to seven. All three hail from Durgesh Nagar and Sheshgran of Rasoolpur police jurisdiction, where the four Jamaat men were putting up, after their return from Delhi on March 21. Firozabad CMO Dr S K Dixit said, “As soon we received the test report, we sanitized the area where the trio was staying. Our 30 teams are engaged in tracing their contacts in a 5km-radius.” In Mainpuri, three members of Tablighi Jammat were found positive for Covid-19 and all of them were shifted to the isolation ward of a community health centre in Bhogaon. While two of them are in their teens, the third is 69. Mainpuri district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that all of them had been staying in Mainpuri for the past few weeks. They had initially stayed in Shahi mosque and later shifted to mosques in Karhal and Ghiror area. Their contacts are being traced. The DM told TOI that so far 4,200 houses have been screened in the Ghiror area where the infected people had stayed. He said the area is being sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/16-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-agra-region/articleshow/75035813.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Goa cabinet meet today on lockdown extension||PANAJI: The state cabinet will meet on Wednesday to decide on measures to be implemented in the state once the national 21-day lockdown ends on April 14. Suggestions received during the cabinet meeting will be submitted to PM Narendra Modi, CM Pramod Sawant said. “If the central government relaxes the lockdown then what kind of lockdown should be implemented in the state? It is to decide this that the cabinet meeting has been called. Views of all ministers will be taken,” Sawant said. With the national lockdown set to draw to an end in seven days, Modi has sought suggestions from all states before taking any decision on the issue. A final decision will be taken on April 13. “The state has already closed its borders. But what are the other precaution that need to be taken post the lockdown. This will be deliberated,” he said. Many state governments have indicated that they will continue the lockdown in some form or the other even after April 14. Some have suggested to the Prime Minister that the lockdown be extended for two weeks while some others have suggested that it be continued. A few states are planning to regulate entry of visitors into the state. With regards to regulating movement during the ongoing curfew, Sawant said that issuing of travel passes to citizens has solved the problem. Movement of essential commodities is also smooth now, he said, adding that everything has been streamlined and the government has stopped receiving complaints. The chief minister said that at present the ministry of home affairs has not given cooperative societies permission to operate. Sawant chaired the meeting of the state disaster management authority and reviewed measures taken by various departments. During the meeting, food supply to migrant camps was also reviewed. Officers have been asked to submit the expenditure report to the government after April 14. The authority will meet again after a fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-cabinet-meet-today-on-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75037761.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Railway employees make masks, provide free food to the needy||BENGALURU: Deepa T, a 33-year-old employee of the Bengaluru division of South Western Railway (SWR), has stitched more than 450 masks in nine days while working from home. Contributing her mite to the mitigation of Covid-19 crisis, she also maintains data on the health of 740 coaches at her depot, given that railway freight services have been kept operational to ensure there’s no disruption in supply of essentials. “I read in the newspapers about the severe shortage of masks our healthcare professionals are facing,” said Deepa, who works as carriage and wagon assistant at Yeshwantpur coaching depot. She added: “When senior officers asked on our WhatsApp group if anyone wanted to volunteer for mask-making, I was more than happy to.” “I’m not an expert but I have a sewing machine at home so I thought of using it for this purpose,” the MSc holder said. Deepa, who joined Indian Railways in 2013, said she’s ready to keep going till April 14 and as long as she has sufficient material. “This is the time we all should be united and help healthcare workers fight this pandemic,” she said. Deepa’s work schedule involves updating Coach Maintenance History Card (MHC) of 740 coaches in the Yeshwantpur coaching depot. The card contains records of maintenance schedules, history of the coach since it was placed in service and gives details of all major repairs, including changes in wheels and bogies. She’s among several employees involved in making masks besides attending official duties. I Jayaramesh, chief loco inspector, Bengaluru division, and his family members have made 500 masks so far. He joined the railways in 1999. “I am what I am because of the railways. It’s my responsibility to serve the nation as well as its people during this time of crisis. My family decided to pitch in with masks. I have also distributed several food kits to the needy,” he said. Jayant Ramachandran, senior divisional mechanical engineer, Bengaluru division, said employees of both KSR Bengaluru City and Yeshwantpur coaching depots have made around 2,000 masks so far. “Many of them are working from home and contributing to this cause,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/raillway-employees-make-masks-provide-free-food-to-the-needy/articleshow/75037064.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 8, 2020||Pune||Man held for pregnant wife’s murder in Pune||PUNE: A note found near the body of a 23-year-old pregnant woman helped the Narayangaon police arrest her husband for throttling her, suspecting her of infidelity. The police said the suspect placed the note near her body and also scattered her clothes to give the impression of rape and murder. “We analysed the handwriting and found it consistent with the husband’s style,” assistant inspector Arjun Ghode Patil said. The police took the man into custody where he admitted to throttling his wife. They have a three-year-old daughter. The officer said on Monday afternoon, the woman had left home in Junnar taluka, to cut grass. When she did not return her relatives went out looking for her. “Her body found in a sugar cane field nearby . There was a tobacco pouch and the note near the body,” Ghode Patil said. The note stated that the woman had an affair with a man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-pregnant-wifes-murder/articleshow/75037440.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 8, 2020||Pune||5 held for fire in Junnar forest||Pune: Otur range forest officials on Monday arrested five persons for causing a fire that burned 2,000 trees in Junnar taluka on March 31. The five men have been booked under Section 26(1) of the Indian Forest Act. They were on Monday produced before a court, which remanded them in magisterial custody. “They organized a dinner party in the reserved forest area. Our guards had warned them against it, but they went ahead and caused the fire,” range forest officer Yogesh Ghodke told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-held-for-fire-in-junnar-forest/articleshow/75037442.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||100 Russians to fly back home on April 11||KOLKATA: Around 100 Russians, including engineers working on various projects in eastern India, will be flown back to Russia from Kolkata on April 11. The Russian consulate in the city has organised a repatriation flight as the short-term visa holders were stranded in India with all flight operations having been suspended after the country went into a lockdown from March 25. Sources said the consulate, which had initially planned to operate a flight on April 8, deferred the departure of Russians to April 11. An airport official said the plane would fly in from Russia. Though Kolkata airport has not yet been informed about the flight's departure time and destination, sources said it will be Yekaterinburg, the fourth largest Russian city located on east of the Ural Mountains. It is in Yekaterinburg that the Russian Imperial Romanov family had been executed on the night of July 16-17, 1918, by Bolsheviks. According to officials, An-32, a twin-engine tactical light transport aircraft used by defence forces, is likely to be used for the repatriation flight. Indian Air Force also has An-32 aircraft in its fleet. Last month. Russian carriers had repatriated hundreds of Russians from Delhi and Goa, but those in eastern India had been stranded after international flight operations were suspended ahead of the lockdown. Since then, special flights have evacuated citizens of Armenia, European Union and the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-russians-to-fly-back-home-on-apr-11/articleshow/75037445.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Assault over urge to not spit||Pune: Four members of a family from Kalakhadak slums in Wakad were arrested on Tuesday on the charge of beating up their neighbour after the latter asked one of them to not spit on the road amid the coronavirus outbreak. The Wakad police said the incident occurred on Monday afternoon and the family members were arrested following the complaint of the neighbour, Sachin Kamble (25), who suffered injuries in the assault. “Around 2pm on Monday, Kamble was sitting outside his house when one of suspects spit in front of his door. Kamble requested him to not repeat the act in light of the growing coronavirus cases in the city,” an officer of the Wakad police said. The reprimand infuriated the suspect who called his three relatives to his aide. “The suspects then thrashed Kamble with iron rods. They also beat up his relatives before ransacking his house,” the officer said, adding that the suspects had been arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assault-over-urge-to-not-spit/articleshow/75037444.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||No arrangements for disposal of households’ medical waste||LUDHIANA: Even as most of the residents are wearing masks and gloves to check the spread of coronavirus, there is no arrangement for their disposal. With separate teams directed to collect masks and gloves from the houses of quarantined and infected people, residents say there should be a similar provision for rest of the houses too. Municipal corporation commissioner KP Brar says, “We have deputed special teams, who have been provided protective gears, to collect masks and gloves of infected and quarantined people. At other houses, residents are not segregating medical waste.” Residents say the authorities should strictly follow norms to handle this waste across the city. A resident of Model Town, Harpreet Singh, says, “Almost every person is using masks and gloves, but there are no guidelines for their disposal. Not many of them are aware that these should be discarded in yellow bags or bins. This unawareness is leading to no separation of medical waste and they being dumped in the open.” Shruti Puri, a resident of Maya Nagar, says, “With Covid-19 cases increasing, the civic body should be more careful in handling the waste. People should be told to dispose of gloves and masks separately.” A garbage collector says, “We are at risk when we go for garbage collection, as residents are not segregating waste. And if a person is infected, we can also contract the virus while separating his waste. The authorities are hardly bothered about our health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-arrangements-for-disposal-of-households-medical-waste/articleshow/75036158.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Agra||Man kills teen daughter, goes absconding||AGRA: A 13-year-old girl was murdered by her father and her body was cremated in order to avoid police suspicion. The crime was committed in Mohammdabad village of Tundla police jurisdiction of Firozabad district on Monday night. After the incident, the accused along with other family members went absconding. However, police detained the victim’s mother, who was witness to the brutality but did not report to the police. According to Tundla circle officer Ajay Chauhan, “The information was received by dial 112 team about the suspected murder of a class VII student in Mohammdabad village. When the team reached the spot, they found burnt mortal remains of the victim. Later, during investigation, it was found that the victim was murdered by her father and other relatives, after she was caught with a boy in the neighbourhood.” The remains of the victim were recovered by the police and have been sent for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-kills-teen-daughter-goes-absconding/articleshow/75035836.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 alert SMS to 1cr cellphones||Pune: The city police have sent one crore text messages to people who either visited the slum pockets in Gultekdi, where two persons were found Covid-19 positive or passed through the area or were in touch with the local residents over the phone, alerting them about the symptoms of the disease and urging them to seek medical help if they have any of those symptoms. Police traced the SIM cards which were found active in the area in the last 20 days and drew up a list of cellphone numbers.  Last week, the Pune city police’s cybercrime unit undertook a task of identifying people who visited the Meenatai Thackarey Vasahat and adjoining slum pockets in Gultekdi. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam said, “Some of these numbers are of locals, while others are from different parts of the city.".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-alert-sms-to-1cr-cellphones/articleshow/75037447.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Gadget snags, internet lag make work from home a tough task in Pune||PUNE: Connectivity problems, issues with personal computers and other equipment are making working from home an uphill task for many in the city. Add to the mix a complete lack of options to repair them amid the lockdown, and it’s nearly an impossible proposition, many said. For instance, Samaiirah from Safe Road Foundation, the NGO, has been making do with her smartphone, as her laptop has been on the fritz. “We work closely with the authorities on relief tasks and I need to make logs. As my laptop isn’t working, I have been forced to write everything down,” she said. Damini Joshi, who works for a business process management firm, has been unable to work for over two weeks due to problem with her laptop. “Multiple windows open whenever I boot it up and assumed it was a virus-related problem. I was unable to find any solutions online and wasn’t able to seek help,” she said. Joshi got in touch some technicians, who were unable to help remotely. Service centres were shut. “I’m currently on leave without pay and I’m waiting for the company to give me a laptop,” she said. Nidhi Mehta, an educator, found herself unable to conduct online classes for her students as the mic on her laptop stopped working. “I managed to borrow a laptop from someone and could resume classes. However, poor internet connectivity is another thorn in my side,” Mehta said. Varsha Zende Khandagale’s laptop ran out of charge and her charger isn’t working. “I cannot even purchase a new charger due to the lockdown,” she said. “Some centralized system should have been made available to repair electronics essential to working from home,” an IT professional said. Many have made desperate appeals on social media to borrow or rent spare laptops from others or find someone to repair their machines, but without much success. Several others said poor internet connectivity was also a major challenge to working from home and that there was no way to get these issues resolved. “I don’t even have broadband. Even if I get a laptop, I will have to make do with a dongle for internet, which is insufficient for my work,” Joshi further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gadget-snags-internet-lag-make-work-from-home-a-tough-task/articleshow/75037449.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 8, 2020||Goa||‘Will take time to bring back those abroad’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that he held another meeting with Salcete MLAs over the issue of evacuation of Goans working abroad and seafarers, and said that it would take some more time. Sawant said that the issue is an all-India one, and not only restricted to Goa. “The decision to bring back Goans from other countries will take some more time,” he said. “It isn’t a state-level issue, and we have raised it at the national level. Only after permission from the Union ministry of external affairs can we begin (to bring Goans back home).” The chief minister also said that the state is searching for quarantine facilities for these Goans if they are brought home. There are around 8,000 working aboard, including seafarers. Meanwhile, the state government has appointed Anthony D’Souza as nodal officer to get in touch with the families of persons abroad. He also said that NRI affairs secretary Sanjay Kumar would coordinate with the joint sectary, MEA, on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-take-time-to-bring-back-those-abroad/articleshow/75037764.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Crematorium staffer donates Rs 60,000 saved for kids’ education to PM Cares||BENGALURU: Anthony Swamy, 42, works at the electric crematorium in Kalpally, Jeevanahally. His monthly salary of Rs 10,000 is hardly enough to sustain his family of six, including four kids. Yet, on Tuesday, Anthony did something beyond his means — he contributed Rs 60,000 that he’d set apart for his children’s education to the PM Cares fund. “Today, the priority is to save people from Covid-19. I can mobilise money for my children’s fees later,” says Anthony. While two of his daughters are II PU students, one is in Class 10. His son is an eighth grader. He had saved the money to pay his elder daughters’ fees for the next academic year. Anthony’s parents were also grave-diggers. “My earliest memories are with them in graveyards. I dropped out of school after Class 1. After the concept of electric crematoriums was introduced, I switched over to one. It’s my duty to bid farewell to people with dignity,” says Anthony, who’s been doing this since 1998. His children say their dad makes them proud. It’s not the first time that Anthony has extended a helping hand. “We get 2-3 unclaimed bodies every day. I do their last rites. I grow plants at home so that I can use the flowers for the rituals,” he says. He and his children had procured food items and medicines worth Rs 8,000 during the Kodagu floods last year. The family hopes to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi some day. “We have never gone out of Bengaluru. Meeting the PM is a big dream,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/crematorium-staffer-donates-rs-60k-saved-for-kids-edu-to-pm-cares/articleshow/75036881.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||DIY activities help Bengalureans beat lockdown boredom||BENGALURU: With plenty of time on hand, the creative side of Bengalureans is emerging in the form of DIY (do it yourself) arts and crafts activities. With a shortage of face masks, people are sharing DIY videos that show how scarves can be turned into masks, some that even resemble the N95 variety. People are getting highly inspired by such trending DIY videos on social media platforms. Alex P, a chef, says though he doesn’t need to go out except to get some groceries, he has made at least a dozen face masks for his neighbours. “I made some simple masks after I saw this DIY post on Twitter by Constance Jones, a journalist. Her DIY method doesn’t need any stitching, just a square scarf and two rubber bands. I have many square scarves and plenty of rubber bands. This mask is easily washable,” he says. But it’s not just masks that people are attempting to make, they are also learning origami, glass painting, cloth painting, knitting, macramé (a form of textile produced using knotting techniques) and more. Aishwarya Anand, an independent consultant in the field of social media marketing told TOI she stumbled upon macramé while looking at hashtags like Craft and DIY on Instagram. “I saw people making these tapestries and it looked simple but so beautiful at the end. Instagram got me to do macramé,” she said, explaining the French knotting technique, which only needs thread, a pair of scissors, scale for measurements and a brush to make tassels. Aishwarya says she finds DIY activities calming. “Being stuck at home for more than two weeks is frustrating. The DIY videos help you stay focused and provide instant gratification. Little things that give you joy instantly can get you to pull off another day locked in your house,” she adds. It is that kind of joy that is attracting youngsters like Shibya to find a distraction in painting pillowcases, among other DIY activities. “The pretty end product gives me a sense of satisfaction and joy,” she gleams. Just like dentist Dr Virajitha Dasari, who is sketching and painting small pebbles during this phase. “I spend two to three hours doing this and I find it extremely relaxing. It is also helping me polish my skills,” says Dr Dasari, who’d earlier never find enough time to invest in such activities. She also tried her hand at glass painting and painting photo frames. However, on a lighter note, some say their lockdown DIY activities are different from these crafts. Zakiya Mubeen, a homemaker said: “The vessels, the sweeping, it is all DIY for all of us since the last two weeks. It is also an art — the art of cleaning,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/diy-activities-keep-blureans-busy/articleshow/75037083.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 6,000 under scanner in Jalna||Aurangabad: A day after the first Covid-19 positive patient was found in Jalna, the district administration on Tuesday carried out the health check-up of over 6,400 individuals mostly beneficiaries of mid-day meal programme. All these people are suspected to have come in contact with the daughter of the Covid-19 positive patient. The throat swab sample of the daughter, who is a teacher, has been sent for analysis and the report is expected to come on Wednesday. Jalna civil surgeon MK Rathod on Tuesday said the teacher has so far not shown any symptoms. “We are waiting for the reports as she was in contact with many people because of her profession. Contact details of all individuals, including students, associated with the mid-day meal programme have been recorded and if needed, they too will be under watch,” he said. As per official record, the teacher was present during the distribution of grain to the students under the central scheme on April 2. A total of 19 individuals, including school staff and 1,119 families (6,465 people) were linked with the event. Meanwhile, the teacher’s father is said to be in critical but stable condition. Resident deputy collector of Jalna Nivrutti Gaikwad said 28 roads heading to area where the patient lives, have been sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-6000-under-scanner-in-jalna/articleshow/75036825.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||‘Cos making essentials can begin mfg’||Jaipur: The government on Tuesday removed the requirement of obtaining its approval for allowing commercial units in the "permitted category" to operate their establishments, factories, offices and shops. Now, they just have to inform the district offices or RIICO and start operations. However, they will be subject to lockdown conditions of social distancing, hygiene practices at the workplace. “It has come to our notice that a large number of those private establishments such as factories, offices, workshops, offices and service providers under the permitted category are still facing problems in obtaining permissions to open or operate. This policy decision will remove those hurdles,” said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, depart of industries. But he added that the department said the units will have to ensure the basic precautionary measures of social distancing, hygiene, face masks. “Strict legal action will be taken against any shop, factory or establishment not listed in the permitted category found to be operating or open,” he added. The department said if any unit is not clear if it falls under the permitted category or not, they can consult the district administration. The order said no separate pass is required for workers, officials and owners if they are staying at the workplace or within the factory premises. For people requiring to travel, the existing system of granting passes will continue, the order said. So far, more than 1500 units have been given permission to operate and the department believes that automatic permission will allow more companies to operationalize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cos-making-essentials-can-begin-mfg/articleshow/75037456.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Govt, CII begin talks on roadmap to buoy industry||Panaji: State government and industry representatives have begun discussions regarding the process to resume economic and industrial activity once the lockdown is lifted. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and industries minister Vishwajit Rane met over a video conference to discuss the impact of the lockdown on industry and the roadmap to support the sector. During the discussions, CII recommended that a relief package by way of waiver of certain charges and automatic extension of licences would help medium and small industries. Chairman of CII Goa State Council Blaise Costabir along with other industry members highlighted the industry’s concerns and submitted a list of recommendations. “The minister stated that issues faced by the industry would be taken up on priority and resolved in the interest of all stakeholders. He agreed that some industries in the state need to function during this period as the government believes that the people’s livelihoods need to be taken care of,” Costabir said. Waiver of fixed electricity charges, deferment of electricity bills and financial assistance for MSMEs are among key the suggestions. CII has requested the government to grant industries additional time for renewal of licences and other compliance due to the lockdown. According to CII officials, Rane said that the government may use funds from the Labour Welfare Fund to help the industry. “The state government is in the process of planning on how to resume economic vibrancy and also bring industries back on track while fighting the war against Covid-19,” Costabir said. CII has asked the state to private firms involved in defence and aerospace manufacturing to remain operational by classifying them as essential services. “Those units in Goa which are into defence and aerospace should not be brought under the ambit of lockdown and these manufacturing companies in the state should permit such companies to operate,” said costabir. During the meeting, Rane also encouraged firms to approach the government if they were capable of supplying essential medical equipment as procurement is being done on a priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-cii-begin-talks-on-roadmap-to-buoy-industry/articleshow/75037773.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Major dip in pollutants during lockdown: Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology||PUNE: Particulate matter pollutants, such as PM 2.5, registered a sharp drop in the city between March 21 and 31, the period of complete lockdown, the updated data from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar) has revealed. The data showed that Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) produced from vehicular traffic, which came down by 45% till March 19, dropped further by 55% till March end. “PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentration dropped by 24% and 35%, respectively, from March 21-31 in Pune as against the same period last year,” the data revealed. The major reduction in the particulate matter pollutants began from March 23 and continued till the last day of the month. Even between April 1 and 5 (during the period for which the data was made available to TOI), there has been a massive reduction in the three pollutants PM 10, PM 2.5 and NOx. The highest reduction has been in NOx, average concentration of which dropped by 62% during April 1-5 in Pune in comparison to the first five days of March 2020, the data showed. Sources from IITM said NOx levels were mainly controlled by its major sources of emissions (vehicular traffic), although changes due to weather cannot be ruled out. “Vehicular traffic also increases PM 2.5 levels via fossil fuel and re-suspended dust emissions. Although, reduced vehicular traffic on streets had reduced PM 2.5 emissions from sources like fossil fuel till March 19, the reduction had got compensated by higher re-suspended dust emissions (PM 2.5 source) caused by faster speed of vehicles on almost empty roads. But due to complete lockdown, even particulate matter concentrations have reduced significantly,” a source said. The sources said stopping of construction activities made a further dent in the concentration of particulate matter pollutants. Re-suspended dust from various human activities are also a source of PM 10 and PM 2.5 emissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/major-dip-in-pollutants-during-lockdown-iitm/articleshow/75037450.cms||Neha Madaan
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Office space absorption hits Covid-19 bump, 50% dip feared||HYDERABAD: The city’s office space absorption that had crossed 10 million square feet (sft) by the end of 2019, could fall by over 50% this year, say industry insiders. With the lockdown putting brakes on several businesses across the globe, they said that companies will be wary of leasing new space in 2020, particularly during the next two quarters. The result– a dip in rentals of at least 10% to 15%. The existing rate of leasing in Hyderabad ranges between Rs 55 and Rs 65 per sft with some Grade A spaces attracting as much as Rs 75 to Rs 80 per sft. “Office space leasing is likely to slow down due to tenants reprogramming their office needs. There’ll also be a temporary pause on fresh supply,” stated a report by Savills India, an international property consulting ﬁrm headquartered in the UK. According to the firm, the office market will recover only in 2021. “It will be a tough 12 months post Covid-19 for commercial real estate,” said Vishal Goel, partner, Cerestra Advisors, adding, “Startups and co-working spaces will suffer most and big firms will postpone leasing space till end of the year as their priority will change. Also, most of the workforce has been trained to work from home now. This will impact long-term demand prospects of commercial offices in emerging economies.” However, expressing optimism, realtor Shailender Singh, director of Proppro, who also foresees an initial drop in pace in the industry, said he feels office space will remain a safer asset class for investors. “The projected supply in Hyderabad was anyways coming in a phased manner over three to five years and many large companies eyeing Hyderabad were looking at occupation starting end of 2020 and over the next three to four years...There are clients who are already progressing with their discussions on expansion or office space requirements,” he said. Retail, on the other hand, will see a slow down for sure as theatres, food courts and anchor stores that pull large crowds will see customers shying away for a while unless it’s a guaranteed safe environment, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/office-space-absorption-hits-covid-19-bump-50-dip-feared/articleshow/75036853.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Civil hospital gets 250 disinfectant body bags for Covid-19 patients||LUDHIANA: The state health department delivered 250 disinfectant body bags to the civil hospital on Tuesday, a day after issuing a show cause notice to the hospital’s isolation ward for allegedly failing to shift the body of a suspected Covid-19 patient to the mortuary. The health authorities have also issued to the hospital staff certain safety guidelines while dealing with bodies of Covid-19 patients. The mortuary staff have been told to quickly dispose of the bodies in disinfectant bags, so that the virus is not transmitted to family members of the victims. Also, linens should be disinfected by the cleaning staff without wasting any time. Before joining their duties, cleaning staff have to wear necessary protective gear to safeguard their lives. Sanitisation of the mortuary and isolation ward should be done regularly, and immediately after any death. The Covid-19 wing of the civil hospital has already been divided into two different zones of red and blue. In the red zone, medical staff wear PPE (personal protective equipment) kits for dealing with high-risk patients, and in blue zone, medical staff carry the N-95 mask and other safety measures in blue colour for the rest of the work. Health authorities informed that the guidelines must be implemented by all the staff of the hospital’s isolation ward, so that in case of any emergency, each member can pitch in. Apart from this, training sessions were conducted for Class IV employees to deal with the process of covering the bodies in disinfectant bags. An employee of the isolation ward informed, “Earlier, medical staff were struggling with lack of disinfectant bags for bodies of Covid-19 patients, as Class IV staff were in deep fear, and could not perform their duty of shifting the bodies to the mortuary. The same fear was the reason for Monday’s incident, due to which a show cause notice was issued to the hospital staff.” Chief medical officer (CMO) of Ludhiana, Rajesh Kumar Bagga, has confirmed the receipt of 250 disinfectant body bags. “We have issued certain guidelines to all medical staff of the hospital’s isolation ward and mortuary on how to handle the bodies without wasting any time. We are fully prepared now to deal with any emergency, as we have installed a bunch of freezers in the mortuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hospital-gets-250-disinfectant-body-bags-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75036243.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||An asymptomatic carrier may have been source of infection: Health team||Thiruvananthapuram: Abdul Azeez, a resident of Pothencode who died of Covid-19, may be listed down as the first unlinked local transmission case recorded in the district till date. An asymptomatic carrier may have spread the infection to Abdul Azeez after March 6, the health team which did contact tracing and case investigation is learnt to have concluded. The district administration will also officially rule out any community spread in the area since all of the samples (over 200) were tested negative. Besides, an extensive analysis of data collected based on ambulance movement, patients who visited general practitioners in private and government hospitals in the area, call centre data and field-level surveillance also did not yield any information on patients with symptoms or cases which were referred for surveillance. The health team believes that it may have been a one-to-one transmission and the source would not have shown any symptoms. Chances of community spread have been ruled out considering the absence of cluster of cases which should have happened with the source spreading infection in the area. “If there was any community spread, we could have had 15-20 cases. Source is not of high priority now since there is no indication of danger of rapid spread of the disease. More than 200 samples have turned negative,” said district collector K Gopalakrishnan. As per the data collected by the health team, onset of symptoms occurred in the patient on March 15 or 16. Considering he had contracted infection from a source after March 6, the date of onset of symptoms matched with the ideal incubation period. The persons who attended prayer meetings and other meetings after March 6 were also screened and none of the samples were positive which again affirmed that there was no spread and the persons who were screened may not have been the carriers. It was this conclusion which forced health team to look for one-to-one transmission and at present an asymptomatic carrier is suspected as the source. The team also did an inquiry following complaints that Azeez might have contracted infection from a private hospital. The hospital data showed that a patient was under treatment at the private hospital, however his samples were tested and it came negative. Another patient was admitted to the hospital for a surgery and the patient did not have any symptoms. A detailed data analysis was also done for patients who turned up in hospitals with lower respiratory infection during this period. None of those cases demanded further tests for Covid-19 infection, which was one more reason to rule out community spread. The team, which has now stopped sample collection, is however screening for symptomatic cases emerging from the area. Antibody tests may also be conducted to check presence of antibodies as part of community screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/an-asymptomatic-carrier-may-have-been-source-of-infection-health-team/articleshow/75035883.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||80-yr-old Gadag patient attended family gathering; 44 quarantined||Hubballi: An 80-year-old woman from Gadag, with a medical history of severe respiratory infection, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, becoming the first patient from the district. She is suspected to have contracted the infection from a family gathering where relatives from Goa were present. Forty residents of the neighbourhood have been quarantined along with four of the patient’s family members. With the addition of cases from Gadag and Mandya, the pandemic has affected 18 of the 30 districts in the state. Ranganwadi, where the woman lives, has been declared a containment zone and residents will not be allowed to leave the neighbourhood, district in-charge minister CC Patil said. “The administration will make sure that all essentials reach residents at their doorstep,” he said. Patil said the woman who tested positive was largely confined at home as she was unable to walk due to pain in her knees. “We suspect she contracted the infection from a recent family gathering in SM Krishna Nagar that she went to. Initial inquiries suggest four relatives from Goa were there too; efforts are on to trace them,” the minister said. “Four family members and 40 residents of the area have been quarantined in hospital and in a school in Mallasamudra.” Deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said throat swabs of all 44 people in quarantine have been sent for tests and results expected on Wednesday morning. “The patient developed cough and fever after the family gathering. She went to a private doctor for treatment who directed her to GIMS on April 4. She was suffering from an acute respiratory infection and tests showed she had contracted Covid-19.” Petrol bunks to remain closed As part of containment procedure, vegetable markets and kirana stores in the twin cities will be open only two days a week and barring three petrol bunks, others will remain closed. “Orders have been issued to close the bunks. The three functioning petrol bunks will supply fuel only to emergency service vehicles. Action will be taken against the bunk management if they are found to have dispensed fuel to others,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/80-yr-old-gadag-patient-attended-family-gathering-44-quarantined/articleshow/75035890.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi takes potshots at Modi, Trump||HYDERABAD: AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump over relaxation of export norms for hydroxychloroquine. Following the coronavirus outbreak, hydroxychloroquine, a pharmaceutical compound, generally used in treating malaria, is currently in huge demand for its reported efficacy in preventing and treating many cases of Covid-19. “Howdy @PMOIndia! This is not from very long ago. Why is ‘India’s friend in the White House’ talking of retaliation? Will you tolerate this insult to Bharat?” tweeted Owaisi. Owaisi’s reaction comes after India announced a partial relaxation on the export of different pharmaceutical formulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-takes-potshots-at-modi-trump/articleshow/75036841.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ghaziabad||Industries in Ghaziabad suffer loss of Rs 3,000 crore due to lockdown||GHAZIABAD/NOIDa: The industrial hub of Ghaziabad is estimated to have so far incurred a loss of over Rs 3,000 crore due to the Covid-19 lockdown. And with industrial production coming to a grinding halt, jobs of over two lakh workers are also at stake, say officials. Though the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has extended help to Ghaziabad industrialists by offering them loans at cheaper rates to tide over the loss they have suffered, Virender Kumar from the District Industrial Centre said that “this might not be enough if the lockdown prolongs”. “Products meant for export worth Rs 1,600 crore are lying dumped in industrial warehouses and so are finished products worth Rs 1,700 crore. This is just a rough estimate but it gives us a glimpse of the magnitude of the problem in industrial sector that lay ahead,” said Kumar. From pharmaceuticals to engineering products and garments, there are 27000 micro industries, 4,600 small-scale industries, 150 medium-scale industries and 45 heavy industries in Ghaziabad. These industries employ more than two lakh registered workforce, and we are to take into account unregistered workers,” Kumar said. According to industry watcher Prof Sanjay Mishra, the prevailing situation has thrown things haywire. “Brace up for factories shutting down, which will have bearing on jobs and given the scale of the problem, the government will have to step in with stimulus packages for industries to salvage the situation,” he said. The Noida wing of Indian Industries Association, which represents the medium and small-scale industries of the district, said while they are giving salaries to workers even when factories are shut, it may be difficult to pay in the months ahead should the lockdown extend. IIA-Noida chairperson Kulmani Gupta told TOI, “The export market has crashed. There is no production. We are paying our workers and we are also serving them meals. Now if production cycle comes to a complete stop, we don’t know for how long we will be able to do this.” Noida and Greater Noida together has 10,000 MSMEs, which employ about 10 lakh workers. The industry operators also said that the government should implement some relaxation to the small and medium scale operators. “We will support the workers at this time, but industry also needs government support now and we seek a complete waiver of all utility service fees at this time, including water, electricity, land lease payments till June 30,” said Vipin Kumar Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurs Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/industries-in-gzb-suffer-loss-of-rs-3k-cr-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75038771.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM demands probe by SC judge into Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded an inquiry by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge to fix responsibility for the Delhi congregation of Tablighi Jamaat. He said nobody should be targeted on the ground of religion because any person from any caste or community can commit a mistake and only those at fault should be punished not the community. “An inquiry by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge should be conducted in the Nizamuddin episode to make clear who all are responsible. Those who are at fault should be booked and punished. It will also make clear whether there was any mistake on part of the administration,” said the chief minister. “Timely action should have been taken by the administration in the Nizamuddin incident. It should also be looked into the administrative lapses if any. Therefore, an inquiry is needed into the matter,” he said. “The entire country is united in the fight against coronavirus. The state governments have said they are with the Centre, Congress president Sonia has also wrote to the Prime Minister expressing party support and willingness to collaborate with the Union government to ensure the containment of the pandemic,” he added. The chief minister said the society should not be divided on communal lines in such times. He said, “People should not be accused on the basis of religion. Tablighi Jamaat members have committed a mistake, but why should other people of the community bear the brunt? Why should we divide the population on the grounds of religion?” Gehlot said the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat members at the group’s Markaz (headquarters) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as a major issue in the country. The areas to which the Tablighi Jamaat members travelled after attending the congregation are facing problems. So far, thousands of Covid-19 cases across the country have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. Over 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a ‘mega operation’ to identify them, a senior Union health ministry official said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-demands-probe-by-sc-judge-into-tablighi-jamaat-meeting-in-delhi/articleshow/75037459.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Noida||Industries in Ghaziabad suffer loss of Rs 3,000 crore due to lockdown||GHAZIABAD/NOIDa: The industrial hub of Ghaziabad is estimated to have so far incurred a loss of over Rs 3,000 crore due to the Covid-19 lockdown. And with industrial production coming to a grinding halt, jobs of over two lakh workers are also at stake, say officials. Though the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has extended help to Ghaziabad industrialists by offering them loans at cheaper rates to tide over the loss they have suffered, Virender Kumar from the District Industrial Centre said that “this might not be enough if the lockdown prolongs”. “Products meant for export worth Rs 1,600 crore are lying dumped in industrial warehouses and so are finished products worth Rs 1,700 crore. This is just a rough estimate but it gives us a glimpse of the magnitude of the problem in industrial sector that lay ahead,” said Kumar. From pharmaceuticals to engineering products and garments, there are 27000 micro industries, 4,600 small-scale industries, 150 medium-scale industries and 45 heavy industries in Ghaziabad. These industries employ more than two lakh registered workforce, and we are to take into account unregistered workers,” Kumar said. According to industry watcher Prof Sanjay Mishra, the prevailing situation has thrown things haywire. “Brace up for factories shutting down, which will have bearing on jobs and given the scale of the problem, the government will have to step in with stimulus packages for industries to salvage the situation,” he said. The Noida wing of Indian Industries Association, which represents the medium and small-scale industries of the district, said while they are giving salaries to workers even when factories are shut, it may be difficult to pay in the months ahead should the lockdown extend. IIA-Noida chairperson Kulmani Gupta told TOI, “The export market has crashed. There is no production. We are paying our workers and we are also serving them meals. Now if production cycle comes to a complete stop, we don’t know for how long we will be able to do this.” Noida and Greater Noida together has 10,000 MSMEs, which employ about 10 lakh workers. The industry operators also said that the government should implement some relaxation to the small and medium scale operators. “We will support the workers at this time, but industry also needs government support now and we seek a complete waiver of all utility service fees at this time, including water, electricity, land lease payments till June 30,” said Vipin Kumar Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurs Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/industries-in-gzb-suffer-loss-of-rs-3k-cr-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75037778.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctor files PIL for liquor, Karnataka HC slaps Rs 10,000 donation||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court ordered a Hubballi-based psychiatrist, who filed a PIL seeking opening of liquor shops during the lockdown, to donate Rs 10,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “Do you know how many people are starving? Is liquor more important than food for survival?” a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked Dr Kulkarni, who had appeared through video conference. Kulkarni told the court he filed the PIL after learning at least 10 people had committed suicide due to non-availability of liquor. He also sought a direction that liquor shops stay open for at least for a few hours and for sale of liquor to be limited. When the doctor cited the example of the US where he said liquor is available, the bench retorted saying the US is not under lockdown like India. The bench also said those addicted can be treated for withdrawal symptoms. It asked Kulkarni how much he was willing to pay for abusing the process of court. Kulkarni agreed to pay Rs 10,000 and withdrew his plea. The court asked him to pay the sum into the CM’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-high-court-flays-doc-who-wanted-liquor-shops-opened/articleshow/75037114.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Agra||Trainee IRTS officers draw draft for phase-wise exit from Covid-19 lockdown, Niti Aayog to examine it||AGRA: Three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked state authorities to come up with strategies for exit from Covid-19 lockdown, three trainee IRTS ( Indian Railway Traffic Service) officers have drafted a plan categorising regions based on the severity of the outbreak and after analysing various parameters, including the number of active cases in the past seven days and spread of the virus. On Tuesday, the draft plan was officially sent to the Niti Aayog by the Lucknow-based centre for disaster management and training of the Indian Railway Institute of Transport Management (IRITM). However, the same draft was informally shared with Rajiv Kumar, vice-chairman of Niti Aayog a day earlier by veteran IRTS officer K L Thapar, who runs the Delhi-base Asian Institute of Transport Development. Officials said the policy-making body is likely to give the go-ahead for most of the measures suggested by the trainees — Sagar Chahar (29), S Rishi Raghav (26) and Neha Desai (25). Speaking to TOI, the 86-year-old Thapar said, “Niti Aayog VC Rajiv Kumar draws on home grown talent and research, and I took the opportunity to share with him the exit draft for Covid19 lockdown prepared by the newly recruited IRTS officers. The draft is robust and analyses different possible scenario. The multi-disciplinary knowledge of the three trainee officers reflects in the comprehensive draft.” The draft says elderly people should be confined to their homes and inter-state travel should be restricted. It suggests that districts with most positive cases should be isolated completely. While the proposal suggests that factories can be opened in unaffected areas, it comes with a caveat: “No inter-state movement of labourers should be allowed to facilitate the functioning of these establishments.” The movement of people will be strictly controlled in the worst-hit states and districts, while people in the stage 0 and stage 1 areas will have more freedom of movement. Speaking to TOI, Sagar Chahar, a 2017 batch IRTS officer with MBBS degree and master’s in public policy from the National Law School, Bengaluru, said, “We three worked for two straight days and used are experience and academic expertise to formulate the draft. We have taken care of even the worst case scenario in the exit strategy.” Currently under training at the zonal centre, Udaipur, the trio had sent the draft in to their superiors and also shared it on the railway WhatsApp group for peer-to-peer critical analysis and further amendment. Ajay Pratap Singh, director of IRITM Lucknow, said, “The draft classifies the states in four categories (extreme, high, moderate and low vulnerable) and suggests category-wise approach of staggered exit from the lockdown. It also gives specific guidelines for important sectors such as transportation and agriculture." “We hope that most part of the draft would be inculcated by Niti Aayog in its exit plan,” Singh added. According to the railways, apart from Sagar Chahar, the other two IRTS trainee officers -- S Rishi Raghav and Neha Desai -- are 2018 batch officers. Rishi is a BTech graduate and have a masters degree in city and regional planning from a Atlanta (USA)-based university, while Neha is a graduate in LLB and MA in literature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/trainee-irts-officers-draw-draft-for-phase-wise-exit-from-covid-19-lockdown-niti-aayog-to-examine-it/articleshow/75035893.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Support unorganised labour: Dist collector||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai on Tuesday appealed to the citizens to support workers and labourers from the unorganised sector along with housemaids and give them salaries. He said that during the lockdown, shops selling essential commodities are open, but those who work as housemaids in hotels, lodges, and private establishments are facing financial crisis. He said, “People from the unorganised sector need our help. They are always needed when there is work, but today, they need our help. They should not feel that their establishments have forgotten about them. One should call them and ask if they need any help and offer what they can.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/support-unorganised-labour-dist-collector/articleshow/75037462.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot wants lockdown to be lifted in phase-wise manner||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday favoured a phase-wise withdrawal of the lockdown after the 21-day period, saying it cannot be done at one go. “We cannot withdraw lockdown immediately. It has to be done in a phased manner, that is what I feel,” Gehlot said when asked about the right time to lift the countrywide lockdown. He was addressing a press conference through video conferencing. He added, “Saving lives is important and no step should be taken that would endanger that.” The chief minister said a decision on withdrawing the lockdown will, however, be taken after the recommendations of a task force set up in this regard are received. The state government had made a task force to prepare a plan for lifting of the lockdown. The task force is headed by additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swaroop. According to informed sources, with the number of corona positive cases showing a spike and many hotspots emerging in the state in the last a few days, the government has to formulate a strategy to contain the spread of the disease and at the same time slowly relaxing lockdown in other areas. A clear picture will emerge only in a couple of days, sources added. The chief minister said Rajasthan had showed the way on how to contain the spread of the virus. He was referring to the Bhilwara model, which had contained the spread effectively. The same model will be replicated across the state, including Ramganj in Jaipur, he added. He claimed that the state authorities reached out to 6 lakh households in Bhilwara and conducted largescale testing there. Gehlot also said Rajasthan would start rapid testing of coronavirus within a week as his government has ordered 10 lakh testing kits from China which will reach soon. He said Rajasthan is among those states which had taken the virus threat seriously and after holding extensive consultations with various stakeholders, the state prepared itself well and has been successful in containing it so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-wants-lockdown-to-be-lifted-in-phase-wise-manner/articleshow/75037460.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops play doctor, forces man to return home without treatment||Thiruvananthapuram: A 29-year-old man, who was going to a hospital on Monday night following a food induced skin allergy had a harrowing time when he faced police high-handedness on the way after which he had to return home without getting any treatment. R Sarathchandran, a central government employee, alleged that the policemen on road decided to do the doctor’s job and ruled that he was perfectly fine. Following this, he had to return home and spend a sleepless night owing to intolerable itching due to the allergy. Even the doctors have condemned the act of the police and demanded action against those involved. According to his social media post, that went viral on Tuesday, he fell ill on Monday evening. Blisters appeared all over his body along with strong itching feel. Sarathchandran, a resident of Navaikkulam near Kallambalam, suspected that it could have been an after effect of having a dish made of fish that could have been stale. By night, the itching sensation became unbearable following which he summoned his friend who lives nearby and proceeded to Kollam Government Medical College at Parippally. But their car was stopped by policemen on duty at Kadambattukonam on the national highway. They were accompanied by health officials too. Sarathchandran, who works as a sorting assistant at the Railway Mail Service office under the India Post at Thampanoor, showed them the self-declaration form. A sub-inspector in the team, who questioned Sharathchandran, neither examined the form nor allowed him to step out of the car to show his allergy and explain the situation. “As I did not have the energy to argue with them, we decided to return home,” Sarathchandran told TOI over phone. On Tuesday morning, he took treatment from a private hospital in the city on his way to work. He also filed his complaint before state police chief and Kollam city police commissioner via email. Commissioner T Narayanan said he has assigned Chathannoor assistant commissioner to conduct and inquiry and identify the officers involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-play-doctor-forces-man-to-return-home-without-treatment/articleshow/75035935.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Fight against Covid-19: Rajasthan governor to give 30% salary||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra will contribute 30% of his monthly salary during the current financial year to support the fight against coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Tuesday. According to the Raj Bhavan spokesperson, Mishra will draw only 70% salary while the remaining 30% will remain with the state exchequer. It will be used as an assistance to contain the spread of the deadly virus and relief works, he said. “The governor’s secretary Subir Kumar has forwarded a letter in this regard to chief secretary D B Gupta,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fight-against-virus-guv-to-give-30-salary/articleshow/75037464.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Agra||When people turned WhatsApp groups & private numbers into ‘helplines’ for needy||AGRA: In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the nationwide lockdown, homemakers like Poonam Singh have come forward to lend a helping hand. And so did Kumud Singh, Dr Shruti Varhsney, Shailedra Sharma, Puran Davar, Nitin Kohli and Vivek Sarbhoy, and many others – all from different walks of life. In fact, several city-based WhatsApp groups and even private phone numbers are increasingly turning into dedicated helplines to provide food and support the needy. Making good use of WhatsApp, more than 1,000 members of groups such as ‘Covid-19 Agra support’, ‘Food for Needy’, ‘Food for All’, ‘Hum Hain Nah’, along with others have distributed 2.5 lakh food packets in Agra district since March 25, particularly when large number of migrant workers started arriving from Delhi-NCR and neighbouring states. People have collected money, food items and other essential supplies to help the poor and the needy. Poonam Singh, wife of ADGP Agra zone Ajay Anand, has turned her private mobile number as helpline for migrant workers, while Kumud Singh, wife of Firozabad SP Sachindra Patel, leads a team of tailors to make reusable and washable masks. And Dr Shruti Varhsney, wife of Agra SP city, is providing free medical assistance and food to the marginalised. Vivek Sarbhoy, a city-based lawyer and one of the group admins of ‘Covid-19 Agra support’, said, “From shoe baron to a regular cook, everyone has come together to feed the poor and migrant workers. We have distributed over 1.60 lakh food packets, thus far.” With no prior experience in such a massive exercise of food distribution round the clock, these groups initially had to overcome logistical challenges of accumulating raw materials and availability of large kitchens, particularly in the time of complete lockdown. But people like Shailedra Sharma, an account officer in DVVNL, Puran Davar, a shoe baron, Nitin Kohli, a local social worker, and many others, pitched in with resources such as large kitchen, food grains and vehicles. “As soon as the word spread, we hired a bigger kitchen. Since we were already providing food to 300 poor people every day in Balkeshwar, our only challenge was to feed 10 times more per day, which we managed with the help of WhatsApp group members,” said Kohli. Similarly Sharma, who is ensuring a daily distribution of 500 packets of food for poor and leprosy patients, said, “Agra police and administration also played a major role in our efforts. Wherever there was a need of manpower for food distribution, they were always available. Their men, too, worked 18 hours a day to support the needy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/when-people-turned-whatsapp-groups-private-numbers-into-helplines-for-needy/articleshow/75035903.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi on nurses’ plight||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed his deep anguish over the condition of Keralite nurses working in other states, including New Delhi and Maharashtra, ‘who are denied basic rights even after being affected by Covid-19’. The chief minister wrote separate letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting immediate intervention ‘to provide due care, attention to nurses and take necessary precautions so that the standard health protocols are followed and utmost protection is given to health personnel who are rendering a valuable service to society’. Citing the video conference PM had with CMs of various states, in which importance of ensuring protection for doctors, nurses and other health workers by giving PPE (personal protective equipment) was highlighted, Vijayan urged Modi to advise state governments to ensure their safety. "We are now hearing the news that a number of nurses tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai and Delhi. We are receiving frantic telephone calls from them and many are informing us that there is lack of adequate precaution to prevent the disease," Vijayan wrote in his letter. Reminding Modi that a vast majority of the nursing community serving within India and abroad belong to Kerala and that the service rendered by them have been lauded by one and all, Vijayan stressed on the need to stand with them in this hour of crisis and ‘give them the confidence which they have been giving to others all along’. "I would like to draw your kind attention to the situation which has been reported to us regarding the plight of nurses in Mumbai and Delhi. They are requesting that necessary steps should be taken to separate people who are diagnosed positive for coronavirus and those who presently have no symptoms. It is stated by them that the family members are also quarantined in Covid hospitals," the letter to the PM stated. CM’s letters to Kejriwal and Thackeray also requested them to ensure that nurses who tested positive for Covid-19 and others are not accommodated at the same space, and ‘to alleviate the concerns of the nurses from Kerala’ working in their states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-writes-to-modi-on-nurses-plight/articleshow/75036007.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Six more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, six discharged from hospital||PATNA: Six more positive cases were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the number of coronavirus-infected person to 38 in the state. Four fresh cases were reported from Siwan and two from Beguasai. Those found positive in Siwan are relatives of a Covid-19 patient, who had returned from Oman on March 21. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said one of them is the wife (45) and another is the daughter (22) of the Siwan Covid patient. “Their samples were collected on April 1 and the results came on Tuesday. The Siwan man was tested positive on March 31. Now, the number of Covid cases from Siwan has increased to 10,” he said. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, said those from Siwan were asymptomatic and quarantined at their home. “Now, they would be shifted to a quarantine centre in Siwan,” she said. Meanwhile, six Munger natives, who had came in contact with the man who died of Covid-19, were discharged from Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) at Bhagalpur on Tuesday as their two consecutive tests were found negative, JLNMCH superintendent Dr RC Mandal said.  “They had come in contact with the Munger man who died of corona. One of the six persons discharged was his family member. They have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” he said. Total 15 corona patients have discovered in the state till Tuesday. According to the health department officials, altogether 285 samples were tested at four different facilities in Bihar on Tuesday. Total 156 samples were tested at IGIMS, 45 at DMCH and 14 at PMCH while remaining 170 at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI), Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-more-test-ve-6discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/75036638.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT starts series to guide startups during lockdown||HYDERABAD: Apart from conducting virtual classes, the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT Hyderabad) has started ‘Lockdown Talks’ and ‘Startup Gyan Series’ to guide startups on how to operate, market, and develop their businesses during the present crisis. Initiated by the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CIE) at IIIT Hyderabad, the lockdown talks were being organized once in two days, which will concentrate more on topics that are relevant to the current situation such as hiring practices, raising money, among other. The Startup Gyan series, meanwhile, is a video blog that would be uploaded every day. “We have already started uploading video blogs under Startup Gyan Series from Monday. As part of this series, startup founders will talk about their startup status and the journey so far through conversation on specific topics useful for other deep tech startups and the community at large. The video will be about 15-20 minutes long,” said Ramesh Loganathan, chief operating officer, CIE, IIIT Hyderabad, adding that by the end of the series they would have videos on about 30 topics which will be helpful to startups. Manish Ranjan, co-founder NanoHealth, who delivered the first talk in the Startup Gyan series, spoke about ‘Winning that first corporate customer’. Sharing his experience, he said the first corporate client comes from the close pool of references, but to gain their trust, startups need to be thorough in understanding the need and how they could encourage corporates to take up those extra steps which would be avoided otherwise. “The first 2-3 clients are the ones where startups need to reiterate their problem statements through quick identification of needs and build data to back it up for subsequent clients,” he added. The institute would also start ‘Unpitch’, where startups get an opportunity to pitch virtually to seek funding. “This will start on April 20. The startups will get to pitch to fulfil for one specific need in their firm,” Loganathan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-starts-series-to-guide-startups-during-lockdown/articleshow/75036862.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 8, 2020||Patna||Taken for dead, prisoner is back home from jail||PATNA: The family members of a 23-year-old youth, Ajay Kumar alias Vivek Das, were on cloud nine as the latter returned home four years after his disappearance on Monday, thanks to the decision of the Uttar Pradesh government to release prisoners facing pretty charges from jails on parole on the recent directive of the Supreme Court. The apex court’s order had come recently to reduce overcrowding in jails in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The joy of Ajay’s family members knew no bounds when a police team from Bheldi in Saran district visited their house at Paiga Mitra village under Amnaur block on Monday. To their utter surprise, Ajay was accompanying the police team. Ajay had gone missing in 2016 and the family had even performed his last rites after taking him for dead. “I couldn’t believe my eyes when I saw Ajay hale and hearty. I embraced him before he touched my feet,” said Ajay’s father Babu Lal Das (55), a daily wager. Ajay was traceless ever since he returned from his younger brother’s marriage in 2016. “When he didn’t return for three years, we performed his last rites,” Babu Lal added. Ajay is second among three brothers. “He used to support the family but suddenly disappeared from home one day,” Ajay’s younger brother Vijay Kumar said. SHO of Bheldi police station Vikas Kumar said a police team from Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh reached the police station on Monday and asked for Paiga Matri village. The visiting police team was carrying the release order of the prisons department. “We cooperated with the UP police team and the man was finally reunited with his family members,” the SHO said. Ajay later said he had reached Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh where he was arrested by the Government Railway Police on charges of theft. “I did not contact my family members fearing that they might reprimand me,” Ajay added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/taken-for-dead-prisoner-is-back-home-from-jail/articleshow/75036866.cms||Ramashankar
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Medical group suggests torch test for homemade masks||Aurangabad: The Confederation of Medical Association of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) has recommended a ‘torch test’ for homemade masks. “Do a light test (for homemade masks). The less light that passes through the mask, the more effective it is,” CMAAO , which was first to raise alarm about coronavirus in January, said on Tuesday. It added that cloth masks may help curb the spread of the infection when used in conjunction with hand washing and physical distancing.The Centre has recommended homemade face masks for people, especially while stepping outside home. Such masks, however, are not recommended for those who are sick. Those working in the healthcare department are advised to use special protective equipment.Among other do’s and don’ts, the CMAAO has advised that putting a vacuum filter or even a coffee filter between layers of fabric may help as it causes some electrostatic friction that may trap particles in the mask and user wouldn't be able to breathe them in.The advisory issued by the Centre for homemade masks said that such items must not be shared. “Keep two (masks) handy so they (users) can wear one while the other is washed with soap and hot water,” it said. The CMAAO has said that users need to use hot water cycle in the washer and heat dry treatment to sterilise the homemade masks. “Take off your mask when you get home. Place it in a plastic bag until you are ready to do laundry. Masks should be treated as dirty and contaminated after each use,” CMAAO president Dr K K Aggrawal said. The CMAAO has highlighted that wearing a mask is an add-on and not a replacement for social distancing and hand washing hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medical-group-suggests-torch-test-for-homemade-masks/articleshow/75036846.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Lockdown shuts industries, lifts storage in dams||Aurangabad: The cumulative storage in different dams in Marathwada stands at over 46% which is more than twice the average stock in the past five years. The sufficient stock is considered as the bright spot for the region ahead of summer amid the Covid-19 crisis, which has lowered the industrial and commercial demand of water to a certain extent. Jaisingh Hire, the assistant superintendent engineer with Command Area Development Authority (CADA), Aurangabad, on Tuesday said that the industrial demand has reduced by around 55 MLD presently amid the outbreak of pandemic. “The daily requirement of industries housed in Aurangabad and neighbouring Jalna district has come to almost 20 MLD currently from 75 MLD earlier. The drop is attributed to the current lockdown which is applicable to industries too, barring those into essential services and continuous supply,” he said. Hire said that the demand for irrigation sector as well as domestic needs was almost unchanged. “Both right and left bank canal systems of Jayakwadi major irrigation projects are discharging water currently for irrigation needs towards current hot weather season of crops, which is scheduled to have four rotations of water till arrival of the next rainy season. On the other hand, the demand for domestic sector is also unchanged. While hotels and other such establishments are closed resulting into saving of water, people constrained to remain at homes during the current lockdown have been utilising more water,” he said. As reported earlier, only around 108 industrial units were operating in Aurangabad during the current lockdown. As per official data available with the Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation, a total of 11 major irrigation projects from the region was holding 57% stock while 75 medium projects have 30% live storage. The region has 749 small irrigation projects which are holding 22% live storage whereas barrages on key rivers are left with 8% stock. Meanwhile, many districts, especially Beed and Latur which are infamous for supply of tap-water after longer time intervals, have not effected any change in the water supply schedule during the current summer season so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lockdown-shuts-industries-lifts-storage-in-dams/articleshow/75036860.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Govt holds meeting to restart biz||Jaipur: With the 21-day lockdown set to end in six days, the state government had preliminary discussions as to which sectors of the industry could be opened up and how to ensure that precautionary measures are still followed to nix the spread of the virus. During a video conferencing discussion involving various departments, members of Rajasthan Economic Transformation Advisory Council headed by Arvind Mayaram proposed to open up a few sectors like construction, restaurants and textiles in a limited way. “The state government needs to have a strategy beforehand so that it could be executed whenever the lockdown is lifted. The government will arrive at a definite shape and structure of that strategy but the meeting for suggestions and feedback was a first one and the government will have more of such meetings before finalising the modalities,” said a source. There was a suggestion to open up construction first as it will generate cascading activities for cement, bajri and other industries that supply raw materials to the sector. The construction industry feels that unlike in other industries, activities in this work don’t require too many people to be huddled together. On the other hand, a member of the industry, said the impact of this sector will be diverse as it will depend other sectors. There was also an opinion to allow opening up the restaurants in a way that will not attract gathering of too many people at a particular time. The suggestion was to allow partial opening, indicating that the restaurants can be given permission to offer takeaway services initially and then, looking at the situation, can resume dining services. Similarly, textile also came up as another sector that can be operationalized. But the sector is labour-intensive and the potential challenge the mills will face is to find workers who have gone back to their villages. “There are challenges given the labour shortage. But we also cannot go full steam from the day one as there is no demand right now. Also transportation in the country is a big problem now. Permission to start will allow us to be ready,” said a member of Mewar Chamber of Commerce. However, another source said that they would be meeting again this week to thrash out in details as to what can be allowed to open in the first phase and also decide on the modalities keeping in view the risks of spreading the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-holds-meeting-to-restart-biz/articleshow/75037470.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||3 from Sangli family test -ve, total 7 free from infection||Kolhapur: Three of the five patients from Islampur, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 25, have tested negative for the two throat swab tests conducted in 24 hours and have also completed their 14-day quarantine course. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI, “We have received the reports of three people from the same family. They are now free from the infection. Altogether, now seven members from the same family are free from the infection.” “We are awaiting the reports of two more people. We are likely to receive them on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning,” said Chaudhari. He added that with more people from the same family becoming free from the infection, the confirmed cases in the district have now dropped to 19. If the report of two more members turn out to be negative, the number of confirmed patients will stand at 17. “The three people who have tested negative for the contagion will now be kept with the first four family members, who are under institutional quarantine in Sangli. We will be monitoring their health for the next seven days. If everything is fine, they will be transferred to their home in Islampur,” said Chaudhary. Officials from the health department said that the condition of all the other positive patients was stable. They have been admitted to the Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital. All the tests are being conducted at the newly installed laboratory at Miraj GMC. Sangli district reported the first four positive cases on March 23. The four patients had returned from Saudi Arabia to New Delhi on March 13 and arrived in Mumbai on a domestic flight. They reached Islampur on March 14. The district administration found out about their travel history during their survey. Soon after, the family was put in the isolation ward on March 19. The report of their throat swab samples confirmed that they have contracted the infection on March 23. Later, as many as 21 other family members, including a 2-year-old toddler, were found to be infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-from-sangli-family-test-ve-total-7-free-from-infection/articleshow/75037468.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Garment makers seek help to retain staff||Ahmedabad: The 21-day nationwide lockdown has affected revenues of manufacturers in key industrial sectors with production in almost all factories, except those manufacturing essential commodities, coming to a grinding halt. The scenario in the garment manufacturing sector looks no better. According to a pan-India survey by Gujarat Garments’ Manufacturing Association (GGMA), 81% garment manufacturers have sought government support in order to not lay-off workers and staff members once the lockdown is lifted. With production getting halted, piling up overheads, order books getting impacted and no respite in receiving payments, businesses in the garment sector are expected to reel under a major liquidity crunch. As a consequence, at least 38.7% businesses are considering laying off as an alternative to sustain business. Explaining the scenario, Arpan Shah, honourary treasurer, GGMA, said, “Payments have been made in March to all the workers and staff members. However, if the lockdown is extended, businessmen will lay-off people and also consider imposing pay-cuts. This is because the entire revenue cycle has been disrupted. Order books have taken a major hit with orders upto 80% getting cancelled while there is little respite in terms of repayment cycles.” Manufacturers fear that even if the lockdown is lifted after April 14, labour-shortage may pose a greater concern to industries in resuming production activity in full swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/garment-makers-seek-help-to-retain-staff/articleshow/75036938.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 4,000 migrant workers rehabilitated||HYDERABAD: More than 4,000 migrant workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha, were rehabilitated and provided basic amenities in around 20 locations in the city by a community-based NGO. Most of the workers were picked up from Begumpet and Secunderabad. “Around 800 people have been attended to in Balamrai, Rasoolpura, and Begumpet and 900 workers have been identified in Yapral, Nacharam and Uppal areas,” said Parmanand Sharma, president of Janseva Sangh, a community-based NGO of around 400 people comprising doctors, IAS officials and IT professionals. Sharma said that most of the workers used to work for hotels. Since they have shut down, these people have nowhere to go. “We have provided them accommodation in function halls. They have been provided with basic groceries and food items and they are cooking their own food in the temporary shelters erected for them,” he said. With the help of city police, around 400 workers have been provided shelter and food in Kukatpally. “Currently, we are feeding around 2,000 to 3,000 people daily. District officials have also been helpful in identifying areas and workers in need,” said Srikanth Pandey, secretary, Janseva Sangh, adding that they are aiming at extending help to more areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-4000-migrant-workers-rehabilitated/articleshow/75036887.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mysuru||First Covid +ve patient in Mysuru cured, discharged from hospital||Mysuru: Two weeks after Mysuru started registering Covid positive cases, there is some good news. The district’s first Covid patient has been tested negative to novel coronavirus and has been discharged on Tuesday. This has brought down the total positive cases to 34. The patient, however, has to remain in quarantine at his home for two more weeks as a precautionary measure. This has brought some relief to officers and health staffers who are fighting the pandemic since three weeks. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar announced that the first positive patient is cured of virus and discharged. The 35-year-old patient got admitted voluntarily soon after arriving from Dubai in the third week of March. He arrived at Bengaluru airport from Dubai via Goa and then took a cab to Mysuru. He was tested positive on March 21. Since then he was quarantined at the isolation ward in KR Hospital. His awareness had helped to contain the spread of virus as he didn’t meet any members in his family or friends soon after arrival from Dubai. He headed directly to KR Hospital with complaints of fever. Mysuru Medical College & Research Institute (MMCRI) dean and director CP Nanjaraj told TOI that he was the first Covid positive patient in Mysuru. He is cured of illness as two subsequent tests showed no Covid virus in him and even the chest X-ray was clear. The individual, however, has to lead life in isolation at home for another two weeks, the dean said. 90 samples sent to NIMHANS An excess load of samples has forced the Mysuru district authorities to take help from their counterparts in Bengaluru as they have sent 90 samples to NIMHANS. MMCRI dean and director CP Nanjaraj told TOI that nearly 80 samples are pending at Mysuru lab while another 90 plus samples have been sent to National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru. “As the sample load was heavy, we have sought assistance of Bengaluru lab for tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-covid-ve-patient-in-mysuru-cured-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75035947.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 4,000 migrant workers rehabilitated||Hyderabad: More than 4,000 migrant workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha, were rehabilitated and provided basic amenities in around 20 locations in the city by a community-based NGO. Most of the workers were picked up from Begumpet and Secunderabad. “Around 800 people have been attended to in Balamrai, Rasoolpura, and Begumpet and 900 workers have been identified in Yapral, Nacharam and Uppal areas,” said Parmanand Sharma, president of Janseva Sangh, a community-based NGO of around 400 people comprising doctors, IAS officials and IT professionals. Sharma said that most of the workers used to work for hotels. Since they have shut down, these people have nowhere to go. “We have provided them accommodation in function halls. They have been provided with basic groceries and food items and they are cooking their own food in the temporary shelters erected for them,” he said. With the help of city police, around 400 workers have been provided shelter and food in Kukatpally. “Currently, we are feeding around 2,000 to 3,000 people daily. District officials have also been helpful in identifying areas and workers in need,” said Srikanth Pandey, secretary, Janseva Sangh, adding that they are aiming at extending help to more areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-4000-migrant-workers-rehabilitated/articleshow/75036872.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Lockdown should be lifted in phases: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner to avoid any kind of community transmission. “Lifting of lockdown in entirety can lead to community transmission due to heavy movement of people,” he told TOI on Tuesday. “I have written to the CM that even if the lockdown is lifted, movement of people should be restricted. Section 144 must be in place for next three-four months,” he said. “I strongly believe that there should not be continuous curfew but there should be curbs on movement of people and social distancing should be strongly adhered to,” he said. He also said mass gatherings and religious functions should not be allowed for the next six months. He also said that the Epidemic Diseases Act should continue to be in force till the situation is in complete control. “I’m in no mood to lift the Epidemic Act. In Goa, we are lucky that there is no community transmission. We have tackled it with stringent measures, but if we slip at this stage, Goa will not be in a position to handle the situation,” he said. Rane said though Goa being a small state was in a better position than rest of the states, the next six months would be a “challenge”. “I don’t see anything happening for the next six to seven months. Tourism definitely will take a beating. I have been analysing the situation. People are scared to travel,” Rane said. “Social distancing will become a new way of life in this country and world as well,” he said. Rane, who is also the industries minister, said the focus should be on finding long-term solutions to revive the industries. “The Covid-19 is a challenge which we are all facing today,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-should-be-lifted-in-phases-rane/articleshow/75037474.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mental health centre extends helping hand to those in need||Thiruvananthapuram: Among other hospitals in the district, Government Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada, too is playing its part in taking care of persons under quarantine in the district. Around seven persons are under quarantine at the mental health centre. These persons were shifted to the centre after they faced various psychological issues and were in need of support. Sources in health department said that a person on hospital quarantine who showed withdrawal syndrome was the first to be shifted to the mental health centre. “Later, persons on medication for psychological issues, who could not be managed by other hospitals, were shifted to the mental health centre. Also, there are patients who suffer from age-related memory loss, anxiety issues etc,” said health department officials. The psycho-social wing of the health department has been contacting every person on quarantine in the district to understand whether they need psychological support of any kind. The wing has made over 13,000 calls to people on quarantine these days. Initially people have been citing issues of the stigma they face in the society. “They faced harassments due to fake news spreading in the locality citing that the persons on quarantine are Covid positive. Now, most of the persons who seek support complain of anxiety and stress-related issues. This was high when the number of positive cases was on a rise in the district. Now, such complaints have reduced as there is a slump in new cases,” said a health department official. The wing, which has psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and social workers, will provide counselling support over phone for persons in need. “If there is need to start medicines, we will alert doctors of primary health centres near them, who will take necessary steps. We will make follow up calls,” said the health department official. The psychology wing advises people on quarantine to remain updated on necessary information and stay away from news most of the time. “It is time to ensure positivity by spending time with family, use time for productive works, improve relationships, engage with kids etc. We advise them to stay away from negative news, especially fake news on social media platforms. Only trusted news should be followed and that too for necessary information. We also provide relaxation techniques to reduce anxiety,” said members at the psychology wing. Those who need psychological support can contact 9846854844 between 9am and 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mental-health-centre-extends-helping-hand-to-those-in-need/articleshow/75035971.cms||Jisha Surya
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||RIICO gives relief to existing borrowers||Jaipur: In the wake of the lockdown and subsequent financial crisis leading to severe liquidity issues, RIICO on Tuesday announced a relief package to its existing borrowers. Hwever, this will not be applicable to NPA accounts. RIICO deferred payment of quarterly interest installment due on April 15, which now will be paid in three equal quarterly instalments from next quarter along with interest. Similarly, the quarterly instalment of the principal amount due on May 15 has been deferred. It will now be paid as a last instalment thereby extending the existing last date of repayment by a quarter. Borrowers have also been given interest subsidy of 50 basis points with effect from January 16 and it will be applicable for the remaining tenure of the loan. However, the interest will continue to accrue on outstanding loan during the moratorium period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-gives-relief-to-existing-borrowers/articleshow/75037475.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Poor water supply adds to citizen’s woes in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Some parts of the city continue to receive water supply at low pressure, making life difficult for the residents during the lockdown. Civic officials, however, have denied any drop is pressure from their end and requested the citizens to lodge a formal complaint. Pradnya Pawar, a resident of N-11 sector, said she has two storage tanks, but none of them are getting filled completely. “This was not the case earlier. It is the same situation in the entire neighbourhood. There has been no change in duration of water supply, but it is the pressure that is leading to the problem.” Kiran Dhande, in-charge of AMC’s water supply department, said a few pockets of the city could be facing the issue due to increase in demand. “We have not decreased the timing as well as pressure of water supply from our end. Still, we will be keen to help the residents and request them to lodge a formal complaint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/poor-water-supply-adds-to-citizens-woes/articleshow/75036878.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara witnesses first death due to Covid-19||Kolhapur: The Satara district administration on Tuesday confirmed that the 63-year-old man who passed away on Monday morning due to cardiac arrest was Covid-19 positive. District health officer Aniruddha Athalye told TOI that the patient had completed his 14-day quarantine period and according to the protocol his throat swab samples were taken within a span of 24 hours on Sunday and Monday. “The first sample tested negative, while the second came out as positive. His last rites were performed on Monday morning as per union ministry’s protocol. The patient had returned from California on March 19 and had tested positive on March 24. District collector Shekhar Singh said the man’s death has been confirmed with cardiac arrest and COVID-19 infection. “Few photographs of his last rites have gone viral saying that the team at the crematorium did not wear any gloves. This claim is not true. We have taken every precaution to ensure all the safety protocols were followed. The gloves and other protective gears were also disposed in scientific manner,” he said, adding that the administration is committed to the citizens’ safety and there will not be any compromise. Singh, however, agreed that there were a few hiccups during the last rite process since it was the first death in the district due to Covid-19. “But learning from the instance, we have now assigned duties to the staff concerned and have asked them to follow the protocol. We have also finalized two cremation sites, in Satara and Karad,” he said. The deceased is survived by his wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-witnesses-first-death-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75037476.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||1L Covid beds needed: Cong tells guv||Gandhinagar: A delegation of Congress leaders met Governor Acharya Devvrat in Gandhinagar on Tuesday and demanded immediate remedial action for the problems people are facing during the ongoing lockdown. The Congress demanded that the government make provisions for at least one lakh beds to treat coronavirus patients. In a memorandum submitted to the Governor, the Congress said thousands of ration card holders are being denied free rations and the quality of food being distributed under the PDS is very poor. The memorandum also said that several Gujaratis are stranded in other parts of the country and abroad because of the lockdown and the government should make arrangements for their return. The Congress leaders also demanded that electricity bills, water tax bills and other local taxes be waived owing to the lockdown. Among the leaders who met the Governor were Amit Chavda, Gujarat Congress president; Paresh Dhanani, leader of opposition; Bharatsinh Solanki, former Gujarat Congress president: Shaktisinh Gohil, national spokesperson; and senior leaders Shailesh Parmar, Siddharth Patel, Nishit Vyas and Jayrajsinh Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1l-covid-beds-needed-cong-tells-guv/articleshow/75036931.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||17 contacts of Covid-19 patient tests negative||Kolhapur: Test reports of 17 people, who were institutionally quarantined after third positive Covid-19 case, have come out in negative. Five of these 17 people are family members of the lady-infected with coronavirus. Though the test reports have turned negative, they will continue to be under quarantine centre for two weeks and will be tested again before discharge. The other 12 included, doctors who she had approached and people who had come in contact with her, since her arrival in Kolhapur on march 20 A similar exercise is being carried forward for the contacts of the 63-year-old woman, when she had visited Satara and another village. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that they surveyed 3,000 people from the containment zone on the first day itself. “No new suspect has been found. The immediate contacts have already been quarantined. They are under observation. We will cover 25,000 population in the coming days. Our teams are on the ground checking everyone. The people are asked not to come outside.” He said that the screening of people from Belbaug area, where the driver of an ambulance took her from Satara to Kolhapur will also be done. Meenakshi Gajbhiye, in charge of Covid-19 hospital said that the woman is suffering from tuberculosis from the last several years. She was given oxygen for some time but has not yet been put on a ventilator. Gajbhiye said the lady is responding to the treatment effectively. The locals have declared to observe 100% lockdown in both these areas. On the first day, the police had to carry out mild lathi-charge in Kasba Bawda to make people stay inside. Most of them came outside to buy milk or essential materials. Before the registration of the case many people from the area were seen talking and walking on garden tracks. However after the first case are worried and staying indoors. Due to strict lockdown, the supply of essentials is affected. Only medical shops were open. The milk supply did not take place which made many angry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/17-contacts-of-covid-19-patient-tests-negative/articleshow/75037488.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Businessman injured in car crash||HYDERABAD: A businessman was injured when he crashed his car into a footpath on Necklace Road near NTR Gardens on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Rounak Agarwal (25), a resident of Himayatnagar, was allegedly speeding and lost control over the wheel while heading towards Somajiguda. Police found a liquor bottle inside his Volkswagen. “We are trying to ascertain if he was driving under the influence of alcohol,” said Saifabad inspector Saidi Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-injured-in-car-crash/articleshow/75036890.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Goa Covid survey will be conducted via app||PANAJI: The all-Goa community survey announced by the state government on Monday to identify persons with symptoms of coronavirus, will be conducted using a mobile app. A senior government officer said that training would be provided to all government employees and teachers of government and government-aided schools. “An app has been developed for carrying out the survey. During the training, the surveyors will be asked to install the app on their mobile phones. The app will have a set of six questions prepared by the health department which will have to be answered in yes or no format,” the officer told TOI. The survey will have questions like whether any family member has flu-like symptoms or has a travel history since February 15, apart from the basic details including name of head of the family, address and contact numbers. For the three-day survey, which will begin from Monday, the surveyors would be provided face masks and sanitisers and will also be asked to keep safe distance and not to enter houses. For the survey conducted under North and South Goa collectors, 17 incident commanders have been appointed - one for each taluka and five others for bigger municipal areas of Panaji, Mapusa, Margao, Vasco and Ponda. The teams will be constituted at booth level officer (BLO) level. “This survey is being carried out in the interest of the people. At present, we have only seven positive cases of COVID-19. But we want to ensure that no person with the symptoms is at home and not taking things seriously,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-covid-survey-will-be-conducted-via-app/articleshow/75037481.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Jaipur||Breather for interest subsidy scheme in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government has extended 5% interest subsidy scheme to farmers by three months from March 31 to June 30. The farmers who repay the loan by June 30 will be charged only at 6.65% interest for their long term agricultural loans. Cooperative minister Udailal Anjana said that due to the statewide lockdown, the farmers were not able to take the benefit of the scheme. For all the farmers who took loans from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020, the scheme has now been extended by three months so that more and more farmers can get the benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/breather-for-interest-subsidy-scheme-in-raj/articleshow/75037478.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Drones to combat spread of Covid-19 in districts||WARANGAL: Municipal corporations of various districts in the state are deploying thermal imaging camera drowns manufactured by Binford Robotics to contain the spread of Covid-19. Drones were deployed for survelliance to identify Covid-19 hotspots and spray disinfectants in Warangal. “Drones can spray disinfectants 50 times faster than conventional methods and can be equipped with high resolution surveillance cameras for crowd monitoring and identifying virus hotspots,” said Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) mayor Gunda Prakash Rao. Jayashankar-Bhupalpally district collector Abdul Azeem deployed pilot bird drone for spraying of disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drones-to-combat-spread-of-covid-19-in-districts/articleshow/75036898.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||17 booked for spreading rumours on social media in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Police action against those involved in posting or forwarding fake messages and rumours on social media platforms continued on Tuesday wherein as many as 17 people were booked in 12 different cases registered with different police stations across the district. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has issued instructions to all police stations, including the cybercrime cell, to closely monitor the messages that are being circulated on various social media platforms and take action against those involved in spreading rumours and fake messages that can affect the law and order situation. As many as 20 people were booked on Monday, while 10 were booked on Sunday for spreading fake messages and rumours on social media platforms. The suspects have been booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 52 and 54 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. Meanwhile, police also continued their action against people violating the lockdown norm by coming out on the roads without any valid reason. Police have seized as many as 343 two-wheelers and recovered fine worth Rs 46,600 from them. The two-wheelers will be kept on the premises of the respective police stations and will be handover to the concerned owners after lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/17-booked-for-spreading-rumours-on-social-media/articleshow/75037492.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Labour contractors exempted from licence renewal during lockdown||Gandhinagar: In view of the ongoing lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, the state government has exempted certain labour contractors from licence renewal for the time being.In a notification dated April 4, the labour and employment department directed that provision of section 9(3) of interstate migrant workmen (regulation of employment and condition of service act, 1979, and rules 14 and 15 of interstate migrant workmen (regulation of employment and condition of service) (Gujarat) rules, 1981 shall not apply up to May 15 to contractors whose license renewal falls in the months of March, April, and May. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/labour-contractors-exempted-from-licence-renewal-during-lockdown/articleshow/75036927.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Two flee shelter home in Kolhapur dist, cops launch search op||done. Kolhapur: Lapses in security at the shelter camps set up by the district administration have surfaced after two persons at one such centre at Peth Vadgaon fled the camp. Police have launched a search operation for the duo. There are 15 shelter homes at various places in the district and 808 people have been sent there. These include 227 from Maharashtra and 581 from other states. Those at the Peth Vadgaon shelter include 74 persons, most of them travelling from Pune and Mumbai on the NH-4 and attempting to enter Kolhapur district. They were detained at the Kini toll plaza and taken to the shelter. On Monday morning it was discoverd that two of the 74 were missing and the police department was alerted. Kishor Kale, deputy superintendent of police, Ichalkaranji division said, “Our police teams are searching for the two people. They are from Tamil Nadu and due to the lockdown it is unlikely that they will get out of Kolhapur district.” “We are also gathering details about the lacunae in the security deployed at these shelters and will initiate action against those on duty if we find lapses,” he said. “At all the centres we provide 24x7 security and one constable and one homeguard is deployed at a time to keep a check on the shelter homes,” Kale said. “The people at the shelters were either attempting to enter Kolhapur district or go to other states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu through Kolhapur. As per the directives of the government we have stationed them at shelter homes and they will be released after the lockdown period ends,” he said. “Instructions have been given to all the officials attached with the revenue department to ensure that they get quality and sufficient food and other essential requirements. We regularly get updates on the arrangements made for their food and stay,” said a senior officer of the district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-flee-shelter-home-in-kolhapur-dist-cops-launch-search-op/articleshow/75037495.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Precaution must as Covid-19 situation worsening: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday warned that the Covid-19 situation was worsening with the sudden spike in positive cases across the country. “It is the administration’s failure if people fail to stay indoors during lockdown for social distancing. If necessary, lockdown will be extended further,” hinted Gadkari. He was speaking at the review meeting he convened, after being appointed as an observer by the Centre to review the situation in Maharashtra post the coronavirus outbreak. It was for the first time such meeting in the city. He directed all three government hospitals (Government Medical College and Hospital, Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences) to stay prepared for the worst. He said that many developed countries were unable to control the pandemic, which has infected over 13 lakh globally and killed over 72,000 so far. During the meet, the Nagpur Member of Parliament (MP) was informed that the coronavirus tests were being conducted at IGGMCH and AIIMS in the city, and now Maharashtra Animal Husbandry and Fisheries University will also start Covid-19 tests. Gadkari, however, expressed displeasure over limited test kits available in the city and shortage of crucial equipment like ventilators and oxygen cylinders at GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. Though the present stock of testing kit is sufficient, however, if the number of Covid-19 patients shoot up, the city will require more testing kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, intensive care units and medicines, the MP was informed. When informed that only the staff working in isolation wards are given personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, Gadkari said all staff working in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients should get protective gear. He also directed the authorities to ensure PPE stock for over a month. The minister directed deans and directors of all three institutes to improve stock of this essential equipment. He also asked them to ensure ample stock of testing kits of Covid-19 with them. The meeting also brought forth the fissures within the local Congress unit and its acrimonious relations with the BJP. Except the leader of opposition in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Tanaji Wanve, none of the Congress leaders attended the meeting. Guardian minister Nitin Raut was conspicuous by his absence, and so was animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar. Mayor Sandip Joshi, MP Vikas Mahatme, BJP legislators Vikas Kumbhare, Krishna Khopde, BJP corporator Pravin Datke, collector Ravindra Thakare, additional divisional commissioner Abhijit Bangar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, and GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, Dr Ajau Kevliya, AIIMS’s major general Dr Vibha Datta, deputy director (health) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, police commissioner BK Upadhyay among others were attended the meeting. Gadkari also expressed anguish over the reports of sale of edible oil over and above the printed retail price. He directed the district collector to take strict action against shopkeepers indulging in such a malpractice. The city MP slammed Dr Patil of Super Specialty Hospital for failing to keep medical equipment in running condition and also cited the example of non-functioning cath lab. During the meet, the municipal commissioner spoke about the status of Covid-19 patients, suspected people, people in quarantine etc. Gadkari also directed the collector to allow companies or industries to start production if these can ensure social distancing by their employees. Gadkari also claimed to have provided Rs5 crore from his discretionary fund for distribution of ration to BPL card holders. He also directed the collector to ensure availability of ration to poor who do not possess ration cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/precaution-must-as-covid-19-situation-worsening-gadkari/articleshow/75035649.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||L&T rolls out AI-based systems||Hyderabad: L&T Smart World & Communication on Tuesday said it has rolled out smart technology solutions to enable local authorities combat COVID-19 in over 20 cities across India, including Hyderabad, by setting up technology and helping them manage command & control centres. In Telangana, L&T helped police implement AI-based vehicle movement restriction.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lt-rolls-out-ai-based-systems/articleshow/75036904.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||No financial package for businesses: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that it would not be possible for the government to have a financial package for the business sector since the state itself is currently going through an economic crisis. Sawant told reporters that due to the lockdown, every business big or small has suffered. He said that he has been getting messages and emails inquiring whether the state government would unveil a financial package. “People should not expect a financial package from the state,” he said. “People should understand that the state is also going through an economic crisis,” Sawant said. “It is not possible for the state to announce a package for businessmen. As and when it becomes possible for the state to do so, it will be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-no-fin-package-for-businesses/articleshow/75037496.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Goa||Seven patients will recover soon: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said health condition of all seven Covid-19 patients is improving. “We are confident that they will fully recover soon,” the chief minister said on Tuesday. Five suspects were placed in isolation ward of GMC on Tuesday and 18 persons were home quarantined. Test results of 48 samples sent for testing at GMC laboratory were awaited, including 12 samples sent for testing on Tuesday. Test results of 26 samples have come negative while 22 reports are awaited including the 12 samples. The chief minister applauded the state health department and doctors for their hard work in the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-seven-patients-will-recover-soon/articleshow/75037504.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress lashes out at state, Centre||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for criticising opposition parties during his media briefing on Monday. Congress floor leader in assembly Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said PM Narendra Modi and KCR should be blamed for failing to combat the spread of the virus. “WHO had cautioned on February 11 itself. By the time Janata Curfew was imposed on March 22, the damage was done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-lashes-out-at-state-centre/articleshow/75036909.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Stranded Russians in the state to fly back home on Wednesday||Thiruvananthapuram: A flight to evacuate stranded Russians in the state will be operated on Wednesday. The flight service, which was supposed to be operated on Saturday, got cancelled last minute after Russia temporarily suspended flight services. It will be the second passenger flight to be operated from Trivandrum International Airport after lockdown. The charted flight arranged by Russian Consulate is operated to evacuate stranded Russians in Kerala. On March 31, a flight to Germany was operated from Thiruvananthapuram to Frankfurt to evacuate German nationals in the state. As many as 207 Russian citizens have registered for the travel. The flight service will be operated by Ural Airlines. The flight from Thiruvananthapuram to Ekaterinburg is schedule for departure at 1.35pm. The flight will reach Russia at around 10pm IST. The tourists are staying at Varkala, Kovalam, Amritapuri Ashram in Kollam, Marari Beach in Kochi and Vakkom will be brought to Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday morning. Tourism and police department is coordinating with the Russian consulate to arrange travel and accommodation for the tourists. “The tourists will be brought to Uday Suites, Shanghumugham, where the registration procedure will be completed. Health check-up will also be conducted there before arriving at the airport. The tourists will be brought to the airport in groups. The flight will reach Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday morning,” said Honorary Consul of the Russian Federation and Director of Russian Cultural Centre in Thiruvananthapuram Ratheesh C Nair. There are around 50 people who expressed interest to stay back. “The airlines received permission to operate the charted flight,” said C V Ravindran, airport director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/stranded-russians-in-the-state-to-fly-back-home-on-wednesday/articleshow/75035989.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Anti-CAA post: Man denied bail, faces charge of spreading hatred||Ahmedabad: Posting on social media proved dear for Vatva’s Nasirsharif Shaikh because the city civil court has denied bail to him three months after he was booked during anti-CAA protests. The court refused bail to Shaikh after police filed a chargesheet against him. Court said that he did not deserve bail because his gesture could spread sentiment of hatred among the Muslims towards the Prime Minister and the defence minister, it could cause communal sentiments across the nation and riots may ensue and cause panic among society. The court said that he is accused of serious offence of sedition. However, Shaikh’s advocate Uvesh Malik said that he was booked for the post which did not have communal overtones at all. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anti-caa-post-man-denied-bail-faces-charge-of-spreading-hatred/articleshow/75036925.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||High alert in Ajara after Jamaat returnee develops Covid-19 symptoms||Kolhapur: The district administration is on high alert after an Ajara resident, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, has developed symptoms like cough and cold. The man has been admitted to a hospital while his family members have been sent to institutional quarantine. The administration, as a preventive measure, has sealed all the roads leading to the area where the family was staying and has circulated pamphlets regarding how to prevent the spread of coronavirus. District collector Daulat Desai has said that instructions have been given to the village-level committees to search for people who attended the Delhi event. “We have already quarantined 21 people who have returned from Delhi. The authorities concerned have collected the throat swab samples of the suspects and their family members. The results are awaited,” he said. “The person who has tested positive was already in home quarantine. We have already appealed to the people to come forward and share their travel history if they have attended the programme in Delhi. We have also asked the village-level committees to get details of every person in their village and find out if anyone had attended the programme in Delhi,” he added. Sampat Khilare, sub-divisional officer of Ajara-Bhudargad division, said, “We have noted the travel history of the person who has tested positive. He was in Delhi from February 10 to February 28 and then returned to Kolhapur. After returning, he was normal and later developed symptoms of typhoid and pneumonia. He went to a local government hospital in the first week of March, but as he could not recover we admitted him to the Covid-19 cell at Gadhinglaj for further tests.” He added, “We have also moved his family from home to institutional quarantine.” Radhanagari MLA Prakash Abitkar said, “There is no need for people to panic. They should strictly follow the lockdown rules and maintain social distancing. Everything is under control and the administration is doing its best to prevent the spread of coronavirus.” ‘Stay indoors for Shab-e-Barat’ Meanwhile, police have urged people from the Muslim community to remain indoors ahead of Shab-e-Barat that is scheduled to be celebrated on Thursday. On this night, members of the Muslim community visit graveyards to remember their loved ones. “We have conveyed messages to the leaders of the Muslim community to ensure that people remain in their homes due to lockdown and maintain social distancing to avoid spread of coronavirus. Strict action will be taken if anyone is found violating the rules,” Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police (Karveer division), said. Gani Ajarekar, chairman of Muslim Boarding (Kolhapur), said, “All members of the Muslim community have decided to celebrate Shab-e-Barat in their homes. All the mosques and cemeteries will be locked on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/high-alert-in-ajara-after-jamaat-returnee-develops-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75037498.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man hides Nizamuddin visit, booked for spreading infections in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch on Monday filed a complaint against a 68-year-old resident of Dariapur for not revealing that he had visited Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month. He has been charged with spreading infectious disease. The FIR filed by inspector A D Parmar of the crime branch says that the Markaz was a hotspot of the novel coronavirus. It states that the country had controlled the outbreak but the gathering of Tablighi Jamaat members had caused a spike in the number of cases. The FIR naming Mohammed Ilyas Shaikh as accused has been filed under IPC Section 188 for defying an order promulgated by a government official, Section 269 for a negligent act likely to spread a disease dangerous to life, and Section 270 which prescribes two years in jail to anyone spreading a disease. “The cases of Covid-19 pandemic were under control in India as infections decreased rapidly compared with other countries like China, the USA and Italy,” the FIR reads. “But after the Nizamuddin Markaz of Delhi, where a large number of members of Tablighi Jamaat from various states of the country and foreigners participated....the cases began increasing rapidly.” The FIR further states that many Covid positive patients were found to have come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members. The FIR says that Shaikh has been booked as he did not share information about his visit to the Markaz with any government agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-hides-markaz-visit-booked/articleshow/75036915.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Uranium contaminatesgroundwater in 10 districts’||PATNA: Uranium has been found contaminating groundwater of ten districts in Bihar. Earlier, there were reports of arsenic and fluoride as major contaminants in many districts of the state. But a team of Indo-UK researchers, for the first time, found the presence of the radioactive mineral in the groundwater as a new health hazard. The report published in the April 6 edition of International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health noted Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran, Patna, Nalanda, Nawada, Supaul, Aurangabad, Gaya and Jehanabad district as affected by uranium contamination at varying levels. The highest level of 80 microgram per litre (mpl) uranium was found in Supaul against the provisional permissible limit of 30 mpl prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO). Patna district had 38 mpl uranium concentration in its groundwater. The study was conducted by David Polya and Laura A Richards of the University of Manchester (UK) and Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh and Arun Kumar of Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Patna. The project was funded by the Natural Environment Research Council (UK) and Union ministry of science and technology. Ghosh said it was an “incidental discovery”. He said: “The research team had collected samples from 273 places across the state before the monsoon of 2019 for studying the mobilization of arsenic in groundwater. However, the test of samples conducted with the help of inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer, a highly sophisticated instrument, in the University of the Manchester lab, found uranium at different places in the 10 districts.” He said all the ten districts showed uranium concentration in excess to the WHO’s prescribed limit. Scientists also found an inverse correlation of uranium with arsenic. “The places (villages) where uranium showed its presence had no arsenic in the groundwater in any of the studies conducted till date,” Ghosh said. Uranium in groundwater was not only a surprise for scientists but also for the state government. Bihar minister for public health and engineering department, Vinod Narayan Jha, feigned ignorance of any such findings. He, however, said if any such report came to his notice, the government would take it on priority basis and get water samples from those places tested in labs. “We are concerned about arsenic, fluoride and excess iron as major contaminants in groundwater and uranium was not known till date,” Jha said. Indian team led by Ashok K Ghosh, head of research wing of Mahavir cancer sansthan and Arun Kumar. Published paper was titled ‘ Distribution and geochemical control of arsenic and uranium in ground water- derived drinking water in Bihar’ Scientists say, exposure to uranium can lead to chronic detrimental to health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/uranium-contaminatesgroundwater-in-10-dists/articleshow/75036822.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Corpn workers to undergo regular health checkup||Madurai: Madurai Corporation is conducting free health camps for sanitary workers involved in Covid-19 prevention activities in the city. Minister for co-operatives Sellur K Raju inspected the camp that was held at the Sathamangalam urban primary health centre on Tuesday in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan.The minister said that the state government was taking all measures to ensure the deadly virus did not spread into society. He added that 60,000 masks were being distributed to the people in the Madurai West Assembly constituency as part of preventive measures.Sanitary workers in the corporation are working round the clock to ensure all the areas in the city, including those cordoned off as part of containment measures, remains clean. Free health camps will be conducted periodically for corporation to ensure they are well.The health checks included blood tests, assessment of blood sugar, hypertension and body temperature check. They are also being given health supplements including vitamins and have been asked to approach PHCs in their respective regions.The Madurai Corporation is conducting health camps for all its 5,300 workers in all the 31 urban primary health centres. So far 1,800 have been screened in the city. Madurai Legal Awareness Co-ordination Committee coordinator Sahaya Philominraj has demanded the corporations to give the workers special allowances, food allowance and pay hikes similar to police and medical personnel who are in the forefront in the fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-workers-to-undergo-regular-health-checkup/articleshow/75037501.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops keep tabs on outsiders with the help of concerned citizens||done. Kolhapur: Despite the lockdown, there have been reports that people from outside are making their way into the city. In the past few days local police stations have been getting complaints to this effect. A doctor who arrived in the old city area was asked to get screened and quarantined. A senior official of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), requesting anonymity, said, “The borders of the district are sealed. However, the entry and exit of doctors and the vehicles used for essential services is allowed. On Tuesday, we got call from Ravivar Peth. Residents there told us some people had come from outside. We immediately contacted the family and had them screened.” Such complaints are a good thing, said the official. He said ward-level committees should be in touch with citizens from the ward. Knowing who is moving around will help stop the spread of coronavirus, he said. The KMC has asked the district police administration to record details of those arriving in the city. Everyone coming from outside is compulsorily put under home quarantine. As the third case of Covid-19 was reported in the city the administration has stepped up its vigilance but living under lockdown is causing hardship for many. Vegetable vendors are being allowed to enter some localities but not others and these residents are demanding that they also have access to vegetable vendors. Residents in Rajrampuri would like to have milk delivered to them. “Many people here have signed up with the milkman who brings us fresh and undiluted milk every day,” says Dutta Patil. “However, with the lockdown coming into effect, the milkman has stopped coming. We now have to depend on packed milk.” And since the packed milk is delivered by dairies as per the demand estimated before the lockdown, there is now a huge shortage of milk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-keep-tabs-on-outsiders-with-the-help-of-concerned-citizens/articleshow/75037502.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Don’t harm your community’||Ahmedabad: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel on Tuesday said that members of Tablighi Jamaat played a major role in spreading the novel coronavirus in the state and the country by not cooperating with the authorities and hiding their travel history.He said one should not give any communal angle to his statement. “Around 27,000 Gujaratis returned from various countries to the state, and majority of them were Hindus. They followed the quarantine rules. Not a single Hindu organization made a hue and cry,” Patel said. “It’s for the safety of the Tablighi Jamaat, as most of the people affected are from the community. If they don't come forward, more and more people from the community will get infected,” said the deputy CM. “Even in Islamic countries, including Pakistan, we have not heard about any violation of the government instructions,” he said.Patel said the spread of Covid-19 could have been contained had the members of Tablighi Jamaat informed the state authorities about their participation in the Delhi event.Of the 127 persons from Gujarat, who had attended the event in Nizamuddin last month, 12 from Ahmedabad tested Covid-19 positive on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-harm-your-community/articleshow/75036941.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man booked for abusive posts in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A man was booked earlier this week for allegedly using abusive language on social media about the controversy over Tablighi Jamaat during the present coronavirus lockdown. The cyber cell sleuths booked Umarkhan Pathan for using a cuss word in his post. Pathan got a bail from the police station on Monday. Pathan has been booked for the second time for the alleged misuse of social media. He was booked first time three months ago during the protests against the new citizenship amendment act (CAA). Pathan responded to a post on social media criticizing people not to give an overdue importance to the Nizamuddin congregation, but to focus on the plight of the migrant labourers due to the nationwide lockdown. Pathan was lodged behind bars in December 2019, when people were protesting against the CAA. He was booked on charges of spreading hatred between two communities by forwarding a video clip of a north Indian city by projecting it as a violence affected Shah-e-Alam area of Ahmedabad. He spent one month behind bars until Gujarat high court granted him bail, said his advocate Rafiq Lokhandwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-abusive-posts/articleshow/75036924.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hubballi||BIMS to get additional 800 PPE kits||Belagavi: The Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) will receive an additional 800 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) in a day’s time. BIMS director Dr Vinay B Dastikop said the institution currently has 473 protective gears which is sufficient to deal with the current situation. “Our worry is about the usage of kits by staff working in other departments apart from Covid-19. Many others are also pressing for the usage to keep them safe,” he said. The BIMS hospital has 15 staff on active Covid-19 management, like testing of patients, monitoring health condition, treatment and others. These staff include doctors and nurses. There are other staff for allied works like security personnel. Their total strength is not known. While the active staff get protective gears as per the protocol, the others are provided HIV PPE. This method is opted to judiciously use the resources to save them if there is large-scale outbreak in the district. Dr Vinay said there is not much difference between the Covid PPE and HIV PPE. Dedicate Covid-19 wards have been set up in the city’s civic hospital, which comes under BIMS, and also inside the BIMS premises. The seven Covid-19 patients reported so far in the district have been quarantined at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bims-to-get-additional-800-ppe-kits/articleshow/75036018.cms||Shreyas HS
April 8, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 control room attends over 1,000 calls||Madurai: The control room in Madurai set up to help people during the lockdown period has received calls from close to 1000 people who have been unable to avail various essential services. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay said that all efforts were being taken to ensure that the needs of people were being taken care of during lockdown. The complaints lodged were being redressed as early as possible by the district administration along with the help of volunteers and NGOs. People have made calls requesting for groceries, vegetables and even medicines which were delivered at their doorstep. As many as 986 people have contacted asking for help, including 17 people with autism, 435 visually impaired, eight senior citizens, 81 people with multiple disabilities, 53 hearing impaired people and 393 physically challenged people. The staff and volunteers also ensure that the requirements of people who were in need of help, are met on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-control-room-attends-over-1000-calls/articleshow/75037509.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mysuru||Rain lashes malnad, old Mysuru regions||Mysuru: The south-interior Karnataka region, including malnad districts, have been receiving good rainfall over the past few days. On Tuesday, 78mm rainfall was recorded at Tagarapura GP in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district. Meanwhile, the unseasonal rain is proving a headache for banana growers in the region with rain and hailstorm destroying their crop at many places. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said Kodagu district has recorded average minimum temperature of 19.7 ̊C, lowest in the state. According to KSNDMC data, the rainfall in the region is as follows: Santhahalli - 70mm, Ponnampet - 15.8mm, and Bhagamandala - 15.7mm (Kodagu district); Kadur (Chikkamagaluru district) - 24.3mm; Shantigrama and Hassan city (Hassan district) - 23.5mm; Maddur (Mandya district) - 22.4mm, and HD Kote (Mysuru district) - (22.5mm). According to experts, rain is expected to continue for two more days in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-lashes-malnad-old-mysuru-regions/articleshow/75031457.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s Covid-19 fight is on right track, says CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The coronavirus outbreak shut down Karnataka even as it grappled with unprecedented floods last year and financial crunch due to reduced share of central taxes. On Tuesday, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the road ahead is difficult but the state government’s effective steps very early on halted community transmission and kept a check on Covid-19 cases. Excerpts: How has the government tackled Covid-19 in the state?The government has done well so far. We were the first state in the country to lock down. We initiated early measures like identifying dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and setting up fever clinics and these helped us contain the virus spread. Many claim the low number of positive cases is because of limited tests and supression of information..We’ve been transparent about number of cases; these are actual numbers. There’s no reason for the government to misinform people. The number of tests and patient numbers are not linked. The tests are conducted as per ICMR protocols. We’ve been testing all suspicious cases. In any case, we cannot test all 6.5 crore people in the state. How is the government preparing for post-lockdown challenges?The Centre and Prime Minister will come up with a plan. We have a limited role as the Centre is managing the pandemic. I’ve directed officials to prepare a plan anway. A committee has been formed to advise us. Tablighi Jamaat and Nanjangud clusters are adding to the number of positive cases every day. How will you arrest further spread?We’ve taken all possible steps. We’ve quarantined all those who participated in the Delhi congregation and all workers of Nanjangud pharmaceutical unit. Closure of liquor shops is causing different kinds of problems..Till lockdown ends, there’s no question of opening liquor shops. We may open liquor shops for a short time during the day as alcohol withdrawal cases and suicides are increasing. We may not consider this if Covid-19 cases spike. You’ve drawn flak for allowing the Karaga festival. Were you under pressure from the community and some MLAs?There was no pressure, but I felt we shouldn’t break an age-old tradition. However, we decided not to allow it following a High Court direction. The government has proposed to buy ventilators, PPE kits, masks and other items for frontline healthcare workers. However, they’re not easily available...We have 53,040 PPE kits and placed orders for 10,05,000 more. We have 2,39,483 N-95 masks and placed an order for 18,33,040 more. We have 6,93,414 triple-layer masks and placed orders for 54,00,000. We plan to buy 50200 litres of sanitiser liquid. There is a supply issue but we’ll ensure the safety of frontline healthcare workers. Health experts are not convinced about setting up dedicated Covid hospitals as it needs huge investment...We received central clearance notifying the order for exclusive Covid-19 hospitals. We will begin work soon and set up quickly. We have reserved 740 ICU bed ventilators for new patients; these are in 234 government and 506 private hospitals. We have placed orders for 324 ventilators. We’ve set up 17 dedicated hospitals in the state, including three in Bengaluru. The state's revenue collection has taken a huge hit. How will you put the state's economy back on track?After the lockdown ends, we’ll discuss measures to revive the economy quickly by taking inputs from officials and economists from the state. There’s no co-ordination among cabinet colleagues tasked with handling Covid-19. Why is the education minister briefing media about a public health issue?There is no truth in the allegation. All ministers, legislators and MPs are working as a team. Suresh Kumar has been briefing media only because B Sriramul and K Sudhakar are busy in the field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-covid-fight-is-on-right-track-says-cm-yediyurappa/articleshow/75036963.cms||Manu Aiyappa
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Lockdown effect: Panchaganga river flows clean, air quality improves||Kolhapur: The ongoing nationwide shutdown, by reducing human interference and industrial effluent release, had benefited the rivers and water bodies. The water in the Panchaganga river is much cleaner now than it was a few weeks ago and even the air quality in the city has improved. People residing in towns and villages are getting cleaner water as the amount of sewage entering the river, most of which is usually untreated, has significantly reduced. According to the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation's (KMC) environment department, there has been a drop of around 30 million litre in total sewage generated in the city. The sewage that is generated is being treated fully at two sewage treatment plants. According to officials, the Panchaganga river witnesses hyacinth growth due to the increase in sewage flowing into it. Now, the river is hyacinth-free. A senior KMC official said, “We are studying the effect of lockdown on the environment in the city. This is for record purpose and may be used in future. Currently, we have the capacity to treat 93 million litre sewage every day at two treatment plants. The total generation is around 120 million litre, when all hotels, commercial establishments, offices, tourist places are open. Currently, around 60 million litre of sewage is being treated.” The district authorities claim the purification expenditure by the villages and towns have reduced significantly mainly due to improvement in the quality of river water. Also, the small industrial units and mills contributing to the river pollution are shut due to lockdown. The KMC official said the data they are collecting will help in starting the initiatives to reduce the pollution of the city and the river. “Since the past one year, we have focused on cleaning of Jayanthi nullah which was once a source of fresh water. With the data we are collecting, we have to convince people to use less water or shut down the hotels for some time to rejuvenate the streams,” said the official. Since vehicles are not allowed on the roads and the companies and industries are shut, the air quality has also improved considerably. The data accessed from local pollution measuring units shows that the content of pollutants have come down to nil. This is mainly due to the reduction of carbon and sulphur in the air. At all three measuring centres — Dabholkar Corner, Mahadwar Road and Shivaji University — the air quality index is reported to be less than 100 units meaning the level of pollutants and solid particulate matter has come down below 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lockdown-effect-panchaganga-river-flows-clean-air-quality-improves/articleshow/75037513.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC takes the digital route to inform citizens about essentials available||Kolhapur: The civic administration has started making use of digital tools like Google forms to help citizens get the essential services and medicines easily—sometimes even at their door step. Deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More has been appointed to monitor the requests made via the digital tools. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has found that despite the lockdown, many citizens were still stepping out of their homes and were travelling a long distance to buy the essentials. Sometimes, they do not even get what they need. Such digital tools are currently used by other civic administrations for providing permission for travelling in cases of medical emergency. A senior civic official said, “The digital tools have been activated. The links have been sent to all the citizens. Currently, we are flooded with requests. Once we get the details of the person, we furnish the details of the grocers and medical shops to him/her.” “The shop owners are apprised about the need of a customer. They keep the essentials ready and if possible, even deliver the goods at the doorstep of the residents. We are mostly reaching out to elderly people and those who are living alone. Many of them are placing their request of essentials through this tool.” Many hosuing complexes have taken the decision not to allow outsiders,except for the known faces, to enter the society. Resident welfare associations have been asked to make use of the tool. Most of them have contacted the local grocers, milkman and pharmacists for their needs. However, they are demanding that the essentials should be made available in suffient quantity in the nearby shops. Many such associations have written about their demands to municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti. They have also assured to the civic chief that they would strictly observe social distancing and also disinfect their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-takes-the-digital-route-to-inform-citizens-about-essentials-available/articleshow/75037510.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kochi||Dance away your lockdown blues||KOCHI: After an exercise challenge online, now, students at Thrissur Medical College are in the process of starting 'Dance To Health Challenge'. The challenge is for students from all colleges, both professional and other streams, wherein the college dance team can come together virtually and choreograph a dance. This will then be collated together and posted on social media. The idea of starting the DHC challenge came when the college medical students collated and posted their dance video online. It was huge hit and won support of Indian Psychiatric Society, Kerala, "Dancing is a good exercise that will reduce anxiety and stress. TMC's DHC challenge will enable students, especially dance teams in each college, to come together virtually and choreograph a dance. They would all do the steps at home. Then it will all be collated together and posted on YouTube as TMC DTH Challenge," said Dr Sebind Kumar, secretary, Indian Psychiatric Society, Kerala. He said that TMC has an excellent dance team that had won several inter-medical college dance competitions. "Now, everyone is confined to their homes and therefore we suggested that the students start TMC DTH Challenge," said Dr Kumar. TMC's Vikings Crew - consisting of 18 to 20 members - are all excited about the concept that has support from the college union as well as Indian Psychiatric Society Kerala. "What started as a fun competition among us, will now be an online challenge that will keep the youth engaged. Each college team will have to choose a song and create their dance that will have to be uploaded on social media. We are planning to invite students from across the state. How long can you sit and just study?" said Naveen K Razak, a final year MBBS student, TMC and member of Vikings Crew. The rationale behind this was that due to the lockdown, they got reports that many young students were restless at home and tried to go and meet their friends, risking Covid-19 community spread. So, they thought that it is important to engage youth at home and they should use their energy in a positive manner and dance is a good form of exercise as it makes you happier and healthier, both mentally and physically. "We have all been locked down for two weeks now. What was initially fun, binging on movies and chilling with family, started getting grey after two weeks. While we are all eating homemade food, doing fitness routines keeping ourselves healthy, it is also very important to keep our spirits high," added Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dance-away-your-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75047891.cms||Preetu Nair
April 8, 2020||Goa||Goa University: New academic year from July 16||PANAJI: In view of the ongoing lockdown, Goa University has revised the academic terms for all programmes offered by the varsity and affiliated colleges. The new academic year 2020-21 will now begin from July 16, a circular issued by registrar Y V Reddy stated. The circular stated that in view of the prevailing situation, university departments and affiliated colleges should not insist on the minimum attendance requirement for students to be eligible to answer their examinations for 2019-20 academic year. Reddy has said that the summer vacations for the current academic year will be from April 15 to May 31, 2020. On June 1, the examinations will begin. The second term of the current academic year is extended up to July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-new-academic-yr-from-jul-16/articleshow/75037543.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Pune||Living indoors new normal in sealed areas||Pune: Residents in the peth areas, sealed to contain the spread of Covid-19, were gripped by anxiety about access to essential commodities on Tuesday though many claimed that they had enough vegetables and essentials to last for the next few days. Uncertainty about how long the shutdown would continue, however, left them a worried lot about the supply of groceries, milk and vegetables. “We have adequate vegetables for three days. But I am not sure what will happen after that if the police do not allow us to visit the Mandai to get vegetables,” said Ganesh Peth resident Sanjay Theurkar, who stayed indoors the entire day. Theurkar has five members in his family and all spent the day at home, mostly watching televised updates on the lockdown. “Restrictions were already in place in our area. But on Monday night we learnt that certain parts of the city, including Ganesh Peth, will be sealed. Barricades are all over in our area and people are told to be at home. Some tried to take their vehicles out, but were strictly prohibited. A ‘kirana’ shop in front of our house was open for an hour in the morning. It was also shut soon,” Theurkar added. Deepak Kondhre, who lives near the Govind Halwai Chowk, said he saw such deserted roads in the area after many years. “Movement of people and vehicles considerably dropped on Tuesday. The vegetable vendors were missing. Even the ‘kirana’ stores were shut. Many people in the area spoke about the area remaining sealed for another week. But nobody seems to be sure how long this will continue,” he added. Suresh Jagtap, an autorickshaw driver and a resident of Rasta Peth, said he got additional stock of vegetables from a nearby ‘mandi’ on Monday night. “The police patrolling was up. Most from our area purchased additional vegetables. But no one appears certain if we will be able to restock after three four days.” When the TOI reporter and photographer visited the sealed areas in , only a handful of people were seen in areas such as Bhavani Peth, Kasba Peth, Rasta Peth, Somwar Peth, Mangalwar Peth, Budhwar Peth, Guruvar Peth, Shukravar Peth, Nana Peth and Ravivar Reth. Ashutosh Shere, a resident of Kasba Peth, said, “For the last few days, we could see many people coming out of their houses. But the picture completely changed from Tuesday morning. The bylanes of Kasba Peth area are closed.” Shere, who runs a travel agency business, said he has kept his operations closed and feared that the business recovery would be a very slow process. Saurabh Dhokate, a photographer, said the residents’ response to the administration’s new arrangement to check the spread of the virus was serious. “People’s gatherings in the city’s nook and cranny have reduced a lot. Even the marketplace look deserted,” he said. Police officers guarding the sealed areas said most of the people coming out had medical issues. “Two big hospitals, Sassoon and KEM, are located in the vicinity. Patients or their relatives urged us to let them go. We allowed people who needed urgent attention and were out on a genuine health reason,” said an officer deployed at Bohiri Aali A police officer at Santa Kabir chowk said many people voluntarily participated in the sealing of the area. “In many by-lanes, local residents came out and did the barricading. It helped us,” he said. People from parts of Kondhwa, Dais plot and Maharshrinagar, which have also been brought under sealing, stayed indoors on Tuesday. The smaller streets were completely sealed, while bigger roads were under the police’s watch. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation, said, “Discussions are underway on how to provide essential commodities to the citizens in the sealed areas in days to come. We are also coming up with a society-wise containment plan to ensure that the citizens get the supply of groceries and other material in required quantities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/living-indoors-new-normal-in-sealed-areas/articleshow/75037516.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Admin promises stern action against “prank” SOS callers to control room||BAREILLY: The control room to address emergency calls amid lockdown set up by the administration is drowning under a deluge of calls from residents asking for help for bizarre reasons. In response, Sadar sub-divisional magistrate Ishan Pratap Singh has said such “prank” calls will be treated with iron fist, as they not only hampered relief operation launched for needy people, but also distracted officials tasked in emergency work. “We have now decided to take strict action against such callers. They may be slapped with a fine and two years of jail time,” the officer said. According to officials deployed at the Covid-19 control room, they are receiving close to 250 SOS calls every day, around 80% of which are non-serious in nature. “We appeal to each and every citizen not to be selfish and opportunist during such a grave crisis. The utmost priority of the government and administration is to ensure not even a single stomach is empty. We must reach out immediate help and deliver food to people who are on the verge of starvation, being rendered jobless,” the SDM said. He further said such opportunists were badly affecting the limited resources at their disposal, which are actually meant for needy people only. “Such unnecessary calls not only create obstacles to our efforts, but also delay the relief material reaching the needy person. Until it is indeed necessary, don’t ask for any help from the administration, and don’t approach any government agency for approval of things like repair and maintenance work, etc,” he urged citizens. He further said if such calls are received at the control room, the caller would face dire consequences. “Strict action, such as fines or FIRs that could send them to jail, will be initiated against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/admin-promises-stern-action-against-prank-sos-callers-to-control-room/articleshow/75036042.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 8, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 scare: UP forest dept to monitor wildlife||BAREILLY: In the wake of a report about a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 virus in a New York zoo, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has directed principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), UP, to ensure the well-being of both forest staff and we. Under the guidelines, forest officials will have to wear masks and observe proper sanitisation when they enter the tiger reserves and sanctuaries. The foresters have also been ordered to monitor health of carnivores. For the purpose, the forest department has been told to keep an eye on big cats with the help of camera traps. If any animal displays symptoms of Covid-19, then it is to be treated as per the guidelines set for the purpose. In case any carnivore is found dead in the forest, then its samples must be collected and sent for tests. Foresters must undergo health check-ups to ensure that they are free of the infection before interacting with villagers living around the forests. The guidelines also require that villagers avoid routes that go through the forests. Confirming that they had received the guidelines, deputy director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, (buffer), Anil Patel told TOI, “We have received guidelines which would be followed by tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and the zoos across the state. We had already restricted the movement of villagers in the forest area and now, patrolling will be intensified to curb human activity inside the forests. Except forest officials and support staff, with proper sanitization, no one will be allowed to enter the forest area. Camera traps will be used to monitor the condition of carnivores. If any carnivore exhibits symptoms of Covid-19, then it will be provided treatment. A committee of wildlife veterinarians along with range officers and forest guards will be formed to regularly monitor the condition of carnivores.” World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), two NGOs that provide regular support to foresters, have also been advised to follow the guidelines. Dr Daksh Gangwar, WTI, said, “We have been advised to gear up with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) while conducting autopsy, medical examination and rescue of wild animals as they may be carriers of the disease." Dr Brijendra Yadav, veterinarian, Lucknow zoo, said, “We have prepared a quarantine ward for the animals in the zoo on the instructions of our director, RK Singh. In case any animal shows any symptoms of Covid-19, then it will be kept in quarantine and its samples will be sent for testing. All the staff will be properly sanitised before entering the zoo and all will have to wear masks, gloves and disposable apron while feeding animals. Even the vehicles used for transporting food will be regularly sanitized with sodium hypochlorite solution. Our director has ensured that we have sufficient PPEs available at the zoo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-scare-up-forest-dept-to-monitor-wildlife/articleshow/75036059.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Tata Steel, Adani donate Rs 11 crore in CM relief fund||Ranchi: Corporate houses operating in Jharkhand donated a total of Rs 11 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund with Adani Power (Jharkhand) Limited on Tuesday giving Rs 1 crore. Earlier, Tata Steel, through its CSR arm Tata Steel Foundation, had donated Rs 10 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund a few days ago. “A community kitchen in three locations is also being operated in Godda for feeding more than 2,000 people on a daily basis for one month. Production of one lakh face masks, 200 aprons and autoclaving the face masks before distribution is also being undertaken,” an Adani Power statement read. Meanwhile, Tata Steel is lending a hand to the fight Covid-19 by feeding 50,000 persons in Jamshedpur and West Bokaro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-steel-adani-donate-rs-11-crore-in-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75035516.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||One Covid-19 testing machine fails in Rims||Ranchi: Amid the increase of Covid-19 cases from one to four within a week in Jharkhand, testing of samples at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims) suffered a hit as one of the two reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machine developed a snag. Rims sources said the snag developed four days ago, resulting in accumulation of collected samples and delaying their testing. Since confirmation of the state’s first Covid-19 case on March 31, there has been an increase in the collection of samples from about 20 initially to 70 at present. The samples are tested at the two designated labs at Rims in Ranchi and MGM in Jamshedpur. While Rims had two machines, of which one has broken down, MGM has only one testing machine. Talking to TOI, Dr Manoj Kumar, head of department of microbiology at Rims, said, “Our testing lab is hit as one of our machines is faulty and our capacity is reduced by around 50%. We are not able to perform more than 92 tests on a daily basis. On the other hand, the inflow of samples has increased exponentially. We are holding the samples for a night and running the test the next morning.” Dr Kumar preferred not to divulge the number of samples on hold till Tuesday, but sources said more than 150 samples are yet to be tested. The machine at Rims developed the snag at a time when the Ranchi district administration has intensified its screening and contact tracing in Hindpiri locality after two positive cases were detected in the area. Rims officials said they are trying to get the second machine running at the earliest. As of now, Jharkhand doesn’t have machines which can perform automatic extraction of ribonucleic acid (RNA) from the samples, which also delays the exercise. Dr Ashok Kumar, an assistant professor at Rims microbiology department, said, “After one of the machines became defunct since April 2, we raised a service request with the supplier. An engineer is supposed to visit our lab by Wednesday. Once the machine is repaired, our testing capacity will be increased to around 150 per day by Thursday.” He further said Rims has ordered a Germany-made automated RNA extracting machine and is expected to arrive within a week. “The most cumbersome task during sample testing is RNA extraction from the swabs due to which it takes around five to six six hours to complete the testing. Once we receive the automatic RNA extraction machine, we will be able to complete testing cycle within two to three hours and can also enhance our testing capacities,” Dr Ashok added. MGM Jamshedpur lab, which has only one machine, is already under acute manpower shortage and many samples are also on hold there. Dr Piyali Gupta, a microbiologist at MGM hospital, said, “We are already short of hands and with collected samples increasing to more than 70 on a daily basis from 15 per day since March 31, work is heavy for us. But we continue to give our best as we cannot leave things midway. Even today, we have completed testing of more than 30 samples and are working on another 30.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/one-covid-19-testing-machine-fails-in-rims/articleshow/75035567.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC directs state to ask Centre for PPEs, test kits||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Tuesday directed the state government to request the Centre to supply additional medical equipment as per requirement to handle the novel coronavirus outbreak. The court also directed the Centre to take appropriate decision in this regard. A high court division bench comprising chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice SN Prasad passed the order while hearing a PIL through video conferencing. During the hearing, advocate general Rajiv Ranjan informed the court that the state has demanded 75,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, 300 ventilators and 10,000 testing kits from the Centre, which has not been provided yet. “At present, the state government has 5,000 PPE and testing kits each,” he said. Ranjan further informed the court that a large number of migrant workers are expected to return home once the lockdown is lifted and this could result in a spike in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. The state must be fully prepared for any emergent situation, the court said, stressing on the need for training the medical staff to meet the challenges in the future. The state government assured that it will look into the matter. The next hearing in the case is on April 17. Talking to the media, Ranjan said, “I informed the court that 1.69 lakh persons who came to the state from different parts of the country were screened. Of them, as many as 14,200 persons were put under government quarantine and 1.43 lakh under home quarantine.” Lawyer Indrajit Sinha, whose letter led to the institution of the PIL, said, “During the hearing, the court wanted to know how the government will test the large number of people kept under quarantine. The court also asked why the administration was unable to implement a complete lockdown in Hindpiri area of Ranchi where two Covid-19 patients have been found. The court has directed the state to take adequate steps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-directs-state-to-ask-centre-for-ppes-test-kits/articleshow/75036062.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||5.5 lakh under community surveillance in Hazaribag after man tested +ve last week||HAZARIBAG: Around 5.5 lakh residents of five blocks and 11 municipal wards have been put under community surveillance in Hazaribag after a 52-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 last week, said DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh on Tuesday. “Community surveillance is now in place in Barkatha, Barhi, Chouparan, Bishnugarh, Katsamsandi blocks. The 11 municipal wards include ward numbers 2,3,6,11,14,17,18,19,21,28 and 30. All together, around 5.5 lakh have been put under community surveillance for now.” The move, according to the officials, is a part of the administration’s precautionary measure to scan everyone in the areas through which the man travelled before testing positive. The patient, a resident of Bishnugarh, arrived at Hazaribag from Asansol after crossing four districts — Asansol in Bengal, Dhanbad, Giridih and Hazaribag in Jharkhand, said officials. He is currently undergoing treatment at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) and is said to be stable. “Our screening teams are moving door to door from Tuesday and this will continue till April 12 to identify suspected cases and collect samples. The idea is not to create panic, but to take a precautionary step to initiate community surveillance.” The DC added that around 20,000 had reached the district from different parts of the country and abroad in the recent times. “Hazaribag probably saw the highest inflow of people since the lockdown. Over 2,000 have been put in quarantine centres across the district.” Meanwhile, district civil surgeon Dr Krishna Kumar said out of the 84 samples sent to Rims for tests, 57 turned tested negative, one tested positive and results of the rest are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-5l-under-community-surveillance-in-hbag-after-man-tested-ve-last-week/articleshow/75036136.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown violator jumps into to escape from police, drowns||Times News Network| Sridhar Jamshedpur: A 26-year-old man, who was moving around the in city in violation of the lockdown, died after he jumped into a lake when he saw a police patrolling jeep in Birsanagar police station area late on Monday evening. This is the second death related to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in the city. Victim Vicky Mahato, a resident of Zone 5 in Birsanagar, was sitting with his friend Mohamed Asif near the lake when a patrolling vehicle reached the spot around 6pm, Birsanagar OC Sunil Kumar said. While Asif ran away on noticing the police, Mahato jumped into the lake to evade action, Kumar said. Kumar said the patrolling team was expecting Vicky to emerge from the lake and left the spot. Mahato’s body was fished out from the lake after two hours. Asif said he tried to rescue his friend after the police team left the site, but it was too late. Locals soon reached the spot and shouted slogans against the police, following which senior cops, including deputy superintendent of police Anudeep Singh, reached the area to maintain law and order. On April 4, Lakhinder Bera (34) was pushed from the third floor of a building in Sitramdera area when he got into a fight with his neighbour, Rishi Mukhi, for dumping waste in the building amid the coronavirus threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-violator-jumps-into-to-escape-from-police-drowns/articleshow/75035454.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||2,859 residents re-screened in Hindpiri, samples of high-risk groups collected||RANCHI: More than 50 health workers’ teams on Tuesday re-conducted door-to-door screening exercise in the Hindpiri locality, where the second Covid-19 case was also detected and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC was clamped for three days since Monday. The teams re-screened 2,859 residents and collected samples of 36 persons for testing. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DDC Ananya Mittal, who is supervising the exercise from a makeshift control and command centre from the Guru Nanak Secondary School campus, said, “We have deployed more than 50 teams of health workers across Hindpiri locality so that we can conduct the exercise over a larger area at one go to contain the spread of the virus. We have also installed portable sample collection booths to enable collection of maximum number of swab samples.” He further said since Section 144 of CrPC is imposed in the area, the district administration is ensuring home delivery of essential items to households with help of volunteers. “We have earmarked six ration shops to provide uninterrupted supply of essential through 25 assigned volunteers in the area,” Mittal said. Since both positive cases — a 22-year-old Malaysian woman on March 31 and another 54 year-old local resident on Monday — were detected from Nala road of the locality, the health workers put more focus in the particular locality so that no person is missed out during the screening. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “Our teams have screened a total of 2,859 people residing across 528 households. From the 528 households, we have collected swab samples of 36 persons who are suspected to be in the high-risk group.” He also said samples of 36 employees of a kidney dialysis clinic in the locality were also collected since the second woman, who tested positive, had paid a visit there. “We have sent samples of the dialysis clinic staff to Rims for testing and are working on their contact tracing,” Prasad added. Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said, “We have deployed five dozen police officers along with 300 personnel across the area to enforce the lockdown. Moreover, PCR vans and bike patrols are doing rounds in the area. Anyone found violating the prohibitory orders will be booked under relevant sections of Epidemics Disease Act, IPC and CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2859-residents-re-screened-in-hindpiri-samples-of-high-risk-groups-collected/articleshow/75035998.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Anti-naxal ops to continue in Jharkhand: Police||RANCHI: Even as the outlawed CPI (Maoist) in Odisha and Telangana have announced a unilateral ceasefire in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak, security forces in Jharkhand on Tuesday said they will continue with intelligence based anti-naxal operations. The decision comes after a few Maoist-related incidents, including an encounter in West Singhbhum, were reported last week. Last week, three women Maoists were gunned down in Gurdri in West Singhbhum during an encounter between rebels and security forces. In Giridih, forces found a massive cache of arms and ammunitions. There was also an exchange of fire between the police and the Maoists under Garu police station area in Latehar district a few days ago. CRPF IG Raj Kumar said, “The administrative deployment to implement the lockdown is mainly in urban and semi-urban areas. It is not hindering movement of the extremists in the forests. The recent incidents demonstrate that they are active. The tri-junction of Ranchi, Khunti and Chaibasa districts, the Parasnath hills in Giridh and Budha Pahar in Bokaro are some of the rebel hotspots in the state.” He added, “Ever since the lockdown was imposed, anti-LWE operations were carried out on the basis of intelligence inputs. Despite its engagement with implementing the lockdown, the state police are also participating in these operations.” Jharkhand Police IG (Operation) Saket Kumar Singh said, “So far, we have no information regarding any ceasefire announced by the extremists in Jharkhand. Police are also launching operations against the rebels. Our forces engaged in anti-LWE operations have not been diverted to Covid-19 works so far.” A senior police officer from Garhwa, a highly sensitive district, said they have been instructed not to give the LWEs any breathing space during the ongoing lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/anti-naxal-ops-to-continue-in-state-police/articleshow/75035635.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown halts routine immunization programmes for kids||Ranchi: The routine immunization programme for children, carried out in Jharkhand by the state health, medical education and family welfare department, has come to a halt amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The programmes, which involves vaccinating newborns, infants and children up to five years of age, have been shelved since March 26 after the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a directive in this regard to all the states. The World Health Organisation has made it very clear that no essential health services, particularly immunisation and childbirth care, should be affected during lockdown. Its director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, even issued a statement to that effect on March 30. The year-round immunization drive, which played a critical role in lowering Jharkhand's infant mortality and under-five mortality rates in the last decade, include administering vaccines for measles, influenza, polio, Japanese encephalitis, diphtheria, tuberculosis, hepatitis and rotavirus among others. In the hinterland of Jharkhand, the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) are in charge of administering the vaccines to children at panchayat and block levels through the 38,000-odd Anganwadi centres being run by the department of women and child development. Since March 22, these centres are temporarily shut to comply with the lockdown. "The routine immunization drive, carried out by anganwadi centres through village health and nutrition day (VHND) camps, has been halted till further orders. We were told carrying on with the programme would be a violation of the lockdown," Dr Amar Kumar Mishra, the state immunization officer, told TOI. The camps could also cause community transmission of Covid-19 if any undetected person attended any such programme, he said. Villages also boycotted the health workers in early days of lockdown. "In various pockets of the district, locals boycotted VHND in apprehensions of Covid-19 spread," Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said. While VHNDs have been suspended indefinitely, community health centres and district hospitals have been asked to carry on with the immunization. “But there has hardly been any footfall in these facilities since lockdown,” another official said. As per estimates, 8.5 lakh children are born in Jharkhand every year through institutional deliveries. The Rotavirus vaccine, launched in 2018 to fight diarrhoea among infants, is administered to children within 1.5 months of their birth. Diarrhoea kills 30,000 children below five annually in state, as per Unicef data. As per NHFS data, 30 out of every 1,000 infants die in Jharkhand's rural areas each year. Around 165 mothers die in every one lakh deliveries in the state each year. Besides critical vaccines for children, the tetanus diphtheria vaccine, which is administered to pregnant women in their first two trimesters, has also been put on hold. Conceding that the break in the immunization programme could become a big issue, Mishra said: "Hospitals have been directed to administer zero dosage to newborns. As soon as the lockdown ends, we will begin the programme from where we left."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-halts-routine-immunization-programmes-for-kids/articleshow/75035671.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Many Delhi returnees fearful of stay at quarantine centres||NAGPUR: Several Delhi returnees, including some Muslims, on Tuesday said they fear contracting the Covid-19 virus during their stay at the institutional quarantine centres set up at MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati. After learning about the release of 12 foreign returnees from Lonara on Monday, around 40 such persons from other centres too demanded that they be allowed to go home where they can be in self-isolation. TOI had on April 7 reported about NMC’s U-turn on picking up flyers on Sunday night and releasing them next day that too without taking samples for testing. In several WhatsApp messages to TOI and authorities, the quarantined persons said most of them have spent over a month at home after returning from Nizamuddin in Delhi, but never fell ill or developed any Covid-19 symptoms. Making a similar point like the 12 foreign-returned persons, they said how would the administration know if they contracted the disease at Delhi or at the quarantine centre where people from all over are being brought. They also claimed that they were promised to be relieved in a day once their samples were collected. “NMC doctors told me that they just needed me for 4 hours. I was assured to be dropped home once my medical check-up is done and sample collected,” claims an agitated man in an audio clip sent on WhatsApp. “Six days have passed, but no one is telling us either about the test result or our return,” said a government official. A Barelvi Muslim man from Teka said he had gone to Delhi to bring his wife back from her parent’s home. “Twenty days have passed since we returned. Around 50 persons came to pick us up. It created panic and sent a wrong message in the society about our family. People have literally ostracized us in the locality,” he said. “We have no information,” is the only answer we get from police and civic officials whenever we ask for updates, the inmates claimed. “We have no problem here. But some of us have elderly parents who are alone now. Who will take my 79-year-old ailing mother to hospital?” said another inmate. “I am not feeling safe in my stay at Ravi Bhavan. We were 27 inmates in first four days. Now it’s 81. Requesting you to kindly look into the matter and ensure we do not get infected,” reads a message sent to the authorities. Another aggrieved government official said, “I returned from Delhi on March 15. When I went to office, I was examined by our CMO. An NMC team came to my home on April 2 and told me that I have to go with them for testing. Till now, we have not received any reports. No one is ready to speak now. Sheer failure of the government system.” Civic chief Tukaram Mundhe and district collector Ravindra Thakare didn’t respond to TOI calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-delhi-returnees-fearful-of-stay-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75037006.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Woman quarantined instead of father||NAGPUR: Though Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) acted swiftly to trace and quarantine 197 persons as per the orders of ministry of home affairs (MHA), one case of mistaken identity has come to fore. A 40-year-old lady has been quarantined instead of her father, who too had just a digital footprint at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. The lady is under institutional quarantine at Ravi Bhavan since April 2. Her father and mother have been quarantined at home, at Kamal Chowk, Pachpaoli. Working in a private company, the lady told TOI, “We got a call from the police station on April 2, asking us to go and meet NMC officials at Pachpaoli Maternity Home. My father went there and inquired. They asked my father about me. They also directed my father to ask me to pack a bag and reach there,” she said. She added, “I asked around, and came to know that my mobile number was in the list sent by the government to quarantine. I was surprised as I had not travelled out of the city for last one month or more. But my father and mother had gone to Krishna temple at Vrindavan in UP on March 15. They went to Nizamuddin railway station and returned to the city on March 19. My parents went there as it was father’s birthday on March 16,” she said. The lady said, “I cleared the confusion of NMC officials. I also informed them that I had purchased a new SIM in my name, which my father used on the tour. But they did not listen to me. As a responsible citizen, I followed their instructions and came here,” she said. The lady added, “Most frustrating thing is that NMC officials never clarified how many days I will have to be in quarantine. Before coming here, NMC officials said I will be relieved by next morning after receiving reports. Now, I have come to know that I will have to be here for 14 days. Even after five days our reports are yet to arrive,” she said. She said, “My father and mother are doing well and had no health issues since they returned. I would have consulted Mayo Hospital in case of any health issues as I was well aware of Covid-19 issues,” she said. The lady was among the 197 traced, examined and quarantined between April 1 and 3. She was in the second list of 85 persons. TOI had reported earlier that a lawyer practicing in Supreme Court and residing at Civil Lines also had a digital footprint and was quarantined at Vanamati. But this case is completely opposite to that of the lady above. The lawyer’s SIM card was registered in the name of his father. The NMC team asked his father to come, but relented after he clarified he had never been to Delhi.The NMC team quarantined him and not his father. NMC official from Ashi Nagar zone said, “We had instructions to quarantine all those in the list. Some are not giving proper information so we can’t believe blindly. And, we have to take all these precautions to control Covid-19. One the safer side, we are ensuring parents of the lady too remain under home quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-quarantined-instead-of-father/articleshow/75037018.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Bohras observe Shab-e-Baraat, offer prayers at home||NAGPUR: Members of Dawoodi Bohra community on Tuesday observed Shab-e-Baraat offering prayers at their homes and watching live streaming of hymns (marsiya and madah) in remembrance of Imam Hussain. The community’s masjids at Itwari, Sadar and Mangalwari remained closed in view of the nationwide lockdown and implementation of social distancing. In better times, the community congregates at the masjids where members offer namaz and listen to the hymns by group of faithful. The community members have formed WhatsApp groups where the link to an online portal is shared. The portal streamed live recital of the hymns late on Tuesday night. In fact, a community member said they have been spending more time in online prayers for the last 10 days in order to better utilize their time and pray for everyone’s good health. Meanwhile, Muslims bodies have announced that no burial ground (kabrastan) would be open on April 9 for Shab-e-Baraat. The occasion is observed as ‘Badi Raat’ when Muslims offer prayers all-night and visit the burial grounds in remembrance of their dead. The bodies, managing the grounds, have appealed to the people to support the government and local administration in implementing social distancing and lockdown. The masjids are already shut for last three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bohras-observe-shab-e-baraat-offer-prayers-at-home/articleshow/75037026.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Hanuman Jayanti to be a quiet affair in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Hanuman Jayanti often entails big celebrations with shobhayatras and people standing in queue to offer prayers. This year it will be a quiet affair as temples are shut and holding mass processions is prohibited due to corona lockdown. On this day, devotees of Lord Hanuman seek his protection and blessings. They flock to temples to worship and make offerings. People also celebrate by reciting various devotional hymns and prayers like Hanuman Chalisa and reading scriptures like the Ramayana. Hanuman Jayanti is an important festival among Hindus. Lord Hanuman is an ardent devotee of Lord Ram. The famous Ram Nagar Hanuman Mandir will have an assembly of only five people. Three priests along with Ajay Dabir, trustee, and his wife will perform abhishek in the morning around 4.45 am. This temple is having an open premises, hence viewers can see from outside but going inside is not allowed. “A small pooja and abhishek will be performed by the priest. No mahaprasad or procession will be organized,” said Ravi Waghmare, president Pashchim Nagpur Nagrik Mandal. Devotees will recite Hanuman Chalisa and avoid stepping out of homes. The old Telangkhadi temple will also remain shut. Only a small pooja will be offered with limited people. All the small temples in the city too will remain quiet. There will be no mass celebrations and distribution of Mahaprasad. Shantanu Bokade, who resides near the Rameshwari Hanuman Mandir, said, “Me along with the other members of the temple will only perform a small pooja in the morning. We wont allow any devotee to enter the temple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hanuman-jayanti-to-be-a-quiet-affair/articleshow/75037047.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||No shortage of ventilators in AP: Government||VIJAYAWADA: Giving an overview of the way the state was dealing with the current crisis, special secretary to the government, P V Ramesh, addressed the media, here, on Tuesday. He said the state government is set to procure three lakh testing kits, which can give results within 90 minutes, whereas currently it is taking six hours to test. They will be available in the next 10 days. Apart from procuring kits, the state government is also setting up testing labs across the state. The plan is to eventually have one laboratory in each district, he said. “Once these kits and laboratories are available, we are planning to conduct test on all suspects in home quarantine and isolation facilities. The primary and secondary contacts of the suspects have also been identified and based on the results of the suspects, they too will be tested,” said Ramesh. Speaking about Kurnool and Nellore, which have emerged as Covid-19 hotspot, he said the state government has its eye on both Kurnool and Nellore. A three-kilometre perimetre has been demarcated around areas where people have tested positive for Covid-19 and categorised as Red Zones. Random testing will be taken up in all the Red Zones to assess the spread of the virus and rule out possible community spread, he said. Ramesh clarified that there is no shortage of ventilators in the state. “As many as 900 ventilators are available in the state in both government and private hospitals. As of now only three patients are on ventilators and the state government is planning to further increase the number of ventilators,” he said. He reiterated that no order has been given to private hospitals to stop emergency services. There have been some complaints against a few private hospitals and necessary action will be initiated against the hospitals those hospitals he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-shortage-of-ventilators-in-ap-govt/articleshow/75036180.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||19 foreign Tablighis booked in Nagpur and Chandrapur||NAGPUR: There is more trouble in store for Tablighi Jamaat members. The police here have booked 19 foreigners who were part of the overseas teams of the sect and were on a visit to Nagpur and Chandrapur. Two translators from Tamil Nadu and Assam who were accompanying them have been booked too. All of them had been to Nizamuddin Markaz but before the event that led to furore. At any given time the Markaz has 2,000 to 4,000 visitors, said a source in the sect. They are charged with violating the Foreigners Act and the visa conditions by undertaking religious preaching while being in India on a tourist visa. These include eight Myanmar nationals who were in Nagpur and another group 11 in Chandrapur. All of them have been quarantined. Offences have also been registered against them for breaching the curfew and causing risk to others, under the IPC. The action in Nagpur has been taken by the Tehsil police station. The investigating officer PI Jayesh Bhandarkar told TOI the reason was that despite being on a tourist visa they were living in a mosque. Another senior officer dealing with foreign citizens agreed they were also found preaching. The group from Myanmar includes four men and four women. The women were living in local contacts’ homes while the men stayed in mosques. The group of 11 in Chandrapur has eight from Kyrgyzstan, one Kazakh national and two from Russia. According to the police’s records, the group had come from Delhi to Chandrapur on March 2 and had been meeting people by visiting 10 different mosques. Despite orders prohibiting any assembly including religious events, the group continued meeting people and was engaged in religious preaching. This, the police claim, is violation of Section 14 of the Foreigners Act. The activities continued till March 29. The group is alleged to have toured different parts of Chandrapur district along with two translators, Jabbar Khijar Basha and Bahar-ul-Ajafuddin, from Tamil Nadu and Assam. The duo has been booked too. Abdul Bari Patel, secretary of Jamaat’s Nagpur and Chhattisgarh wings said, Jamaat will be cooperating with the authorities. Even in normal course every visit of foreign members is promptly reported to the special branch. “The purpose of the visit is to understand the Muslim culture in India for which they stay in mosques, and no activity like propagating religion is carried out,” he said. The Jamaat members from Myanmar had come to Nagpur on March 7 and were supposed to stay till April 7. Advocate Firdaus Mirza said merely visiting a religious place cannot be termed breach of visa conditions. Although preaching a certain religion can be an offence. However, this has to be an attempt to convince people of other faith to convert. Discussion among co-religionists cannot be treated as religious preaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-foreign-tablighis-booked-in-nagpur-and-chandrapur/articleshow/75037068.cms||Shishir Arya
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Complete Covid-19 treatment now under Arogyasree scheme||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has ordered the health department to include all 15 procedures being used to treat Covid-19 patients under the YSR Arogyasree scheme. Covid-19 had already been brought into the ambit of the Arogyasree scheme earlier. However, upon receiving a proposal from Arogyasree CEO Mallikarjuna Annam, the government has announced that all 15 new procedures recommended by government pulmonologists that are being used for the treatment of Covid-19 will now come under the purview of the scheme. The office of the special chief secretary on Monday issued a government order (GO) in this regard ensuring coverage under the scheme for both suspected cases as well as those who have tested positive. “Hospitals should treat suspected and confirmed positive stable or unstable cases under the said procedures on request made by the local health authorities or under intimation to the local health authorities duly following the safety, precautionary measures while treating such patients,” the GO states. The order informs that modifications in treatment guidelines and packages will be issued periodically. The GO further instructs the use of all isolated rooms, wards, blocks in all private hospitals for the treatment of suspected Covid-19 cases. Moreover, the government, through its order, delegated to the CEO of the scheme to ensure that hospitals adhere to guidelines issued by the government as well as the Arogyasree trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/complete-covid-19-treatment-now-under-arogyasree-scheme/articleshow/75036196.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 8, 2020||Nagpur||Sikhs break communal barriers to help all||NAGPUR: By breaking the barriers of the communal divide, the Sikh community has been distributing 15,000 food packets since the lockdown was announced in the city through section 144 in the wake of the coronavirus scare. In a first, the community is also arranging 100kg roti for stray dogs and other animals on the streets. The 15,000 food packets are cooked at the Gurdwara by volunteers with 1,250kg rice and 250kg of other materials. Seeing the efforts of the Sikh community, three apartments have decided to collect ‘rotis’ for preparing special food packets for senior citizens. The committee of the Gurdwara Gurunanak Durbar, Pachpaoli, started their ‘langar seva’ or community free food service after the lockdown on March 21 as per their Sikh tradition goes at short notice without much time for planning or preparation. Their aim was to ensure food for starving citizens, irrespective of their religion as the lockdown had shut establishments, trade and other activities except essential and emergency services. Without food outlets, vendors and kiosks, the Sikh committee had planned to reach out to as many people possible, cutting across class, creed and community. After two weeks, the ‘langar’ has now become the talk of the town with around 45 different NGOs and residents’ groups preparing food packets. Several NGOs and groups, including the ones coordinated by the police department, also donate rice and vegetables for the langar and take food packets in return for distribution at different places. The committee, observing the numbers of homeless people near Tajbagh shrine, is also ensuring food packets are taken for them twice a day. “We are also providing food to the locality where Shaheen Bagh was organized in north Nagpur. There is a request from a Masjid committee to help them with food packets and we are happy to extend our efforts of humanitarian work,” said Jasmeet Singh Bhatia, president of the committee. “Groups and organizations of the other communities are flooding us with congratulatory messages,” he said. Bhatia, who is helped by secretary Kawaljeet Singh Chauhan, cashier Sarabjeet Singh Bhatia and active members like Ramandeep Singh Bhandari, Hardeep Singh and others, said it was a surprise for them when a Marwadi family from Kenya came forward to donate money for the langar seva. “We have also received donations from several unknown persons from different places like Mumbai after they saw our efforts on social media,” said Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sikhs-break-communal-barriers-to-help-all/articleshow/75037079.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 curve to flatten soon in Andhra Pradesh: Health officials tell CM Jagan||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meet on the current Covid-19 situation with with the chief secretary, DGP and officials from the health department at the camp office on Tuesday. Officials said the virus spread is likely to recede in the coming days. An official explained that as many as 997 people, who returned from Delhi, have been tested. Out of those 196 persons tested positive for Covid-19. Tests were also conducted on their 2,400 primary contacts and of which 84 persons tested positive. Apart from those who attended the religious congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz, Delhi, and their primary contacts, 205 foreign returnees have been tested so far and 11 of them tested positive and six of their primary contacts tested positive, said officials. The health officials said there are 5,300 people in quarantine in government facilities and 19,247 foreign-returnees are in home quarantine. Those who are in home quarantine are being tracked with a GPS enabled mobile tracker. Apart from these, the volunteers are tracking the movements and health condition of one lakh others potential secondary contacts. After hearing the report, the chief minister directed officials to increase testing of secondary contacts and those in home quarantine. He said areas identified as red zones should be taken up as priority while conducting tests, adding that random tests should also be done in these red zones. He further directed them to improve facilities at quarantine, isolation and shelters provided to migrant workers. The chief minister said that measures should be place as the harvest season has set in. To which they said they have opened paddy and corn procurement centres and arrangements have been made for the export of banana. They also said marine exports have resumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-curve-to-flatten-soon-in-andhra-pradesh-health-officials-tell-cm-jagan/articleshow/75036233.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Newborn found dead inside dumpyard||VIJAYAWADA: In a shocking incident, a newborn baby girl was found dumped inside a dumpyard at Dodleru village of Krosuru mandal in Guntur district on Tuesday. According to Krosuru police, the incident came to light in the morning when a passerby found the baby inside the dumpyard and informed them. Police reached the spot and examined the scene and found that the baby might have been born within the last two days. They shifted the body to a local government hospital for post-mortem. Meanwhile, they began verifying records of births in the nearby hospitals to ascertain the details of parents of the baby girl. Apart from that, they are also looking into local CCTV footage heading towards the dumpyard’s direction to see if anyone was carrying the baby. A case under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered in this regard at Krosuru police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/newborn-found-dead-inside-dumpyard/articleshow/75036269.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Two more distilleries to make sanitisers||VIJAYAWADA: The Drug Control Administration (DCA) has given permission to two distilleries in the state to produce alcohol-based hand sanitisers to meet rising demand in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both distilleries are registered under the excise department. The DCA had granted permission to manufacture sanitisers to two other distilleries a few days ago. Speaking to TOI, director of DCA MBR Prasad said that over 45 pharma firms have ventured into manufacturing hand sanitisers in response to the rise in demand following an increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Two distilleries have started production of sanitisers while another two will begin production in a couple of days, he said. “At present, pharma firms and the two distilleries are manufacturing over five lakh units (small, medium and large) of hand sanitisers every day in the state. Similarly, over 10,000 masks (3-ply masks) are being manufactured every day in the state. We are procuring over eight lakh 3-ply masks from other states and will receive them in a couple of days,” Prasad said. The distilleries have been directed to prepare hand sanitisers as per the formulation recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO). A hand sanitiser should contain 8,333 ml ethanol, 417 ml hydrogen peroxide, 145 ml glycerol and sterile/distilled water. As distilleries lack the packing facilities for small units (100 ml), they are producing sanitizers in units of two litres and above, for use in hospitals and other establishments, sources said. DCA officials said demand for hand sanitisers and masks is set to increase following the increase in number of positive Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh. If the lockdown is withdrawn after April 14, those who come out onto the roads will wear masks and use hand sanitizers, they added. “Before the outbreak of Covid-19, very few people, such as doctors, used hand sanitizers which were part of a niche segment. But the virus has resulted in the scarcity of hand sanitisers and everyone wants to use it,” said K Prasad, a pharmacy owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-more-distilleries-to-make-sanitisers/articleshow/75036255.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Governor to donate 30% of salary||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhusan Harichandan has decided to donate 30 per cent of his salary for one year to the PM CARES fund. The governor expressed his desire to donate to President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday. In his letter to the President, the governor wrote that he has taken the decision in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contribute to the PM CARES fund to strengthen the government in the fight against the unprecedented crisis created by the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guv-to-donate-30-of-salary/articleshow/75036285.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Woman accuses pastor of rape in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A 30-year-old man, reportedly a pastor, allegedly raped a 24-year-old woman at Rajupeta village under Inguduru police station limits in Krishna district on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Joyal Rachel, a resident of the same village. According to Induduru police sub-inspector MK Raju, the incident took place in March and came to light on Monday after the woman lodged a complaint. The woman alleged that she was raped for the first time by the accused in October 2019 after he invited her for a prayer meeting at his residence. Subsequently, according to the woman, the accused continued to sexually exploit her by blackmailing her using pictures he allegedly took while committing the rape. The accused allegedly threatened to show the pictures to the complainant’s husband. The police have registered a case under Section 377 of the IPC against the accused. The complainant was sent to a local government hospital to undergo medical examination. Police said that they are investigating to ascertain the whereabouts of the pastor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-accuses-pastor-of-rape/articleshow/75036294.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four-year-old boy reunited with mother||VISAKHAPATNAM: A four-year-old boy was reunited with his mother at Bobbili Town in Vizianagaram district on Tuesday. Police noticed a boy alone at Chinna Bazaar on Tuesday morning. The boy was unable to tell his parents’ name and locality. The police could not locate the boy’s family. The cops took the boy to the police station on Tuesday morning. They then shared the boy’s picture in some WhatsApp groups citing that the boy was found at Chinna Bazaar and was looking for his parents. Soon, a youngster in Bobbili Town informed the boy’s mother. The woman came to the station and said while she was preparing food and cleaning the house, her son who was playing outside went missing. After verifying the facts, the police reunited the boy with his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-year-old-boy-reunited-with-mother/articleshow/75036312.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||IRCTC cancels 3 private trains till April 30||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways’ subsidiary IRCTC on Tuesday announced cancellation of three passenger trains it operates till April 30 in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country. However, railway ministry sources said this decision by IRCTC should not be seen as any indication of whether cancellation of other passenger trains will be extended beyond the 21-da lockdown. “IRCTC has full freedom to take decisions on cancellation or operation of Kashi Mahakal Express (Varanasi to Indore) and two Tejas trains on Lucknow-New Delhi and Ahmedabad-Mumbai routes. No decision has been taken till now so far as other passenger trains are concerned. We still have a week. It all depends on whether the lockdown will be extended or lifted,” said a source. Meanwhile, the railway ministry has been holding series of meetings to work out strategies to run passenger trains after the lockdown is lifted. Sources said several suggestions are on table, including running some essential trains while ensuring social distancing among passengers inside coaches and also how to restrict the number of passengers. There is also a possibility that the railways would take a decision on running trains in particular states only after holding consultations with the state government concerned on most Covid-affected regions and whether those areas could be left out for some time. On its part, IRCTC said there will be full refund of booked tickets during this extended cancellation period and people won’t require to cancel their tickets as it will be done automatically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/irctc-cancels-3-private-trains-till-april-30/articleshow/75038187.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Business||Auto parts companies face late payments||NEW DELHI: Payments to over 200 component suppliers in the auto industry will be partial and delayed as car makers Renault and Nissan, top two-wheeler seller Hero MotoCorp, and the homegrown Eicher group have decided to go for ‘force majeure’ due to restrictions resulting from the 21-day corona-induced lockdown that has shut factories and retail sales outlets. Force majeure is a term used to describe unforeseeable circumstances that prevent someone from fulfilling a contract. The decision, sources say, may well mean delays in overall payments running between Rs 500 crore and Rs 1,000 crore. In letters to vendors, the companies have cited lack of business, while assuring that they have all the intentions of paying back as soon as the situation normalises. In a letter , the country’s top two-wheeler maker said, “Hero MotoCorp (HMCL) in the current situation has no visibility of receivables, have stock of BS4 & BS6 vehicles in the field, and dealership pan-India are now shut for 21 days. In this situation, we are left with no other option but to invoke force majeure and regret to inform that HMCL will not be in a position to meet all its obligations.” It added, “Hero MotoCorp made payment on March 22 as per the regular cycle but will not be able to keep up the unblemished track record of timely payment effective today.” A senior company official said while announcing emergency measures, the company has decided to fully protect the smaller suppliers. “We have made full payments to all our small vendors and MSMEs as per the due date on a top priority basis. We are releasing the payments to other supply chain partners in a phase-wise manner, we have already made 50% payments to them.” Renault Nissan Automotive India (RNAIPL)also said the situation affects the equipment purchasing contracts and orders already issued. “As you would have expected, RNAIPL is no longer in a position to fulfil its obligations under the contracts due to these force majeure events… RNAIPL shall not be responsible for its failure to perform any obligation required under the Master Purchase Agreement as a result of the pandemic, preventive steps, on our compliance with the relevant government orders, instructions and directives.” VE Commercial Vehicles, a JV between Eicher and Volvo, told its suppliers that the “unprecedented force majeure situation has created a profound impact on the receivables”, resulting in adverse cash flow situation. “I am therefore constrained to inform you that the payment cycles are disturbed, and you may kindly expect delays in payments,” Pradeep Mishra, senior VP (purchasing and supply Chain), said. Vinod Aggarwal, MD & CEO of VECV, however, said not too much should be read in the statement and rather “the company will go out of its way to bail out suppliers” who are in dire straits. “We are even ready to pay advance to the vendors if they have a problem. We will do whatever is required to make sure that suppliers meet their obligations, be it paying their salaries, or taking care of their fixed costs. We have to take care of them.” Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association, said the grouping has taken up the matter with the companies. “We first wrote to auto industry body, Siam. They assured us that they will write to all the manufacturers on an individual basis. We need to bear in mind that there are severe working-capital issues for suppliers, and requisite cash-flow is not there. We are in need of support at this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-parts-companies-face-late-payments/articleshow/75038201.cms||Pankaj Doval
April 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Lockdown puts railway hawkers in blind alley||CHENNAI: As governments stutter around fighting an invisible enemy, the 21-day nationwide Covid-19 lockdown announced by the PM has come as a stumbling block to the visually challenged community that lives on the outskirts of the city. Before the lockdown, K Dharman and wife Uganthai used to sell handkerchiefs on suburban trains. They were among the 120 visually challenged who eked out a living by selling fruits and eatables on trains until the virus outbreak brought train services to a halt. “We survived the 13 days of lockdown with whatever little we had saved. We don’t have any money left and we can’t earn. We don’t know what will happen if the lockdown continues,” said 30-year-old Uganthai. Families of blind in city stare at uncertainty Their 10-hour labour on train, with their 18-month-old on their shoulders,would getthecoupleRs 500 per day. The family pays?3,000 per month as rent for their small house. “We don’t have a ration card,” said the couple. The card would have made them eligible for free rice and other state handouts. Dharman says officials visited their area on Tuesday and collected details about the residents. “They told us they were making arrangementsto give us lunch,” he said. For the 30familiesliving in theblind people’s tenements (Parvai attoor kudiyurippu) at Maraimalar Nagar on the outskirts of Chennai, the closure of government educational institutions has deprived them of a source of employment. A few of them used to earn a living a little less than 500 a day by repairing wooden chairs at the offices and institutions nearby. With all sources of income drying up, the residents are losing hope with every passing day. “Government officials distributed 5kg rice and half a kilo eachof dal andoilfour days ago after we approached the district collector. How long will it keep a family of five to six from starvation?” says a 73-year-old member of the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-lockdown-puts-railway-hawkers-in-blind-alley/articleshow/75038208.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 8, 2020||Thane||Thane: Engineer thrashed by Awhad's men for posting morphed pic||THANE: A 40-year-old civil engineer from Thane has claimed that he was beaten with bamboos, fibre sticks, belts and iron rods by NCP workers in the presence of two police constables and housing minister Jitendra Awhad at the latter's bungalow for uploading an objectionable Facebook post against him. The victim, Anant Karmuse, was later admitted in hospital where he was treated for bruises on the back, a fractured finger and administered stitches. In his complaint, Karmuse said the incident took place at midnight on Sunday after he posted a morphed picture of Ah- wad with a lit matchstick and ca- ptioned it: "I protest against the person who edited the photo", as the NCP minister had slammed PM Modi's call to light diyas or candles to show 'collective resolve' against coronavirus. Vartak Nagar police have registered a case of kidnapping, rioting, assault and issuing threats, but have made no arrest yet. Denying the allegations, Awhad said he was asleep on Sunday night and no such incident had taken place at his bungalow. Karmuse said: "Around 11.50pm, two constables in uniform and some men reached my flat on Ghodbunder Road and asked me to come to the police station for questioning. When I asked them about the case, they refused to give details." He said when they reached downstairs, the cops snatched his bike keys and phone and dragged him into a white SUV, while the other men followed them in another SUV. Karmuse said when they passed the police station, he asked them where they were going. "The cops said they were taking me to the cybercrime office. But they took me to Awhad's bungalow." He claimed there, 15-20 men beat him with fibre sticks, bamboos, belts and rods as Awhad and the cops watched. Karmuse alleged the cops told the men not to hit him on the face or head even as one of them said they should kill him. He said when he apologised and promised to remove the post, they took him to the gate, beat him up again and made a video. Leader of opposition Deve- ndra Fadnavis of BJP has dem- anded Awhad's resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-engineer-thrashed-by-awhads-men-for-posting-morphed-pic/articleshow/75038219.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
April 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: Centre may extend lockdown as several states pitch for it||NEW DELHI: The Centre is contemplating extending the three-week national lockdown beyond April 14 to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. A succession of state governments — such as Maharashtra, Telangana, Punjab, and now Madhya Pradesh — have in the past couple of days come out in favour of retaining all or most of the existing curbs. While a final decision is expected nearer the deadline, the current thinking appears inclined towards prolonging most restrictions — especially those aimed at enforcing social distancing. The likelihood of lifting the lid on mass transit — trains, metros and flights — and on inter-state movement of people appears remote. Official sources said that the Centre is taking on board inputs from states and public health experts who believe that while the infection rate shows signs of stabilising, there is a risk of resurgence <01Justify>if the gains made so far in containing the spread are not locked in. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhile there is a clear recognition in government of the huge economic costs of a lockdown, the over-riding concern at the moment is to first deal with the more immediate danger, according to people familiar with the situation. There may be some scope for reopening a few more amenities and conveniences apart from chemist and grocery stores; also, there could be a differentiated approach towards large cities and the virus hotspots on the one hand and the less vulnerable parts of the country on the other. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignSignificance is being read into Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu’s statement on Tuesday: "Between the considerations of the health of the people and stabilisation of our economy being debated, the former shall take precedence over the later. In my view, while the concerns of the economy can wait for another day, that of health can’t. I appeal to people to abide by whatever decision is ultimately taken by the leadership and cooperate in the ongoing national effort... even if it means continuing with some degree of hardship still beyond April 14." Inputs from states and other quarters were considered at a meeting of the empowered GoM headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday. Options such as odd-even and limits on the number of people in passenger vehicles are said to be on the table. The list of exemptions that includes activities relating to harvest and supply of everyday needs could be expanded. Some district administrations have allowed repairmen and caregivers to attend to their duties. The focus of the containment approach to Covid-19 hotspots and high-risk areas makes it difficult to even consider inter-district movement on any significant scale, leave alone inter-state movement apart from categories like cargo that have been allowed. “There is no question of opening state borders,” a top government official said. "Though a formal decision is yet to be taken, feedback so far suggests that relaxing restrictions would be hugely risky,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video message to BJP workers on Monday, had stressed that the battle against the pandemic would be long drawn, hinting at the possibility of the lockdown being extended. Several chief ministers, including MP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao have suggested that the lockdown continue beyond April 14. Any decision taken would be taken in consultations with states, senior government officials said. Sources in government said the PM is making a concerted bid to develop political consensus over the strategy to combat the challenge. He has already held telephonic conversations with prominent politicians including former Presidents, former PMs and party presidents. Besides, he has had interactions via video with CMs twice since the lockdown was announced. Modi will interact with floor leaders in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on Wednesday as part of yet another exercise towards political consensus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-in-india-centre-may-extend-lockdown-as-several-states-pitch-for-it/articleshow/75037640.cms||Akhilesh Singh
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 more kin of Dharavi woman infected, taking total to seven||MUMBAI: The city's largest slum pocket, Dharavi, saw two new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total there to seven. The new cases are relatives of a patient who had tested positive for coronavirus over the weekend. Civic authorities said after the 30-year-old woman from Dr Baliga Nagar was found infected, her family, identified as high-risk contacts, were immediately tested for the virus. After the results of her 80-year-old father and 49-year-old brother came positive, both were shifted to civic hospitals. A 56-year-old man who was confirmed positive died last week at Dr Baliga Nagar. During contact-tracing, civic authorities suspected that the 30-year-old's father may have been in touch with the 56-year-old deceased. "Her father probably visited the same mosque. We are trying to establish if he interacted with couples who had gone to Markaz Nizamuddin and were staying in another flat owned by the deceased in the locality," a BMC official told TOI. Looking at the growing numbers, Shiv Sena MP Rahul Shewale wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting a complete lockdown in the area but it was ruled out following the visit of state health minister Rajesh Tope, MLA Varsha Gaikwad, police and BMC officials on Tuesday evening. State and civic officials said considering the cramped spaces in which residents here live, it would be practically impossible to completely lock down the area. Police have been told to increase vigilance and ensure they don't venture out unnecessarily. He also said social distancing must be followed. Police sources said Tope also told them to ensure distribution of rations so that people are not inconvenienced and there is no crowding. Tope suggested that community toilets in the area be regularly disinfected. He also visited Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Complex in Dharavi, which has been acquired by civic authorities for a quarantine facility, and Sai hospital, where Covid-19 patients can be shifted if there is a large outbreak in the area. Ventilators at the hospital are proposed to be increased too. (Inputs by S Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-2-more-kin-of-dharavi-woman-infected-taking-total-to-seven/articleshow/75038235.cms||Richa Pinto
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to take on coronavirus with five Ts||NEW DELHI: With chief minister Arvind Kejriwal unveiling a five-point programme, which he referred to as 5Ts — testing, tracing, treatment, team work and tracking and monitoring — to fight novel coronavirus, the focus, among other things, will be on mass testing. “Maximum testing enables us to know the actual scale of corona infection,” Kejriwal said. “Like South Korea, we will be testing on a larger scale. We were deficient in testing kits until now, but now have the testing capacity. We have ordered rapid testing rounds for one lakh people to begin from Friday. Through rapid testing, we can identify Covid-19 hotspots and take necessary action.” Delhi government has already sought the help of police to determine whether the people advised self-quarantine had actually undertaken it. “We have given 27,702 contact numbers to police to keep track of their movement. In this manner, we will also be able to monitor the movements of people shifted from the Markaz masjid in Nizamuddin. We will be able to quarantine, seal houses and monitor people this way,” said Kejriwal. According to the contingency plan in case the number of Covid-19 positive cases crosses 30,000, hospital beds will be increased and hotels, banquet halls and dharamshalas roped in. “If we have such a number of active patients in the city, we will have 8,000 hospital beds, 12,000 beds in hotels and 10,000 in banquet halls and dharamshalas,” disclosed Kejriwal. “Serious patients suffering from heart diseases and other conditions and patients above 50 years will be kept in isolation in hospitals, while the rest with minor symptoms will be kept in isolation in hotels and dharamshalas. We will need 400 ventilators and 1,200 oxygen kits for 30,000 patients. The shortage of personal protection equipment kits that we were facing will now be resolved after the Union government has provided us 27,000 PPE kits.” At present, the government has earmarked 2,950 beds in hospitals, including 450 in three private hospitals, to treat Covid-19 patients. Lok Nayak and GB Pant hospitals are the designated primary hospitals for coronavirus treatment and have, respectively, 1,500 and 500 beds. No other medical treatments are being carried out in these two hospitals. Rajiv Gandhi Hospital with 450 beds is also a corona hospital. Kejriwal announced that the if number of cases crossed 3,000, then Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital would also be declared a corona hospital. Its 1,500 beds would make a total of 4,500 beds available for Covid-19 patients, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-take-on-coronavirus-with-five-ts/articleshow/75038229.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No fruit, vegetable vendors in containment zones||MUMBAI: Fruit and vegetable vendors will not be allowed in and around the 200-plus ‘containment zones’ in the city. The BMC decided to keep vendors out of bounds as it was found that buyers from these zones thronged shops and stalls for essentials, crowding around vendors. Due to this, social distancing rules were being flouted, said civic officials. A containment zone is one which has a Covid-19-positive patient and his/her high-risk contacts living within. Already, as a measure to pre-empt further spread of the virus, the BMC had deployed vendors to provide essentials to residents within containment zones. However, as residents started crowding around, defeating the purpose of the exercise. “If high-risk contacts crowd around like this, then it may be difficult to break the chain,” said a civic official, explaining the reason for moving the vendors out. “True that this move will cause inconvenience to people, but this preventive measure has been necessitated by people’s behaviour which mocks the need for social distancing.” In Dadar, for instance, civic officials plan to restrict movement of people as much as possible. Even vegetable sellers will not be allowed on footpaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-fruit-vegetable-vendors-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75038277.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||Mantri’s house notified as ‘quarantined’||Malda: The North Dinajpur district administration on Tuesday managed to notify the Raiganj house of Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri as home quarantined after twice failing to do so earlier. Chaudhuri, who is the Raiganj MP, had on Saturday refused to be labelled as such. A group of health workers and, later, the block medical officer of health along with a police team were spurned by her in their attempts to put up the notice on her house wall. She had returned to Kolkata from Delhi on March 23 and reached Raiganj on March 31. On April 2, she took to streets to distribute masks among people. Complaints were lodged against her. Though earlier Chaudhuri had claimed a “politically motivated” plot to “defame” her, on Tuesday she said: “I don’t want to comment on this issue”. She had said on Saturday that the notice would create panic among her neighbours. The notice urged people not to visit Chaudhuri’s house during quarantine period from March 31 to April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mantris-house-notified-as-quarantined/articleshow/75037822.cms||Subhro Maitra
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||State zoos on alert after a tiger tested positive for Covid-19 in US||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Bokaro: All three zoos in the state — in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Bokaro — are on alert after the Central Zoo Authority of India’s (CZA) on Monday issued an advisory asking them to handle all animals in enclosures with utmost care and safety measures in place. The advisory was issued after a Malay tiger at New York’s famous Bronx zoo tested positive for the novel coronavirus. It was reportedly infected by its handler. The three zoos in the state are currently closed for visitors due to the nationwide lockdown and authorities said they have stepped up surveillance to ensure safety of the animals. India’s environment & forests ministry on Monday advised wildlife/zoo authorities not to allow keepers, handlers and veterinary officials in the vicinity of animal enclosures "without safety gear, preferably personal protective equipment" and "isolate and quarantine" sick animals. "Mammals like carnivores, especially cats, ferrets and primates to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspect cases to be sent to the designated animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing while following all bio-containment and safety measures required to handle this high-risk pathogens as per national guidelines," said S P Yadav, member secretary, Central Zoo Authority, in his note to all states and UTs. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, D Venkateshwarlu, director of the state-run Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park at Ormanjhi in Ranchi, said, “We have provided safety kits and gloves to our animal keepers to ensure none of the animals get infected. We are also screening the zookeepers regularly and have directed them to wash themselves completely once they finish cleaning and feeding one cage.” The authorities are also using potassium permanganate solution as sanitizer, nano silver solutions on the entire campus and lime solution as disinfectant on both sides of the road. Venkateshwarlu said, “We are talking all preventive measures in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the bird flu reports.” In Jamshepur, the Tata Steel Zoological Park (TSZP) said it has taken up strict norms to ensure safety of animals. Zoo director Bipul Chakravarty said, “The staff members are wearing protective masks, gloves and boots while providing food and water to the animals. We have been following safety norms at the highest level to ensure there is no physical contact between our men and animals.” Chakravarty added that in the wake of the alert sounded by the CZA, they are practicing the guidelines in letter and spirit. “We keep assessing the arrangements regularly and will add new measures if required,” he added. Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park (Bokaro Zoo), owned by Bokaro Steel Plant, is also on high alert. Authorities have intensified surveillance of animals, mainly the carnivores, and arrangements of PPE kits for the zoo keepers are in place, officials said. BSL chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said, “As of now things are normal in the zoo and we are on high alert.” The Bronx Zoo incident is the first known case in the world where a human infected a big cat with Covid-19 and has sent alarm bells ringing across the globe. Even as there is concern among people who have pet animals, there is, however, no evidence to suggest that pets are at risk. Confirming the instance of a tiger being infected, the United States department of agriculture (USDA) on Sunday advised that anyone sick with Covid-19 should restrict contact with animals, out of an abundance of caution, including pets, during their illness, just as they would with other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-zoos-on-alert-after-a-tiger-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-us/articleshow/75035500.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||In a WFH Kolkata, doctors say ‘better SAFH than sorry’||KOLKATA: For a lot of Kolkatans, “WFH (work from home)” has been the buzzword in the post-Covid world. But that’s not an option for several doctors and other health workers at the forefront of the battle. For them, it’s just the opposite: SAFH (Stay Away From Home), which has been keeping their families safe over a rather frenetic last few weeks. While the rest of the city finds some level of comfort in their families while working from home in these uncertain times, the men and women in the vanguard of the Covid-19 war are waging a rather lonely battle. Social distancing norms have forced several doctors treating novel coronavirus patients and suspects to stay away from their homes in order to shield their families from possible transmission. While some are staying at their respective hospitals, in rooms provided by hospital authorities, others have moved out of their homes and arranged separate accommodation to distance themselves from family. Many haven’t seen their families for a fortnight and are bracing for a prolonged period of separation, till the pandemic dies down. Arindam Das, an ENT specialist and an assistant professor ar SSKM Hospital, has been posted at the Chittaranjan National Cancer Research Institute, New Town — a designated Covid-19 hospital — for a week now. Since his posting, he has been staying at the hospital, not his home in Howrah. “I have been coming in contact with scores of Covid-19 suspects every day,” he told TOI. “Even though we are in full PPE, risk of transmission can never be ruled out. So, like some of my other colleagues, I have decided to stay back at the hospital. Or else, I could pass on the virus to a family member.” ‘As a surgeon, I am exposed to patients prone to transmission’Onco-surgeon Saurav Datta moved out of his Joka flat to another nearby accommodation to make sure he did not pass on the virus to his wife and daughter. Datta has been serving at the outdoor department of SSKM Hospital and conducting surgeries at Narayana Superspecialty Hospital in Howrah without a break. “Since the pandemic started, I have been treating scores of Covid-19 suspects and coming in contact with them at both hospitals,” he said. “And even though I am always in PPE, there is a risk of transmission. As a surgeon, I am also exposed to patients who are immuno-suppressed and prone to transmission. I may get the virus from one of them at the operating theatre.” Like them, Beliaghata ID Hospital biochemist Ajay Biswas has not seen his family at Kalyani since the lockdown started on March 23. Along with a dozen other colleagues at the hospital — the epicentre of the state’s fight against Covid-19, where the first patients to test positive were treated — Biswas stayed back, attending to suspects and treating patients. “Since the distancing norms had to be followed, we cut ourselves off the from the rest of the world and cocooned ourselves in a few adjoining rooms. There were no beds, so we put together tables and arranged a few iron cots. It’s been tough, but it can’t be helped,” said Biswas. This week, the team of doctors has been moved to a government guest house next to the hospital. “My family is obviously anxious, for we are living with danger. It’s stressful staying away from one’s family when we are having to deal with such critical cases during a pandemic of this proportion,” he said. A private hospital medic has shifted to a different flat in the same building to distance himself from his wife and child. Despite living in the same building, he hasn’t met them for two weeks. “I have distanced myself from my family and neighbours and haven’t met anyone other than my colleagues since March 24. It’s turning out to be mentally taxing to skirt my home and sneak up to a different floor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-wfh-kolkata-doctors-say-better-safh-than-sorry/articleshow/75037798.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||12-yr-old Purnea girl rescued from Bally||Kolkata: A 12-year-old girl, a possible trafficking victim, was rescued by social workers serving food to people living on the streets near the No 54 bus stand at Bally, Howrah, on Monday. The girl’s family was later traced to Purnea in Bihar. Her father is a railway employee there. A group of people was out on the streets on Monday evening with food packets for the needy when it spotted some youngsters near the bus stand. They had the girl with them. The locals wanted to know who the girl was. The youths told them that she was a part of their group. They waited for the young men to move away slightly before accosting the girl. “There was a member of our club among the locals. When the girl was asked, she broke down and said that she was from Purnea and had nothing to do with the group of youths. The locals pulled up the youths, who then fled the spot. The girl was then taken to a house. However, she was unable to provide too many details of her house in Purnea,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, West Bengal Radio Club (WBRC). The girl’s father told her rescuers that his daughter went missing from hone since Holi. She suffered from a minor mental ailment but had never left home alone. He said that his daughter may have been lured out by miscreants. “He has now spoken to police chief of Purnea. We have spoken to the police officer. The girl is in safe custody at the moment but we would like to hand her over to her family as soon as possible. We have already got her to speak to her father. She broke down during the video call. Her father is determined to reach Bally and take back his daughter,” Nag Biswas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-yr-old-purnea-girl-rescued-from-bally/articleshow/75037821.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal favours quarantine of hotspots||KOLKATA: Unlike some states, the Bengal government is not in favour of extending the lockdown beyond April 15 across the state and has instead identified seven hotspots that may be put under quarantine in the post-lockdown days to contain the novel coronavirus from spreading. The area around Command Hospital in Alipore and 11 other localities in Kolkata, parts of Howrah, Nadia’s Tehatta, Egra in East Midnapore, Kalimpong in Darjeeling and Magrahat in South 24 Parganas are among the hotspots the government is keeping a close watch on. It will take a call on keeping these areas under extended lockdown after April 10. Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee, who now heads the government’s Covid-19 response team, also offered some simple but effective tips on tackling the virus during a video-conference with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. “Hand sanitisers or simple soap and water should be made available to people going to markets/supermarkets. Everyone should wash hands before entering the market and do so while leaving the market. Countries like Korea and Taiwan have made use of this to contain the virus. People should keep distance in markets. Sellers may put a tape or something as a Lakshmanrekha for consumers,” the Nobel Laureate said from his Massachusetts home. The MIT professor also urged the government to put in place a proper reporting structure that can help health workers locate areas with high incidence of fever before the virus starts spreading. “Asha workers in the villages may come across a locality where many people are suffering from cough. If they report it, health workers may reach that locality and conduct tests among the group. They may be shifted to quarantine centres immediately. Don’t worry if you don’t find anything there,” Banerjee said. Govt to enforce ‘cluster plan’ if need arisesChief minister Mamata Banerjee readily accepted the proposals and informed Banerjee that the government has already trained Asha workers to use a mobile app devised to report cases. She also said the government would instruct market committees to arrange for hand sanitizers, soap and water for people coming to markets, supermarkets and kishan mandis. The CM also gave a waiver to movement of agro-products to enable farmers market their produce. “Flower farmers from Howrah, Hooghly, and the Sunderbans are unable to bring their produce to the city. Make arrangements for marketing of flowers from Wednesday. We have already asked the sweet shops to keep open from 12 noon to 4 pm so that milk traders don’t have to waste milk. I have also got reports that vehicles carrying agro-produce are being stopped at several points. This should not happen,” the CM said. The state government has also allowed rolling of bidis at home. “Agents from the bidi factories should individually collect the home-made bidis or those rolled by individual shopkeepers,” the CM said. Officials said the state government has used information in the public domain and feedback from the grassroots to map the Covid-19 clusters. “We have our containment plan ready. We will be waiting till April 10 and take stock of ground reality. We will enforce the cluster plan if there is no abnormal spike in cases,” a senior state official said. Giving a hint of the containment plan, a health department official said, “The CM has already pointed out that the corona-positive cases come mostly from nine families. Our purpose is to contain the virus and prevent a community transmission. We have thus decided to geographically quarantine the hotspots. The plan is to seal these areas, sanitise the buffer zones adjoining them. Not allow anyone to step out. The government will arrange for food and medicine for the affected families. We will increase random tests in these areas and also in those from where higher incidence of fever is reported.” The administration, however, is aware of the difficulties in enforcing geographical quarantines. “It requires, among other things, sealing of areas through strict policing because many of the hotspots like Tehatta in Nadia or Kalimpong share borders with neighbouring countries like Bangladesh and Bhutan. That is why the districts of north Bengal are highly sensitive. Siliguri is the chicken’s neck. It shares borders with Bangladesh and Nepal and is a gateway to the northeastern states. All the others — Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur, Malda — share borders with Bangladesh and states like Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand. We need a better management plan for north Bengal,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-favours-quarantine-of-hotspots/articleshow/75037786.cms||Saibal Gupta
April 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||Six held for gang rape of minor in West Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: West Singhbhhum police on Tuesday arrested six villagers, including the uncle of a minor girl who was gang raped on April 4. The accused were identified as Chandramohan Hansdah, the girl’s uncle, Bijay Bankira, Mahendra Bankira, Chunmun Kerai, Raj Kumar Tanti and Chandramohan Kerai. All the six were sent to judicial custody. West Singhbhum SP Indrajeet Mahata said the incident took place in a remote village of Toklo police station area on the night of April 4. “All the accused, who are in the age group of twenties, have been charged under Section 376 D of the IPC and 468 of the Pocso Act,” Mahata said. He added, “A distant relative of the girl, whom she addressed as uncle, didn’t approve of the girl’s friendship with a boy from the village. Thus, he conspired to rape and teach the girl a lesson.” Detailing the incident, Mahata said that on the evening of April 4, the girl’s uncle lured her to an isolated place in the forest and raped her along with his friends. On April 5, the victim went to her aunt’s house and narrated her ordeal. On April 6, she approached police and lodged an FIR. The girl has been shifted to the sadar hospital for a medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/six-held-for-gang-rape-of-minor-in-west-singhbhum/articleshow/75036386.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man kills wife for ‘infidelity’, hangs self||KULTALI: A 33-year-old fisherman allegedly stabbed his wife to death and then hanged himself at their Kultali home in Bengal’s South 24-Parganas on Monday morning. Local residents told police that Bhim Haldar suspected Shakuntala, 29, was having an extramarital affair and the couple, who have two teenaged sons, often quarrelled over the issue. “It appears the man killed his wife with a knife and then hanged himself from a tree near their house. The bodies have been sent for autopsy. Investigation is on,” a senior police officer said. The incident acquired political colour as BJP state committee member Sunip Das said Shakuntala had contested the last panchayat elections on a party ticket, but lost. “She has been murdered by ruling party (Trinamool Congress) men,” Das claimed. Trinamool zilla parishad member Ganesh Mondal termed the allegation baseless. “There is no politics behind the couple’s death,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-kills-wife-for-infidelity-hangs-self/articleshow/75037836.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Drones in Daltonganj to identify lockdown violators||DALTONGANJ: In order to ensure social distancing and complete adherence to lockdown norms, Palamu Police started aerial surveillance with drones on Tuesday. SP Ajay Linda said a successful trial run was made in the market area of Daltonganj town on Tuesday and slowly, more areas will be covered. “The town area has a population of around one lakh with several congested colonies. The drones will help us maintain law and order during the lockdown,” Linda said. He added, “It will also act as a deterrent for the violators of the lockdown. We have not used any coercive force against flouters so far, but we will not abstain from drawing criminal cases against them if need be.” Linda informed sadar SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta has been assigned the task to use drones as per requirement. Speaking to TOI, Gupta said, “We have observed that from 6am to 9am and 4pm to 7pm, there is a sudden surge of people on the streets which needs to be controlled. We shall use the drones to identify the flouters.” Majority of the people who venture out on the streets during the morning or evening hours are the ones who want to purchase essentials. However, there are some who venture out for walks and to meet with friends., authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/drones-in-daltonganj-to-identify-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75036287.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bangladeshi undertrial flees isolation centre||JALPAIGURI: A Bangladeshi undertrial at Siliguri Correctional Home, who was kept in the isolation centre for Covid-19 suspects at North Bengal Medical College Hospital, fled the hospital on Friday, sparking panic in Siliguri. Superintendent of the correctional facility Kripamoy Nandi lodged a complaint in this regard at Matigara police station. An investigation is on and police are searching for the undertrial, who was admitted to the correctional home last Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangladeshi-undertrial-flees-isolation-centre/articleshow/75037826.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
April 8, 2020||Ranchi||Babulal Marandi to give up 50% salary, 2 years’ MLALAD funds||RANCHI: Jharkhand’s first chief minister and BJP’s leader of legislative party, Babulal Marandi, on Tuesday announced to donate 50% of his monthly salary for a year and two years’ MLALAD fund to fight the outbreak of novel coronavirus. The move comes a day after the Centre decided to slash salaries of MPs by 30% for a year, besides suspension of MPLAD funds for two years to consolidate funds to fight the spread of Covid-19. “I have decided to donate 50% of my monthly salary and two years’ MLALAD funds to fight novel coronavirus. I appeal chief minister Hemant Soren to take a similar cabinet decision and come up with tabulated figures on the quantum of contribution that is expected to be generated,” Marandi, who is an MLA from Dhanwar, said. While BJP leaders hailed Marandi’s move, many from the Congress questioned the freeze on the MPLAD funds apprehending that the move is aimed at centralising the funds which may cause problems for local representatives to address the issues in their constituencies. Sources in the saffron party, which has 26 MLAs in the state, said Marandi’s move may be followed by several other BJP MLAs. Meanwhile, Congress, which has 18 MLAs and is one of the Mahagathbandhan partners, said a call will be taken on whether to give up the MLALAD funds in the future if the need arises. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state finance minister, said, “It is not necessary to follow everything that others are doing. Both at the party and the individual levels we are doing our bit to help public in times of the lockdown. In Lohardaga, Rajya Sabha MP Dhiraj Sahu donated a truck full of food grains for the poor. Many such activities are being done on a daily basis.” Oraon added that the situation in Jharkhand isn’t demanding such steps yet and the government has already put curbs on expenditure to consolidate funds for the fight against the virus. “We have put a freeze on withdrawals from the state treasury except for new notified works for this month. It is likely to continue further to generate funds for welfare works. If the need arises, the CM and his council of ministers will take a rational decision in public interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babulal-to-give-up-50-salary-2-years-mlalad-funds/articleshow/75036314.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||BJP politician wants death for those refusing tests||BENGALURU: Despite warnings from Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, some BJP members on Tuesday continued to target members of the Tablighi Jamaat over the coronavirus pandemic, with one going to the extent of suggesting the government to shoot a few of them. “Despite repeated appeals by PM Modi and Yediyurappa, they are refusing to be medically checked. We all will suffer because of such anti-national elements. The government should gun down a few to ensure they follow lockdown norms,” Yediyurappa’s political secretary MP Renukacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-politician-wants-death-for-those-refusing-tests/articleshow/75038298.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Civic staff over 55 in many wards told to stay home in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Certain BMC wards have issued circulars asking department heads to avoid calling employees 55 years and older to work. Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said the daily ward employee strength has been brought down from 100% to 30-35%. “We want the young to be deployed as they would find it easier to commute long distances and be more efficient,” he said. One circular issued on Tuesday accessed by TOI states, “In the current situation there are increasing number of Covid-19 patients and for those 55 years old and above there is an increased chance of contracting the disease. All department heads are being directed that all employees 55 years and above should be told not to report to work till the situation is brought under control.” Kakani said the circular has been issued at the ward level. “If a ward does not have young staff they may call the seniors,” he said. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “It is true people in that category are more susceptible, and there are more death in this age group. We will have to think it through carefully on whether we should apply this across the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/civic-staff-over-55-in-many-wards-told-to-stay-home-in-mumbai/articleshow/75038290.cms||Clara Lewis
April 8, 2020||India||Ban Tablighi Jamaat, freeze its a/cs: VHP||NEW DELHI: Vishwa Hindu Parishad has called for a complete ban on Tablighi Jamaat and its Nizamuddin Markaz besides freezing of its bank accounts and closure of all its offices for endangering the lives of people after many Covid-19 cases across India were attributed to attendees of its congregation here last month. “The whole of India is in serious crisis due to the country-wide criminal misdeeds of Tablighi Jamaat and its Nizamuddin Markaz,” said VHP’s central joint general secretary Surendra Jain, seeking a ban on the outfit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ban-tablighi-jamaat-freeze-its-a/cs-vhp/articleshow/75038304.cms||---
April 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana marks 100 hotspots to check virus spread||HYDERABAD: The rapid increase in Covid-19 cases in districts has forced the state health department to declare nearly 100 villages and areas in various districts as 'hotspots' (containment clusters) and impose more restrictions on movement of people. People residing in these hotspots would not be allowed to come out of their houses for 14 days. All provisions, vegetables and medicines will be given at their doorstep. For all practical purposes, these hotspots will not open up even if the lockdown is lifted on April 14 as the new14-day restrictions started on Monday or Tuesday in most of these areas. The measures are the same ones which helped state control virus spread in Karimnagar after 10 Indonesians were tested positive - restrictions were imposed for 14 days in a radius of 3km where the Indonesians had stayed and it paid rich dividends. 15 hotspots in Nizamabad distThese steps are being taken to prevent spread coronavirus by district authorities," health director Dr G Srinivas Rao told TOI. The state is closely looking at Adilabad, Nizambaad, Suryapet, Gadwal, Mahbubnagar, Kamareddy and Khammam districts which are getting more cases every day. Adilabad district health officials said 19 wards in Adilabad municipality, five villages in Neradigonda and three in Utnoor mandal are declared as hotspots. Of total 10 positive cases in the district, six are from Adilabad town, three from Neradigonda and one from Utnoor mandal. "Over 100 teams deployed to survey each house in contained localities," Adilabad DMHO Thodasam Chandu said. Seventy-three from district had attended TJ event in Delhi. In Suryapet, Wardhamanu Kota village was sealed on Monday as six positive cases were reported . The six were infected when a Covid-19 patient visited the family. Thirty-three from Wardhmanu Kota and seven from Masireddypally were shifted to isolation wards as they moved closely with positive cases. Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy too visited the village on Tuesday. In Nizamabad, collector C Narayana Reddy on Tuesday announced 15 areas as hotspots after 10 new cases took district total to 36. They include Malapally, Hymadpura, Habeebnagar, Khilla Road, Bodhan, Bhimgal, Autonagar, Makloor and Nandipet. He said each cluster covered about half to one kilometre from the homes of positive cases. In Kamareddy, five localities - Teachers' Colony, Madina Colony, Arafat Colony - and five other areas adjacent to these colonies were identified as hotspots. With first case being reported in Khammam, collector R V Karnan declared Pedda Thanda near Khammam as containment cluster. "Even in Khammam town we won't allow people to come out after 11am except for medical emergencies," the collector said. Mahbubnagar district administration declared two areas as hotspots with three new cases on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Adilabad town police booked case against the doctor who attended TJ meet and performed surgeries apart from attending duties after returning. The complaint was filed by Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences' director Balaram Naik and doctor was booked under Sections 176, 188, 270 and 271 of Disaster Management Act and also relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-marks-100-hotspots-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/75038312.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to procure 3 million tablets to tackle corona||KOLKATA: The state government is going to procure 3 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and has already placed orders for it, a senior Nabanna official said on Monday. “We are expecting the supply in phases before the lockdown period is over,” the official said. The health official said Bengal had already purchased 4.5 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets, part of which was distributed in various malaria clinics in Kolkata and the districts. A fresh stock-taking exercise is being conducted on unused hydroxychloroquine tablets. “We have sufficient stock for now,” said the official. Sukumar Mukherjee, who heads the expert committee on Covid-19, said hydroxychloroquine, which is considered as a prophylactic for front-line medical staffers and preliminary responders, can also be used to treat patients. Mukherjee indicated these can also be used to treat suspected Covid-19 cases who have been quarantined. An official said they had already contacted Kolkata-based PSU Bengal Chemicals for the drug. “They informed that it was not within their capacity to supply the entire amount due to lack of raw materials,” the officer claimed. “Meetings have also been held with Wallace Pharma and IPCA Laboratories but they said they had problems in bulk production due to the lockdown,” he added. According to Raju Khandelwal of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association, the health ministry has recently made the drug a Schedule H1 category drug, which means it cannot be sold over the counter without prescription, to stop hoarding. Moreover, Khandelwal said the cost of raw material that is sourced from China had more than doubled, for which there is a shortage. ICMR has recommended the drug for healthcare workers involved in treatment of suspected or active Covid-19 patients, a health official said. According to reports, there is a rush among people to buy the drug, which is mainly used in malaria and in some cases of rheumatoid arthritis and autoimmune disease, doctors said. Santanu Sen, Trinamool MP and former Indian Medical Association president, wants the drug to be only be used by health workers and suspected cases of Covid-19. “There is a specific dose of the drug for health workers who are being directly exposed to the virus. For them, it is to be continued for seven weeks. For those who are in indirect contact, it is to be taken for three weeks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-to-procure-3-million-tablets-to-tackle-corona/articleshow/75038316.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||India despatches 10-tonne consignment of medicines to Sri Lanka by special flight||NEW DELHI: Following a request by Sri Lanka, India rushed a 10-tonne consignment of medicines to Colombo calling it another manifestation of its “unwavering” commitment to stand with the strategically located Indian Ocean country in times of need. The consignment was brought to Sri Lanka by an Air India special flight on Tuesday. “This is yet another manifestation of India’s unwavering commitment to stand with Sri Lanka, in rain and in shine. Despite its own domestic challenges, India has always believed in sharing its resources and expertise with its friends and partners,” said the Indian high commission in a press release. The government recalled that at the initiative of PM Narendra Modi, a SAARC leaders’ video conference was held on March 15 to discuss ways to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. India also pledged US$ 10 million to the SAARC Covid-19 Emergency Fund. Subsequently, a video conference of health professionals in SAARC countries was held on March 26. “Ministry of health has also started offering online training sessions for health professionals in SAARC countries. SAARC Disaster Management Centre situated in Gandhinagar has also developed a dedicated web page pertaining to the Covid-19 situation in SAARC member-nations,” said the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-despatches-10-tonne-consignment-of-medicines-to-sri-lanka-by-special-flight/articleshow/75038310.cms||---
April 8, 2020||India||Coronavirus cases cross 5,000; 1-year-old among 165 dead||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in India crossed 5,000 on Tuesday, having doubled in the past five days, even as the death toll from the virus went past 150 to end the day at 165, as per the latest reports from states. The total count of coronavirus cases stood at 5,325 at the time of going to press, with 568 fresh ones reported during the day. Cases have more than doubled since April 2, when the countrywide count was 2,580. Maharashtra alone recorded 150 new cases — the highest single-day count for any state — and its total number of infections crossed 1,000. As many as 25 deaths were reported on Tuesday. Among them was a 14-month-old boy, possibly the youngest Indian victim of the virus who died at the state-run hospital in Jamnagar, Gujarat. Delhi has 576 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, with two fatalities recorded on Tuesday. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsOne of the worrying facts about Covid-19 situation in Delhi is that as many as 35 patients admitted in various hospitals currently require ICU support. Another 27 are on oxygen, which shows that their lung function is compromised. The Jamnagar toddler who died on Tuesday night was on life support since April 5, when he had tested positive. His parents, both labourers, however, tested negative for the virus. Health officials are yet to ascertain the source of the baby's infection. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignIn Telangana, a 23-day-old infant is among 40 new coronavirus cases reported on Tuesday, taking the number of positive cases to 404. Gujarat recorded three other deaths due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 16. With 12 deaths accounted for on Tuesday, Maharashtra’s coronavirus toll rose to 64 — nearly 40% of all deaths from the virus in the country. Six of the 12 are from Mumbai, three from Pune and one each from Nagpur, Satara and Mira-Bhayandar. The fatality rate of the state as on Tuesday was 6.2%, among the highest in the country, said government officials. After Maharashtra, where 150 new cases were recorded, states reporting a high number of fresh infections were Tamil Nadu (69), Madhya Pradesh (63), Delhi (51), Rajasthan (42), Telangana (40) and Haryana (33). UP too reported a high number of new cases, 32, pushing the state’s tally to 340. Of the new cases, 25 were related to the Tablighi Jamaat meetings, taking the total number of cases in UP linked to the Nizamuddin events to 190. Agra reported the maximum 10 cases on Tuesday -- six of them had TJ links and others were contacts of old patients. With the new cases, Agra’s tally reached 63 and overtook Gautam Budh Nagar, which did not report any new case for the third consecutive day, its tally remaining static at 58. Rajasthan has reported 42 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 343. Kerala, which was among the worst affected states, has been recording lower count of Covid-19. On Tuesday, the state reported nine fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases in Kerala to 336. Among the nine, four came from abroad, two had attended the Nizamuddin prayer meet and three were infected due to direct contact, officials said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the northeast increased to 33 on Tuesday with three more persons — two from Assam and one from Tripura — testing positive in the last 24 hours. Meghalaya and Nagaland are the only two NE states which have not recorded any active case yet. Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted, “First #COVID19 positive case detected in Tripura. The patient is from Udaipur. Don’t Panic, we are taking proper care of the patient. Stay Home Stay Safe.” Jammu and Kashmir has recorded one more Covid-19 death and 15 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the death count to three and overall patient tally to 125. Karnataka has recorded 12 new cases taking the state Covid-19 count to 175. On a brighter note, 25 patients have been discharged in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-cases-in-india-cross-5000-1-year-old-among-165-dead/articleshow/75037913.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 8, 2020||India||WhatsApp limits forwards to one chat to curb fake news||BENGALURU: Popular messaging platform WhatsApp said it has now put new restrictions to forward messages to just one person or group amid rising cases of misinformation around coronavirus. The Facebookowned messaging platform said that the limit kicks in once a message has been previously forwarded five times or more. People aware of the company’s plans said this has been in the works for a few months and it now has implemented it globally, when people are spending more time on the app and are often receiving information related to coronavirus that is not verified. “We’ve seen a significant increase in the amount of forwarding which users have told us can contribute to the spread of misinformation. We believe it’s important to slow the spread of these messages down to keep WhatsApp a place for personal conversation,” the company said. WhatsApp’s India spokesperson told TOI it has seen a rise in messaging, voice and video calling from users during the outbreak of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whatsapp-limits-forwards-to-one-chat-to-curb-fake-news/articleshow/75038352.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 8, 2020||Delhi||Three east Delhi apartments and five mohallas sealed, 5,000 quarantined||NEW DELHI:Eight Covid-19 containment zones were created in east Delhi on Tuesday and over 5,000 residents placed under quarantine after eight positive cases were reported from some localities. It is part of a micro-level plan to contain a local outbreak which otherwise, authorities fear, may infect tens of hundreds of people. Mansara Apartment in Vasundhara Enclave, Mayur Vihar-1’s Vardhman and Mayurdhwaj Apartments in Patparganj were sealed. So were 39 houses in Kalyanpuri, Gali No. 9 of Pandav Nagar, two areas in Krishan Kunj and one in Khichripur. Containment zones: Supply of essentials to be ensuredThe containment zones were created based on an order issued by the office of the district magistrate East district. No person can walk out of these containment zone or make any movement outside their houses for any purpose. Outsiders are not allowed to enter these zones which are guarded by police. The residents are under strict monitoring to ensure no one violates the containment orders. FIRs will be lodged against people who violate the containment orders, according to sources. The decision to create the containment zones was taken by the district authorities in consultation with health authorities, Delhi Police and officials of the municipal corporation. The containment zones would be under surveillance of health officials and health authorities will be regularly reviewing Covid-19 situation and the health situation of the people in the containment zones. The decision for lifting of the containment zone will rest on the reports of the health authorities. Directions were issued to officials concerned of food and supply department, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Drugs Control among others to ensure supply of essential items to the people living inside the containment zones. “The nodal officers will be ensuring supply of food and groceries, supply of medicines and medical equipment, banking facilities, maintenance of hygiene and other needs of these residents,” the order stated. Officials have been deployed at the entry points of all the containment zones. Sources said that the contact numbers of the nodal officers have been shared with the residents who can order essential items which will be delivered to them by select staff deployed for the purpose. “Vegetable and milk vendors would be arranged nearby the zones so that needs of the residents can be met,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-east-delhi-apartments-and-five-mohallas-sealed-5000-quarantined/articleshow/75038360.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stuck in Kenya, athlete yearning to return to India||AHMEDABAD: On January 10 this year, promising Indian middle-distance athlete Murali Gavit Kumar set his foot in the hills of Iten, located some 300 kilometres from the Kenyan capital city of Nairobi, with a dream to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics. Three months on, the dream has failed to see the light of the day. With the novel coronavirus spreading its tentacles across the globe, majority of sports events have been cancelled while the global sporting extravaganza of Olympics has been rescheduled to 2021. Stuck in the East African country, Gavit, who competes in 5,000 and 10,000 metres, now longs to return to India and be with his family. But, with India suspending international passenger flight operations, he remains stuck in Kenya and awaits resumption of flight services. "I had reached here on January 10 to practice for participating in the qualifying tournaments in Europe and making the cut for Olympics. However, following the spread of the coronavirus, all major sporting competitions in Europe got cancelled. The Olympics has also been rescheduled." "I am now stuck in my room in Iten. I go out and purchase necessary items but restrictions over here are strict. I want to come back to India and be with my family," Gavit told TOI via telephonic conversation. Kenya is under a partial lockdown after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the closure of schools, and imposed sweeping travel restrictions. Parents concerned for Gavit’s safetyThe 23-year-old Gavit trains under Hugo van den Broek of The Netherlands at Iten’s High Altitude Training Centre, founded by multiple world champion Lornah Kiplagat. Budding middle distance athletes hone their skills at the centre, which is surrounded by miles of dirt roads. “Group training has been discontinued. I manage to do very little training. I practice running alone. But, back home my parents are concerned about me,” added Gavit, the third son of a tribal family in Kumarbandh village of south Gujarat’s Dangs district. Coronavirus cases in Kenya, he said, are slowly and gradually rising. “The country is testing but only those who have foreign travel history. Cases are rising with each passing day,” said a concerned Gavit. To contain the spread of the Covid-19, India, on March 21, suspended all international commercial passenger flights till March 29 before extending it till April 14, the last day of the 21-day nationwide lockdown. When asked whether he had tried to fly back to India before flight operations were suspended, Gavit, who is sponsored by the state government under its Shaktidoot scheme, said, “When I started inquiring about flights for returning to India, all airlines had suspended their operations.” He further stated he had not contacted any government officials for assistance in this regard. “I hope India will resume international passenger flights after April 15 and expect to return home after that,” said an optimistic Gavit. In Kumarbandh village, concern has gripped Gavit’s parents with the spike in number of virus cases globally with each passing day. Scrolls on television news channels regarding the fresh cases only exacerbate the tension in the air. “Gavit’s parents are worried about him. His brother is posted in Jodhpur with the Indian Army. Murali cannot reach India as flights have been cancelled and on top of that, the number of cases are rising every day,” said Vipul Kumbhar, Gavit’s neighbour. With a week still to go for the lockdown to end and possible resumption of international passenger flights by India, his concerned father, Tulisram Gavit, has only one question on his mind, “Will the Indian government help us in this situation?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stuck-in-kenya-athlete-yearning-to-return-to-india/articleshow/75038375.cms||Sabu Cherian
April 8, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: At 10 new cases a day, G-South ward positive tally rises to 78||MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases in G-South ward rose to 78 on Monday from 68 the previous day and 58 two days before, showed data made available on Tuesday. New cases in coronavirus hot spots Worli Koliwada, Prabhadevi and some other areas resulted in a daily increase of 10 since Saturday in G-South ward, leaving other affected civic wards in the city far behind. E ward, which includes Mazgaon, Nagpada and Byculla, had a positive count of 48 on Monday, 30 fewer than G-South. D ward, which includes Tardeo, Girgaum, Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, Altamont Road, had 43 cases. Most of the new cases in G-South were from Worli Koliwada, Adarsh Nagar, Janata Colony, Gandhi Nagar, Jijamata Nagar and BDD chawls. The BMC did not give any information on what had come of its efforts to identify the index case, or the first case from whom the infection spread. Assistant municipal commissioner of G-South Sharad Ughade was unavailable for a comment on what was causing the spike in coronavirus positive cases. Local MLA Aaditya Thackeray said on Twitter that on Tuesday “with the help of @1rupeeclinic 5144 people in Worli Koliwada were screened for symptoms. 12 were found with high grade fever”. Today, with the help of @1rupeeclinic 5144 people in Worli Koliwada were screened for symptoms. 12 were found with… https://t.co/opD4OCz0YL— Aaditya Thackeray (@AUThackeray) 1586270979000He further tweeted: “Tomorrow too, this drive will continue, till all the residents are covered. This is the second such drive in Worli Koliwada. Along with supplies of essentials as kits, separate kits for senior citizens across Worli, we are focussing majorly on the containment of Covid 19. The spike in cases is being seen as we chase each case with contact tracing, testing and isolating carriers. The only way to contain covid on a larger scale, as seen globally, is to take the health aspect head on. That’s exactly being done. Survey more people, test the suspect cases, realise where they are and restrict the spread.” The BMC also began disinfecting localities like Jijamata Nagar, Kamble Nagar, Markadeshwar Nagar, Mariamma Nagar and surrounding areas. Officials said disinfection of Pochkhanawala and Worli seaface areas was also in progress. The BMC said it also planned to cover Lower Parel, Prabhadevi and Elphinstone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-at-10-new-cases-a-day-g-south-ward-positive-tally-rises-to-78/articleshow/75048495.cms||Richa Pinto
