April 9, 2020||Kochi||#Quarantinechallenges: College students show the way||It’s the season of lockdown, but many of our college students aren’t whiling away their time. Thanks to the many online challenges for youngsters, they are keeping themselves occupied with quite a few of them, ranging from #21daypoetrychallenge to #workout challenges. Let’s get introduced to a few among them. Sidharth JBA English 2nd year studentMar Ivanios College, ThiruvananthapuramI love poetry and so, took up a #21daypoetrychallenge during the lockdown. Everyone who have their own stories during this phase can express them the best through poetry. So far, I have written about 30 poems on subjects like my feelings, life, love and more. I have also shared quite a few of them on social media. When people respond saying they can connect with my words, it feels great. Syam KumarBA psychology second year studentMG College, ThiruvananthapuramThe first two days of quarantine was tough for me considering that I love wanderlust, cycling and the like. So, I took up a 21-day workout challenge, to help overcome my mood swings and stay healthy. I have been sharing the videos online too and I see that often people comment that they find them inspiring. Athul Santhosh LalSound engineering studentKeltron Advanced Training Centre, TrivandrumAs a music aficionado who loves to play handpan and didgeridoo, guitar and keyboard, my lockdown is all about trying new compositions and putting together my own. I share them online, as part of my #AsongAday challenge. I am also working on a brand new track which I aim to finish by the end of this 21-day period. Mathew ThomasArchitecture fifth year studentCollege of Architecture, ThiruvananthapuramI have joined the #36daysoftype typography challenge, putting my own spin to it. I choose logos that represent alphabets and turn them into buildings! And so far, the challenge is doing great and I have reached the letter K. Story by Nyshma R, Third year B A Journalism student, Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/quarantinechallenges-college-students-show-the-way/articleshow/75045336.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||This Holy Week and Easter, it’s online service for churchgoers||For 70-year-old Prathiba Paul, attending evening meditation at the church during the Passion Week is a must, and that is how it has been for as long as she can remember. However, this year, because of the lockdown, instead of going to the church, Prathiba takes part in the meditation from the comfort of her home in Adyar. Every evening, as the clock strikes six, she logs in to her newly opened Facebook account to take part in the evening meditation live-streamed on the church’s official page. Churches across the city have been live-streaming their worship services for the last couple of weeks, following the nation-wide lockdown. And this will be seamlessly followed for Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter as well, inform priests in the city. “Though this is unprecedented, people have adapted to it quickly. In fact, I was surprised to see a 90-year-old member of our church attend the evening meditation on Zoom app two days ago,” says Rev. Binu Philip, the presbyter-in-charge of the Holy Trinity Church, CSI Malayalam Congregation in Vepery. While reiterating that this is only a temporary arrangement, technological advancement is definitely a boon, agree priests. Rev. Binu says, “While this can never give the experience of attending a worship service in person at the church, technology has its benefits in a situation like this one.” For virtual streaming of church services, a slight deviation is made, explains Fr. M Benjamin Nesamani of the Holy Spirit Church, a catholic church in Meenambakkam. “A few changes have to be made in accordance with the exact guidelines given by the bishop’s council. Some rituals cannot be performed without the presence of the congregation. But all the three services — Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter — will be aired online at the usual service time.” Rev. Isaac Johnson, the senior pastor at St. Andrews Church in Egmore, says, “We have, for quite some time, been live-streaming all our worship services online for elders who aren’t able to make it to the church, and also for our overseas members. This time, the only difference is, I will be talking to a camera as nobody will be in the church. And the pre-recorded accompaniment will be played during the time of hymns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-holy-week-and-easter-its-online-service-for-churchgoers/articleshow/75053354.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
April 9, 2020||Kochi||#LockdownEffect: How will the cherished Easter traditions change this year?||The midnight masses, long confession lines, crossbuns-making, palm-leaf processions, egg hunts… all those familiar sights and traditions of the Easter week would be different this year, all thanks to the Covid-19 induced lockdowns. But, churches, devotees and youngsters in Kerala are all set to make it special in ways they can, thanks to technology. Virtual is the wayThe Way of the Cross prayer, the Easter night vigil, Passover day and Good Friday prayers, all of them would reach the devotees across factions through live streaming. Fr Milton Kalapurakkal from Kochi says, “All major churches will stream their services live. The Palm Sunday prayers were already conducted online and instead of the leaves from church, some people used their own from homes, and got them symbolically blessed.” Kochi-based entrepreneur Ann Maria George says, “My family members dial in from various locations to recite Way of The Cross via video conferencing. We are planning the same for the family Easter breakfast, this year.” A family affairA handful of church traditions will be confined within four walls, this year. Tourism professional Teena Tony says, “Earlier, my extended family used to join us for Maundy Thursday’s breaking of the bread, but this time it’s just my husband, son and me.” Meanwhile, Fr Noble Parakkan from Mananthavady says, “We asked families to preside over prayers of Palm Sunday and Good Friday, themselves. As for the serving of choruka (the bitter concoction served on Good Friday), families would be making it with bitter gourd and its leaves at home and serve it post prayers.” What’s missing?However, many says that they will miss a lot of the trademark festive traditions such as the Palm Sunday and Good Friday processions, the washing of the feet and even the confession - considered the most important one in the year. Fr Noble says, “Following the canon law, Pope has asked people to express contrition, and resolve to return to sacrament the earliest they can. It is a provision that is used by church in such extraordinary circumstances.” A scaled down VishuAmid the lockdown, Vishu too will be celebrated minus the usual family get-togethers, temple visits or the hansel (kaineettam) from the elders to children. “My two kids, who are aged 11 and 10, are already asking if they won’t be able to get a kaineettam from all the elders and not meet cousins,” says Kochi-based entrepreneur Lakshmi Raju. She says that usually the uncles, aunts and cousins on her husband’s side, from Kochi and even those settled in other states, will get together at his family home in Vytilla. “We go to the temple, have a pot luck lunch and all of us play games or catch up. There will definitely be something lacking this Vishu, but we are preparing to put together a kanni with whatever is available and have started preparing the things for a small-scale sadhya in our apartment this time around,” she says. - With Inputs from Anna.Mathews@timesgroup.com Watch A socially distant, digitally united Easter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdowneffect-how-will-the-cherished-easter-traditions-change-this-year/articleshow/75046592.cms||Deepa Soman
April 9, 2020||Goa||Mandar, FC Goa captain and most-capped player, follows coach Lobera to Mumbai City||PANAJI: FC Goa captain Mandar Rao Desai has turned down a three-year contract from the Goan franchise and instead opted to join his former coach, Sergio Lobera, at Mumbai City FC. Lobera has agreed to a deal to coach Mumbai, and is now keen to have senior players he has worked with in the past join him. Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh and Senegalese defender Mourtada Fall are understood to be on top of his list, but it’s Mandar he has managed to convince first. According to sources, Mandar has already signed the offer letter from Mumbai, and will complete transfer formalities in the next 48 hours. Mandar’s departure will be a huge blow for Goa. The Super Cup champions have been negotiating with their captain for a while now. From an initial three-year contract and plenty of back and forth, there was some sense that they could agree to terms. But talks came to a halt when Mandar said he wouldn’t discuss any further and made his preference for Mumbai clear. "Mandar’s decision to join Mumbai is not about money. The difference in what Goa offered him and what he will be paid at Mumbai (both with three-year contracts) is not significant. It’s clear that he wants to continue his association with Lobera," said one official. Mandar is the Indian Super League’s (ISL) highest-capped player for a single franchise. A fan favourite in Goa, he has been with the team since the inception of the ISL in 2014. His return leg semifinal show against Chennaiyin FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda was his 100th appearance for the club. He was handed a special jersey for his achievement by club president Akshay Tandon prior to the clash. Now, that appears to have been his last game for the club. Why Mandar chose to give up on Goa captaincy in the AFC Champions League group stage — a first for any Indian club — and follow in Lobera’s footsteps is not difficult to understand. Mandar believes the Spanish tactician gave his game a new direction after he shifted him from a regular winger to a left-back, a decision that resulted in a national call-up from coach Igor Stimac. Mandar’s exit from Goa will free up space for another player to step into his boots. Saviour Gama looks to be the most natural replacement, having been on the bench for a while now and giving a good account of himself whenever thrown into action. Goa have also signed Sanson Pereira from Salgaocar SC, while Sarineo Fernandes is likely to be promoted to the first team from the development squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandar-fc-goa-captain-and-most-capped-player-follows-coach-lobera-to-mumbai-city/articleshow/75055508.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||When the coronavirus lockdown across India was announced, animal activist and MP Maneka Gandhi took to Twitter to request people to feed strays since the animals had no other way of getting food. Following this, the Animal Welfare Board of India also issued an advisory to all chief secretaries of states and Union Territories regarding caring for animals during the lockdown. With markets and restaurants closed, the strays who used to live on scraps and leftovers from these places are suffering. There are many feeders working tirelessly on ground to feed these animals and if you want to pitch in, here’s what you can do: You will not face any issues while feeding strays as long as you are following social distancing rules and being careful. Here are some tips from animal activists and feeders: 1. The basic practice that people can follow is to put food and water outside their homes. 2. If you are just feeding strays in your society, feed them there and don't step out. 3. If you are feeding a large number of dogs, wear mask, gloves and keep sanitiser. 4. Fix one time in the day to feed the animals. Delhi: Get movement pass from Delhi Police, feed strays within society or donate to feedersDivya Puri, co-founder of Karan Puri Foundation, a registered trust working for the welfare of stray animals, shares, "There are no feeding passes in Delhi but the Delhi Police is issuing movement passes. You don’t need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society, but if you are travelling to feed animals, you will need a pass. People can apply online on the Delhi Police website – create an account, fill your details and the reason for your movement, and then you can get the pass in three-four days." For people who don’t want to step out but still contribute, Divya adds, "Each area has their own feeders, you can donate in cash or kind. These feeders can come and collect your donation." Anil Mittal, ACP, PRO, Delhi Police, says, "We have already issued movement passes to NGOs to feed stray animals, but if an individual wants to feed stray animals, he/she can apply for the pass online from www.delhipolice.nic.in. A pass is not needed if they want to feed strays in their society." Gurgaon: Get a feeder pass from MCG or help the feeders on ground with resourcesAnimal activist Chetna Joshi from Astitva Animal Rights Enforcement Foundation, who is the POC in Gurgaon for feeding animals during the lockdown, shares, "In Gurgaon, we have around 30 feeders who are feeding more than 50 dogs. I am coordinating between the authorities and feeders. There are many new feeders but we are telling them not to step out on their own. So they are helping those on ground with resources." Earlier, Gurgaon had only movement passes (available via saralharyana.gov.in) and people were feeding strays by collaborating with animal activists. Now, Gurgaon has introduced feeder passes, which are being issued by the MCG. You don't need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG Commissioner, Gurgaon, says, "We are facilitating people with feeder passes. We are working with the PFA and the animal shelter at Sadhrana to facilitate movement." Preet Pal Singh, ACP, Chief PRO, Gurgaon Police, adds, "Anyone who wants to feed strays can get in touch with the police officials of the area, and they will help them." Noida:Get feeder pass from CVO or feed strays within your own localityKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, "In Gautam Buddh Nagar, feeder passes are only given by Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO) via PFA and other NGOs. People can get in touch with PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar and fill an application. The same application would be stamped and signed by the CVO, and that will work as feeder pass. Passes are needed only if people are going outside their locality or crossing state border. The local administration and officials are aware that the volunteers are feeding strays and we are not facing any challenges." Vrinda Shukla, DCP, Additional PRO, Noida Police, says, "People can feed strays in their area without any pass. If they have to go somewhere far, passes are being issued by the CVO. The police is helping those residents who have contacted us." -With inputs from Niharika LalWatch Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-guide-to-feeding-strays-during-lockdown/articleshow/75054257.cms||Riya Sharma
April 9, 2020||Noida||Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||When the coronavirus lockdown across India was announced, animal activist and MP Maneka Gandhi took to Twitter to request people to feed strays since the animals had no other way of getting food. Following this, the Animal Welfare Board of India also issued an advisory to all chief secretaries of states and Union Territories regarding caring for animals during the lockdown. With markets and restaurants closed, the strays who used to live on scraps and leftovers from these places are suffering. There are many feeders working tirelessly on ground to feed these animals and if you want to pitch in, here’s what you can do: You will not face any issues while feeding strays as long as you are following social distancing rules and being careful. Here are some tips from animal activists and feeders: 1. The basic practice that people can follow is to put food and water outside their homes. 2. If you are just feeding strays in your society, feed them there and don't step out. 3. If you are feeding a large number of dogs, wear mask, gloves and keep sanitiser. 4. Fix one time in the day to feed the animals. Delhi: Get movement pass from Delhi Police, feed strays within society or donate to feedersDivya Puri, co-founder of Karan Puri Foundation, a registered trust working for the welfare of stray animals, shares, "There are no feeding passes in Delhi but the Delhi Police is issuing movement passes. You don’t need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society, but if you are travelling to feed animals, you will need a pass. People can apply online on the Delhi Police website – create an account, fill your details and the reason for your movement, and then you can get the pass in three-four days." For people who don’t want to step out but still contribute, Divya adds, "Each area has their own feeders, you can donate in cash or kind. These feeders can come and collect your donation." Anil Mittal, ACP, PRO, Delhi Police, says, "We have already issued movement passes to NGOs to feed stray animals, but if an individual wants to feed stray animals, he/she can apply for the pass online from www.delhipolice.nic.in. A pass is not needed if they want to feed strays in their society." Gurgaon: Get a feeder pass from MCG or help the feeders on ground with resourcesAnimal activist Chetna Joshi from Astitva Animal Rights Enforcement Foundation, who is the POC in Gurgaon for feeding animals during the lockdown, shares, "In Gurgaon, we have around 30 feeders who are feeding more than 50 dogs. I am coordinating between the authorities and feeders. There are many new feeders but we are telling them not to step out on their own. So they are helping those on ground with resources." Earlier, Gurgaon had only movement passes (available via saralharyana.gov.in) and people were feeding strays by collaborating with animal activists. Now, Gurgaon has introduced feeder passes, which are being issued by the MCG. You don't need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG Commissioner, Gurgaon, says, "We are facilitating people with feeder passes. We are working with the PFA and the animal shelter at Sadhrana to facilitate movement." Preet Pal Singh, ACP, Chief PRO, Gurgaon Police, adds, "Anyone who wants to feed strays can get in touch with the police officials of the area, and they will help them." Noida:Get feeder pass from CVO or feed strays within your own localityKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, "In Gautam Buddh Nagar, feeder passes are only given by Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO) via PFA and other NGOs. People can get in touch with PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar and fill an application. The same application would be stamped and signed by the CVO, and that will work as feeder pass. Passes are needed only if people are going outside their locality or crossing state border. The local administration and officials are aware that the volunteers are feeding strays and we are not facing any challenges." Vrinda Shukla, DCP, Additional PRO, Noida Police, says, "People can feed strays in their area without any pass. If they have to go somewhere far, passes are being issued by the CVO. The police is helping those residents who have contacted us." -With inputs from Niharika LalWatch Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/your-guide-to-feeding-strays-during-lockdown/articleshow/75054443.cms||Riya Sharma
April 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||When the coronavirus lockdown across India was announced, animal activist and MP Maneka Gandhi took to Twitter to request people to feed strays since the animals had no other way of getting food. Following this, the Animal Welfare Board of India also issued an advisory to all chief secretaries of states and Union Territories regarding caring for animals during the lockdown. With markets and restaurants closed, the strays who used to live on scraps and leftovers from these places are suffering. There are many feeders working tirelessly on ground to feed these animals and if you want to pitch in, here’s what you can do: You will not face any issues while feeding strays as long as you are following social distancing rules and being careful. Here are some tips from animal activists and feeders: 1. The basic practice that people can follow is to put food and water outside their homes. 2. If you are just feeding strays in your society, feed them there and don't step out. 3. If you are feeding a large number of dogs, wear mask, gloves and keep sanitiser. 4. Fix one time in the day to feed the animals. Delhi: Get movement pass from Delhi Police, feed strays within society or donate to feedersDivya Puri, co-founder of Karan Puri Foundation, a registered trust working for the welfare of stray animals, shares, "There are no feeding passes in Delhi but the Delhi Police is issuing movement passes. You don’t need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society, but if you are travelling to feed animals, you will need a pass. People can apply online on the Delhi Police website – create an account, fill your details and the reason for your movement, and then you can get the pass in three-four days." For people who don’t want to step out but still contribute, Divya adds, "Each area has their own feeders, you can donate in cash or kind. These feeders can come and collect your donation." Anil Mittal, ACP, PRO, Delhi Police, says, "We have already issued movement passes to NGOs to feed stray animals, but if an individual wants to feed stray animals, he/she can apply for the pass online from www.delhipolice.nic.in. A pass is not needed if they want to feed strays in their society." Gurgaon: Get a feeder pass from MCG or help the feeders on ground with resourcesAnimal activist Chetna Joshi from Astitva Animal Rights Enforcement Foundation, who is the POC in Gurgaon for feeding animals during the lockdown, shares, "In Gurgaon, we have around 30 feeders who are feeding more than 50 dogs. I am coordinating between the authorities and feeders. There are many new feeders but we are telling them not to step out on their own. So they are helping those on ground with resources." Earlier, Gurgaon had only movement passes (available via saralharyana.gov.in) and people were feeding strays by collaborating with animal activists. Now, Gurgaon has introduced feeder passes, which are being issued by the MCG. You don't need a pass if you are feeding strays in your society. Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG Commissioner, Gurgaon, says, "We are facilitating people with feeder passes. We are working with the PFA and the animal shelter at Sadhrana to facilitate movement." Preet Pal Singh, ACP, Chief PRO, Gurgaon Police, adds, "Anyone who wants to feed strays can get in touch with the police officials of the area, and they will help them." Noida:Get feeder pass from CVO or feed strays within your own localityKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, "In Gautam Buddh Nagar, feeder passes are only given by Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO) via PFA and other NGOs. People can get in touch with PFA Gautam Buddh Nagar and fill an application. The same application would be stamped and signed by the CVO, and that will work as feeder pass. Passes are needed only if people are going outside their locality or crossing state border. The local administration and officials are aware that the volunteers are feeding strays and we are not facing any challenges." Vrinda Shukla, DCP, Additional PRO, Noida Police, says, "People can feed strays in their area without any pass. If they have to go somewhere far, passes are being issued by the CVO. The police is helping those residents who have contacted us." -With inputs from Niharika LalWatch Your guide to feeding strays during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/your-guide-to-feeding-strays-during-lockdown/articleshow/75054439.cms||Riya Sharma
April 9, 2020||Business||Government to clear pending I-T refunds up to Rs 5 lakh||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday unveiled a raft of measures to ensure availability of cash in the system, including speeding up of refunds worth Rs 18,000 crore linked to income tax returns, customs and GST, while deciding to prioritise spending on areas like health, pharma, food, rural development, railways and aviation. The move suggests the Centre’s cash position may be stressed during the first quarter of the current fiscal. Separately, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari directed the NHAI to release all dues of developers and construction companies. A pile-up, which was being flagged by companies, has affected payments down the line, with micro, small and medium enterprises expressing concerns about large companies holding back on payments. Authorities said the income tax department will release all pending refunds of up to Rs 5 lakh immediately, which will benefit around 14 lakh taxpayers. All GST and customs refunds will also be released to around one lakh businesses, including MSMEs. The indirect tax wing of the government had gained notoriety for holding back refunds, while income tax payments have been streamlined in the last few years. In a statement, the tax department said the steps have been taken due to the Covid-19 situation in the country, “with a view to provide immediate relief to business entities and individuals”. Tax revenues are expected to stay muted over the next few months on account of the lockdown, which has virtually brought economic activities to a standstill. The expenditure department, which is also a part of the finance ministry, issued new guidelines on spending as part of the cash management exercise. During April-June this year, ministries such as fertilizer, defence, home, roads and petroleum along with the Union Territories have been asked to limit their spending to 20% of the overall outlay for the current financial year. In addition, there is a monthly cap of 6-8% for the first three months. For several others such as education, labour, power, coal, telecom, commerce and heavy industry, the limit for the first quarter has been fixed at 15% of the annual outlay, with a monthly cap of 5%. In his meeting with NHAI and road ministry officers, Gadkari sought a roadmap for resumption of activities on a larger scale once the lockdown is lifted. “He laid greater emphasis on clearing pending payments and giving the pending approvals. He has instructed that claims must be settled quickly,” said an official. The official said in the past couple of months, there has been increased focus on clearing dues. For example, in March, the NHAI released about Rs 20,000 crore and nearly half of it was paid to contractors and concessionaires. “Nearly Rs 4,000 crore went for repayment of debt; another Rs 5,000- Rs 6,000 crore was released for land acquisition expenses and the rest was used for payment of dues of private contractors,” said a source. In the past seven-eight days, the NHAI has cleared payments of about Rs 6,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-to-clear-pending-i-t-refunds-up-to-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/75056278.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Commerce department pitches for limited restarting of manufacturing||NEW DELHI: The commerce and industry ministry has pitched for resumption of manufacturing activity, especially for exports, in a limited manner, with companies following safety and other norms. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal told representatives from export promotion councils and trade bodies on Wednesday that his department is in dialogue with various wings of the government, including the home ministry, to allow factories to start production, multiple sources present in the meeting told TOI. The issue has also been discussed by the cabinet and in other forums and a decision is awaited. Over the next few days, the government will decide on extending or ending the nationwide lockdown, scheduled to end on April 14, although most state governments have advised caution on lifting the curbs. States too need to be on board to restart factories, officials said. The commerce department as well as several other economic ministries believe that indefinitely stopping production will be detrimental to the economy, as livelihood of millions is at stake, apart from putting pressure on the financial sector and government finances. Sources said the commerce and industry ministry has proposed that a mechanism should be put in place to ensure safety of workers through social distancing and other tools, which could see factories operate at around half the capacity. There are suggestions that plants which have facility to house workers or where employees don’t have to travel long distances may be given priority, with the owners providing food and proper healthcare and ensuring hygiene. “It is crucial to lift the lockdown for exports as we are losing orders to China and once you lose business to China, it is very difficult to get it back,” said Ajay Sahay, director general and CEO at Federation of Indian Export Organisation. “Reopening (factories) has to be given priority due to mass order cancellations. We are hoping that a decision is taken in the next few days,” added Ravi Sehgal, chairman of EEPC India, which represents engineering exporters. It has also asked the government to ensure adequate availability of masks, testing and protective gear and facilitate seamless movement of goods and services across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/commerce-department-pitches-for-limited-restarting-of-manufacturing/articleshow/75056306.cms||Sidhartha
April 9, 2020||Business||3.5 lakh trucks carrying Rs 35,000 crore goods stranded on roads||NEW DELHI: An estimated 3.5 lakh inter-state trucks carrying goods worth over Rs 35,000 crore are stranded on roads, outside factories and godowns, according to transporters. The goods range from cars and SUVs to two-wheelers and white goods such as ACs, refrigerators, washing machines, electrical items and industrial raw material such as chemicals, steel and cement. Truckers and transporters TOI spoke to said the goods are at risk of damage and even pilferage as drivers and helpers have run away in many cases due to the absence of food, money or proper sanitation. Also, in most of the cases, there are no helpers and other support staff to unload the stocks once they have reached their destination, be it factories or dealerships and godowns. “It is a painful situation for truckers and goods worth thousands of crores are literally lying on roads. Something should be done immediately to help us out,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of All-India Motor Transport Corporation said. Truckers seek bailout package from governmentAIMTC is the biggest trucking association in the country and claims that its members control nearly 1 crore small, big and specialised trucks. Atwal said that while trucks carrying essentials such as food, medicines and sanitation products are being allowed, the government should also ensure the movement of other goods to the designated destinations so that the system can be unclogged and the commodities transported. “We are still facing curbs. They should help lift the restrictions so that trucks can move. It is a pitiable position with many trucks stranded at state borders or other check points. Many trucks are idling at parkings or other places.” Many truckers are also complaining that drivers and helpers are being left to fend for themselves. “At many places, there is no food, medicines, or even clean toilets. Also, sanitisers and masks are not there, and this has prompted many truckers to leave the vehicles and head back home.” Vipul Nanda, president of car carriers’ association, said nearly 1,500 large customised container trucks — carrying around 10,000 cars and SUVs of various brands — are also stranded on the roads, or outside factories and godowns. A large carrier truck has the capacity to carry around seven vehicles, and these generally criss-cross across the length and breadth of the country. Most of these trips originate from automobile manufacturing hubs such as in the Gurgaon-Manesar belt, the Pune region, the Gujarat auto cluster, or the area around Chennai. “Please remember that’s this is an asset-heavy industry, and thus there are heavy debts too that transporters carry. If business remains paralysed, there are high chances of many transporters getting bankrupt,” Nanda said Pradeep Singal, chairman of All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association, said that there are cases where the movement of many trucks has been restricted even when the government has permitted them to pass through. “In many instances, the message is yet to reach the ground.” The truckers are seeking wide-ranging support from the government as a bailout package. “Please give an EMI break for at least six months to us, and also extend our national movement permits by same period. There should be half-year relief in payment of statutory road tax and goods tax payments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/3-5-lakh-trucks-carrying-rs-35000-crore-goods-stranded-on-roads/articleshow/75056353.cms||Pankaj Doval
April 9, 2020||Business||RBI to HDFC Bank: Board appointments after new CEO||MUMBAI: In a fresh twist to the HDFC Bank succession issue, the Reserve Bank of India has asked the private lender to wait until a new CEO in place before elevating executives to board level. The RBI on Wednesday put on hold a decision by the bank’s board to elevate Sashidhar Jagdishan and Bhavesh Zaveri to the position of additional director and executive director (Whole-Time Director) on the board of the bank. The elevation of Jagdishan and Zaveri had raised speculation that they might be candidates to succeed Aditya Puri, the only CEO HDFC Bank every had since it was launched in 1994. HDFC Bank on November 28, 2019, had intimated the appointment of the two executives to the board subject to the approval of the RBI. “We are now in receipt of a communication dated April 7, 2020, from RBI stating that since these are important positions in the bank, the bank is advised to examine and submit the proposal after a new MD and CEO assumes charge later this year,” HDFC Bank said in a statement to the exchange. Last month addressing the media, Puri said that a search committee was shortlisting candidates and the recommendations would be sent to the RBI in time. In terms of RBI guidelines, the board has to send two names in order of preference at least four months before the outgoing CEOs term ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-to-hdfc-bank-board-appoints-after-new-ceo/articleshow/75056382.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Students of Manipal Institute win MIT Covid-19 challenge||Manipal: A team of three students of Manipal Institute of Technology students has won the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Covid-19 Challenge event. The ‘Beat the Pandemic’ was a 48-hour virtual event to help tackle the most critical needs caused by the Covid-19 outbreak. The hackathon that began on April 4 had participants from across the world. Three students of Manipal Institute of Technology — Akshatha Kamath (third year CSE), Shubham Rateria (CCE batch of 2019) and Adri Rajaraman (ECE batch of 2019) participated in the event and pitched their ideas in the initial session. They teamed up with Melia Watson, Washington DC (Respiratory therapist, MBA), Hsiang Wei Hu, Taiwan (cofounder of Acusense Biomed) and Mariane Melo, UK. They narrowed down to the problem of overcrowded hospitals with inappropriate admissions, whereas less than 5% of the average population under 50 years of age require hospitalisation. Their solution was to build a telehealth platform for non-contact monitoring of vital signs, such as heart rate, respiratory rate and blood oxygen concentration using just a phone camera, or web cam at home. Over the weekend, they worked on the proof of concepts, prototypes, and preliminary vision for execution. Throughout the hackathon, several mentors across the US with diverse expertise were available to improve the idea and business proposal. On Sunday, the team reconvened to present their work in the form of a 3-minute long pitch followed by a Question and Answer session with the judges. The event saw 1,500 participants from 75 plus countries and over 250 mentors. The team were declared as winners of their Track- ‘Who to test and when’. They will now have an opportunity to co-develop and implement their solution with the support of partners. The team looks forward to improve the accuracy of their solution, and incorporate it into telemedicine platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-of-manipal-institute-win-mit-covid-19-challenge/articleshow/75052137.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Varanasi||Multi-utility sterilization chamber for mobiles, keys||Varanasi: An incubated company of Malaviya Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship (MCIIE), IIT BHU has developed a low-cost multi-utility sterilization chamber for essential articles like mobile, purse, key, belt etc. “These things are is generally not being sterilized by even those who are at high risk of infection from corona such as health, sanitation and security personnel,” said coordinator Prof PK Mishra. Explaining its features, Mishra said that a cabinet based on the principle of UV germicidal irradiation using C band of ultraviolet (UV) radiation has been developed by this incubated company. The device has two UV lamps having a capacity of 21 watts. “Any virus can be deactivated up to 99% by the ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) dose of 2,400 microwatt.sec/cm2,” he claimed adding that the device ensures complete inactivation of corona virus. This device is also working on auto timer to ensure the safety of user against the UV dose. The air circulation within the cabinet ensures complete exposer to incident UV radiation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/multi-utility-sterilization-chamber-for-mobiles-keys/articleshow/75054286.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||RBI to HDFC Bank: Board appointments after new CEO||Mumbai: In a fresh twist to the HDFC Bank succession issue, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has asked the private lender to wait until a new CEO is in place before elevating executives to board level. The central bank on Wednesday put on hold a decision by the bank’s board to elevate Sashidhar Jagdishan and Bhavesh Zaveri to the position of additional director and executive director (whole-time director) on the board of the bank. The elevation of Jagdishan and Zaveri had raised speculation that they might be candidates to succeed Aditya Puri, the only CEO HDFC Bank ever had since it was launched in 1994. HDFC Bank on November 28, 2019, had intimated the appointment of the two executives to the board subject to the approval of the RBI. “We are now in receipt of a communication dated April 7, 2020, from the RBI, stating that since these are important positions in the bank, the bank is advised to examine and submit the proposal after a new MD and CEO assumes charge later this year,” HDFC Bank said in a statement to the stock exchange. Last month, addressing the media, Puri had said that a search committee was shortlisting candidates and the recommendations would be sent to the RBI in time. In terms of RBI guidelines, the board has to send two names in order of preference at least four months before the outgoing CEOs term ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-to-hdfc-bank-board-appointments-after-new-ceo/articleshow/75055563.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Oyo to put staff in UK, US on leave as revenue drops 60%||TNN Bengaluru: Hospitality major Oyo has said that its revenues have taken a hit of 50-60% across the world. It added that this has, in turn, put pressure on the balance sheet of the company even as it gets ready to put thousands of employees in markets like the US and the UK on temporary leave or furloughs. Oyo’s founder Ritesh Agarwal said in a video message that its revenues and hotel occupancies have fallen by over 50-60% as compared to “leading global chains”, which have seen a fall of 75%. “The company’s balance sheet runway has come under severe stress. This meant to ensure that we look at every controllable cost and reduce them,” said Agarwal. He added that the company stopped all forward-looking capital expenditure, M&As, non-essential travel and expenses a month ago. Agarwal said that the company “intends to do no or negligible layoffs” as part of the new restructuring exercise. The development comes as travel business takes a significant hit due to coronavirus even as Oyo finished a restructuring in January this year, where it laid off 15-20% of its 12,000 employees in India besides major cuts in China. Globally, Oyo has about 25,000 employees. The furloughs in the US and UK market are expected to be for a minimum of 60-90 days, while Oyo said it does not expect to take such measures in India as of now. Agarwal, who has forgone his salary for 2020, also stated in his video message that business in China has started growing 5% week-on-week as the economy starts opening up again. The development comes as Oyo, one of India’s most valued startups at $8 billion, sent out letters last month to hotel partners, saying it won’t be able to pay the “minimum guarantee” for their properties citing ‘force majeure’ clauses as the Covid-19 pandemic batters the economy The company said its total revenue for the financial year ending March 2019 is $951 million (Rs 6,784 crore), showing a growth of 4.5 times compared to the previous year. But its consolidated losses, including global operations, grew over sixfold to $335 million (Rs 2,390 crore). For the last one year, Oyo has been expanding across the US, China and Europe. India and China are its largest markets. Oyo has recently finished raising a $1.5-billion round of funding from its largest shareholder Japan’s SoftBank Vision Fund and through Agarwal’s RA Hospitality. In addition to the infusion, RA Hospitality also bought the majority of stake held by early investors Lightspeed and Sequoia for about $1.2 billion as Agarwal looked to increase his stake. After this deal, Agarwal and SoftBank own over 80% in Oyo and have also strengthened their rights, while diluting those of Lightspeed and Sequoia. “The amendment removes the need for Oyo’s management to seek the approval of Sequoia and Lightspeed for the company to foray into a new business,” said Vivek Durai of business intelligence platform Paper.vc, adding that the decision only needs approval SoftBank and Agarwal’s RA Hospitality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oyo-to-put-staff-in-uk-us-on-leave-as-revenue-drops-60/articleshow/75055423.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Tata Cap joins bond queue, eyes Rs 6.5k cr||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The board of Tata Capital Financial Services on April 7 approved a proposal to raise Rs 6,500 crore through the issue of debt instruments on a private placement basis. The financial arm of the Tata Group is the latest in the series of lenders testing the bond markets, amid a lockdown, where investors have turned risk-averse in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. On Wednesday, the board of IDBI Bank approved rupee bond borrowing of Rs 7,500 crore for FY21 in one or more tranches. HDFC was among the first to raise funds during the lockdown by floating a Rs 2,500-crore bond issue with an option to retain oversubscription of Rs 7,500 crore. The board of L&T will meet on April 9 to approve the raising of funds through the issue of debt securities. Although the money markets are flush with liquidity with the RBI making available nearly Rs 3.74 lakh crore of additional funds in its first monetary policy for FY21, banks have turned extremely risk-averse. The caution on the part of banks is reflected in the reaction to the auction of state government bonds this week. In the auction, the Kerala state government was forced to pay a coupon of 8.96% on 15-year bonds — almost 200 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) higher than the yield on 15-year government bonds. Tata Capital currently has an ‘AAA’ long-term issuer rating from India Ratings on the strength of the strong credit profile of TCL’s parent Tata Sons (TSL). TSL maintains strategic linkages, management oversight and control over the financial services business through TCL, which Ind-Ra expects to continue on an ongoing basis. The company plans to raise Rs 5,000 crore by issuing secured non-convertible debentures (NCDs) and Rs 1,500 crore through unsecured NCDs. IDBI Bank, meanwhile, plans to raise funds through additional tier-1 or quasi-equity bonds of up to Rs 3,000 crore, Basel III tier-2 bonds up to Rs 3,500 crore and senior/infrastructure bonds up to Rs 1,000 crore by way of private placement during FY21. Debt market sources expect LIC, which is the bank’s promoter, to support the issue financially. While HDFC was successful in raising the primary issue size, the company offered a coupon of 7.2% on its bonds — a significantly higher spread compared to its earlier fund-raises. NBFCs are facing the squeeze as they are not being extended a moratorium by their lenders, although they are expected to provide a moratorium to their retail borrowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-cap-joins-bond-queue-eyes-rs-6-5k-cr/articleshow/75055484.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jamaatis from other states to be tracked for testing: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Wednesday said, since Tuesday, no more members of Tablighi Jamaat from Gujarat who had gone to the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi were found in the state and thus the total stands at 127. Jha added that 11 of the 127 had tested positive for Covid-19. However, he said Jamaatis from other states who had come here are being traced for medical examinations. “We are also looking for seven persons who had come into contact with them,” Jha said. Senior police officials said that about 100 Jamaatis had visited the state before the lockdown period and left. “We are also looking for them to get them tested,” Jha said. Jha said he urged certain community leaders to make their members understand the consequences of Covid-19 infection. “We told them to inform their community members to cooperate with authorities or force would be used against those who do not cooperate, in the greater public interest,” said DGP Jha. Jha said congested places such as vegetable and fruit markets have been closed and the authorities are getting them moved to other places. Jha said drones were used to to register 471 offences on Tuesday, taking the total thus far to 2,865 across the state. A total of 2,565 accused have been arrested in these cases. “Similarly, 92 cases were filed using CCTV footage taking and 164 accused arrested on Tuesday. The total of such cases is now 399 with 714 persons accused,” Jha said. With regard to hate messages spread on social media, Jha said that on Tuesday 11 such offences were registered. So far 142 such offences have been filed and 258 persons have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jamaatis-from-other-states-to-be-tracked-for-testing-dgp/articleshow/75055434.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Patna||One fresh coronavirus positive case in Bihar||PATNA: One more corona patient was discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) while one fresh positive case was reported from Nawada in the state on Wednesday. The samples of 38-year-old Nawada man was tested in the IGIMS lab at Patna and it was found positive, taking the total number of infected persons in the state to 39, state nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said. This is the first corona case to be reported from Nawada. Total 16 corona patients in the state have recovered so far while one Munger man had died before his test report was found positive. NMCH superintendent Dr Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said the person who was discharged on Wednesday worked at the private hospital on Bypass Road where the Munger man had undergone treatment. Two other employees of that hospital had contracted the virus and recovered later on. So far nine Covid patients have been cured at NMCH, six at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital and one at AIIMS-Patna. On Tuesday, six positive cases were reported from Siwan, including four from the same family of Raghunathpur block where a man in his early 20s had returned from Oman on March 21 and tested positive on March 31. Those who have infected include his 45-year-old mother, 22-year-old wife, 26-year-old male cousin and 20-year-old female cousin. So far, 10 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Siwan, the maximum from any district in the state. Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey said 3km area around their place has been sealed and 33 people have been quarantined. Pandey said those tested positive were shifted to NMCH while those who had come in their contact have been quarantined in a hotel. Two other positive cases were reported from Begusarai on Tuesday night. Sources said they do not have travel history and efforts were on to trace their contacts to identify the person who infected the two teenagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-fresh-corona-ve-case-in-bihar/articleshow/75053775.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Kid sexually abused by teen in Alwar||JAIPUR: A 4-year-old Dalit boy was sodomised by a 15-year-old in Alwar’s Laxmangarh police station area on Monday night. Police registered the case after they were informed by the local hospital on Tuesday. The accused is yet to be detained. According to officials, the victim is undergoing treatment but is unable to give details of the assault. In another incident in Alwar, a 17-year-old girl was gang-raped by two persons four days ago in Khushkera police station area. Both the accused have been traced. Laxmangarh SHO Ajeet Singh said, “The child was sodomised by a juevenile who lured him to the fields with the intention of giving him biscuits. The child is too young and we got his medical examination done which confirmed the assault.” The cops were apparently shaken up when they they heard about the assault as the accused was 15-year-old. An official said, “We are questioning the accused and it appears that he might have been subjected to the same abuse though cannot be said with said certainty.” In another case, a young girl was allegedly raped by two in Bhiwadi. Vijay Tiwari of Mahila Thana said, “Although the assault happened a couple of days ago, there is no doubt that it occurred. The accused took turns to rape the girl and we got her medical examination done.” According to officials, they have been trying to trace the girl as well as the accused though no one has been arrested yet. “The point is that everyone has to be questioned and asked about the assault,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-year-old-sodomised-by-teen/articleshow/75055850.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Cops shoot down liquor home delivery proposal in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Cops have nixed a proposal floated by the state excise department for home delivery of liquor for three hours every day. But tipplers need not be disheartened as an initiative has been started to start operations at the warehouses of the state-run Beverage Corporation (Bevco) on Wednesday. “After the lockdown is over, Bevco will start functioning. We have received an intimation in this regard,” said an excise official. Once Bevco starts functioning, there is a possibility that retail shops, too, may be allowed to open for limited hours after April 15. The excise department has also extended the time frame for renewal of liquor licence and registration from March 31 to June 30. Sources said the excise department had wanted to follow the Wuhan model, where home delivery of liquor was attempted successfully with an app during the 68-day lockdown. On Wednesday, there was an informal communication from the excise department that during the lockdown, liquor will be sold on a home-delivery basis from establishments with valid liquor licences. “The public may place orders at the nearest on/off shop over phone between 11am and 2pm. Delivery personnel from the shops will take the liquor to the buyers’ homes between 2pm and 5pm the same day,” the communication said. Liquor shop owners were asked to contact cops for passes. However, there was no official notification from the excise department. “Cops asked for an official notification from the excise department, which we do not have,” a liquor shop owner said. An official said there is no guideline in the Excise Act about home delivery of liquor. “For issuing notification on home delivery, excise rules have to be changed,” he said. A liquor shop owner said Hipbar, an app operational in some cities, had applied for home delivery of liquor in Kolkata three years ago. But it did not get the licence. An owner of three liquor shops in the city added that home delivery by staffers of the retail shop was not a good idea. “An app could be a better idea. The best thing is to permit liquor shops to operate for a limited time daily after April 15,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-shoot-down-liquor-home-delivery-proposal/articleshow/75055680.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown Heroes: Zeal to help the destitute drives him||NEW DELHI: On March 23, news TV networks showed thousands of daily-wage earners in dire straits due to the nationwide lockdown, some in a locality not too far from where 35-year-old Ambrish lives. For the driver, this was the trigger to put to use whatever little resources he had in helping such people. Roping in other family members, Ambrish began preparing food and distributing it to the poor by noon. Ambrish, father of a six-year-old boy and four-year-old girl, lives in Faridabad and works as a driver for a senior advocate in Delhi. Ambrish has refused help offered by his employer for the food project. "He said he would let me know when he needed assistance, but hasn’t asked for anything," the lawyer says. Ambrish is not a wealthy man, but his heart is rich. The humble driver himself says, "Ye koi badi cheez nahi hai. Agar koi soche ki bahut kharcha hoga, aisa nahi hai. Saada bhojan bhi bana ke de sakte hain. Khud banane se kharcha nahi hota aur gareebon ko khila sakte hain (It’s not a difficult to prepare simple meals and cook ourselves to save on the expenses. It’s not true that one will end up spending a lot)." His wife, brother and brother-in-law step in to prepare 150 packets of food he takes help of his wife, brother and brother-in-law. The day starts at around 6.30am, when he wakes up. An hour later, he is in the kitchen, assisted by his wife, to begin the cooking. The meals mostly comprise vegetable pulao or biryani. They pack the food in aluminium foil containers and take them to the jhuggis. "We leave home in a car around noon to reach the shanties near the MCD toll booth where around 50 people live. We distribute some packets there. We then drive to a place called Naya Pul to help 30-35 persons, following which we go to Labour Chowk in Sector 37, where there are 15-20 needy people," says Ambrish. He recounts the first day of the food distribution on March 25, when he met someone who hadn’t eaten for three days. "Luckily, many others now provide meals to the people affected by the lockdown. When I go out to distribute food packets, I see others doing the same," says Ambrish. The driver plans to carry on till April 14, when the lockdown is scheduled to be called off. He derives inspiration from his 70-year-old mother, who lives in their native village. It is his mother who always advised him to share whatever he had with others. "I initially distributed groceries to some hungry people, but decided I should do more and started cooking meals myself," he smiles. While distributing food, Ambrish takes all precautions — wearing a mask and frequently using hand sanitiser, and those awaiting food are told to maintain a distance between themselves. "It’s not necessary to feed 500 people at once. Start with what you are capable of," Ambrish suggests. "If people contribute even a little, it adds up to a lot."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-heroes-zeal-to-help-the-destitute-drives-him/articleshow/75055848.cms||Aamir Khan
April 9, 2020||Patna||Funds released to PRIs in Bihar: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said on Wednesday that the fifth finance commission has released the second instalment of Rs 1,401.17 crore pertaining to 2019-20 fiscal to the three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). “A part of the sum has will be spent on preventive steps against coronavirus in their respective areas and the remaining amount will be spent on schemes under the seven resolves of the government,” he added. The deputy CM said that Rs 562.04 crore subsidy has been earmarked for expenditure on e-governance, capacity building and training. However, in the present scenario, an amount of Rs 521.07 crore will now be used by the PRIs on purchase of masks, gloves, sanitisers and soaps, among other items, and also on the security of those kept in quarantine in their areas. The items purchased will be used by the elected representatives, health workers and other government personnel. Of the earmarked sum to combat Covid-19, Rs 375.28 crore is meant to be used by the gram panchayats, Rs 53.60 crore by panchayat samitis and Rs 92 crore has been released for the Zila Parishads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-funds-released-to-pris-in-bihar/articleshow/75053867.cms||Abhay Singh
April 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gaya DM seeks private practitioners’ help||GAYA: With ANMMCH having been notified as a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients, the Gaya health administration is facing shortage of both doctors and hospital beds. As the 544-bed ANMMCH has been made out of bound for non-Covid patients, the load has now shifted to the 60-bed Jai Prakash Narain Hospital (still known by its old name Pilgrim Hospital and 55-bed all women Prabhawati Hospital (Lady Elgin Hospital). If that was not enough, the private practitioners have shut their clinics and nursing homes. As per information available on the health department’s official website, there were altogether 224 government doctors (both regular and contractual) deputed at the district hospital, two sub-divisional hospitals, 24 health centres and 40 additional primary health centres of the district. The district, as per 2011 census report, had a population of more than 43lakh. According to ANMMCH superintendent Dr Vijay Krishna Prasad, patients admitted to the hospital are being shifted to the Pilgrim and Lady Elgin Hospitals. On Tuesday evening, Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh held a meeting with a select group of the district chapter of the IMA. He sought the services of the private doctors in managing the Pilgrim Hospital. According to Dr Ram Sewak Prasad, president, Gaya IMA, “The DM wanted the private practitioners to re-open their respective clinics and nursing homes.” While promising cooperation in managing government hospital, the IMA representatives, according to Dr Ram Sewak referred to the hiccups in reopening the closed clinics and nursing homes. Social distancing norms was not possible in private clinics which may create health hazards for the doctors and their aides. The IMA representatives also sought deployment of police in private clinics to enforce social distancing norms. SSP Rajiv Mishra, who was also present at the meet said that due to shortage of police personnel their deployment at private clinics is not possible. Another issue raised by the IMA members was non-availability of protection kits for private doctors and support staff. The DM expressed his inability to distribute the available kits among the private practitioners. He reportedly assured the doctors to explore the market purchase option and in that case the private doctors will have to bear the cost. Asked about the medical body’s response, the IMA chief said that he has sought the consent of members who are willing to volunteer their services to government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-dm-seeks-private-practitioners-help/articleshow/75053892.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Covid positve tiger spooks pet lovers||PATNA: The reports of a zoo tiger testing positive for coronavirus in the US has pet owners in the city, especially those with cats, spooked about the possibility of their furry friends contracting the disease. According to the animal experts at Patna zoo, mammals, especially cats, primates and ferrets, are likely to be infected with the Covid-19 virus. Veterinary doctors in Patna are getting calls for consultations from pet owners asking about precautions that need to be taken to keep their pets safe. The vets have recommended that pet owners keep their pets indoors. Dr Bhartendu Vimal of Bihar Veterinary College told this newspaper that there are possibilities that the coronavirus is “zoonotic in nature”, which means it can transmit from humans to animals and vice versa . “Pet owners need to keep an eye for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms shown by their pets especially cats, ferrets, monkeys and even dogs,” Dr Bhartendu said. He added: “People should avoid taking their pets for walk. They should also maintain social distance with their pets and avoid hugging or allowing them to lick your hands or face.” Shilpi Gupta, a resident of Makhaniya Kuan said, “I try to keep my cat Sultan at home, however, sometimes he manages to escape. I am worried after seeing the news about the tiger who got infected by the virus. The veterinary doctor has told me to clean the cat’s fur and paws with a soaked towel with Dettol solution.” Danish Rizwan, a resident of Jagdeopath, who owns two Persian cats and four weasels, said he consults a vet twice a week. “Both my cats, Simba (7-months- old) and Snowy (5-months-old) are doing fine. I give them bath on alternate days, by mixing Dettol solution in their bathing water. I even make sure that they remain in one room and do not go outside,” Rizwan said. He added: “As far as the weasels are concerned, I keep them locked in the cage. In addition, I sanitise the area every day in the morning as well as in the evening.” A resident of Boring road, Devopriya Dutta, said she stopped giving non- vegetarian meal to her tabby cats, Sundar and Sundari. “I also have one canine. I only give them lukewarm food especially, milk and rice, bread, paneer and other pet food. I give them a bath twice a week and make sure they remain indoor,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-ve-tiger-spooks-pet-lovers/articleshow/75053617.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Retired Jadavpur University professor writes to CP after son’s arrest||KOLKATA: Retired Jadavpur University professor Ananda Lal has written to the Kolkata Police commissioner and the state home secretary, alleging his son was arrested on false charges of flouting lockdown rules and that he was harassed when he went to fetch his son from the police station. Cops have denied the allegations. The professor sent his son Dhruva to get medicine on Monday when cops picked the latter up. “He was riding a bicycle to a medicine shop when cops stopped him and put him in a police van. They did not want to see the prescription or ask why he was out. They made him sit at the police station with others in close proximity,” Lal said, adding that he himself was made to stand for a long time. Jadavpur cops said they did not do anything wrong. “Dhruva rode 1.5km on a bicycle, crossing multiple medicine shops. He was not carrying any prescription. There are restrictions on outsiders at the police station so we could not attend to Lal,” said DCP (south suburban) Pradeep Kumar Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retired-ju-prof-writes-to-cp-after-sons-arrest/articleshow/75055651.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops fumigate police stations, kiosks to keep force safe||KOLKATA: A city police decision to prevent officers being infected is set to get bigger. Lalbazar top brass have now asked the police disaster management group to spray disinfectant and carry out fumigation even at police kiosks on the roads, outposts and nakas apart from the 46 police complexes, 79 police stations, 25 traffic guards and barracks in the city. The decision is aimed at allying fears of the officers on the ground who come in contact with multiple people — at nakas where men and vehicles are being checked, at night shelters where the poor are being fed and even at the police stations where people are filing reports. The traffic cops, who spend the maximum time on roads, remain the most vulnerable among them all. “We decided to cover one police division in a day. Once we complete the eight divisions, we will begin the disinfection routine all over again. From the nakas and the offices to their homes, we want to ensure our officers get thoroughly disinfected every eight days,” explained an officer from the DMG unit. Sources said that six of the divisions have been covered so far, with south and Port divisions likely to get their first dose of disinfection in the coming 48 hours. “Phase-II will kick off from Saturday,” an officer said. Police vehicles are likely to be added to the list as well. Three DMG teams with eight personnel each have been leaving the Police Training School each morning by 8.30am. The teams, led by OC Kankan Roy, carry two tankers, backpacks and spare machines. While one team concentrates on the divisional headquarters, the rest cover police stations, traffic guards, nakas and outposts. “We mix 2L of the chemical to 10,000L of water to make the disinfectant,” explained an officer. Several officers have been staying away from their homes for fear of putting their families in danger. “We need to give them the confidence that the safety of their and their families’ safety is our priority. At the same time, the public can also approach cops knowing that the chances of infection has reduced,” an officer said. “Staff of every police station have been sensitized on hygiene and rules are being strictly followed,” said Subhankar Sinha, joint CP (headquarters).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-fumigate-police-stns-kiosks-to-keep-force-safe/articleshow/75055639.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Change in weather pattern could lead to spike in fever cases||MANGALURU: Even as India is preparing for the community transmission phase of Covid-19, with the imminent change in weather condition, doctors expect a rise in fever cases, which could trigger panic among the public. April showers accompanied by winds might not only bring the much-needed respite to the region that is reeling under the searing summer but also lead to rise in fever cases. Not all fever cases are Covid-19 and doctors are requesting people to stay home and call the physician before rushing to a hospital. Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, internal medicine physician practising in California and currently at his hometown in Puttur told TOI, “For the next few months, we can expect more fever and upper respiratory tract infection cases due to Covid-19 and rainy season. The symptoms such as upper respiratory tract overlap in both cases,” he said. Since the common people are not trained to differentiate between the two, they need to follow social distancing, wash hands and use sanitizers, stay at home and talk to the doctor over the telephone, before rushing to the hospital. “However, if a patient reports shortness of breath and persistent fever, it is important to seek further medical advice,” he said. Physician Dr B Srinivas Kakkilaya said, “Coronavirus is one of the important causes for upper respiratory tract infection. There are more than 100 types of rhinoviruses which cause infection of the nose and throat. There are seven types of coronaviruses causing similar infections, of which three cause complications and four are very mild. One of the three is the novel coronavirus. It is impossible to test for different viruses as the tests are expensive. Since most of these infections are very mild, the treatment would be nothing more than paracetamol, and therefore, there is no need to rush to a fever clinic.” Dr Kakkilaya said that it is important for people to sit at home and give the doctors a call and seek advice. “The government must make public the guidelines that are published. The vulnerable include elderly above the age of 60 and patients with diabetes, hypertension, obesity and cardiac disease. Complications develop on the sixth or seventh day, and these people must be watched carefully for symptoms of severe disease and admitted to a hospital if necessary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/change-in-weather-pattern-could-lead-to-spike-in-fever-cases/articleshow/75052444.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||They use ingenuity to create masks||AHMEDABAD: Masks have become an important weapon in the war against Covid. The severe shortage has pushed innovators and designers in the city to craft cost-effective masks. The founder of ButtonMasala, Anuj Sharma, designed a simple cloth mask that requires no stitching. It uses buttons and rubber bands. “It is a simple technique and is indeed effective,” Sharma said. “I put out a video on my social media page over two weeks ago and got trolled over the need for a mask. However, it was heartening to see the method being used by frontline professionals to make their masks.” Sharma’s mask is being made and used by several frontline professionals in Rajasthan. In another case, a fashion design student, Vanessa Rodrigues, put her basic grasp of cutting and stitching to good use. “I decided to make my own masks with whatever material I had,” she said. “The masks were not just for me and my family. I distributed them to security guards in my building and to some migrant labourers who live in slums near my house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/designers-use-ingenuity-to-create-masks/articleshow/75055571.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 9, 2020||Business||Hospital biz hit due to drop in med tourism, procedures||Rupali Mukherjee | TNN Mumbai: Major hospitals, including Apollo, Fortis and Narayana Hrudayalaya, are facing headwinds in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak due to deferment of elective procedures, lower occupancy and absence of medical tourism. This has also taken a toll on hospital stocks, which have corrected in the range of 20-50% in March. The diagnostics business offered by certain hospitals has also been impacted, though the pharmacy business is looking up. Despite short-term headwinds, the fundamentals of the hospital sector remain intact, analysts say. Overall, the hindrances are expected to persist over the next two-three months with full normalcy from second half of current fiscal (H2FY21) onwards. Large players like Apollo Hospitals have witnessed a significant drop in occupancy levels from 70% to 40% now, amid restrictions on people movement (around 50% volume is from patients who travel from other towns and cities), and deferred elective surgeries. Fortis has also started seeing a decline in the number of elective surgeries, resulting in a sharp fall of around 65% in OPD (outpatient department) and 40% in IPD (inpatient department) volumes, while occupancy levels are down to 45% from Q3FY20’s 68%. In Narayana Hrudayalaya, domestic inpatient and outpatient volumes have fallen 30-40%. The sector has also been impacted due to the absence of medical tourists in the wake of travel advisories and the national lockdown. Medical tourism contributes 11% each to Apollo’s and Narayana’s revenue mix. While for Fortis it is 10%, Aster DM Healthcare 5.2%, HCG 4-5% and Shalby Hospitals 2-3%. On the other hand, Apollo’s pharmacy business is seeing an uptick in demand, especially in the chronic segment. Also, growth in Aster DM’s clinics is likely to increase due to a rise in patients with respiratory issues, and pharmacy business due to higher demand for hand sanitisers, vitamins and immune-boosters, experts say. However, Fortis’ diagnostic segment (SRL) volumes are likely to be impacted by 60% due to the lockdown, they feel. With fixed costs being 60-80% of the total, the reduced occupancy numbers and hit on average revenue per occupied bed (ARPOB) are likely to impact performances partially in the fourth quarter of FY20 and almost entirely first quarter of current fiscal (Q1FY21), while Q2FY21 will be somewhat affected, a note from ICICI Securities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hospital-biz-hit-due-to-drop-in-med-tourism-procedures/articleshow/75055556.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 9, 2020||Business||Small businesses make a beeline to banks for short term credit||Chennai: Small businesses make a beeline to banks for short term credit to extend their runaway. A number of small businesses are getting in touch with their bankers for short term loans, preparing for a restart of operations, when the three week lockdown ends on April 14. Indian Bank’s generalmManager (MSME) KS Sudhakar Rao said, “We have disbursed short loans for 82 accounts worth Rs 8.33 crore in the last few days. It is sanctioned against existing collateral, where about 80% of these loans are borrowed from customers in Tamil Nadu, followed by Andhra Pradesh.” For existing MSME customers, Indian Bank has come up with Covid MSME schemes — with an upper limit loan of Rs 25 lakh for micro and small enterprises, and Rs 50 lakh for medium scale enterprises. City Union Bank MD & CEO N Kamakodi said 15% of existing cash limit (working capital) will be sanctioned based on their (SMEs) track record, with an upper limit of Rs 1.5 crore. “Few customers have asked for credit to pay salary, and those requests are already getting processed. We expect 20%-25% of our existing customers have such credit requirements. The rate of borrowing will be at an existing rate between the range of 9.5% and 11%,” he said. Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), which has passed on the 3-months moratorium to its customers as per RBI recommendations, said an ad hoc working capital for next two to three months is provided, with an upper limit on borrowing at Rs 1 crore for small businesses. An official of SIDBI, said, “In addition to existing loan schemes, we have introduced a new product called — SAFE — for our MSME customers. Under this scheme, financial assistance up to Rs 2 crore will be granted to micro and small business, who are engaged in manufacturing of Covid-related products, like medicines, masks, ventilators, protection equipment and gears. We have sanctioned about Rs 2 crore in the last 10 days, of the total sanctioned amount of Rs 4 crore in Tamil Nadu, at 5% interest on borrowing. This loan can be repaid in five years, while SIDBI will bear 2% credit guarantee cost.” However, the primary eligibility criteria have to be a cash profit making business in the last two years, with no defaults to existing bankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-businesses-make-a-beeline-to-banks-for-short-term-credit/articleshow/75055433.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Adani Foundation aids women SHGs in making masks||Ahmedabad: Women self-help groups aided by Adani Saksham, a part of Adani Foundation, have been producing N-95 masks for free distribution among people to safeguard themselves against Covid-19. So far, Adani Foundation, the CSR arm of the infrastructure conglomerate Adani Group, has produced and distributed more than 1,72,00 masks in states like Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. “There has been a commendable effort from women to safeguard the communities, which is the need of the hour. Members of our Adani Saksham Skill Development Centres in Mundra and Trivandrum have been constantly engaged in making masks to ensure a steady supply,” said Preeti Adani, chairperson of Adani Foundation. The organization has also provided 100 ventilators to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation followed by PPEs (personal protective equipment). In Ahmedabad, the foundation has distributed masks to policemen on duty and to doctors for nursing staff working with them. In Godda, Jharkhand the foundation helped produce 1 lakh masks made by women of self-help group (SHG) Phoolo Jhano Saksham Sakhi Mandal and handed them to the district administration. Adani Foundation also distributed another 17,000 masks in the villages. At Mundra in Gujarat, more than 13,000 masks made by SHG Saheli have been distributed to police, ICDS department, education department, labourers, drivers and others, said sources. The Adani GAIMS Hospital is well-equipped for handling Covid-19 cases in Kutch, said an Adani group official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-foundation-aids-women-shgs-in-making-masks/articleshow/75055588.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 suspect dies in Gaya, report awaited||GAYA: Gaya: A 35-year-old woman, who was in home quarantine after testing negative for Covid-19 on March 31, died at the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMCH) in Gaya on Wednesday evening. Her swab sample has been sent for test and the report is awaited. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said the woman, a resident of Asansol in West Bengal, had come to attend a marriage ceremony at Banke Bazar area of the district last month. ANMMCH deputy superintendent Dr NK Paswan said, “The woman was earlier admitted to the isolation ward as a Covid suspect. Her test report was received by on March 31. At that time she tested negative and as such she was discharged from the hospital and advised home quarantine for two weeks. She was discharged from the isolation ward on April 1.” The woman reportedly complained of breathlessness and was admitted to the ANMMCH on Wednesday evening. “The woman died an hour after being admitted to the hospital. She also has a history of acute anaemia,” the DM said. The woman was cremated within hours of her death and the cremation took place as per coronavirus protocol. Family members of the woman have been put in isolation ward in Bodh Gaya and they too will be subjected to Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-suspect-dies-in-gaya-report-awaited/articleshow/75053853.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 9, 2020||Patna||Patna University to upload e-content to website||PATNA: Some departments and colleges of Patna University (PU) have started imparting online teaching to their students through Skype and other electronic means. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, classes have been suspended since March 13. PU vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh told this newspaper that the teachers of postgraduate (PG) departments like law, psychology and home science, and colleges like Patna Women’s College and Magadh Mahila College have been conducting online classes for the last 14 days. “Our teachers are preparing e-content and the students with internet facility are attending online classes,” the VC said. In a notification issued on March 20, PU had asked all its teachers to prepare e-content and conduct online classes. Although regular online classes could not be started due to constraints like unavailability of internet facility in rural areas, teachers of different subjects developed e-content. “PU has told its teachers to submit soft copies of the study materials as soon as possible so that they are uploaded to the university’s website,” Singh said. In another notification issued on Tuesday, PU has instructed all its guest faculty members to submit e-content on at least five topics. For this, they will be paid anywhere between Rs 1,000 (per class) and Rs 25,000 (per month). Patna Science College physics teacher and PU central library’s assistant director Ashok Kumar Jha said, “We have received soft copies of study materials of physics, chemistry, geology, zoology, geography, economics, political science, home science, law and other subjects. Each teacher has to submit e-content on at least five topics of his/her subject in PDF format.” Psychology department head Md Iftekhar Hussain pointed out, “Our teachers are not only conducting online classes of PG students through videoconferencing, but also offering counselling sessions related to studies or illnesses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-univ-to-upload-e-content-to-website/articleshow/75053678.cms||B K Mishra
April 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lockdown violators pay Rs 60 lakh as fine||GAYA: At a time when the state government has suffered huge revenue loss on account of suspension of all economic activity, lockdown violators coughed up Rs 60 lakh in Gaya district to the dwindling public expenditure. Violators have been penalised under the amended Motor Vehicles Act. On day one of the three weeks lockdown, no less than Rs 7.3 lakh was realised as penalty. As per official information, about Rs 2.5lakh was realised on Tuesday. Besides the gain to the exchequer, police action against the violators has also invoked the fear of law as 96 offenders have been arrested including the 10 arrests made on Tuesday. About 163 vehicles including bikes and autos have also been seized. From day one, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra had ordered the SHOs and the traffic police officials to go tough with the violators. According to the SSP, besides the arrests, no less than 74 criminal cases have been instituted against the lockdown violators in the district. The SSP said that but for initial hiccups, the compliance level had been satisfactory. He has also directed the field officers to remain ever vigilant and bring the violators to book. Reports of misuse of exemptions have also been received. The SSP warned persons who try to take advantage of the relaxations in respect of buying of edible items and medicine. Referring to complaints that some people come out in the morning on the alibi of regular walk, the SSP made it clear that routine morning walk does not come under the relaxation purview and such violators would sternly be dealt with. “People must realise that keeping in doors was in their own interest,” said the SSP. Asked about the pattern of general crime like burglary and murder etc, the SSP said that a sizeable decline in crime was apparent but no statistical study has been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-violators-pay-rs-60-lakh-as-fine/articleshow/75053926.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Isolation rooms for cops returning from leave||PATNA: All police lines and military police battalions in the state have been directed to create isolation rooms for officers and personnel set to return after lockdown. They will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine instead be being allowed to directly enter the barracks. The decision was taken at a meeting of all field officers, which included battalion commandants, SPs, SSPs, range DIGs and IGs, via video-conferencing with ADG (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Wednesday, to take stock of the preparedness of the police force in tackling the Covid-19 menace. Kumar said, “Nearly 40,000 pairs of hand gloves and over 1,500 litres of sanitisers had been purchased across the state by respective district police and military battalion commandants for distribution. Altogether 67,712 masks had also been procured for police officers and personnel.” He added, “Measures for social distancing, cleanliness, sanitization, fumigation are also being taken up on regular basis at police lines, stations and other offices. We took stock of the preparedness of the force which we found to be up to the mark. We reemphasized on the need for strict enforcement of lockdown across the state.” Giving details of the action against lockdown violators, the ADG said, “Rs 2.67 crore fine had been imposed on lockdown violators, 11,205 vehicles had been seized and 542 people were arrested across the state till Wednesday since March 24 in order to enforce lockdown.” Sources said that for lockdown enforcement, one company each of BMP has been allocated to Gopalganj, Madhepura, Bhagalpur, Araria, Katihar, Munger and Siwan each. “Patna has been given three companies of BMP along with additional 180 baton-wielding police personnel,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/isolation-rooms-for-cops-returning-from-leave/articleshow/75053944.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 9, 2020||Patna||No job offer revoked since lockdown: IIT, NIT-Patna||PATNA: The technical institutions like Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and National Institute of Technology (NIT), Patna, are heaving a sigh of relief as no recruiter has cancelled the job offers amid the lockdown due to Covid-19. The premier institutes are still conducting the placement drive through online modes for the final year BTech students. IIT-Patna has already conducted placement and internship drive with five different companies since the lockdown while five more companies are going to hold online tests, web interviews and group interviews over phone. “Since the beginning of the lockdown, we have conducted placement and internship activities for 5 different companies through online tests and interviews,” Meghna, professor-in-charge public relations of IIT-Patna said. “The process is on for five more companies. We have got in touch with all our recruiters about online lectures and revised exam schedules. We have got support from a number of recruiters who reinstated that they will uphold their offers and their relationship with the institute in these testing times,” Meghna said. She added: “As of now, no company has revoked its employment offers to the IIT-P students.” Samrat Mukherjee, professor-in-charge of placement cell at NIT-Patna said on Wednesday that one multinational company has completed the recruitment process during the lockdown. “The results are awaited. Once the company releases the list of selected candidates, we would know how many students got the job offers,” he said. Besides, the NIT-P has sent the database of BTech 4th year electronic engineering students to a Delhi-based core electronic company. According to Mukherjee, the company would conduct telephonic interviews. “Much to our relief, no company has cancelled the job offers due to Covid-19. However, three companies withheld the recruitment process due to the lockdown. But they have assured to do it once the situation gets better,” he said. Nearly 85% of the IIT-Patna BTech students have received job letters while the NIT-P has recorded 93.9% placement of its BTech students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-job-offer-revoked-since-lockdown-iit-nit-patna/articleshow/75053550.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 9, 2020||Goa||Online classes only for general education streams: Goa University||PANAJI: On April 5, Goa University had issued a circular asking the varsity departments and affiliated colleges to complete the remaining syllabus for the current academic year through online classes. On Wednesday, GU has issued follow-up circular clarifying that the directives are meant only for the general stream programmes. “For students in Goa University and affiliated colleges, it is clarified that the said notification concerns only the general education streams of Goa University under Goa Business School, School of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, School of Chemical Sciences, School of Sanskrit and Indic Knowledge Systems and the faculties of languages and literature, Social Sciences, Life Sciences and Environment, Natural Sciences, Performing, Fine Art and Music and Education,” GU registrar Y V Reddy said. All programmes can take up online teaching. However, in the case of professional programmes, evaluation of the course content taught in online mode will be subject to the guidelines of the respective national regulators, states the circular. These professional programmes include those in law, engineering, planning, architecture and design and medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-classes-only-for-general-edu-streams-gu/articleshow/75056241.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation registers 94% fall in tax collection||PATNA: There was almost 94.6% decline in property tax collection in the first week of the new fiscal year 2020-21, as the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) earned only Rs1.6 lakh compared to Rs30 lakh during the same period in last fiscal year. PMC officials attributed it to the lockdown in view of coronavirus outbreak. Patna mayor Sita Sahu said on Wednesday that the revenue collection would improve only after the situation gets better. “The property tax collection was never this low. The PMC is giving 5% rebate to property owners, if they pay the tax before May 31. There will be no discount between June and August. If the taxpayers pay after September, they will be charged late fine as well,” she said. The municipal body has been sending messages to the property owners of all categories to pay taxes. PMC public relations officer (PRO) Harshita said the private firm -- ‘Sparrow’ — roped in for revenue collection has been sending bulk messages to property owners on their registered mobile phone numbers, to pay the property tax online through www.pmcbihar.gov.in. An official in the finance wing of PMC said physical copy of the property bills could not be dispatched to the owners in April due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, the civic body has fallen short of its property tax collection during 2019- 20 fiscal by 45.18%, racking up only Rs60.3 crore against the target of Rs110 core. Sahu said in 2018-19, PMC had collected around Rs82 crore against the target of Rs110 crore. “We are expecting to collect Rs20 crore more as the dates for the tax collection has been extended till May for fiscal year 2019-20,” Sahu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-registers-94-fall-in-tax-collection/articleshow/75053578.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Only 10 patients yet to be shifted out of M R Bangur||KOLKATA: MR Bangur Hospital continued to relocate more patients to various government hospitals across the city on Wednesday in a bid to clear space and make it ready to exclusively host Covid-19 patients, as instructed by the state last week. Till Wednesday evening, the hospital had relocated 240-odd patients and had released another 50. Only 10 more patients are yet to be shifted. “We have eight patients in the burn unit and two newborns in the neonatal care unit. All these patients are critical and we are awaiting the nod from SSKM Hospital to shift the patients in the respective units at the earliest. We are trying to get all the patients out of our hospital in another day,” said Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of M R Bangur Hospital. Naskar, however, stressed that their hospital is already equipped to handle Covid-19 patients and that, at pre-sent, they have 74 people admitted in their new superspecialty block. “At present, we have 74 patients who are undergoing treatment at our hospital. The new building has a capacity to accommodate 500-odd patients. Once the old building is free of patients, we will disinfect the entire structure before admitting patients there. The old building has a capacity to accommodate 600 more,” said a senior official of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-10-patients-yet-to-be-shifted-out-of-m-r-bangur/articleshow/75055643.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Patna||Counselling patients to beat fear key to fast recovery, say doctors||PATNA: Bihar has over 40% recovery rate of coronavirus patients with 16 of the 38 positive cases reported so far recovering from the illness in a little over two weeks since March 21 when the first case was detected. While the maximum number of nine coronavirus patients have recovered at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), which has been declared as a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients in the state, six have been discharged from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Darbhanga and one from AIIMS-Patna, where the state’s first patient, a 45-year-old woman, got cured. Doctors taking care of these patients said keeping the patients in a positive frame of mind to beat the fear and a healthy, nutritious diet, coupled with medications based on symptoms was their mantra in the fight against the virus. “Our first priority was to win the patient’s confidence,” said NMCH’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ajay Sinha, adding, “We see that many of those admitted here with Covid-19 are depressed and worried, so counselling them is the first thing we do. We interact with them and make them realize that it is not a big deal.” On the line of treatment taken, Sinha pointed out that they followed the guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Patients were given an anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine with dosage variation till their report came negative. Those suffering from cough were also given azithromycin,” he said. “Vitamin C tablets were also given to patients, along with green leafy vegetables, milk and protein rich food,” he added, emphasising the importance of nutritious food in boosting immunity of the patients. At AIMS-Patna, where the state’s first coronavirus patient recovered, Dr Neeraj Agarwal explained that treatment depended on the symptoms, the condition of the patient and whether they had any underlying conditions. He also followed the same protocols with dosage variations and said patients were allowed normal diet. “Around 80% cases recovered normally while only in 5% cases patients needed ventilator,” said Dr Agarwal. On the 45-year-old Anitha Vinod, who was discharged from AIIMS-Patna, Dr Agarwal said, “She had no medical history, that is to say she was not diabetic or was suffering from respiratory problems. Such people have better chances of recovery. As far as one death is concerned, the man was suffering from kidney problems.” At the JLNMCH in Darbhanga, six of the seven patients admitted were discharged on Tuesday. Dr Hem Shanker Sharma, the Covid-19 nodal officer of the hospital, said, “There is no specific line of treatment for this virus and at present we are following the guideline given by ICMR.” He added, “However, nutritious diet is very important, so depending on the patient’s food habit, we provided simple nutritious food and fruits containing vitamin C and lots water was advised.” Rahul Kumar, 25, who was discharged from NMCH on April 1 and is quarantined at home, said, “I was given bread, bananas, eggs, apple and milk, but I avoided banana and egg as I am a vegetarian.” He added, “At night I used to take milk with roti and green vegetables and regularly did cardio exercises at the hospital.” Vinod Venkatraman, whose wife Anitha was the first to be cured of Covid-19 in Bihar, stressed the need for family support. “Family has to give utmost support when a person is isolated. Also, those in isolation should connect with God as no is allowed to be closer to them,” Vinod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/counselling-patients-to-beat-fear-key-to-fast-recovery-say-doctors/articleshow/75053742.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 9, 2020||Business||Car factories make ventilators and protective masks to fight Covid-19||CHENNAI: Call it lockdown transformation. A company which dealt with pistons and bearings is now making fiberglass protective masks. Another that was talking about horsepower and cubic capacity is making ventilators. Ford has opened its factory to make glass visors, M&M & MG are making ventilators, TVS Motor is making masks. Motown is pitching in to offer scale, training, component making and process support to the medical equipment industry to quickly offer equipment most needed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic — masks, ventilators, protective gear and equipment. Indeed GSK Velu, CMD of Chennai-headquartered Trivitron Healthcare, is currently negotiating with two or three auto companies and will announce the final alliance shortly. “Tamil Nadu government has asked for at least 2,000 ventilators by May-June and we are in talks with auto companies which will provide components,” said Velu. The plan — to make at least 1,000 ventilators by May. Big auto is using its deep pockets, assembly line experience and engineering knowhow to branch into medical equipment necessary to fight the Covid-19 infection. Take Ford India. The company’s Sanand and Maraimalainagar factories — which make engines and SUVs like Ecosport and Endeavour — are now making 40,000 face visors with raw materials from Noida-based company Indica. “Close to 20000 request is for Chennai, 10,000 for Ahmedabad medical association and the rest for Delhi,” said the company spokesman. “More raw material is being secured for additional requests,” he added. Around 100 employees are working on this project. TVS Motor, through its social services arm Srinivasan Services Trust, is making 1 million masks for essential service providers and supplying them in villages across Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Almost 8 lakh masks have already been distributed. Others like Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Motors and Maruti are focussing on ventilators which India is severely short of. M&M is working with an indigenous maker to produce affordable ICU ventilators. These machines cost between Rs 5-Rs 10 lakh but the M&M model will cost below Rs 7,500 apiece. It is also making face shields which are already in use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/car-factories-make-ventilators-and-protective-masks-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75055414.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru college startup designs, supplies face shields to hosps||Mangaluru: Amid a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) to protect against the spreading coronavirus, a city-based startup is manufacturing protective face shield for frontline medical staff. DreamWorks — a student MakerSpace, incubated at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, has so far supplied 600 plus masks to several hospitals in Mangaluru. Speaking to TOI, Gautham Nayak of DTlabz, the startup behind the design of the protective shield said: “Face shields are a key piece of equipment for front-line healthcare workers operating in close contact with Covid-19 patients. These shields can protect a them from exposure to droplets containing the virus expelled by patients when they cough or sneeze.” The shields, a modified version of shield from Makers Asylum, are made of acrylic and OHP sheets. The transparent masks fully cover the face of the person wearing them. The five-member team has supplied the affordable face shields to Wenlock Hospital and other health care centres in the district. “There is demand for more face shields,” said Nayak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-college-startup-designs-supplies-face-shields-to-hosps/articleshow/75051775.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||MIT Alumni Association helps members stranded abroad||Mangaluru: The alumni association of Manipal Institute of Technology, which has about 52,000 alumni spread across the globe, has come up with an initiative to help alumni of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), who are pursuing their higher studies abroad. “The initiative has got a positive response from many of our alumni, and they have expressed their willingness to help any MITians stranded in foreign countries,” said M Vijaya Kini, associate director, alumni, public and international relations, MIT. MIT recently sent an email to all alumni, especially those who are pursuing their higher studies abroad. Since all college accommodations are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they need to find a place to stay, till the situation returns to normalcy. “We asked the alumni who are stranded abroad to get in touch with the office in Manipal, so that they can be put in touch with other alumni working in those countries. The response is satisfactory so far,” said Kini. Most MIT alumni pursue their higher education in the US, followed by Australia, Europe and Japan. Kini said that a majority of the youngest alumni are in the US, and those who have come forward to offer help are also in the US. MIT has several renowned alumni, who are making their mark in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mit-alumni-association-helps-members-stranded-abroad/articleshow/75051828.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 9, 2020||Patna||Two railway depots get disinfectant tunnels||PATNA: Disinfectant tunnels have been installed at the coaching depots of the Danapur station and Rajendra Nagar Terminal that fall under the jurisdiction of Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR). The step has been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus among the railway employees. According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, more such tunnels would be installed at the Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur station and Patliputra Junction for passengers. “Each tunnel, which has been prepared by skilled railway employees at the Danapur workshop, is 7 metres long and 4 metres wide. The moment people enter it, a sensor device automatically sprays antiseptic solution on them and kills germs,” the DRM said and added that disinfectant tunnels would also come up outside prominent offices of the division. 4,500 masks for docs, nurses: Altogether 4,500 N95 masks have been procured from a Mumbai-based firm to cater to the needs of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of railway hospitals located in each division of the ECR. “The specially-designed masks, which were brought by a special parcel van from Mumbai, will protect railway doctors and nurses and help them take care of Covid-19 patients,” ECR’s chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said and added that 269 personal protective equipment kits had been manufactured at the in-house workshops of the ECR so far. The railways has reportedly procured nine additional ventilators for the Danapur railway hospital and Karbigahiya superspecialty hospital in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-railway-depots-get-disinfectant-tunnels/articleshow/75053653.cms||Kumod Verma
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Just talk to us, elderly requests cops||Vadodara: “Hello, I am feeling lonely since few days as there is no one to talk to. Can you please come and spend some time with me?” questioned a septuagenarian woman in distressed voice to a policeman who picked her call in the control room a few days back. The cop asked for her address and a team of policemen was immediately dispatched to her house. “Our team spent some time with her and comforted her. She was asked to call up any time she needs our help. By the time, our team left she was in much better condition,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (administration). On April 3, 87-year-old Rukmini Bhatia, who stays alone in Karelibaug, called up on the police helpline number and complained of loneliness as her husband had passed away few years ago. While people are complaining of anxiety and depression over last one week due to the lockdown, the elderly are the most affected among the lot. Many senior citizens are staying alone as their children are either settled abroad or in some other city. “They can’t go out of their homes and their caretakers have stopped coming. They don’t have anyone to talk to and the coronavirus threat is scaring them further. So they call up our helpline number or police control room,” Kumari told TOI. A special team has been formed to help senior citizens and responds to such calls. “The team members spend time with the elderly, indulge in informal chat and also get them groceries and medicines. We visit them regularly and ensure that they get every possible help,” Kumari added. The police has also distributed groceries kit to 340 senior citizens in last 15 days. Many anxious senior citizens are also calling up counselling centres. “I get about 10 calls everyday from the elderly couples or singles staying alone. Some of them just want to talk for few minutes and share their anxieties rising out of loneliness. Not being tech savvy, they aren’t able to call their children over internet regularly,” said Dr Yogesh Patel, psychiatrist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/just-talk-to-us-elderly-requests-cops/articleshow/75054328.cms||Tushar Tere
April 9, 2020||Patna||A mockery of social distancing at banks||NAWADA: People have started crowding the banks to withdraw the amount credited in their Jan Dhan accounts by the government for their welfare in view of the coronavirus pandemic. But the beneficiaries make a mockery of social distancing in several districts, including Nawada. That was exactly the scenario outside the Allahabad Bank (now Indian Bank) branch at Nawada-Rajauli bus depot under Town police station and the Madhya Gramin Bank branch at Kashichak under the same police station in Nawada district on Wednesday. Men and women were seen standing in queue without maintaining social distancing. An exasperated bank staff said his repeated requests to them to maintain social distancing fell on deaf ears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-mockery-of-social-distancing-at-banks/articleshow/75053814.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Bigbasket to get $60m from Alibaba, Mirae||Digbijay Mishra & Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: Online grocery retailer Bigbasket is in the final stages of raising a $60-million round of funding. The round is led by existing backers Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, along with others like South Korea’s Mirae Asset Ventures and UK’s development finance institution CDC Group, said two sources briefed on the matter. The internal round will value Bigbasket at $1.2-1.3 billion, similar to its valuation during the last funding, as it shores up its balance sheet in an overall tough fund-raising market. The discussions for the round had been ongoing before the lockdown, said one of the sources mentioned earlier. The development comes at a time when the Bengaluru-based company has doubled its capacity to fulfil 3-3.5 lakh orders a day from 1.5 lakh as demand has skyrocketed during the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bigbasket has been building its delivery capacity through tie-ups with cab aggregators like Uber and out-of-work restaurant workforce as a lot of its workers left for their hometowns. With the existing round and increase in demand, Bigbasket has also started getting interest from new investors and will resume talks once the travel ban gets lifted, said one of the sources mentioned earlier. “The only question around Bigbasket was what kind of growth will there be in demand, which has been answered now. Grocery is one of the few sectors which has done well even in China during the lockdown and it will not be tough for them to raise capital at a higher valuation now,” said this source. Bigbasket competes with SoftBank-backed Grofers besides online retail giants like Amazon India and Walmart-owned Flipkart, with Reliance Retail also making an entry into the online delivery market. Queries sent to Alibaba, CDC and Mirae did not immediately elicit a response, while Bigbasket CEO Hari Menon declined to comment. Bigbasket’s conversations for a new round was first reported by Entrackr. The new round also comes as Bigbasket has been consolidating its position in the space, especially the morning milk delivery market. It has already acquired DailyNinja and is also in talks to buy Gurgaon-based Milkbasket, TOI reported last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bigbasket-to-get-60m-from-alibaba-mirae/articleshow/75055576.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown rule flout: 20 held in 7 days from Bidhannagar||KOLKATA: Three Covid-19 suspects from different parts of Salt Lake are undergoing treatment in hospitals and hundreds have been kept in isolation, but that is still not proving to be a deterrent for some people to go out without any emergency. The Bidhannagar City Police has arrested around 20 people in the past week for violating the lockdown, with most arrests from Lake Town and Baguiati. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is concerned that a section of people was going out just to have a stroll or meet neighbours for a road-side adda near the market complexes in different blocks. Some even move from one block to another on bikes and cars. “We are requesting people not to leave their homes unless it is absolutely necessary,” said an officer. “There still seems to be a lack of awareness over the issue,” said a civic official. All 41 councillors of the civic body have been instructed to carry on awareness campaigns daily in their respective wards this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-rule-flout-20-held-in-7-days-from-bidhannagar/articleshow/75055648.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad railway station gets sanitizing tunnel||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Railway station at Kalupur has become the first in the country to install a walk through mass sanitizing tunnel. The tunnel was opened following its final inspection by divisional railway manager Deepak Jha. The mass sanitizing tunnel is an attempt to ensure that the threat of Covid-19 does not affect the staff and passengers entering the Ahmedabad station at Kalupur. Recently the entire station at Kalupur was sanitized by professionals with WHO-approved hot fogging and cold fogging. Even the outside of the station was sanitized as was the entire area. With the number of Covid-19 positive cases growing in Ahmedabad, it is of utmost necessity to be prepared for when train services resume, said a senior officer. This tunnel is 20 feet long and is fitted with a sensor so that when a passenger approaches the entrance it starts fogging automatically with WHO approved sanitizer consisting of IPA and hydrogen peroxide based liquid sanitizer. The system runs on the vaporization process which converts the sanitizer mixture into a vapour which forms a uniform layer over the surface without wetting it and it also dries up quickly. The entire unit consist of the tunnel, an electric panel, an ultrasonic vaporizing unit and five outlets on top and five on the sides for uniform distribution of ssanitizer, with a storage tank of 500 litres. The tunnel can sanitize 25 to 30 persons per minute and consumes approximately 20ml of sanitizer per person. This is a pilot project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/station-gets-sanitizing-tunnel/articleshow/75055459.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man booked for not wearing mask||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Meghaninagar, Naresh Bhavad, 40, was arrested on Tuesday by Shahibaug police for loitering around without a mask on his scooter. He was booked under Section 188 IPC and GP act Section 135. He was also booked for not wearing a mask. City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said wearing a mask while going out is now mandatory and one can be booked for not doing so. According to the complaint registered at Shahibaug police station, while a police team was on patrol near Holi Chakla in Asarwa, they saw a man coming on a scooter without wearing a mask. When he was questioned he had couldn’t give any satisfactory reason for violating the lockdown. Shahibaug police said that when they checked him they did not find any other equipment which could have prevented him for getting infected by Covid -19 or preventing spread of the disease to others. Police officials said the implementation of lockdown has been made strict and anyone coming out of their homes during lockdown period without valid reason and without wearing protective equipment will be booked and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-violating-lockdown/articleshow/75055442.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||PIL in HC on coronavirus numbers||KOLKATA: Two PILs were file HC on Wednesday alleging suppression of facts and non-adherence to Covid-19 guidelines by the state. For one of the PILs, the bench of Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Joymalya Bagchi adjourned the matter till April 16 after hearing submissions on how the state wasn’t abiding by guidelines set by Indian Centre for Medical Research. The state was directed to submit a detailed report by then. In the other petition, it was alleged the state is not abiding by WHO guidelines regarding disposal of bodies of Covid-19 suspects. There was also allegations of suppression of facts by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pil-in-hc-on-coronavirus-numbers/articleshow/75055663.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||BSF catches tagged houbara bird at border, sends tag to FSL||JAISALMER: Alert BSF jawans caught a tagged houbara bird which perched on a border outpost late on Tuesday night. The bird was fitted with a UAV tag which is used for tracking. BSF has handed over the bird to Nachna police station and the tag has been sent to FSL Jaipur. According to BSF sources, the suspicious bird from the other side of the border came into India and perched on the Bhongariwala BOP of the 119th battalion of BSF. Jawans saw that a tag was tied to its feet with some code. The suspected bird was handed over to Nachna police on Wednesday. Sources said experts identified the bird as houbara and when it reached the border it was very weak and on the verge of death. BSF jawans gave it some water and food. SP Kiran Kung said the tag is being sent to FSL Jaipur and the bird has been handed over to the forest dept. Wildlife Institute of India expert Dr Yaduvendra Jhala said the population of houbara bird is rapidly declining and it is being bred under captive breeding in many Arabian countries including Abu Dhabi and to increase its population the birds are tagged and released in Pakistan, Kazakhstan and other countries. This might be one of those birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-catches-tagged-houbara-bird-at-border-sends-tag-to-fsl/articleshow/75055852.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Animal lovers ensure no strays go hungry in Goa||MARGAO: While the state government’s lockdown relief operations have been focused on caring for people in distress, stray animals, which depend on humans for survival, haven’t received the desired attention from the authorities, say animal welfare organisations. Dhyan Foundation Goa is caring strays, including cows, dogs, monkeys and even birds. The foundation’s Goa chapter coordinator, Swati Shilker said, “We have set up kitchens in North and South Goa where volunteers come and take food to feed strays. We also provide supplies to feeders who can’t source it.” The efforts of animal lovers have ensured that feeding of strays takes place at different locations across the state. The volunteers have obtained passes which also allows them to address distress calls for strays that need medical attention. Volunteer with the foundation Shridha Shetye pointed to a case where day-old kittens were orphaned. “The kittens were rescued at 1am,” she said. The foundation’s volunteers have also been actively helping in rescuing bovines. “Calves and cattle that are attacked by aggressive dogs during the lockdown are now safe at our gaushala,” Shilker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/animal-lovers-ensure-no-strays-go-hungry/articleshow/75055854.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held for social media hate speech||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crime police station officials arrested two persons, Irfan Surti and Asif Mirza, for allegedly spreading hatred between two communities. While Asif Mirza was booked under Section 505 and 153(A) of IPC and the IT Act, Irfan Surti was booked under the 505-1(b) and the IT Act. According to the complaint lodged cyber crime police station, Asif Mirza, from his Facebook account had posted hateful comments relating to the coronavirus pandemic. On March 22, he had also posted false information regarding medication for Covid-19. “We got his IP log address and arrested him. In the second case, Irfan Surti has posted on Facebook on April 1 that there was a conspiracy behind the police’s actions against Muslims over the coronavirus pandemic. Deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that he was also identified using the IP log and has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-for-social-media-hate-speech/articleshow/75055432.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Hungry man’s plight moves this IPS officer||SURAT: On patrolling duty to ensure lockdown in Valsad district, probationary IPS officer Om Prakash Jat was extremely moved seeing a poor man eating cooked rice by dipping the morsels in water instead of dal. Jat, who is posted as assistant superintendent of police (ASP) in Dungra police station near Vapi town, was so disturbed by this sight that he decided to launch a campaign for feeding the poor, mostly migrant labourers living in his jurisdiction. The officer has launched a mass campaign to ensure food for 22,000This resolve got stronger when the 2018 batch officer detained a truck carrying 43 labourers and booked the driver. On asking the labourers the reason for leaving, their reply shocked him even more. “Whatever little savings we had, around Rs 500 each, we gave it to the truck driver to ferry us to our native. We may survive coronavirus infection, but we will surely die of hunger,” Jat told TOI, quoting the migrants. The same night at around 3am, Jat and his team prepared a list of poor people in his area and started delivering ration kits at their door steps at 11am. Majority of the pockets in Dungra police station area have migrant workers from various states employed in factories of Vapi GIDC and Silvassa industrial estates. They don’t have ration cards and therefore cannot avail of subsidized food. Due to lockdown, these labourers lost their jobs which not only created food insecurity but reverse migration could defeat purpose of lockdown. “We called upon well-to-do people in industrial areas to donate money, material and man hours and asked them to send their names and contact numbers to us,” he said. In order to make the system transparent, donors were given account number of grocers and money was directly transferred to their accounts to prepare food kits. The grocers were asked to make kits containing rice, wheat floor, turmeric, chilly powder, salt, cooking oil, soap and dal. Every kit cost around Rs 450 to Rs 500. Every donor can buy any number of kits by directly transferring money into accounts of grocers. The trail of all the transactions is being maintained. Every donor was assigned a particular locality for distribution so that no one is left behind and there is no overlapping of distribution in same locality. "With the help of village sarpanchs and elected members, we identified beneficiaries which was cross verified by choosing random houses from list,” Jat explained. Till Tuesday, 8,365 kits more than Rs 32 lakhs has been distributed to the needy. Each kit can support a family for 15 days. Besides this, over 13,000 food packets have been distributed by Dungra Police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hungry-mans-plight-moves-this-ips-officer/articleshow/75054341.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chicken seller quarantined after Markaz link unearthed||VISAKHAPATNAM: The health and police departments in the city are on their toes after a chicken shop owner in the city admitted to having coming in contact with people who had attended a religious congregation in New Delhi. Last Sunday, the shop owner had sold meat to 200 customers. A list of his customers is being prepared by the health and police departments, most of them believed to be migrant labour from Bihar. According to sources, the chicken stall owner has been tested negative for Covid-19. However, as a precautionary measure, he and his parents have been kept in hospital quarantine. He also had played a game of cricket with local boys in the Parawada area. The authorities have identified 48 secondary contacts of the chicken shop owner and 11 people turned up voluntarily for tests. Except Dwaraka, positive cases were reported in the seven zones within the city police limits. So far Vizag had 21 positive cases and four were discharged after repeated tests proved negative. Tests on another two patients turned negative but they would remain in observation for a few more days, sources said. Meanwhile, a surveillance survey was carried out in the seven red zones. “Our health staff is conducting survey every day to know the health condition of the people. We have taken up another round of spraying in those areas,” said GVMC commissioner G Srijana. As a part of disinfecting, GVMC is spraying doors, windows and the premises of Covid-19 patients and houses of the secondary contacts. “We have 19 Delhi returnees, including one from the rural area. Out of which, five are positive cases. And from these positive cases, we have identified 23 primary contacts. Another 33 primary contacts were identified through other positive cases, leading to 56 primary contacts. Their test results were negative,” said RK Meena, city police commissioner. The top cop said no one has been allowed to enter the red zones. “All essential commodities are made available to them. The GPS system tracks all primary contacts and they are kept in home quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chicken-seller-quarantined-after-markaz-link-unearthed/articleshow/75054309.cms||Siva G
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 6 more Tablighi Jamaat delegates turn positive||TRICHY: Six more Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendees of the Delhi conference tested Covid -19 positive on Wednesday taking their count to 36 in the district and 97 overall in the central region. A health and family welfare department bulletin said six patients under treatment at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) tested positive while four others were negative. The hospital which already has 30 positive cases of TJ delegates for the past five days, now has no more samples from the TJ cluster to test. Meanwhile, samples of six new patients belonging to various places in Trichy have also been lifted from MGMGH. A senior official said the patients had no contacts with the infected patients. Since they had symptoms of cough and fever, they have been admitted and put through testing. Overall, MGMGH has 41 Covid-19 cases including 36 TJ delegates and five cases from Erode, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. “The health condition of all the positive patients is stable,” said Trichy collector S Sivarasu in a statement. As of Wednesday, 69 TJ delegates who tested negative were being kept in institutional quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College (JMC) in Trichy after they were shifted from MGMGH on their demand for a better environment. Trichy district administration said they will be discharged after 28 days of institutional quarantine on testing negative. The collector also said that a total of 20 areas including nine places in corporation limits, one area in municipality, three areas in town panchayat and seven places in rural areas have been fully cut off as a preventive measure. Hhealth department teams have been making door-to-door visits to the houses to check symptomatic patients. Except Trichy, none of the districts – Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam in the central region -- had new cases on Wednesday. However, the region had 97 cases in total including the six new cases in Trichy. Pudukottai district has no positive case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-more-tj-delegates-turn-positive/articleshow/75055851.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Erode||Trichy: 6 more Tablighi Jamaat delegates turn positive||TRICHY: Six more Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendees of the Delhi conference tested Covid -19 positive on Wednesday taking their count to 36 in the district and 97 overall in the central region. A health and family welfare department bulletin said six patients under treatment at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) tested positive while four others were negative. The hospital which already has 30 positive cases of TJ delegates for the past five days, now has no more samples from the TJ cluster to test. Meanwhile, samples of six new patients belonging to various places in Trichy have also been lifted from MGMGH. A senior official said the patients had no contacts with the infected patients. Since they had symptoms of cough and fever, they have been admitted and put through testing. Overall, MGMGH has 41 Covid-19 cases including 36 TJ delegates and five cases from Erode, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. “The health condition of all the positive patients is stable,” said Trichy collector S Sivarasu in a statement. As of Wednesday, 69 TJ delegates who tested negative were being kept in institutional quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College (JMC) in Trichy after they were shifted from MGMGH on their demand for a better environment. Trichy district administration said they will be discharged after 28 days of institutional quarantine on testing negative. The collector also said that a total of 20 areas including nine places in corporation limits, one area in municipality, three areas in town panchayat and seven places in rural areas have been fully cut off as a preventive measure. Hhealth department teams have been making door-to-door visits to the houses to check symptomatic patients. Except Trichy, none of the districts – Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam in the central region -- had new cases on Wednesday. However, the region had 97 cases in total including the six new cases in Trichy. Pudukottai district has no positive case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/6-more-tj-delegates-turn-positive/articleshow/75063048.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Varanasi||Efforts intensified to trace co-travellers of Deoband student||Varanasi: Senior officials of Varanasi division are on their toes, busy tracing the contacts and co-passengers of a student, who returned from Deoband to Jaunpur district and tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. His co-passenger and a student in an Islamic institute at Moradabad had already been found infected after returning home in Varanasi on April 3. A total of 39 students from Deoband and Moradabad had travelled in a bus to their homes in Jaunpur, Varanasi, Chandauli and other districts in east UP region after the lockdown announcement. Of these, 24 students reached Jaunpur same day. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “A student from Deoband tested positive for Covid-19. Tracing his travel history and contacts, Jaunpur administration found he had travelled in a bus with other students from Deoband and Moradabad. The efforts to trace his co-passengers and contacts in Jaunpur and other districts have been intensified.” “A student from an Islamic institute in Moradabad, who reached his home in Lohta, Varanasi travelled in the same bus and tested positive on April 3, while three other co-passengers have been traced in Chandauli and their reports are awaited. A massive search drive is on across east UP to trace other co-passengers,” said ADG Varanasi zone Bharat Bhushan. Total 39 persons, including 36 from Deoband, two from Moradabad and one Tabhligi Jamaat attendee had boarded the bus to reach Jaunpur, Varanasi, Chandauli and adjoining districts and 24 had alighted in Jaunpur, he added. On April 3 night, 3 cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Varanasi district in which two were Tablighi Jamaat attendees while third one was a 25-year-old youth of Lohta, an undergaduate student of Shahi Madrassa in Mandi Chowk, Moradabad. Lohta was declared red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/efforts-intensified-to-trace-co-travellers-of-deoband-student/articleshow/75054292.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||LPG cylinder explodes in unit, close shave for 4||LUDHIANA: Four workers had a narrow escape when an LPG cylinder caught fire and exploded at a garment factory in Daresi on Wednesday. A fireman said, “After receiving a call at 2.30pm, we rushed to the spot. Due to the lockdown, the factory was not operational. Four of its workers were living on the first floor. They were cooking in the afternoon when the cylinder caught fire. As soon as they rushed out, the cylinder exploded, gutting a part of the factory.” Sub-fire officer Aatish Rai said, “Nobody was injured in the incident, but some machines of the factory were damaged. The situation was soon brought under control, as the tenders took less time to reach Daresi from Central Fire Station in the wake of curfew. One fire tender was enough to douse the flames.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lpg-cylinder-explodes-in-unit-close-shave-for-4/articleshow/75054352.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||3 suspected Covid-19 patients die in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Three suspected Covid-19 patients died in the city on Wednesday. While two passed away at the civil hospital, the third at Fortis Hospital. So far, the number of coronavirus positive cases in the district is nine and toll two. A 65-year-old woman from Bawa Colony, Kakowal Road, Jamalpur, was admitted to the civil hospital on Wednesday afternoon with Covid-19-like symptoms. She was gasping when brought to the emergency at 12.30pm. She had cough for five days and breathlessness for three days. She was immediately given high flow oxygen, but she suddenly suffered cardiorespiratory arrest. High-quality cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was given as per protocol, but she could not be revived and was declared dead at 1.20pm, said a doctor. She is survived by a son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, who were also called to the civil hospital for throat swabs. Another 65-year-old woman of Tibba Road, a diabetic with cough for 15 days, haemoptysis and breathlessness for one day, was admitted to the civil hospital on Monday. She was stable on Tuesday, but got copious amount of blood in sputum. On Wednesday, she suddenly developed cardiorespiratory arrest. Even as CPR was given, she passed away at 10.45am, the doctor added. At Fortis Hospital, a 52-year-old woman from Mehal Kalan, Barnala, was admitted on Monday with complaint of breathlessness for the past one week. “She was admitted to the hospital with Covid-19-like symptoms, but we are yet to get her test report,” said medical superintendent of Fortis Hospital Dr Shelly Deora. Her 33-year-old brother-in-law said, “She had got her gall bladder removed two years ago and ever since suffered multiple diseases, including high BP and weakness in bones. She was diagnosed with pneumonia at the time of admission on April 6 when her X-ray was taken and she was shifted to the isolation ward. On Tuesday, she was put on ventilators. She died early morning on Wednesday.” She is survived by a 25-year-old son and husband, who works as a truck driver in Guwahati. Senior medical officer Dr Ravi Dutt said, “They are suspected coronavirus patients. Their reports are awaited. However, throat swabs of patients and their families were taken and sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The bodies have been shifted to mortuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-suspected-covid-19-patients-die-in-city/articleshow/75054370.cms||Mehak Jain
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Transgender artists wary of livelihood due to lockdown||TRICHY: For 21-year-old Ananyadevi, folk art and drama have been her livelihood for the last three years. After getting rejected on job front, she was accepted by a city-based drama troop that gave wings to her aspirations. Apart from supporting her family members, she also has to repay a loan taken for her sister’s marriage. But the lockdown, which is in place to prevent the Covid-19 outbreak, has come as a dampener. There are many transgender artistes like Ananyadevi in Trichy and neighbouring districts who have taken up folk dance and drama performance to eke out a living. While some of them have been booked for performances during village temple festivals, a few got roles in film. But the lockdown has stalled all the programmes. Rakshana, 38, from Manapparai of Trichy, another transgender artiste, who has trained five others in folk dance, says that it was only recently that they were gaining attention as artistes. I have helped a few transgenders give up prostitution and become artistes. But the lockdown has robed of our livelihood, she said. “I perform in dramas during temple festival for 6 months in a year, I teach classical dance to school children in the rest of the months. But I have lost both the opportunity because of the lockdown, said Rakshana. Machakanni, another 23-year-old transgender artist from Madurai, said that she had drama performance scheduled in four places in Madurai and Thanjavur. But that were cancelled due to the lockdown. She has already spent about Rs 15,000 for costume and jewellery to act as a deity. Now everything has been cancelled, she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transgender-artists-wary-of-livelihood-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75055853.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Police introduce colour-coded passes in Thiruverumbur||Trichy: The Trichy rural police has introduced on a pilot basis colour-coded passes in Thiruverumbur panchayat union to be issued to more than 48,000 residents to restrict their movement as a precautionary measure. Superintendent of police, Trichy district Zia Ul Haq kicked off the scheme in Thiruverumbur division on Wednesday. Police officers attached to the division issued rose, green and yellow coloured passes to 20 village panchayat presidents in Thiruverumbur only, while leaving other areas in the division untouched. “An estimated 48,000 passes will be issued to the people through the village panchayat presidents. People will be allowed to come to the market to buying essentials only twice a week,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Y Sureshkumar. Rose pass holders will be permitted to visit the market area on Mondays and Thursdays, green pass holders on Tuesdays and Fridays and yellow pass holders on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Sunday will remain closed for everyone. The passes will be valid from 6am to 1pm on the days allotted. The objective of issuing the colour-coded passes was to reduce the movement of people on the road in the name of buying essentials. Any one of the family members can use the pass in case of requirement failing which they will be subjected to legal action. The holder of the pass should be in the age group of 18 to 60 years. The usage of the pass will also be marked in the boxes printed on the backside of the passes. As far as villagers in union are concerned, Thiruverumbur is the hub for them to buy essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-introduce-colour-coded-passes-in-thiruverumbur/articleshow/75055857.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid Commandos to take patients to hosp, help cremate casualties||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Police has formed an emergency response team of 20 cops, who will be called Covid Commandos. The commandos have been trained by DMC hospital and equipped with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). They will help medical staff take Covid-19 cases to hospitals and cremate the casualties.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the commandoes would ensure the protocols were followed while dealing with coronavirus patients. “They have been provided safety gears along with body kits, gloves, masks and sanitizers. There are four such teams of five personnel each. Each team has a woman officer.” The teams held a demonstration at Police Lines on Tuesday. Khalsa Aid donates 200 PPE kits to policeNGO Khalsa Aid donated 200 Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to Ludhiana Police on Tuesday. Amanpreet Singh, managing director of Khalsa Aid, handed over the kits to additional deputy commissioner of police (II) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja and ADCP Ajinder Singh. ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “All police stations under zones 2 and 4 will be provided 10 kits each. Rest of the kits will be kept at police headquarters and can be used by other police stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-commandos-to-take-patients-to-hosp-help-cremate-casualties/articleshow/75054388.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Surat||‘Didn’t stop work for my brother’s funeral’||Surat: “My brother has already gone and the family can complete the last rites without my presence. But I decided not to go because if I take leave, my work will be left undone especially when I am engaged in a crucial task of keeping the city clean.” This 43-year-old may be a cleaner attached with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), but Nanduben Vadel’s sincerity towards her job is worth a million. Not only she, but her husband Harish, too, works as cleaner (safai karmi) in SMC. The duo took a tough decision to skip the funeral as they felt taking a leave now, when their services are most required in the current times, was unjust. Nanduben is currently posted in Piplod ward office and has been regularly attending her duties even after the death in the family. Nanduben, a resident of Ugat area, last had a talk with her elder brother Mahesh Chawda, 49, on March 31 over phone. He had called to check on her health. "My brother told me that I shouldn’t worry about him or others in the family and asked me to be very careful as I am involved in duty which may expose me to Covid-19 infection," said Nanduben, who was emotionally attached to Mahesh more than the other siblings. But, on the very next day she received information that her brother, an employee in a courier firm, died from a heart attack. Nanduben and her husband were in a dilemma, but the call duty proved to be more stronger for the duo than familial obligation. "Despite health problems Nanduben works till late at night with other staffmembers and never misses duty. She told me about her brother’s death and also that it was destined. She said that even if she doesn’t go nothing is going to change. I salute her tenacity of purpose and her integrity,” sadi Kailash Borse, sanitary inspector, SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/didnt-stop-work-for-my-brothers-funeral/articleshow/75054386.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 9, 2020||Varanasi||Food distribution to be done through centralised network only, says admin||VARANASI: To ensure proper enforcement of lockdown, the district administration has decided to now use a centralized network for food and ration distribution instead of allowing individuals and social organisations for the same. In an order issued on Tuesday night, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma stated that no organization or individual would be allowed to distribute ration kits or food packets directly from Wednesday and the passes issued to them earlier would stand cancelled. Only the passes issued to their delivery vans would remain valid. Now, only police will utilise its network up to beat constable level to distribute relief materials, especially food and ration. Till now over 50 organisations and individuals were issued passes by the administration allowing them to distribute food and ration in different localities. These organisations were running their community kitchens to prepare meal for distribution. But later it was felt that the provision was being misused in the name of social service by many. The DM said that large crowds of volunteers were being seen distributing the relief materials. Besides, people gathering for collecting relief materials often led to chaotic scenes which not only foiled the purpose of lockdown but also affected the law and order situation at some places. After a meeting with senior officials it was decided to take certain steps to serve the purpose of lockdown, the DM added. He said that the organisations and individuals interested in provide ration and food packets can contact the ‘food cell’ through already existing helpline number. The goods would be collected by the vehicles of the food cell and would be delivered to the respective police stations for distribution through police personnel. The DM also made it clear that only four persons including the cook would be allowed at the community kitchen run by any organization. All the police stations have been directed to prevent the community kitchens from becoming the places of gathering. He also directed the police personnel to maintain social distancing while distributing the food packets. The DM said that about 2,500-3,000 families in the district are being provided food through five delivery vans. In order to strengthen the centralized food delivery system two helplines with three phone numbers have been created. Any individual or organization interested in contributing services can contact the food cell. The DM said that the arrangement would be looked after by the vice-president of Varanasi Development Authority. The cell is functioning through the integrated control room. All the ration and food packets would be collected from the houses of the providers and will be distributed to the people at their doorsteps. Besides, other government agencies like NDRF and CRPF have also been engaged in distributing ration/food in different areas. To avoid any duplicacy list of beneficiaries has been provided to the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/food-distribution-to-be-done-through-centralised-network-only-says-admin/articleshow/75054317.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||GIB chick born under captive breeding named ‘Corona’||JAISALMER: A GIB chick that hatched recently at the Desert National Park in Jaisalmer has been named ‘Corona’. The chick, that hatched on March 24, was named so in the wake of the ongoing global coronavirus pandemic. Rajasthan government, Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and forest department, are jointly conducting captive breeding of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB) for its conservation, at Desert National Park (DNP) in Jaisalmer. Forest department employees deployed at DNP are taking care of the chick. DNP conservator of forest Kapil Chandraval confirming this, said that the state government, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, and WII are running the Great Indian Bustard conservation breeding programme. On March 6, one of the birds laid an egg, which was brought to the centre and was hatched here on March 24. The DNP staff & scientists though not officially, but named it ‘Corona’ for identification. He said two GIB chicks have been reported so far this year from Desert National Park, which has given a very good start to this year’s breeding season, believed to last from April to September. So far, total 10 chicks have been obtained by artificial hatching at Sam breeding centre. This year, the efforts to collect eggs for completion of target of making a viable founder population of GIBs in captivity, will continue. Chandraval said the main conservation breeding centre facility, which is being made by WII Dehradun at Ramdevra, Jaisalmer, is still incomplete, whereas it was supposed to be functional before last year’s breeding season, and due to the delay, forest department had to set up a temporary breeding centre at Sam, Jaisalmer. Efforts are underway to get the facility to run this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gib-chick-born-under-captive-breeding-named-corona/articleshow/75055856.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad student stranded in Italy appeals for evacuation||Dharwad: A student from Dharwad on Tuesday requested the Indian government to evacuate him from Italy where he is pursuing higher studies at Teesside University. In a video message, Raghav Pujari of Kumareshwar Nagar said there are several students stranded in the European country after the outbreak of Covid-19. “The landlords here are asking Indian students to vacate their houses and the Italian government has turned a deaf ear to their problems,” he said. Pujari said the Indian students who have part-time jobs are unemployed since the pandemic struck Italy. “Getting a square meal has become an impossible task. Indian students are in dire straits in Italy and hence the government should help in bringing us back to India,” said Pujari. He added that the students’ letter to the Indian embassy, requesting evacuation, has so far evoked no response. Pujari said his university is closed, but online classes are being held. “However, no student is able to concentrate on studies fearing infection and the situation prevailing in Italy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-student-stranded-in-italy-appeals-for-evacuation/articleshow/75044617.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Daughter of Jalna’s Covid-19 patient tests negative||Aurangabad: The daughter of the only Covid-19 positive case in Jalna has tested negative for the infection, health officials said on Wednesday.The woman, who works as a teacher at a village in Ghansawangi taluka, had attended a mid-day meal-related event in her school on April 2, which was attended by over 6,000. Her mother, 65, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 6 and is critically ill. “We had tracked down 61 persons who had come in contact with the patient. Of them the laboratory reports of 44 persons have returned negative for Covid-19. Seventeen health workers who were in touch with the patient have also been put in isolation,” health authorities said.The authorities have also sealed the area where the patient hails from and are monitoring the health of 100 families for the stipulated period of 14 days.In addition, 26 members of three families from Shahagad in Ambad taluka of the district have tested negative for coronavirus. These families had hosted Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members during their journey to Nilanga in Latur district. Eight of those TJ members later tested positive and are currently receiving treatment.Nivrutti Gaikwad, resident deputy collector for Jalna, said that all those who have tested negative have been asked to remain in isolation as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) in Jalna has carried out action against a medical store for selling hand sanitizer at an inflated price. “The hand sanitizer of 100 ml with an MRP of Rs 50, was being sold at Rs 100. The store had written over the original price with a marker pen. A stock of 13 such bottles was seized and the store owner has been booked,” an official release said.Jalna district has also reported 134 offences for violating lockdown norms, including the arrests of 15 offenders. The police have imposed fines of Rs 26,808, a release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/daughter-of-jalnas-covid-19-patient-tests-negative/articleshow/75055455.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Two test positive in city, one is a Jamaati’s nephew||Ludhiana: Two more coronavirus positive cases were reported in the city on Wednesday evening. One of them is a 15-year-old nephew of the 55-year-old from Chowkiman village, Sohian Road, Jagraon, who tested positive on Sunday evening. The boy had gone with his uncle and three others from a nearby area to Delhi from March 17-19.His name was in the list of people who had returned to Ludhiana after attending Tablighi Jamaat markaz at Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi. The list was issued to the agencies on April 4 and on the same day, he was taken to the civil hospital. Another positive case is 24-year-old from Ganesh Nagar. Till now, 466 suspected cases have been reported by the health department, of which 389 tested negative, two died and nine were positive. Results of remaining 63 samples are pending at Rajendra Hospital, Patiala.With this, the number of positive cases in Ludhiana district has reached nine. CMO Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Seven samples were sent, and two tested positive. We are tracking the contacts of the 24-year-old and the area has been sealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-test-positive-in-city-one-is-a-jamaatis-nephew/articleshow/75054419.cms||Mehak Jain
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Doctor suspended for ‘baseless’ allegations against Andhra Pradesh government||VISAKHAPATNAM: A senior doctor at Narsipatnam area hospital was suspended on Wednesday for criticising the government and district health officials for not giving proper masks and protective gear to doctors and health staff. Two days back, Dr Sudhakar Rao, an anesthetist at the 150-bed area hospital in Narsipatnam, had expressed his anguish for being provided with just one N-95 mask. He had also alleged that he was asked by health officials to use it for 15 days, and that no minister or MLA visits the hospital for inspection. Following his comments, a committee of doctors was formed to probe the allegations. On Tuesday, Visakhapatnam district medical and health officer, district coordinator of health services and principal of Andhra Medical College told reporters that the allegations made by Dr Sudhakar were “baseless”. They also gave a list of the available medical kits with the district and area hospitals, adding that the claims of the Narsipatnam doctor are not true. They also said that Dr Rao was issued a memo about a year ago to which he has still not replied. Meanwhile, Dr Sudhakar told a news channel after his suspension that it was a political decision to suspend him. He added that he is not bothered and is ready to do social service after retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/doc-suspended-for-baseless-allegations-against-govt/articleshow/75054418.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: District administration comes to the aid of visually-challenged||TRICHY: As many as 600 visually-challenged people from 200 families in Nagamangalam area in Trichy have been provided food thrice a day through the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and a private organisation daily, said collector S Sivarasu. He said this after reviewing the welfare measures being given to the differently-abled people in the district on Wednesday. For the visually-challenged people residing in Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board quarters at Alampatti four road and Gandhi Nagar visually-challenged quarters, their source of income was from selling incense sticks, perfumes and some small household items on board trains and at bus stations. But, the lockdown has left them penniless. Sivarasu said that lunch was being provided to them through IRCTC while a private organisation Sri Foundation has been distributing breakfast and dinner since March 27. He also said that the revenue department provided groceries to 493 differently-abled people following an appeal made by them through the toll free number. As the income of the differently abled has been stalled, their bank accounts have been credited with their usual monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,500 each for April and May. A total of Rs 2.99 crore has been disbursed 9,979 beneficiaries in the district. The collector said that the district administration has given top priority to the differently-abled in the disbursement of Rs 1,000 to the ration card holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dist-administration-comes-to-the-aid-of-visually-challenged/articleshow/75055859.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Oil firms to Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia for personnel in supply chain||TNN Mangaluru: Oil marketing companies like IOCL, BPCL, HPCL have thrown in a vital Covid-19 financial lifeline personnel involved in the supply chain. The companies have announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 5 lakh in case of coronavirus-related death of LPG outlet staff, godown-keepers, LPG mechanics/LPG delivery boys, retail outlet attendants, truck drivers including bulk/pack transporters. The amount will be paid to spouse of such personnel or to their next of kin. In line with Union government’s announcement of free refills for all Ujjwala Yojana consumers from April 1 to June 30, 8-crore Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana beneficiaries will be entitled to free 14.2 kg LPG cylinders. Accordingly, it has been decided to transfer full retail selling price (RSP) of the refill cost for April in advance to the linked bank account of Ujjwala beneficiaries solely for the purpose of utilising this amount to purchase free LPG cylinders. A PMUY customer is entitled to one cylinder a month. The beneficiary can book the next refill only after 15 days of receipt of last refill. The booking of refill must be done through IVRS or registered mobile number. Refill acknowledgement can be OTP based/latitude-longitude capture/undertaking, besides cash-memo signature and blue book entry. LPG distributorships are functioning normally under advisory of state governments. LPG distributorships are well-stocked for lockdown period and there is no shortage. Customers need not panic or resort to hoarding and panic-buying or visit showrooms and godowns of LPG distributors for refills. One can book LPG refills from homes through SMS/IVRS, WhatsApp (IOCL: 7588888824, HPCL: 9222201122); missed call (BPCL: 77109 55555) or through any of the online payment gateways for delivery of LPG refills. The LPG emergency helpline number 1906 is also fully operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/oil-firms-to-rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-for-personnel-in-supply-chain/articleshow/75051621.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Four more test positive in Bhavnagar||Rajkot: The number of coronavirus positive cases in Bhavnagar city touched 17 on Wednesday with four more men testing positive since Tuesday night. All the men are aged between 21 years to 52 years. They are residents of containment zone quarantined by the municipal corporation. The source of infection is not known yet but it’s believed that all four got infected through local transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-more-test-positive-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75054421.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Driver arrested for dropping TJ members in ambulance||JAISALMER: Police on Wednesday arrested an ambulance driver for reportedly dropping Tablighi Jamaat members at Pipar in Jodhpur and Poogal in Bikaner after the lockdown was imposed in the state. The accused Yaru Khan misused the ambulance by dropping the jamaat members on March 23 and 31. The Jaisalmer district administration on Wednesday began screening madrasas, mosques and other areas, and took samples of 45 people and sent them into isolation. Similarly, Barmer collector Vishram Meena directed people who came from markaz to Barmer district and from other infected districts and states to inform about themselves to the SDM concerned, police or govt hospital by April 10. He has warned that police will lodge a case against anybody hiding any information. He said door-to-door survey is being conducted in Barmer district, but there is doubt that many such people who came to the district from infected states and markaz after January 1, 2020, might have been left out of the survey. Due to which there is possibility of infection among people. Due to spike in corona cases in Pokharan, the prisoners of Pokharan jail were being shifted to Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta said they are tracking the route of all the jamaat members who had come to Pokharan and are tracing people who met them. Around 45 people have been sent in isolation and their samples have been collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-arrested-for-dropping-tj-members-in-ambulance/articleshow/75055863.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Promote 1st, 2nd year Mumbai University students, say teachers||MUMBAI: Teachers and some students’ unions have asked Mumbai University to promote all first- and second-year degree college students, pending their exams and results. Students should be allowed to take admission to the next level and be allowed to keep term next year, they said. The Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union, in a letter to the vice-chancellor, has asked the university to not announce any tentative schedule now, as it would add to students’ stress. The teachers said lakhs of households have lost their source of daily income and many have been displaced following the Covid-19 outbreak. They added there is no data on how many university students are similarly affected and it is, therefore, important to take careful measures. BUCTU appealed to the university to plan exam schedule after normalcy returns and also provide a two-week window period for normal academic activities to be planned once the lockdown is lifted. A students’ union asked the university to promote all students on the basis of their performance in the previous semesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/promote-1st-2nd-year-mum-univ-students-say-teachers/articleshow/75054429.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: 2 more Tablighi Jamaat attendees traced in Mau||VARANASI: Mau police on Wednesday succeeded in tracing two more Tablighi Jamaat attendees in the district. With this, the total of Jamaat attendees in districts of Varanasi zone has gone up to 216. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “In past 24 hours, Mau police succeeded in tracing two more TJ attendees. Till Tuesday, 20 attendees had been detected in Mau district. Now, the figure has reached 21 in this district.” Till Tuesday, the number of TJ attendees found in Varanasi zone was 214. The figures of TJ event participants in Azamgarh (36), Ghazipur, where 22 Jamaat event participants (including those 11 who had left for Delhi on March 29 after staying in the district), Varanasi (43), Jaunpur (45 including 14 Bangladeshsi, one Nepali and 10 from other states), Bhadohi 16 (including 11 Bangladeshi), Mirzapur (8) and Sonbhadra (17) remained unchanged. Among the TJ attendees located in the zone so far, he said, 12 have been tested COVID-19 positive including two in Varanasi, Mirzapur and Jaunpur each, three in Ghazipur and Azamgarh each. Five persons in their contact have also been infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-more-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-traced-in-mau/articleshow/75054349.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Doctor makes protective cover to save healthcare providers at ICU||LUDHIANA: A city doctor has come up with a prototype of a protective cover to save healthcare providers at ICU, where multiple procedures are required for Covid-19 positive and suspected patients that cause aerosol generation. The cost of the cover is not more than Rs 250, and it has been tried on volunteers who were comfortable wearing it for longer durations and experienced no suffocation. Not only this, other ICU procedures, including intubation, have been successfully done using it. The mastermind of the prototype is Dr Vivek Gupta, consultant, cardiac anaesthesia and intensive care at Hero Dayanannd Medical College and Hospital Heart Centre. Ten days ago, he came up with the idea, which aims to help healthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients suffering from coughing and sneezing and during aerosol-generating procedures required during their treatment. Dr Gupta said, “The healthcare workers suffer infections due to high viral loads during ICU procedures. In the resource-limited situation, this box can be useful in reducing aerosol spread. It can be simply made with commonly available resources, such as wood for the frame, thick PVC sheet of 30 micron and velcro, besides pasting and fixing material. The box can be used over patient’s head while he is sitting or in lying down position.” The dimensions of frame are 18 inches height, 22 inches width and 17 inches length and a PVC sheet can be pasted on all four sides. The head and rear sides are fixed with velcro with other sides. So during emergency, it can be opened quickly and sealed after the treatment is over. He said, “Since the box can be tied with straps on bed, it can be easily used in sitting position. The front side of PVC sheet is cut in semicircular fashion of 8 inches by 8 inches to adjust the neck and prevent suffocation. The best part is that it can be reused after sanitation as long as there is no leakage. It can also be used at isolation wards to protect staff and other patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doc-makes-protective-cover-to-save-healthcare-providers-at-icu/articleshow/75054407.cms||Mehak Jain
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Nurse booked for hiding travel details||Palanpur: The male nurse of Himmatnagar Civil Hospital, who tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, was booked for not revealing his travel details to Rajasthan. Narendrasinh Chauhan, 33, who was admitted in the isolation ward, used to drive his private vehicle to ferry passengers clandestinely between Rajasthan and Himmatnagar. Investigation revealed that he put an ambulance label on his Maruti Eco car so that police does not stop and check him. Based on a complaint lodged by civil hospital doctor Dr Suraiya Doia on Wednesday Chauhan was booked under sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other IPC sections. Police and district administration are now trying to find out how many people come in his contact. Meanwhile, Patan collector Anand Patel has imposed complete ban on entry of outsiders in Siddhpur town after death of a Covid patient on Tuesday. North Gujarat has recorded eight positive cases with Patan alone having five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nurse-booked-for-hiding-travel-details/articleshow/75054456.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Assign dialysis units for Covidpatients: Govt||Prayagraj: Aiming to keep novel coronavirus spread under control by taking special care of high-risk patients, the Union health ministry has asked all states and Union territories to earmark at least one haemodialysis facility in each district a preparatory fixed-point dialysis unit. The facility should be equipped with adequate number of dialysis machines, support equipment and trained staff. In an advisory ‘Guidelines for Dialysis of Covid-19 patients’, the ministry has said district administrations have to allow easy movement of such patients, accompanied by one attendant, to the dialysis facility. Prof. Arvind Gupta, head of nephrology department, MLN Medical College, Prayagraj, said the ministry has specified that state transport system should be arranged for those patients who do not have private vehicles and the hospital papers be treated as pass for commuting. “Patient suffering with chronic kidney disease (stage-5) on dialysis are vulnerable because of existing co-morbidities, repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immune-suppressed state. These patients are more prone to acquire infection as compared to general population,” he added. The dialysis units should prominently place signboard in local language, Hindi and English telling patients to report any fever, coughing or breathing problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/assign-dialysis-units-for-covidpatients-govt/articleshow/75054830.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Revenue officials demand strict action against accused||Kolhapur: Revenue officials across Sangli district have come together to protest against the alleged manhandling of a tehsildar in Vita village on May 3. The officials have demanded that strict action should be taken against the accused duo, including a national-level wrestler. They have threatened to stop work if the government fails to take any action. As a mark of protest they worked wearing a black ribbon on their arms on Tuesday. A memorandum of their demands was also presented to district collector Abhijeet Choudhari. The suspect duo has been booked by Vita police under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51(1) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005. The duo are on the run and police has launched a search operation to arrest them. In a similar incident reported in Islampur, a case has been registered with Islampur police station against an NCP councillor for allegedly obstructing Islampur chief officer from doing her duty. The NCP councillor allegedly threatened chief officer Pradnya Pawar when she initiated action against the driver of the garbage truck who was found carrying boxes of alcohol in the vehicle. Police have booked the councillor under sections 353, 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 of the IPC. The councillor is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/revenue-officials-demand-strict-action-against-accused/articleshow/75584905.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Four consume pesticide in a suicide pact; three dead, one critical||JODHPUR: Three sisters died and their sister-in-law is critical after the four consumed pesticide tablets in Jhadoli in Sirohi district on Wednesday. Though the cause of the suicides is subject to investigation but, prima facie, it appears they had an altercation over some domestic issue when the men in the family were out in the field for work. The three deceased were sisters, while the one admitted in the hospital is their brother’s wife. She has been referred to a Udaipur hospital owing to her serious condition. According to the police, when the victims were rushed to the hospital by the family members, two had been declared brought dead while one succumbed in the hospital. A police official said that three daughters of one Kalu Ram Ghanchi from Jhadoli and his daughter-in-law consumed pesticide tablets, used for keeping the grain pesticide-free at their home on Wednesday late morning. “Kalu Ram and his son were out for work in their agricultural field. They rushed home on getting the information and took all of them to the hospital, where his three daughters died while the daughter-in-law is battling for life,” said the officer. The deceased have been identified as Pushpa (16), Shakuntala (18) and Usha (25), while the daughter-in-law has been identified as Joshna (30). She is said to be six months pregnant. “We have got the postmortem done and handed over the bodies for funeral and have initiated an investigation into the matter,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/4-consume-pesticide-in-a-suicide-pact-3-dead-1-critical/articleshow/75055867.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Surat||Surat woman creates style and security for needy||VADODARA: She could have made ample profits by selling the dress material cloth to her customers. But Jagruti Thakkar, a Barodian who is now settled in Surat, decided to forego her profits so that around 200 cops in Surat and 100 other people including those living at an old age home, security guard among other needy persons could have a mask to protect themselves from coronavirus. After the lockdown was announced, Thakkar, who lived in Raopura before moving to Surat, noticed the security guards and sweepers in her building were roaming around without masks. Thakkar got 50 masks made overnight at her tailoring workshop and distributed among the security guards and sanitation workers in her area. “Due to the lockdown, the tailor worked the entire night so that nobody can notice it and made the masks,” said Thakkar. While she was distributing these masks, she learned that more than anybody else, it is the police staff that need the masks most. “I got additional cloth from my stock to make 250 more such masks,” she said. “These masks are made of cotton cloth so these can be reused after washing them properly. Also, since these are made from cloth meant for dress materials they look quite trendy unlike those available in medical stores,” Thakkar added. She said that cops stand under the sun whole day due to which they perspire, so these masks are perfect for them. Thakkar distributed these 200 masks to police in Chowk Bazaar and other areas of Surat. She also gave the remaining masks at an old age home. So far, Thakkar has used 50 metres cloth worth Rs 10,000 to make these masks and she has already planned to make more. “The lockdown may end within a week, but the scare of virus will continue to remain, so it is necessary that everybody wear masks,” she said. However, Thakkar plans to distribute these masks among the people living in the lower strata of the society. She said that due to high demand, the prices of masks have increased.  “A person from a poor family would not buy a mask as his priority would be to buy essential food items first for his family,” Thakkar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizwoman-sacrifices-profit-to-make-fashionable-masks-for-needy/articleshow/75054367.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 9, 2020||Goa||Ensure proper coordination to tackle pandemic: Bombay HC to Goa||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed government officials to ensure proper consultation and coordination among themselves in tackling the pandemic in the state, including at the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) at Bambolim. The court passed the order in a public interest litigation filed by a senior doctor at IPHB highlighting the risks doctors at the institute face in the absence of proper protocol for treating patients in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court has listed the matter for next hearing on April 15 after the advocate general sought time to reply. Dr Ashutosh Prabhudessai stated that there are lack of facilities to identify carriers of Covid-19 and to contain the virus. Despite communicating with authorities concerned and the hospital administration about the dangers doctors face and steps necessary to be taken, there has been no proper positive response, as a result of which he was forced to file the PIL Prabhudessai further stated. The petitioner sought a direction to the government to provide video conferencing facility in the IPHB for doctors and other administrators to communicate among themselves by maintaining social distancing. Besides, he sought the same facility involving other stakeholders, such as the Goa Medical College and ESI hospital, which is the designated Covid-19 treatment centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-proper-coordination-to-tackle-pandemic-hc-to-state/articleshow/75055866.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: BAMU and SRTMU await ICMR nod for testing||AURANGABAD: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU), Aurangabad, and the Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, have submitted separate proposals to set up testing facilities for Covid-19. These proposals have been sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) through the state government and the approval is expected shortly. If approved, the number of testing facilities for coronavirus in Marathwada will increase to three. At present, the swab samples taken in Latur and Osmanabad are sent to Solapur for testing, while those of the remaining six districts are tested at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad. The government had announced it would set up a testing laboratory in Latur, but this has not materialised. SRTMU public relations officer Ashok Kadam on Wednesday said that the university has a state-of-the-art incubation centre where the university proposes to set up the Covid-19 testing facility. “The incubation centre had received a grant of Rs 5 crore under the central programme of the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan and houses state-of-the-art infrastructe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-srtmu-await-icmr-nod-for-testing/articleshow/75055472.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Criminal held after encounter in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A dreaded criminal was injured and arrested in an encounter after police teams, probing a cash loot, chanced upon a gang of robbers, and an exchange of fire took place between them near Akbarpur area under Kareli police station on early Wednesday morning. The criminal Shera alias Shahrukh, against whom 17 criminal cases are registered in various police stations of the state, suffered gunshot in his leg, and was admitted to SRN hospital for treatment. Shera hogged the lime light about two years back when he had made a threatening call to the security officer of actor Salman, Khan following a case was registered against him at Bandra police station in Mumbai. The Mumbai police had arrested him from Prayagraj but he was later bailed out. SSP, Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said that a police team had an encounter with the Shera’s gang near Akbarpur area early Wednesday morning. The exchange of fire left Shera alias Shahrukh injured and was admitted to SRN hospital for treatment. However, when the family members of the criminal came to know about his injuries, they created ruckus on the hospital campus after which the police arrested three women on the charge of creating ruckus on hospital campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/criminal-held-after-encounter/articleshow/75054733.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 1,021 test negative for Covid-19 in region||AURANGABAD: The throat swab samples of as many as 1,021 individuals showing symptoms of Covid-19, from eight districts of Marathwada, have tested negative till Tuesday. A total of 1,045 have been tested for Covid-19. Of them, 24 have tested positive. The authorities have maintained that those who have tested negative will still have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days as a precautionary measure. Also, special caution is being exercised for those who were in close contact with the positive patients but have tested negative. Aurangabad district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said irrational fears associated with Covid-19 is forcing people to misinterpret symptoms of common flu with that of coronavirus. “We appeal each and every member of the society to follow the lockdown and social distancing norms during this crucial stage of fight against the pandemic,” he said. Citing protocol formed for dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak, Osmanabad district collector Deepa Mudhole-Munde said those who were in close contact with positive cases, but their lab reports have come out as negative would undergo three more tests over a stipulated quarantine period of 14 days. “Such individuals have been sent to institutional quarantine and must be under watch for 14 days to completely negate the possibility of Covid-19 infection,” she said. As per official data, lab reports of a total 299 of Covid-19 suspected patients across eight districts of Marathwada were awaited by Tuesday, while throat swab samples of 27 people were rejected due to non-compliance with the laid down procedure of sample collection. By Tuesday, 2,397 individuals have been home quarantined in the region whereas another 247 are in institutional quarantine. In addition, a total of 587 persons were under monitoring in designated isolation wards. On the other hand, the tally of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Marathwada on Tuesday reached 27 (including 2 cases in private hospitals and one death). Authorities from Aurangabad division have been also tracing people who came in contact with Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1021-test-negative-for-covid-19-in-region/articleshow/75055478.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Positive case detected near SMC HQ||Surat: A 50-year-old male from New Rander road area at Gorat, admitted in the isolation ward of the New Civil Hospital (NCH) with suspected symptoms of the virus, died on Wednesday. Health officials said that the deceased was admitted in the NCH on Tuesday with suspected symptoms and that he was suffering from co-morbid condition including hypertension and heart related ailments. His COVID-19 report is, however, pending. While Surat did not reported any direct Covid-related death on Wednesday, there was enough reason for the senior Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials to get worried. The first COVID-19 positive case was detected from Saudagarwad in Mughalsarai, an area lying barely a few hundred metres away from the SMC headquarters. Fatimabibi Sarbatwala, 70, a resident of Saudagarwad in Mughalsarai tested Covid positive on Wednesday, pushing the tally of positive cases in the city to 21. Health officials said that the elderly woman has no travel history. She was admitted in the Seventh Day Mission Hospital with suspected symptoms on Monday. She tested positive on Wednesday. A senior health officer said, “Saudagarwad is located just behind the SMC headquarters in Mughalsarai. At present, Covid activity is being run through the headquarters itself as we have the entire set-up there. If more positive cases are detected, the area may be kept under containment zone. Door-to-door surveillance has started for identifying more people suffering from fever, cough and cold in the area.” Meanwhile, SMC tracked about 1,142 patients with Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) during its surveillance. Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani said they have set up 19 fever clinics across the city to identify people with ARI and influenza-like infections (ILI). "During the surveillance, our health teams found 219 cases of ARI. Out of these, 99 were treated and one person was referred to the hospital. We have also held meetings with members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and asked private medical practioners to inform to SMC about patients with such symptoms so that they can be given early treatment,” Pani said. The SMC has formed 16 teams for contact tracing in the city and are actively involved in finding them. “We have disposed off 991 metric tonnes of bio-medical waste till now,'' said Pani, further adding that SMC has received Rs3.65 crore as donations from the people to fight coronavirus. Moreover, it has also roped in its self help groups (SHGs) to produce face masks in mass quantity. “On Wednesday, SMC’s SHGs made 5,000 masks and we plan to make 4 lakh more in the coming days. We will purchase these masks from the SHGs and give them to the people at nominal rates,” Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/positive-case-detected-near-smc-hq/articleshow/75054474.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Staying positive helped me recover quickly’||KOLKATA: Gopi Krishna Agarwal, a 51-year-old with a history of diabetes and hypertension who survived Covid-19 and returned to his Salt Lake’s AD block home after a week in hospital, said he had never felt depressed or lonely during his treatment in isolation. Speaking to TOI over phone on Wednesday, Agarwal said on March 22, when the country was observing ‘janata curfew’, he developed fever. “Around 6pm, my temperature was 100°F,” he recalled. With the fever persisting, he contacted a doctor the next day and was prescribed some antibiotics. When the fever refused to abate, Agarwal visited the doctor again on March 29. This time, the physician advised him to get admitted to a hospital. Agarwal did so the same day. “My blood samples were taken for Covid-19 tests the same day. When I tested positive, it came as a shock. I had no idea how I contracted the virus as I had not travelled anywhere in the recent past. The only place I used to travel to was my factory in Howrah. Even that commute was in my own car and not by public transport,” he said. He, however, didn’t panic for a moment or feel vulnerable during the stay in the hospital. On the contrary, he displayed a resolve to get well at the earliest. “I had no doubt that I would recover and return to my family. Perhaps, me being an eternal optimist helped,” he reasoned. After returning home, Agarwal said he felt absolutely fine. “I was a diabetic, but it did not prove to be a problem because my sugar levels were under control, so was my blood pressure,” said the businessman who now manages all his work from home while watching movies on TV to relax. When Agarwal was admitted to the hospital, his wife and daughter were put in home quarantine for 14 days. His son, domestic help and driver along with few other family members were also housed t a quarantine centre. The Bidhannagar civic authorities thoroughly sanitized his house in AD Block and the surrounding areas. Local councillor Anindya Chatterjee has been keeping regular contact with Agarwal to ensure that he did not face any problem at home as he has been asked to be in home quarantine for a few more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/staying-positive-helped-me-recover-quickly/articleshow/75055480.cms||---
April 9, 2020||India||400 million in India may fall deeper into poverty: ILO||NEW DELHI: In India, with a share of almost 90% of people working in the informal economy, about 400 million workers in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis and it is expected to wipe out 6.7% of working hours globally in the second quarter of 2020 – equivalent to 195 million full-time jobs, a report by the International Labour Organisation said on Wednesday. “In India, Nigeria and Brazil, the number of workers in the informal economy affected by the lockdown and other containment measures is substantial. Current lockdown measures in India, which are at the high end of the University of Oxford’s COVID-19 Government Response Stringency Index, have impacted these workers significantly, forcing many of them to return to rural areas,” the report said. Several sectors of the economy such as tourism, hospitality, airlines, hotels and restaurants, manufacturing, media and entertainment have been hammered by the impact of the Covid-19. The ILO report said that large reductions are foreseen in the Arab States (8.1% equivalent to 5 million full-time workers), Europe (7.8%, or 12 million full-time workers) and Asia and the Pacific (7.2%, 125 million full-time workers). Huge losses are expected across different income groups but especially in upper-middle income countries (7.0%, 100 million full-time workers). This far exceeds the effects of the 2008-09 financial crisis, the report said. The sectors most at risk include accommodation and food services, manufacturing, retail, and business and administrative activities. The eventual increase in global unemployment during 2020 will depend substantially on future developments and policy measures. There is a high risk that the end-of-year figure will be significantly higher than the initial ILO projection, of 25 million, the report cautioned. The report, which described the impact of Covid-19 as the worst global crisis since World War 2, said that more than four out of five people (81%) in the global workforce of 3.3 billion are currently affected by full or partial workplace closures. “Workers and businesses are facing catastrophe, in both developed and developing economies,” said ILO director-general Guy Ryder. “We have to move fast, decisively, and together. The right, urgent, measures, could make the difference between survival and collapse.” According to the new study, 1.25 billion workers are employed in the sectors identified as being at high risk of “drastic and devastating” increases in layoffs and reductions in wages and working hours. Many are in low-paid, low-skilled jobs, where a sudden loss of income is devastating. Regionally, the proportion of workers in these “at risk” sectors varies from 43% in the Americas to 26% in Africa. Some regions, particularly Africa, have higher levels of informality, which combined with a lack of social protection, high population density and weak capacity, pose severe health and economic challenges for governments, the report cautions. Worldwide, two billion people work in the informal sector (mostly in emerging and developing economies) and are particularly at risk. Large-scale, integrated, policy measures are needed, focusing on four pillars: supporting enterprises, employment and incomes; stimulating the economy and jobs; protecting workers in the workplace; and, using social dialogue between government, workers and employers to find solutions, the study said. “This is the greatest test for international cooperation in more than 75 years,” said Ryder. “If one country fails, then we all fail. We must find solutions that help all segments of our global society, particularly those that are most vulnerable or least able to help themselves.” “The choices we make today will directly affect the way this crisis unfolds and so the lives of billions of people,” he added. “With the right measures we can limit its impact and the scars it leaves. We must aim to build back better so that our new systems are safer, fairer and more sustainable than those that allowed this crisis to happen,” said Ryder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/400-million-in-india-may-fall-deeper-into-poverty-ilo/articleshow/75056421.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||AU helpline to help students cope up with anxiety, depression during corona lockdown||Prayagraj: Allahabad University (AU) has launched a helpline for its students dealing with mental health issues like anxiety and depression during the lockdown enforced to curb novel coornavirus cases. The helpline was launched following directives from the University Grants Commission (UGC), which has directed universities across the country to come up with measures to help students deal with these testing times. UGC secretary (letter number F. No. 1-1/2020 (secy) dated April 5) wrote to varsities on the subject of the mental health and wellbeing of students during and after Covid-19 outbreak. “Following the directives of the UGC, we have formed a helpline for students reeling under mental health problems,” said AU registrar NK Shukla. The AU team running the helpline will comprise dean (students welfare) KP Singh, chief proctor RK Upadhyaya, Dr SK Agarwal of the university’s health centre and, other senior teachers from departments of phycology and Centre of behavioural and cognitive sciences (CBCS). “Through the helpline, we will regularly monitor students via phone calls, emails, digital and social media platforms. We will spread information about Covid-19, help groups of students headed by hostel wardens/ senior faculty members so as to provide immediate necessary help,” said Shukla. The helpline would also facilitate sharing of the several video links on AU’s website aimed at helping the students handle the stress. “As these students are not able to head out or meet their friends, they are left to their own devices and might experience mental health problems like anxiety and depression. The helpline can help students in overcoming some of those problems,” said Bhoomika Kar of AU’s CBCS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-helpline-to-help-students-cope-up-with-anxiety-depression-during-corona-lockdown/articleshow/75054884.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Amaravati||Vijayasai speaks to PM, seeks Rs 5,000 crore aid for Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Member of parliament and YSRC national general secretary Vijayasai Reddy explained the status of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video-conference at the collectorate on Wednesday. Given the ongoing debate on the period of the lockdown, Vijayasai Reddy said they have requested the Prime Minister to lift the lockdown in a phased manner, except in the hotspots and densely populated areas. He requested PM Modi for Rs 5,000 crore financial support, two lakh rapid test kits, two lakh N95 masks, 100 ventilators and sanction four virology laboratories at four medical colleges. He apprised the PM about the measures the state government has taken to deal with the crisis. Giving an overall picture of the transmission of the disease, he said the average positivity rate in AP is 6.5 and that it is 13.17 among those who have been linked with the Nizamuddin Markaaz incident in Delhi. All the 1,085 people who attended the Delhi meet have been quarantined and of which more than 300 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/vijayasai-speaks-to-pm-seeks-rs-5000cr-aid-for-ap/articleshow/75058749.cms||Siva G
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vijayasai speaks to PM, seeks Rs 5,000 crore aid for Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Member of parliament and YSRC national general secretary Vijayasai Reddy explained the status of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video-conference at the collectorate on Wednesday. Given the ongoing debate on the period of the lockdown, Vijayasai Reddy said they have requested the Prime Minister to lift the lockdown in a phased manner, except in the hotspots and densely populated areas. He requested PM Modi for Rs 5,000 crore financial support, two lakh rapid test kits, two lakh N95 masks, 100 ventilators and sanction four virology laboratories at four medical colleges. He apprised the PM about the measures the state government has taken to deal with the crisis. Giving an overall picture of the transmission of the disease, he said the average positivity rate in AP is 6.5 and that it is 13.17 among those who have been linked with the Nizamuddin Markaaz incident in Delhi. All the 1,085 people who attended the Delhi meet have been quarantined and of which more than 300 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-speaks-to-pm-seeks-rs-5000cr-aid-for-ap/articleshow/75054508.cms||Siva G
April 9, 2020||Kanpur||Youth tests positive for coronavirus, total cases in Kanpur now 11||KANPUR: A teenage youth, whose 53-year-old father was tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, has tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Wednesday, taking the number of infections to 11. The youth’s father had history of proximity with Tablighi Jamaat member. Moreover, this was a first case wherein two members of family contracted the deadly pandemic virus. The youth, a resident of a locality under the limits of Ghatampur police station along with his mother and three other members of family were quarantined after his father's report tested positive on Monday. The health officials later sent the sample of the youth and four other members of family including his mother to SGPGI Lucknow for testing. “On Wednesday, we have received report of 10 people, in which teenage youth was found to be positive. Remaining nine, however, tested negative. His father, who had tested positive is undergoing traetment at COVID 19 hospital," said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla, adding the patient will be be shifted to COVID-19 ward soon. Meanwhile, all 21 outsiders who reported to the health department on Wednesday, have been quarantined by the doctors. Of the 4941 outsiders recorded by the health department so far, 4,700 persons have been quarantined. Three more persons tested negative for the coronavirus in the city. One person, after being discharged from the hospital, was allowed to go home. The total lockdown remained in force in the city on Wednesday too. Police, besides seizing 16 vehicles, challaned 2170 vehicles under the Motor Vehicles Act, and also registered 20 cases against 55 persons for violating section 144 of CrPC. To ensure supply of commodities to the people, the district magistrate has directed the authorities of the civil supplies department to maintain proper milk supply in the city. He has asked the people to collect milk and dairy products from milk parlours. Meanwhile, more voluntary organizations have come forward to feed the people in distress through community kitchens. The district authorities released a list of 89 organizations which include Yugantar Social Welfare Foundation, Shamsi Welfare Association which are feeding the needy persons in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/youth-tests-ve-for-coronavirus-total-cases-in-city-now-11/articleshow/75055036.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19 lockdown: Competitions on WhatsApp to keep Prayagraj cops' kids busy||Prayagraj: At a time when around 5,000 policemen in the district are unable to spare time for their families as they remain busy with their duties during the lockdown, wives of senior police have started an online competition to engage children in activities like singing, drawing and story writing. Currently, over 200 families are a part of the WhatsApp group where the activities are announced and winners are adjudged. The participants have to send photographs of their creations on the group. These competitions are being organised under the banner of Vaama Sarthi (UP Police Family Welfare Association). District president of Vaama Sarthi Raji Satyarth said, “We have created a WhatsApp group ‘Udaan – Kalpana Ki’ to keep children of police families engaged during the lockdown.” She said the exercise would help children to explore their talent and realise their calibre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/competitions-on-whatsapp-keep-kids-busy/articleshow/75054680.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Birthday parties & music cheer up patients in hospital isolation||KOLKATA: It’s probably been never so gloomy inside hospitals with doctors and nurses battling the pandemic and Covid-19 suspects under treatment living in fear and isolation. To add a bit of cheer to their lives, several private hospitals have been hosting birthday parties, music sessions and encouraging for suspects in isolation to watch movies and read books to keep away the viral blues. They are, however, strictly barred from watching the news on TV as it may lead to nervous tension and a breakdown, said doctors. Last week, a team of 14 doctors, nurses and healthcare workers at Fortis Hospital, got together to celebrate the birthday of a patient, who had been admitted with severe respiratory distress and was a strong Covid-19 suspect. Cut off from his family for several days, the middle-aged man had been depressed. The ICU staff sprung a surprise by singing a birthday song for him, standing around his bed. They even cut a cake for him. The overwhelmed patient had an even better gift waiting for him that night — his swab test report turned out to be negative. “It couldn’t have been better. Covid-19 suspects are going through a tough time not just because they are ill but also due to the isolation. And for many, the quarantine has not ended despite being tested negative. Those suffering from pneumonia need to continue their stay in isolation for a longer period, which is stressing them out. They feel lonely,” said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. In a social media post, Dhar wrote: “Life is full of firsts. Never thought would get to sing a happy birthday song in an isolation room for a patient with suspicion of Covid-19.” At AMRI Hospital, soothing music will be introduced at the isolation wards. “We are planning to provide them books, but we are discouraging them from watching TV,” said an AMRI representative. “Other than the fear of testing positive, Covid-19 suspects are also having to deal with the pangs of separation from family, which could be extremely taxing now,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. Most private hospitals have restricted their visiting timing to just one hour in the evening and no one is allowed in the isolation ward. Even though Covid-19 patients and suspects are going through severe stress, many are actually handling it well, said Apollo Gleneagles consultant Shyamashish Bandopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bday-parties-music-cheer-up-patients-in-hosp-isolation/articleshow/75055485.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 9, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA distributes 15k food kits||Mangaluru: Former health minister and Mangaluru MLA U T Khader has offered to help the poor who have suffered due to the lockdown in his constituency. Khader, in association with Congress workers, decided to distribute 15,000 kits containing groceries and other essential items to the families of the poor, who bore the brunt of the lockdown. Khader, along with volunteers, visited villages in his constituency, and distributed food kits on Thursday. Party workers said that the kits contain groceries, including edible oil and other essential items required for families. The kit will be sufficient for a month, for a small family. MCC helps migrant labourers from Jharkhand, Uttarakhand Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde reached out to over 470 daily wage workers from Jharkhand and Uttarakhand, who were engaged in construction activities in Bala, Kana, Katipalla and nearby villages. Those workers were surviving only on water, after all construction activities stopped due to the lockdown. Soon after learning of their plight, a team of officials led by the commissioner went to the camps of workers and distributed rice, wheat and groceries. “As many as 471 migrant labourers from Jharkhand and Uttarakhand have been working in various companies in this region. They have shelter, but were deprived of food. Hence, we have made arrangements to ensure supply of groceries, vegetables and other essential items to them. We have distributed kits containing essential items, which are sufficient for 10 days, on behalf of the district administration,” Hegde said. The district administration has also been distributing food to more than 2,000 migrant labourers who were given shelter at various places in the city, he added. Meanwhile, many political leaders have also been distributing kits in their respective localities. Dakshina Kannada district Yuva Janata Dal president Akshith Suvarna and district Youth Congress president Mithun Rai distributed food kits to poor families in Mangaluru. Akshith Suvarna said poor coolies and other working classes are suffering due to the lockdown. “Hence, we have decided to distribute kits containing essential items to them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-distributes-15k-food-kits/articleshow/75051696.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||‘Mormugao Port Trust activity in violation of lockdown’||PANAJI: State government has violated the strict lockdown protocol imposed in Goa by permitting shipping activity at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and in the inland waterways, the Congress party said here on Wednesday. It wrote to governor Satya Pal Malik urging him to stop the transportation of coal and iron ore, saying that government’s “pick and choose method” of granting permission smacked of corruption. A bulk carrier with coal from South Africa, MV Ikan Pulas, is docked at MPT. The coal is transported to Amona on smaller barges. Another bulk carrier MV Pedhoulas Builder is at MPT offloading other cargo. “The vessel management has not followed the principles of self-quarantine. These illegal activities cannot happen without active support of government,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-activity-in-violation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75055869.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn ensures steady supply of water||Coimbatore: The civic body, along with the French firm that is implementing 24x7 water supply project in the city, is working to ensure uninterrupted potable water supply to the residents during the lockdown period by fixing leakages as soon as they are being reported. In one such latest incident, they worked overnight to fix a leakage in the pipeline that was carrying potable water to two master reservoirs in the city. It is to be noted that the pipeline was laid more than 30 years ago. According to a city corporation source, the team that was involved in maintenance work had a few days ago detected a leakage in the 500mm main feeder pipeline that was passing below a culvert near the Government Arts College in the city. Referring to it as an invisible leakage, the source said the team had stumbled up on the same while fixing a similar leakage nearby. ‘The pipeline carries drinking water to the master reservoirs at Town Hall and Puliyakulam. Since we had to stop the water flow to carry out repair work, we made alternative arrangements to supply Siruvani water to the affected areas in and around Ramanathapuram, Trichy Road and Ukkadam.” The source said the team had taken two days to fix the leakage, as the crack in the pipeline started to deepen shortly after they started repair work. “When we supplied water through the pipeline on Tuesday, it developed another minor crack near the fixed one. The team rushed to the spot around 9.30pm and fixed the leakage in six hours. Considering the importance of the pipeline, the team worked overnight,” the source said. The city corporation would resume water supply through the pipeline on Thursday. The maintenance team has fixed more than 150 leakages in the old corporation limits ever since the lockdown came into force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-ensures-steady-supply-of-water/articleshow/75055492.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 9, 2020||Kanpur||Total lockdown in 12 hotspots, areas sealed||Kanpur: The district administration on Wednesday identified 12 hotspots in the city under seven red zones, imposed total lockdown and sealed all these areas. The ten hotspots are in Kanpur Nagar while one each in Sajeti and Ghatampur. Talking to mediapersons, district magistrate Brahmadeo Tiwari said that as per directions of the state government, the hotspots would be sealed and except medical and civil supplies, the entry and exit would be totally banned. The lockdown in other places of the city would continue with the ongoing restrictions. He said that after video conferencing with the chief minister, the administration had identified twelve localities as hotspots. Some people associated with the Tablighi Jamaat were found there and their medical tests were found positive. The areas identified as hotspots are: Halim Muslim School, Chamanganj, Humayun Masjid, Colonelganj, Haji Inayat Masjid Quli Bazar, Hate Wali Masjid, Quli Bazar, Khair Masjid Machharia Naubasta, Naseemabad Masjid Machharia Naubasta, Madarsa Hidyatullah Machharia Nausbasta, Suffa Masjid Babupurwa, Bilal Masjid Munshipurwa, Qaziyani Masjid Ghatampur, Rahmania Masjid Ghatampur and Bari Masjid Baripal in Ghatampur. The DM stated that no one, even mediapersons would be allowed to enter the hotspot areas. Mediapersons would be briefed daily by an officer deputed by the district administration. All lanes, connecting the main roads of these localities, would be barricaded so that nobody could come out from that area. SSP/DIG Anant Deo said that the residents of these localities should prepare themselves to face some problems because there was no other alternative. “As per WHO guidelines, we are on the verge of the third phase and to check the epidemic, strict measures are must", he said. He has appealed to the residents of the hotspot localities neither to come on roads nor go on the roofs and stay at homes. With their active cooperation, the city would come out from the danger zone, he added. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde while inspecting the Kanshiram Hospital directed to convert it to the level-2 hospital within two days as this would not only increase the ICU and isolated beds but also ensure availability of medicines mandatory for a level-2 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/total-lockdown-in-12-hotspots-areas-sealed/articleshow/75055056.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Those in quarantine to hand over vehicle keys||Rajkot: Pitching a daily fight with quarantine violators, the district development officer decided to root out the menace at its base. And so, people who are under home quarantine in rural area now have to deposit their vehicle keys to the office of gram panchayat! The decision was also taken to restrict movement of such people as it was not possible for the police to keep a watch in each village. Nearly 1,200 people are under home quarantine currently and these people have no travel history to the corona-affected big metros or even to cities like Ahmedabad or also of any interstate travel. Talking to TOI, District Development Officer (DDO), A R Ranavasiya said, “We had found out that three or four people had violated home quarantine order and we have also filed FIRs against them. However, in order to implement the order more strictly, we have decided to restrict their movements too and therefore asked them to deposit vehicle keys at panchayat office.” The authorities have also decided that action will be taken anybody who tries to help them with vehicles in the village or even otherwise. The officials are also providing food at their home and these people have been given the numbers of the Talati and the Sarpanch in case of any emergency. The district administration is also providing help for the animal breeders. If there is nobody to take care of the animals of owners are home quarantine, the gram panchayat will take care of the animals till the time they complete the 14-day stipulated period. The officials also asked these people to maintain a diary of their daily activity. The health officials regularly visit these people. So far, only one person has tested positive in Rajkot rural area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/those-in-quarantine-to-hand-over-vehicle-keys/articleshow/75054528.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Pratapgarh, Kaushambi report four corona cases||Prayagraj: The neighbouring districts of Pratapgarh and Kaushambi on Wednesday evening reported four coronavirus cases. While three cases were found in Pratapgarh, a second case was found in Kaushambi after a 21year-old from Kada of the district had tested positive for the infection. Three Tablighi Jamaat members aged about 50, 27 and 35 years, who had attended Nizamuddin conference in Delhi and returned to Pratapgarh on March 13, have tested positive for coronavirus. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh confirmed to TOI that three Tablighi Jamaat members were tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Wednesday. He said that the samples were sent to SGPGI, Lucknow for testing on Tuesday and lab results declared them positive on Wednesday. In Kaushambi, the youth was immediately shifted from to Kotwa (Prayagraj) and admitted to Kovid Level One hospital for treatment and has been quarantined. District Magistrate, Kaushambi, Manish Kumar Verma told TOI that the youth, who tested positive on Wednesday, had returned from Haryana last week and was in touch with the 22-year-old youth who was tested positive on Monday. He added the officials of the health department have sent a total of 12 samples to KGMU, Lucknow. However, 11 out of 12 samples were tested negative while one was tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pratapgarh-kaushambi-report-four-corona-cases/articleshow/75054934.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan government to provide ration to Pakistan-Hindu migrants||JODHPUR: In a major relief to Hindu migrants from Pakistan amid hardships of the corona lockdown, the state government has decided to cover them under suitable government schemes for providing ration. District magistrates have been asked to chalk out plans for these migrants so that they could also have access to government schemes leading to availability of ration. “Granting the plea of Seemant Lok Sangthan, the state government has finally come to the rescue of these hapless migrants,” said the president of the Sangthan Hindu, Singh Sodha. Expressing gratitude to the state government, he said the district magistrates of Jodhpur, Barmer and Jaisalmer have contacted him to provide them with the lists of beneficiaries under this move. Repeated attempts to the talk to the district magistrate of Jodhpur regarding the execution of the plan, however, failed. An administrative source, however, said a focal point was being developed in the district, where the government ration distribution would be done as per the list provided by the sangthan. TOI had reported April 2 that about 7,000 families of Pakistan migrants in 8 districts have been hard hit by job loss because of the lockdown. “Since many of them are not Indian citizens and those, who have obtained citizenship, were not the part of any government welfare scheme, they were not eligible for any relief plans rolled out by the government during lockdown,” said Sodha. He had then written to chief minister drawing his attention to the anomaly and considering a plan for these hapless persons so that they could also get benefits of government schemes in this tough time. This migrant population, mainly engaged in the fields, stone mining, handicraft industry, scrape dealing and masonry works as daily wage workers have been left jobless after the lockdown and are dependent on charitable organisations for food and ration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-to-provide-ration-to-pak-hindu-migrants/articleshow/75055872.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||‘Goa government trying to permit fishing by April 15’||PANAJI: The government will soon take a decision on permitting fishing and letting meat products into the market during the lockdown, it assured the high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told the high court that no sooner the government takes the decision, it will try and implement it without waiting for the next date of the hearing of the public interest petition which is April 15. Advocate John Abreu Lobo approached the high court stating the public is being deprived of quality protein as there has been an absolute ban on fishing and other meat products. He pointed to the blanket ban on fishing which is against the Union government’s directives on the lockdown and is seeking the court’s intervention to make fish, chicken, meat and other sources of protein as part of the food.The case is being heard by Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-trying-to-permit-fishing-by-april-15/articleshow/75056242.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown woes: Cancer patient from Vizag struggles for medicines||VIJAYAWADA: A 64-year-old cancer patient from Visakhapatnam was supposed to get his immunotherapy infusion by April 4. But his relatives are still waiting for the arrival of the life-saving medications, which rare stuck in Hyderabad. They are not even sure when the medicines will reach them. Several others with chronic diseases are struggling to to be treated with the government focusing on dealing with the Covid outbreak and closing outpatients services. Speaking to TOI, Monika Kahlon, daughter-in-law of the patient, said they ordered the immunotherapy drugs with a manufacturer in Hyderabad who subsequently arranged a logistics partner for the delivery of the medication. “We had to directly purchase the medication only after the cancer hospital informed us that they could not procure it. We placed the purchase order on April 3 and the logistics partner assured us of the delivery by April 6. But on April 7, they informed us that nobody is willing to travel to Visakhapatnam,” said Kahlon. Kahlon further added that the logistics company people on Tuesday informed her that a domestic cargo flight would be flying to Visakhapatnam on Wednesday or Thursday. “But when I asked the flight carrier, they denied operating such a flight to Vizag,” she said. Kahlon said that the government needs to ease restrictions on certain transport modalities on medical grounds to continue the treatments, which otherwise would put the cancer patients in grave danger. She further added that she tweeted about her distress to all the leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, but has not received any help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-woes-cancer-patient-struggles-for-meds/articleshow/75054531.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Cops rope in religious heads in fight against coronavirus||Prayagraj: Police have roped in religious heads, members of peace committees and prominent citizens to ensure Prayagraj residents stay indoors and strictly follow the rules of lockdown enforced in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Police concuted route marches and intensified patrolling across the city on Wednesday. Police also created WhatsApp groups for different thanas adding religious heads, peace committee members and prominent citizens of Old City localities as members in their bid to ensure that people stay indoors during the 21-day lockdown. Police booked 43 persons in the past 24 hours for allegedly violating rules of lockdown. On Wednesday, 25 persons were arrested and 12 FIRs were lodged under section 188 of IPC. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “About a dozen FIRs were registered in areas like Naini, Jhunsi, Nawabganj, Civil Lines, Mutthignaj, Colonelganj, and Ghurpur .” In Pratapgarh, a group of people sprinkled rose petals on policemen and sanitary workers near Chilbila area when they were going to perform their duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-rope-in-religious-heads-in-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75054716.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Walk-in sample collection kiosk set up at Tirupur GH||Coimbatore: In a first, the Tirupur administration has set up a walk-in sample collection kiosk (Covid WISK) to screen and collect samples at the Tirupur government hospital on Wednesday. An official explained that the Covid kiosk has a two-step sample collection process -- one at the hospital entrance and the other near the isolation ward. The booth near the hospital entrance will function mainly as a screening centre, and will check patients for symptoms, apart from collecting their travel history and providing counselling if required. “Only those patients who are suspected to have symptoms of Covid-19 by a medical team at the screening centre would be taken for sample collection at the other booth,” said district collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. The two-step process sample collection process is totally contactless, he said. The district administration is planning to set up similar booths at all containment areas in the district so that samples can be collected from individuals in their locality itself. The district is also expected to get rapid testing kits within a couple of days, Vijayakarthikeyan said. The sample collection booth has been set up by the city corporation at a cost of Rs 1 lakh, while the screening booth has been set up with the help of Indian Medical Association. “The kiosk would prevent medical personnel from coming into direct contact with patients while collecting throat or nasal swabs. Healthcare staff inside the kiosk will collect the samples from individuals using gloves attached to the kiosks. Both the gloves would be disinfected after each test,” an official from the hospital said. As many as 32 samples were collected at the Covid kiosk on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/walk-in-sample-collection-kiosk-set-up-at-tirupur-gh/articleshow/75055510.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 9, 2020||Ajmer||DC warns action if selfies or pictures taken while distributing food in Ajmer||AJMER: District collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma on Wednesday said nobody would be allowed to take selfies and photographs or carry out videography while distributing food packets or dry ration to the needy here. Sharma warned that if such incidents were reported, then FIRs would be registered against the guilty under IPC Section 188. In the last 16 days, there wasmassive rush to distribute food packets and grocery among people by NGOs. But that soon became an act of propaganda. In one of the incidents, eight people in Ajmer were clicked distributing two bananas to a poor. Similarly, seven members of a NGO of Congressman Riju Jhunjhunwala, who was the party’s candidate for Ajmer Lok Sabha seat in 2019, were seen feeding grass to a cow and later loaded a photo on social media and even got it published in a vernacular daily. Others groups posted photos and videos feeding street dogs. The administration said taking selfies and photographs was flouting the social distancing norms. To maintain social distancing, the administration issued orders that no one should take selfies or photographs while distributing anything in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/dc-warns-action-if-selfies-or-pics-taken-while-distributing-food-in-ajmer/articleshow/75055885.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||GFP wants govt to have socio-economic plan||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) has urged the state government to have an action plan to address the socio-economic impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown. Party president Vijai Sardesai has also called for wider testing and isolation in the state. Instead of a door-to-door survey, Sardesai has called for rapid testing in neighbourhoods where infected persons have been detected. “What is the government’s action plan, both short term and long term, to combat this pandemic? What is the government’s action plan to address the collateral damage in terms of socio-economic impact of this pandemic?” Sardesai said. GFP has also urged the government to come up with a comprehensive economic package to address all sectors of Goa’s economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-wants-govt-to-have-socio-eco-plan/articleshow/75055879.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Kanpur zoo steps up efforts to protect its felines from corona||Kanpur: After Central Zoo Authority (CZA) asked all the zoos across the country to remain on high alert following the news of a tiger in Bronx Zoo in New York testing positive for Covid-19, Kanpur zoo authorities too have stepped up their efforts in saving felines from the deadly virus. Kanpur zoo houses nine tigers, five lions, 22 leopards, two jungle cats and one leopard.. All vehicles are being sanitized and are passed through a tyre bath at the zoo entrance. The zoo staff are screened and asked to sanitize hands before entering the zoo premises. All field staff has been provided necessary protective gears. “All the enclosures are being sanitized regularly. More PPE kits are being procured,” said Kanpur Zoo director Sunil Chaudhary. “CCTV network in feline houses is further being strengthened. All animals, especially those from the cat family, are being monitored by zoo vets,” Chaudhary added. Felines are being supplemented with immuno modulators to enhance their immunity. “Isolation cages have been marked and sanitized”, said senior zoo vet Dr RK Singh. Dr Singh added that he was in contact with the chief veterinary officer of Kanpur district for exchange of any know-how. Though all the measures were already enforced since March 17, further measures are being taken due to new developments, he said. All CZA guidelines are being followed. Meanwhile, a tiger who was rescued from Pilibhit, has been housed at Kanpur Zoo hospital and is now under the observation of zoo vets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kanpur-zoo-steps-up-efforts-to-protect-its-felines-from-corona/articleshow/75055001.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram to procure 30,000 tonnes of Rabi paddy||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district authorities have announced that they are preparing to procure 30,000 tonnes of Rabi paddy crop in the coming weeks. The district authorities noted that this year the district had recorded a production of more than 32,400 tonnes of Rabi paddy. Addressing officials of the agriculture department, joint collector G Ch Kishore Kumar said, “In order to procure Rabi paddy from farmers, we are setting up procurement centres. Forty-four such procurement centres will be set up.” Speaking to millers, the joint collector said that 44,000 metric tonnes of rice was still to be supplied by them. He said that this year, so far, 78,000 metric tonnes of rice had been handed over FCI, while another 60,000 metric tonnes was given to the civil supplies corporation.  The millers demanded that payments due to them must be paid immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-to-procure-30000-tonnes-of-rabi-paddy/articleshow/75054561.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||Devotees make do with live aarti on Hanuman Jayanti||Prayagraj: Like Ram Navami last week, Hanuman Jayanti too remained a low-key affair in the city as priests performed rituals inside temples and devotees stayed indoors on Wednesday, in view of the lockdown announced amid the Covid-19 outbreak. All temples in the city, including the Bade Hanumanji temple, were shut and a handful of priests performed the aarti behind doors. Not just temples, the ghats were deserted with hardly anyone visiting to take a holy dip in Ganga on the auspicious day. “I have been taking a dip in Ganga and offering prayers to lord Hanuman at Sangam every Tuesday and Saturday throughout my life. However, I couldn’t follow the tradition today because of the lockdown. I offered flowers at the railing put up in front of a Hanuman temple which was shut. I performed the rest of the puja at home,” said Shesh Narayan Mishra, a devotee. Some local temples like the Bade Hanuman temple also made arrangements to livestream the aarti on YouTube. “We didn’t want the devotees to feel left out on Hanuman Jayanti. Those who wanted get a darshan of the deity were able to do so by tuning into the live aarti,” said Narendra Giri, chief priest of Bade Hanuman temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/devotees-make-do-with-live-aarti-on-hanuman-jayanti/articleshow/75054747.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Tankara women make and donate masks for free||Rajkot: While the entire government machinery of the country is engaged in its fight against the outbreak of Covid-19, the women of Tankara village in Morbi district have decided to help in their own way — by donating masks made by them at free of cost. “Our intention is not to earn money from the sale of masks. We decided to contribute our bit in the fight against coronavirus,” said Kailash Jagodara, president of Mota Khijadia Gram Sakhi Sangh, a women’s association. The women’s group led by Jagodara have made hundreds of masks. “So far, we have donated 300 masks to the health department of Morbi distict,” said Jagodara. Labhu Sanghani, president of Harbatiyali Gram Sakhi Sangh, added, ““By holding free distribution of masks, we are only serving the nation.” The association donated more than 400 masks to the local health department. “So far, we have received more than 5,000 masks donated by different women’s associations of Tankara taluka. Of these masks, 2,000 masks were donated free of cost, 3,000 masks were made with the help of the staff of Tankara taluka panchayat,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tankara-women-make-and-donate-masks-for-free/articleshow/75054592.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Allahabad||‘Yamraj’ appeals to stay indoors||Jhansi: In an unique initiative taken by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) Jhansi, one of their sleuths, dressed like Yamraj, on Wednesday went around each house in the railway colony appealing the people to stay indoors. As per the details, in a special drive a RPF cop was seen in a black gown and crown with an axe in one hand and a mike in the other hand, going around the house in the railway colony. He had a label on his chest which read ‘Yamraj in the form of corona’. Accompanied with s number of colleagues in RPF uniform., the cop went around all the houses and kept on asking the residents of the colony to stay inside their homes else they will become a prey of ‘Yamraj’ who is roaming outside in the form of coronavirus.  The man also told the people to download Aarogya Setu App, launched by the government, which will help in fighting the deadly virus. Talking to TOI, station officer, RPF (Jhansi) AK Yadav, said that they would be constantly doing such activities to create awareness among the people to stay indoors and stay safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/yamraj-appeals-to-stay-indoors/articleshow/75055080.cms||Arindam Ghosh
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||No labourers, JDA stares at rising cost of projects||JAIPUR: Due to the lockdown, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has found itself in a fix as not only is the civic body going to miss deadlines of most of its multi-crore development projects, but is also staring at the threat of increasing cost of these projects. With most labourers having gone back to their native states, JDA has an uphill task to finish the projects even after the lockdown is lifted. Moreover, contractors have expressed worries as the supply of raw material from other states will take time to resume. A senior engineer of project wing at the JDA said, “In a letter, contractors of the projects have asked for extension and relaxation as it’s a double-whammy for them. They are expecting to suffer huge losses due to the delay.” At present, construction of two elevated projects and five railway over bridges (RoB) worth approximately Rs 800 crore has been undertaken by the JDA. A source said, “The contractors have mobilised heavy machinery for these projects and fixed cost is continuously being borne by them. A request has been made for financial assistance, as it could not be decided at JDA’s level.” Sources further said, pressure to repay instalments of approximately Rs 1,600 crore is also mounting on the JDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-labourers-jda-stares-at-rising-cost-of-projects/articleshow/75055921.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Pharma, FMCG stocks beat lockdown blues||Rupali Mukherjee & Partha Sinha | TNN Mumbai: At a time when almost every sector is struggling with production and revenue generation and staring at probable losses due to coronavirus-related issues like the current lockdown, stocks of pharmaceutical and FMCG companies have come out as the outliers. A host of pharma stocks have gained up to 40% and outperformed the Nifty that’s down 29% since its mid-January high. Along with select pharma scrips, stocks of a handful of FMCG and retailing companies have also shown good run, rising as much as 27%, BSE data showed. Some of these stocks are also at lifetime-high levels. Analysts said even after the lockdown is lifted, these stocks could lead the gainers for a few more quarters as people are set to change their preferences about how they go about their daily life. According to brokerage house reports, the domestic pharma market has been consistently witnessing 10-11% growth over the last few years, driven by a healthy mix of volume and price hikes in several therapies. The market continues to be buoyed by strong growth drivers such as the rising penetration of medicines, increasing affordability and a growing incidence of chronic disorders like diabetes, cardiac and oncology. Analysts believe the pharma outperformance will continue even in a slowdown as it offers stable revenue and profit streams from a secure domestic market, along with a gradually improving outlook for exports. An industry report by CLSA, released last week, said that the “domestic business offers high growth visibility and a low probability of major disruptions. Within exports, while US compliance issues remain a concern, industry dynamics for generics are gradually improving with stable price erosion and emerging markets like Russia, Brazil, South Africa and southeast Asia having strong underlying drivers, albeit risk from currency fluctuations”. The outlook for the export business is gradually improving, it said. The demand is unlikely to be affected, and production by companies should continue unabated as medicines, classified as essential commodities, isolate pharma companies from being impacted by the recent restrictions. Within the pharma sector, companies with higher contributions from domestic revenue like Abbott India and Ipca have seen relatively stronger outperformance. In addition, after India lifted the exports ban on some pharma products, including active product ingredients on Tuesday, analysts have another reason to be bullish on the sector, dealers said. In FMCG, food and home & personal care subsectors are expected to perform better during and after the lockdown period since they are part of essential products. In its latest report, A foreign broking major upgraded HUL, Nestle, Colgate-Palmolive and Godrej Consumer Products. And according to a report by Centrum Broking, for the January-March quarter, sector leaders like HUL, ITC, Britannia and Colgate-Palmolive together are estimated to show net profit growth of 10%, coming from an estimated revenue growth of 5.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-fmcg-stocks-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75055522.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Stopped by mom from making TikTok video, girl jumps into Chambal||KOTA: A 17-year-old girl killed herself by jumping into Chmbal river from a railway overbridge under Bhimganjmandi police station area here on Tuesday after being snubbed by her mother for making a Tik Tok video on mobile. Rashmi Verma of Sanjay Nagar was making a Tik Tok video on her mobile when her mother scolded her and snatched the gadget. Annoyed over it, the teen went to a nearby railway over-bridge and jumped off it, Bhimganjmandi ASI Sugan Kumar said. Though the mother chased the girl, by the time she reached the over bridge, the girl had jumped into the river, he said. The mother and brother along with a few locals rushed the teen on a motorbike to MBS Hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead, the ASI said, adding the doctors termed fatal head injury as reason for death. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem and lodged a case under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stopped-by-mom-from-making-tiktok-video-girl-jumps-into-chambal/articleshow/75055908.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Four booked for posting vicious video on Facebook||VADODARA: Four persons were booked at Bodeli police station in Chhota Udepur district for posting and commenting on Facebook against members of minority community. Police said Jayendrasinh Solanki, who lives in Bodeli town, had uploaded a video on Facebook against members of minority community. Mohammed Riyaz Qureshi stated in his complaint that since the only patient of coronavirus in Chhota Udepur belongs to minority community, Solanki had made the video and posted it on social media platform. Three other accused Ketan Patel, Dhanraj Rajput and Niranjan Tarbada had commented against the community on the post. Qureshi told police that the video and comments made by the trio were in a bad taste and hurt their religious sentiments. Police said Qureshi had seen the video on April 2 and approached them with screenshots of the post. “After investigating the post, we found that the video was uploaded by Solanki and three others had commented on it. We registered an offence against them on Tuesday,” said a police official. The four accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-booked-for-posting-vicious-video-on-fb/articleshow/75054413.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||SHG women sew over 10,000 masks||PANAJI: The North Goa district rural development agency (DRDA) through its self-help-groups has supplied 2,000 masks across the state and are in the process of making more masks to help essential workers protect themselves from coronavirus infection. “There are SHGs in Siolim, Pernem and Bicholim that have been manufacturing these masks as per the demand. These masks are washable and reusable. Some of these masks have also been supplied to the Corporation of the City of Panaji . The stitching of more masks is ongoing ,” said Sanjit Rodrigues, project director of the DRDA. Priti Kerkar, a member of Saligao-based Mangalmurthy SHG said that they are currently in the process of supplying 10,000 masks to urban health centres, primary health centres, municipal corporations and the Goa police. “More than 60 women from our SHG are involved in the stitching of these masks. We have received an order for 5,000 more masks,” she said.  Prasad Tamba, secretary of the Indian pharmaceutical association's Goa branch said that there is a shortage of masks and sanitisers at medical stores across the state and that they have reached out to their distributors to supply them with more. DRDA officials however said that the transportation of the materials will have to be taken care of by other government departments. “There is a special material required to make the mask. The cloth is easily available at the outlets under the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), but because of the curret lockdown, it’s difficult to source it,” DRDA executive engineer Sheela Kankonkar said. “If the KVIC can supply this material to the homes of the ladies running the SHGs, they can stitch the masks in no time. These can then be supplied across the state for locals,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shg-women-sew-over-10000-masks/articleshow/75055905.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Six arrested for hacking man to death||COIMBATORE: Six people, three of them teenagers, were arrested on Wednesday for hacking a man to death near Santhaipettai on the outskirts of Tirupur city on Monday. The Tirupur south police identified the accused as R Gautham, 19, M Sanjay, 16, E Manikandan, 18, K Manoj, 23, A Mohammed Aris, 24, and M Visu alias Viswanathan, 24, all natives of the district. An investigation officer said the mutilated body of Veerakumar, a native of Tirunalveli, was found near the Amma mess at Santhaipetti on Monday. The Tirupur south police subsequently formed a special team to crack the case. During the inquiry, it came to light that Gautham had invited five of his friends to Santhaipetti on Monday as he was bored at sitting at house. They then went out in search of liquor, but they couldn’t get any as liquor shops were closed. After that they went to their houses, the officer said. “While returning, Gautham happened to meet Veerakumar and asked him about the possibility of getting liquor. Veerakumar scolded him and an altercation arose between them. In the heat of argument, Veerakumar attacked the accused with a sickle,” the official said. To take revenge, Gautham and his friends returned to the spot later and murdered Veerakumar, the official said. “They also chopped off his hand.” All the six have been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-arrested-for-hacking-man-to-death/articleshow/75055512.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh government staff back CM’s handling of Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 crisis has ensured that all government employees do their bit in battling it. Speaking to TOI, K R Suryanarayana, president of AP State Government Employees’ Association said the government employees are willing to give their hundred per cent in this hour of need. “Almost 70% of the employees are working either online or on field, if need be, all employees will come forward to work to put an end to this growing menace.” Clarifying on the issue of their grievances, Suryanarayana said, “We have issues concerning payment of dues and salaries, which need to be addressed. However, with the corona crisis playing out, our priorities have changed and right now we are all focused on dealing with it. This is what all employees are focused on.” Suryanarayana made it clear that all issues have now taken a back seat and added that if need be the lock-down must be extended to the maximum extent so that the crisis can be resolved. Speaking on future course of action, he said, “Let us pray and hope for the best, nobody should lose confidence. We have drawn up a plan to consolidate all employees’ unions and form a united front. But all this will take time as every state government will take time to recover economically.” Suryanarayana said that even in terms of equipment and gear, priority was being given to states such as AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-staff-back-cms-handling-of-covid-19/articleshow/75054577.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Special parcel trains to ply from Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The East Coast Railway will operate two parcel express trains from Visakhapatnam to transport essential commodities. “All concerned persons should meet the station manager and parcel supervisors at the station for detailed information,” said a railway spokesperson. The Visakhapatnam-Sambalpur Parcel Express will leave Visakhapatnam on April 9, 11 and 13 at 9 am and reach Sambalpur at 5.30 pm on the same day. The return train will leave Sambalpur the following day. The Visakhapatnam-Cuttack Parcel Express will leave Vizag on April 9 and 14 at 10am and reach Cuttack at 6.30 pm the same day. The return train will leave Cuttack on April 10 and 15 at 9am. Besides, a train from Secunderabad to Howrah will reach Visakhapatnam at 1135 am on April 10 and the return train will reach the city at 7 am on April 12. Another train from Bengaluru to Howrah will reach the city on April 9 and 12 at 1020 am and the return train will come at 2.30 am on April 11 and 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-parcel-trains-to-ply/articleshow/75054599.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 3 PDS staff suspended for pilferage of relief material||COIMBATORE: Collector K Rajamani on Wednesday suspended three employees of Public Distribution System following irregularities in distributing relief packages meant for the public. Those suspended were identified as E Rajasekar, a salesman from Pari Nagar, S Rajan from Velandipalayam and K Lathabai from Kovaipudur. A press release from the district administration said that the employees were temporarily suspended and disciplinary actions were initiated against them after they were found to have pilfered relief materials. The action was initiated after receiving several complaints from beneficiaries. The district administration has been distributing essential commodities – rice, sugar, pulses and oil – to all ration card holders and a sum of Rs 1,000 to 9.76 lakh beneficiaries in the district since April 2. “In general, about 90% of the essential commodities required for a district would be allotted based on the previous history as some people might not receive the products. But this month is a crisis period, and the district has received 100% of its requirement. In spite of communicating the same to PDS salespersons, those suspended had reduced the quantity of essential commodities meant to be distributed to beneficiaries,” Rajamani said. As many as 12 officials have been deployed as nodal officers to monitor the ongoing distribution system in the district. Meanwhile, over 60 residents from Paduvampalli panchayat in Sulur block staged a protest in front of a PDS ration shop on Wednesday after they received rice of sub-standard quality. Following the intervention of the collector, the matter was resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-pds-staff-suspended-for-pilferage-of-relief-material/articleshow/75055524.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Surat||SMC ropes in SHGs, NGOs to make masks||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has stepped up its effort to increase production of masks with the help of local industries, NGOs and self-help groups (SHGs) and provide them people at reasonable rate. SMC has also appealed people to come forward and help in its effort by donating raw materials like garment and elastic. "Mota Mandir Yuvak Mandal has donated five rolls of mask material and rubble rolls to SMC. Women from SHGs have already started making masks that will be made available to NGOs, at public places and residential societies for sale. The idea is that people get masks at affordable rate and easily available,'' said an SMC official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-ropes-in-shgs-ngos-to-make-masks/articleshow/75054626.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Tonk villagers oppose dairy’s payment mode||JAIPUR: Dairy societies in Tonk district have warned of stopping milk supply to the Saras Dairy if they are not paid in cash. Due to the lockdown, Tonk Saras Dairy has started paying 60% in cash and 40% in kind as ghee to the villagers. Mansoor Khan, head of Bamaniya Doodh Udpadak Sahakari Samiti Limited, said they are in deep trouble. “We collect milk from villagers and supply it to Saras Dairy. We are paid by the dairy and we pay the villagers. Now, the dairy has said they will give 60% cash and 40% ghee. Villagers need money not ghee. There is no market for ghee at present,” Mansoor said. Vishal Kumar Meena, member of Kotra Doodh Udpadak Sahakari Samiti Limited said, “The villagers want money as they produce their own ghee at home. If this continues, they will stop giving us milk. Saras Dairy has to take back this decision or we will stop supplying milk to them,” Mansoor added. MD of Tonk Saras Dairy, Pramod Charan, said the ghee is being given on credit basis till the lockdown. “Till the lockdown continues, this is a necessary step and has always been a standard practise to be taken in times of crisis. We are not been able to supply our produce to neighbouring cities and state. Entire machinery is on a standby. However, this is just on credit and when the lockdown is lifted, we will pay the villagers money,” said Charan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tonk-villagers-oppose-dairys-payment-mode/articleshow/75055928.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur schools extend date for submitting fees||JAIPUR: The ongoing lockdown due to coronavirus has led many private schools in the city to extend the last date for payment of fees for first quarter (April-June). Every year, parents deposit fees by April 15. However, the lockdown has taken a toll on the lives of people this year. Many business organisations are shut temporarily. Several banks have postponed EMI for couple of months. Even, salaries of government departments have been deferred. Therefore, there were growing demands for extending the last date for submitting fees. Jayshree Periwal High School, Jaipur on Wednesday decided to extend the last date for payment of fees for the first quarter (April-June) till April 30. The message was sent to the parents stating that the decision was taken looking at the lockdown and pandemic. Similar decision was taken by Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidhyalay, Jaipur where date has been extended till April 30. Seedling Public School in Jaipur has also done the same thing. Both the schools have stated that if necessary, the date will be extended further. Many parents pay fees through cheque which has to be attached with fees booklet provided by the school. However, due to lockdown, parents are yet to get the booklet which comes along the bookset. This has become a stumbling block for parents to deposit the fees and also keep a record of the cheque. Ramakant Sengar (name changed), father of a student, said, “Paying through check is not possible due to lockdown and online transaction may get stuck as most of the bank facilities are not working. This shut down has affected us financially, so dates should be extended.” Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan, said that this is the time to show solidarity and no school will pressurise parents to pay fees. “Keeping the present scenario in mind, we have suggested every school that the due date for the payment of fees for April to June should be extended to 15 days after the lifting of lockdown. Even after the lockdown is lifted, schools will be the last one to be re-opened as young students will always be vulnerable. So, this is a necessary decision,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-extend-date-for-submitting-fees-in-city/articleshow/75055924.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara fights back, just one Covid-19 case in 9 days||JAIPUR: In the last nine days, only a single Covid-19 case has been reported from Bhilwara, which was once dubbed as India’s coronavirus hotbed. However, health authorities are alert and are adopting a wait-and-watch policy till April 12. The last case, number 27th in the city, was reported on April 4. Tbe patient had come for treatment at the OPD of a private hospital, which was the epicentre of the outbreak. Since March 30, only a single case had been reported. As on Wednesday, the district administration was yet to take any significant decision. “The situation keeps changing every day. So, we have decided to wait and watch till April 12. We plan our strategy depending on the situation,” Rajendra Bhatt, district collector (Bhilwara) told TOI. On April 13, the second phase of ‘ruthless’ containment in Bhilwara is going to end. The first phase started on March 20, a day after the first case of Covid-19 was reported from a private hospital in Bhilwara. The first phase continued for 14 days and ended on April 3. During these two weeks, the district administration had imposed curfew in Bhilwara and sealed boundaries to restrict movement of the people. However, during that period, they continued supplying essentials daily. From April 3, they enforced curfew with more restrictions. Grocery items were supplied only once in each ward from April 3 till date. The district administration prepared a timetable and set a time for supply of items at the doorsteps of people to prevent them from venturing out. Teams from Jaipur and Udaipur have been camping in Bhilwara. These teams helped the local authorities in making the containment a success. Dr Romel Singh, who came from Jaipur and was appointed the nodal officer for Covid-19 containment said, “When we came here, there was a lot of work to do, which became possible with help of police and health department. Ruthless containment model became a success as all the departments came together to work for the same cause. The state government has taken a decision to set up a laboratory in Bhilwara's government hospital. A health department official said they had set up a laboratory for Covid-19 testing and now they require ICMR nod for starting the facility. Currently, they send their samples to the government-run medical college in Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-one-covid-19-case-in-bhilwara-in-past-nine-days/articleshow/75055927.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Farmers want e-Seva centres opened to apply for travel passes online||Trichy: Farmers who were asked to apply for travel passes online are in a fix as browsing centres and e-Seva centres remain closed owing to the lockdown. Allowing agriculture activities during the lockdown, the government had asked farmers, traders and truck owners to apply for their travel passes only online. Now, the farmers have appealed to the district collector to open e-service centres at least an hour a day for them to submit applications for the passes online, as the lockdown period has been extended till April 30.Village Administrative Officers (VAO) have been providing travel passes to farmers who can travel within 2-3 km radius. If the travelling area was extended, travel passes should be issued by the horticulture officials. However, the government has revoked the norms by allowing farmers to travel within the stipulated radius without any passes. Farmers who want to travel across the district should get passed from the collector concerned. For the purpose, farmers doing business in a bigger level has to apply for passes online, ryots said.“I have to travel to Gandhi Market, Srirangam and some more places to sell my flowers. For the purpose, I should have a travel pass from the district collector, which can be obtained after applying online. Though I have a smartphone, I don’t know to apply online. For things to do online, we usually go to e-Seva centre or private browsing centres, which are closed now. So, the district administration should take steps to open e-Seva centres for the purpose”, Manivannan, a farmer from Inam Puliyur said. Sometimes, farmers have to travel up and down to transport produce. For that too, they have to get travel passes from the collector. If e-Seva centres were opened, it would help farmer obtain new passes. Those who got the passes can use it only till April 30, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-want-e-seva-centres-opened-to-apply-for-travel-passes-online/articleshow/75170227.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Good Samaritans come to the aid of stray dogs||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the nation is on a lockdown, many citizens and NGOs are stepping forward to help feed not only the distressed public but also stray dogs. For Pradeep Kumar Nath, founder of Visakha Society for Protection and Care of Animals (VSPCA)—which provides much-needed shelter and sustenance for animals and birds—it’s a daily affair feeding animals. Stray animals, who survive on leftovers provided by restaurants and other people, have little food during such crises. “Keeping this in mind, we increased the number of dogs we feed and how often, during the lockdown. Apart from this, we anyway feed over 430 dogs at 16 feeding stations in Visakhapatnam. Everyday, from 5 am to 7.30 pm, my team helps cook food for the dogs and feed them,” said Nath. Some have been waking up earlier during the lockdown so they can feed their furry friends as part of their morning walk. Nirmal Kumar feeds over 30 dogs everyday in Seethammadhara. In Pandurangapuram, Debasis Roy, a former geologist at ONGC, feeds nearly 100 dogs every day. Nagamma, a vegetable vendor at Poorna market, said, “I believe that feeding dogs is the biggest charity. If each house or family can feed a stray animal every day, none of the dogs on the roads will go hungry.” Several NGO representatives said dogs in residential areas are better off than the dogs in office areas“In residential areas, dogs are getting food from homes. But in office areas, there is no one to feed them,” said Sampath Kumar, a resident of Akkayapalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/good-samaritans-come-to-the-aid-of-stray-dogs/articleshow/75054617.cms||Reshma Jain
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt recommends Centre to extend lockdown, 30% salary cut for MLAs||Dehradun: The state cabinet, chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Wednesday decided to send a recommendation to the central government to extend the ongoing lockdown that is scheduled to end on April 14. State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that keeping in mind the rise in number of Covid-19 cases, the state government is going to send a request to the central government to extend the lockdown. Notably, the total number of positive cases in the hill state as of Wednesday was 35. Besides, the cabinet also gave its nod to reduce the salaries of MLAs by 30 per cent. Additionally, each MLA would contribute Rs 2 crore each to the CM’s Relief Fund through their respective MLALAD funds. “Leaving aside the Jamaat members, we have seven coronavirus-positive cases in Uttarakhand, out of which five have been treated and discharged. However, once Covid-19 positive cases of Jamaat members started coming in, the number went up. The state is making its best possible effort to check the spread of Covid-19 and lockdown has played a crucial role in it. Therefore, the state cabinet unanimously decided to recommend the Centre to increase the lockdown period. We have not suggested any timeframe for the lockdown extension but have left the decision in the hands of the Centre. We will follow the guidelines as directed by the Centre,” Kaushik said. Kaushik added that the second major decision which the cabinet took was to reduce the salaries of legislators by 30 per cent. “While the legislators were getting a salary of Rs 35,000 per month, for ministers it was Rs 45,000 and Rs 90,000 a month for the chief minister. The Centre has directed a salary deduction for the MPs. We will follow that format and also follow the Centre’s guideline for the period it has to be deducted,” the minister added. The cabinet further gave its approval to a proposal, which recommended that each MLA will give Rs 2 crore from his/her MLA Local Area Development (MLALAD) Fund to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “At present, an MLA is getting Rs 3.75 crore per annum as MLALAD fund - Rs 1 crore would be given through this year’s fund and Rs 1 crore from the next financial year fund,” Kaushik said. The total amount provided by the 70 MLAs in a period of two years would be Rs 140 crore, which would be deployed to fight Covid-19. “Whatever amount is left in CM’s Relief Fund will be used to improve the health services of our state,” the minister said. Kaushik added that the government’s efforts were oriented towards keeping the disease in check. “Villages have been quarantined and people who have shown Covid-19-like symptoms have been kept in institutional quarantine. Till Wednesday morning, 1,468 people were under institutional quarantine. We have requested Jamaat members to come forward for medical attention. However, if we find anyone hiding facts about their travel history, or their health, we will act strongly against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-recommends-centre-to-extend-lockdown-30-salary-cut-for-mlas/articleshow/75053522.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||More labs but short supply of test kits, reagents hampering tests||Nagpur: Govenrment Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur and GMCH Akola received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to carry out tests for Covid-19 on Wednesday. ICMR has already approved testing laboratories at IGGMCH (Mayo Hospital), AIIMS Nagpur and Zoonosis centre of MAFSU in Nagpur. With this, Vidarbha will have five viral research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDLs). However, adding only number of laboratories is not enough to speed up Covid-19 tests. The labs also need enough kits, personal protection equipment (PPEs) and reagents to carry out tests. “Covid-19 testing lab at GMCH received approval from the ICMR today. Trial run is going on. We may start testing from tomorrow. Our capacity is around 90 tests per day,” said Dr Sajal Mitra, dean of GMCH. Officials from Akola GMCH also confirmed they had received approval. However, test run will take time in Akola. If the GMCH lab gets going, Nagpur alone will have four such facilities. Apart from this, Yavatmal’s guardian Minister Sanjay Rathod claimed the city will get its own lab facility in GMCH. Amravati guardian minister Yashomati Thakur has also proposed a lab in Amravati. Bulk of reagents and technical support necessary to run these labs comes from National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. The test kits are distributed through ICMR only. The reality is that existing labs are finding it difficult to perform to capacity due to short supply of test kits and reagents. Even if more labs come up, testing cannot be ramped up without these factors being taken care of. Lab at Mayo started on March 4 and has tested 1,061 samples till date. It developed a technical snag on April 2. It took three days to repair and 129 samples were referred to NIV Pune. Lab at AIIMS started on April 3 and has tested 350 samples till date. This lab has better instruments and capacity but faced problems like reagent supply. Kits reached late due to which it could not test up to its optimum capacity for first two days. Lab at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (MAFSU) received ICMR nod on April 2, but testing has still not started here. Ten PPEs and test kits reached MAFSU on April 7 and trials are going on right now. GMCH Nagpur and GMCH Akola have trained manpower and capacity of around 90 tests per day. But they are yet to receive PPEs, testing kits and reagents which means there will be delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-labs-but-short-supply-of-test-kits-reagents-hampering-tests/articleshow/75055936.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||This ‘task force’ of volunteers lends helping hand to people & animals||JAIPUR: Dressed in yellow jackets, masks and hand gloves, they are hard to miss as they zip through the deserted roads and lanes during lockdown period. From food and medicine distribution to rescuing animals including snakes, they are prepared and willing to do it all. They are members of Jaipur’s civil defence team which works in close tandem with the local authorities under the leadership of district collector. Over 500 such individuals, divided into 10 divisions of Jaipur city, are working round-the-clock to provide relief and help. There are 500 more members working in the district. Deputy warden of 10th division (Jaipur) Sahil Singhal is coordinating with NGOs or civil society for cooked food and ration kits. “Hundreds of people and groups are willing to do something for the underprivileged during this time. All we do is provide them with vital information that how, what and where they can help,” said Singhal. Singhal, who owns a farm which supplies oxygen tanks to hospitals, is out every day from 9am to 7pm on the roads, working with a team of 30 volunteers. “Till 3pm today, we have handled two medical emergencies and coordinated with the municipal staff to catch a stray buffalo in Malaviya Nagar,” said R D Pareek, head of the 10th divisional team. “It is local administration which sends us on calls as per the complaints or requests received on helpline numbers. We pass them to the teams of respective areas,” said Pareek. The membership doesn’t come easy. Every member has to fulfil some eligibility criteria first and foremost is a commitment of at least six hours work in a day during any emergency-like situation. They are prevented from running any campaign on their own. They follow certain rules like they don’t click pictures while distributing food in order to guard the identity of donation seeker. Their helping hand is not only extended to humans but they also work for animals. Some members of the civil defence are trained in handling emergencies related to the animals. “The latest mandate we follow is carried fodder and biscuits our vehicles to feed cows and dogs. Reports of them dying out of hunger has started coming from different parts of the city,” said Singhal, who ensures to maintain a distance with his parents once he reaches home. Acknowledging the hard work of civil defence team, Jaipur collector Joga Ram said, “They are actually the backbone of all relief work being done in the city. Unexpectedly, they a contributing to the distribution of food and have ensured that nobody should sleep hungry. they have also shown excellence in other area areas of relief work by providing all possible help to the civilians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-task-force-of-volunteers-lends-helping-hand-to-people-animals/articleshow/75055938.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Education bodies donate money for virus fight||JAIPUR: Educational institutions have come forward to donate money to fight coronavirus in state. Maheshwari Samaj, which runs several schools in the city, has donated Rs 51 lakh. Cambridge Court High School has donated Rs 11 lakh to the CM relief fund and Rs 21 lakh in the PM relief fund. “It is a contribution made on behalf of everyone who is associated with the school,” said Lata Rawat, director of Cambridge Group of Schools. Jayshree Periwal group of schools has donated Rs 11 lakh to the PM relief fund on Wednesday.  Allen Career Institute of Kota has donated Rs 51 lakh in PM Cares Fund. It has so far donated about Rs 92 lakh. Earlier, the institute had given a cheque of Rs 25 lakh to the CM relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-bodies-donate-money-for-virus-fight/articleshow/75055934.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa is leading fight against Covid-19 with tech: Vishwajit Rane||Keen on staving off community transmission, health minister Vishwajit Rane tells Bindiya Chari he is working round the clock to ramp up quarantine facilities, prepare medicos to fight Covid-19 and bring in technology solutions to limit doctor-patient interactions What were your initial challenges in fighting Covid-19?Our challenge began from the time when coronavirus came into China and cases started getting reported from there. Thereafter, cases were detected in Italy and Spain but still they were restricted to few European countries. As the disease moved globally, we started getting our act together. We took the right steps and assessed what type of facilities we have, what situation we were in and what needed to be done. But then, nothing concrete was done by the state.Not really. We realised Covid-19 was something very serious. We are working in a concentrated manner and trying to see how best our staff is readied to fight the disease. We are starting online training for our nursing staff. Personnel posted in isolation wards have already been trained. Our focus is on how best our staff — whether they are teachers, anganwadi workers or GMC personnel — can be trained online to fight Covid-19. It is an eight-hour training module. We are starting with nursing staff and the rest will follow. What was your actual challenge then?We had started getting cases in other parts of the country, but we thought the curve was not increasing. Today, however, we are on the edge. It is only because of PM Narendra Modi that we have been able to build our capacities and fight Covid-19. Every state’s preparedness is being checked through video conferencing. There is thorough monitoring. I had never experienced this type of micro- management before. The central officers are prompt in assessing requirements of the state. Few days ago, we were dependent on other states to conduct our tests. The Centre gave us a naval aircraft to take our staff for training to Pune. Also, an additional 2,000 testing kits have been given to us. We have our plan in place to ensure community transmission does not take place. What challenges do you foresee in fighting Covid-19?To not allow community transmission to happen. We are creating quarantine facilities and have taken over hotels to provide such facilities. We have used latest technology to reduce interaction between doctors and patients. Goa was the first state to launch Chatbot. Then we have the CallDoc app, a video conferencing facility and tele-consultation. Tele-consultation is doing extremely well, and it costs us Rs 10 lakh a month, but it is run through an excellent CSR activity. We have top consultants on board and 300 doctors available for tele-consultations. The experience of fighting Covid-19 will change our way of thinking in future. Lot of tasks will be done with artificial intelligence. People will visit hospital only if it can’t be avoided and it will bring down the level of infections. Goa is leading the way in fighting Covid -19 by using technology. Does Goa have enough stock of personal protection equipment (PPE)?We do, but we need more. We are in the process of procuring more PPEs and more ventilators. We have adequate stock of hydroxychloroquine. Are you prepared to handle the situation if 7,000 Goans working abroad are evacuated? CM Pramod Sawant said he wants to bring them home.I have told the CM that we need to set a protocol in place for seafarers. Once he takes a decision, I will have to do everything possible to see that the necessary protocol is in place. I have already asked him to give us a 21-day notice from the time the decision is taken, as we need to set up facilities. All these people can’t be brought in at one time. They will need to come in in batches and they will need to be quarantined. For this, we need to have logistics in place. We need to ensure adequate testing facilities as each person will need to be tested. Your proposal to requisition top hospitals has not been approved. Comment.Apollo Victor Hospital has been requisitioned. I want either Manipal Hospital or Healthway Hospital to be taken up for this purpose. I had moved a file to the district collector, but some officers were not in favour of it. Now, I have moved a file to the CM again. International Centre Goa has been taken over to accommodate frontline staff. I have suggested that Nanutel (Margao) and The Fern (Kadamba Plateau) be requisitioned. There is no point in making requisitions later. We must keep facilities ready. I want three-star hotels for quarantining so that people have basic facilities and a TV for some entertainment when they are confined to a room for days together. We have also started a mental well-being helpline in association with Potdar Foundation. Why not expand testing facilities to cover the whole state?We have tied-up with Molbio Diagnostis for rapid testing. All those who have undergone home and facility quarantine will be tested. Goa is very vigilant. If anybody comes from outside, an intimation is received immediately. We stamp people who are in quarantine and posters are put outside the houses of those who are quarantined. Covering the state’s entire population is not required at this stage, though we should encourage more testing. A private laboratory, SRL, has been given permission to conduct tests. In another two months, the monsoon will be here. Nobody has noted the trajectory of Covid-19 in the rains. Don’t you think mass-testing is advisable?All those with symptoms of cold and cough will have to be tested first for Covid-19. The government of India is importing reagents and PCR from China. We can always increase PCR machines for rapid testing. In a worst case scenario, we will have them installed in at least 10 health centres. In Goa, not all public places have been disinfected yet. Schools, bus stands, colleges and markets places still need to be disinfected. I have started fumigating public places in my constituency, but at my own cost. The government must do it. There is a task force in place. What is your advice to the people of Goa as health minister?People must understand that these are trying times and must move out only if required. Social distancing is a must. The lockdown, when lifted, needs to be done meticulously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-is-leading-fight-against-covid-19-with-tech-rane/articleshow/75055939.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest official digs into savings to feed an entire village||Coimbatore: The function of the forest department’s rapid response team is to swing into action if a man-animal conflict is reported anywhere in the district. But an official of the team has gone beyond the call of duty to provide food and safety masks to all residents of a village.S S Sandeep, the RRT official, said the villagers are mainly agriculture wage labourers with no income in times of the nationwide lockdown. “I decided to use my savings to buy food for around 300 people, along with bread and biscuits for kids. I also bought 500 safety masks for them,” he said.Without work for these three weeks of the lockdown, the villagers were being provided food by volunteers of NGOs. “On seeing this, I thought that even I need to do my bit to help these people,” Sandeep said.His team prepared lunch for the labourers and distributed food packets at a police station near the village. “When we distributed food and masks to the villagers, they were overjoyed. I have done it for today and plan to feed them at least once a week till the situation becomes normal,” he said.Sandeep was supported in his humanitarian gesture by the district forest officer, D Venkatesh, and several others from his department. “More people should come forward to help people in villages such as Varapalayam, as its residents are mainly daily wage workers in agriculture or allied sectors and have been hit hard by the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-official-digs-into-savings-to-feed-an-entire-village/articleshow/75055531.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases in south Rajasthan have Indore connection||JAIPUR: Most of the Covid-19 cases in southern parts of the state, including Udaipur, Banswara and Dungarpur, have an Indore connection. Jhalawar reported its first Covid-19 case, as two persons who had travelled to Indore and returned to Jhalawar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. On April 2, a 16-year-old boy, who stayed at a hostel in Indore, returned to Udaipur and tested positive for the virus, said a health department official. The next day, his three relatives also tested positive as they all came in contact with the boy. The health department immediately took preventive measures to contain the spread of the disease. Since April 3, no more person tested positive from Udaipur. Since the southern part of the state shares border with Madhya Pradesh, a lot of people returned to the state. In Dungarpur on March 27, a man and his son, who had travelled from Indore in a motorbike as they did not find any other mode of transport, tested positive when they reached their hometown. According to the health department, they were staying in Indore for their livelihood. On March 25, they reached Aaspur of Dungarpur district riding their bike. They were screened for Covid-19 and admitted to the government-run hospital on March 26 where they tested positive. In Bikaner, a 60-year-old woman, who was physically challenged and have comorbidities such as hypertension, died recently. “We checked her travel history. But, initially we did not find any such travel history but later we found that her husband and her brother-in-law had travelled to Indore recently. There is possibility of her being infected from her husband,” said Dr Devendra Chaudhary, joint director, Bikaner. On Tuesday, five other persons, who were in close contact with the woman who had died in Bikaner, have also been found infected with the virus. In Banswara, 10 cases have been reported. The health authorities claimed that there were mass gatherings held in Banswara from March 10-20 in which people from Indore and Mumbai were invited, said a health department official. A lot many people have come to these areas from Indore in recent days and they have now become a nightmare for the state health authorities. At least 10 positive cases reported from these areas have Indore connection. In fact, the first positive cases in Dungarpur and Udaipur were linked to Indore. Even the woman who died in Bikaner had Indore connection as her husband had visited Indore recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-cases-in-south-raj-have-indore-connection/articleshow/75055937.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Indians stuck in Malaysia worried as areas are demarcated red zones||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Jalan Masjid area in Kuala Lumpur placed under enhanced movement control by the Malaysian government from April 7, 65 people from the two Telugu states as well as Tamil Nadu, who were given accommodation there, are a worried lot. The decision was taken after new cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) were confirmed in Selangor and Malayan mansions in the area. As many as 300 Indians who are stranded in Kuala Lumpur were given accommodation in various places including gurudwaras, hostels, and homestays and 65 Telugus and Tamilians were housed in the Jalan Masjid India area. The AP government had written to the foreign secretary requesting to arrange a rescue flight for the stranded Indians . Poovaneswaran Mogan and Umagandhan Krishnan of Hana Welfare Association have been providing food, accommodation and medical check-ups to the stranded Indians. However, they are finding it difficult to do so now with the restrictions put in place. “People are anxious as resources are running thin. We have requested the Indian Embassy to relocate the stranded people to a safer place and are waiting for a reply,” said Poovaneswaran. Speaking to TOI, Ganesh, who hails from Chittoor and has been stranded in Kuala Lumpur, said, “Since the area has been brought under military control after being declared a red zone, it has become impossible to live here. My family in Chittoor call me every hour. I want to come back to India and am ready to undergo all tests and serve the quarantine period.” “We are running out of food and medicines. We are not allowed to take even a single step outside our flats. Even if we want to cook, we are unable to procure the required items,” Geeta said, adding, “More than 40 ladies are stranded here and most of us are anxious.” Meanwhile, advisor to the government of AP Venkat S Medapati has given a representation to the ministry of external affairs. The letter stated, “Most of them are panicking and want to return home in view of the prevailing conditions in their countries of residence.” He added: “Details of the stranded Indians have been sent and the issue has been escalated to the concerned officials.” Ever since flight services to India were suspended on March 17, the people who are stranded are unable to access even basic requirements such as food and medicines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/indians-stuck-in-malaysia-worried-as-areas-are-demarcated-red-zones/articleshow/75054639.cms||Reshma Jain
April 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Unidentified man rapes four-year-old girl in Katargam||SURAT: A four-year-old girl was raped by an unidentified man near the railway tracks opposite Ashwani Kumar crematorium here on Wednesday. Police said the girl resides in one of the slums in Katargam. She was lured by the unidentified man by offering her chocolates and that he had picked her up from Utkalnagar. BD Gohil, police inspector of Katargam police station, said, “The girl was abandoned by the accused on the railway tracks after committing the crime and that she was spotted by a few people from nearby locality. Police were informed about the girl’s condition. She had been sexually abused by an unidentified man.” Gohil added, “The girl was terrified and could not narrate the incident properly. The girl was taken to New Civil Hospital (NCH) for medical examination. We have started the process to register a complaint against the accused and examining CCTV footages of the area to trace him.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/unidentified-man-rapes-four-year-old-girl-in-katargam/articleshow/75054666.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||ESMA in state, CM orders Indore & Bpl borders sealed||Bhopal: Amid a surge in coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, including among frontline fighters like health officials and police personnel, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday invoked ESMA to ensure essential supplies and services are operational during this crisis. He also ordered the borders of Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain sealed. “In view of public interest and for better management during Covid-19 outbreak, the government has invoked ESMA or ‘Avashyak Seva Anurakshan Kanoon’ with immediate effect,” tweeted Chouhan on Wednesday. Now, government employees involved in essential services cannot go on strike or take leave. People who are involved in supply of essential commodities and services also have to abide by the rules. Masks and sanitizers are covered under essential goods, and hoarding and black-marketing will lead to severe legal action under the Act, said officials. ESMA, enacted in 1968, includes a long list of essential services in its charter -- ranging from hospitals and health facilities to post and telegraph, railway, airport and port operations. In Madhya Pradesh, the government has declared transportation, police, revenue and urban development departments under ESMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/esma-in-state-cm-orders-indore-bpl-borders-sealed/articleshow/75055536.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government to open agriculture mandis from April 15||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday decided to open grain markets in a phased manner for procurement of agriculture produce of at minimum support price from April 15 . The decision was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot after a review meeting with ministers and officials through video conferencing. Farmers who had harvested rabi crops had been facing difficulties to sell their produce as all the mandis were closed due to lockdown. He directed officials to open the mandis from April 15 in a phased manner while ensuring there was no crowding of farmers in the markets. He also called for effective implementation of social distancing protocol for safety of people in view of the pandemic. “Farmers’ interest is important for us. It should also be ensured that there is no crowd in mandis and that social distancing is maintained,” said an official order. Procurement of agricultural produce will take place at nearly 800 places in the state, a release said. Kisan Mahapanchyat president Rampal Jat in a letter to Gehlot had raised the hardship of farmers as they were not able to sell their produce due to the lockdown and closure of mandis. Urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal, health minister Raghu Sharma, agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria, food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena, cooperative minister Udailal Anjana, ministers of state Bhajan Lal Jatav and Tikaram Jully, chief secretary D B Gupta, additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swarup and senior officials were part of the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-open-agri-mandis-from-april-15/articleshow/75055940.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mysuru||Supermarket owner files complaint||Mysuru: The Kuvempunagar police have registered an FIR against unknown miscreants for spreading fake news that a vegetable shop owner in Loyal World Super Market in Kuvempunagar had tested positive for Covid 19. Police have warned of stern action against those forwarding fake news on social media. Muhammed, owner of the supermarket, lodged a complaint in this regard. Muhammed alleged that on Monday afternoon he received a forward that one of those who had tested postive for the coronavirus in Mysuru two days ago is the owner of a vegetable shop in Loyal World, Kuvempunagar and that the person had attended the Tabligh congregation in Delhi. In his complaint, he claimed that the fake forward it had affected his business and that his employees were worried. He told police that he had not been to Delhi or attended any event there. Police warned stern action against those miscreants who spread fake news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/supermarket-owner-files-complaint/articleshow/75052707.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Above poverty line families to get subsidized rations too||NAGPUR: The state cabinet has decided to provide subsidized wheat and rice to above poverty line (APL) families holding saffron ration cards in view of the lockdown. Till now, only below poverty line (BPL) families used to get this benefit. A revenue official said there are about 13 lakh above poverty line beneficiaries in the district. Saffron card holders have an annual family income of between Rs10,000 and Rs1 lakh. Families having income below Rs10,000 are covered under BPL category. Meanwhile, the state government has cancelled government resolution (GR) on providing three-month ration to BPL families at one go. Top ministers felt that some poor families may sell their quota if the ration for three months was given at one go leaving them without anything to eat in the third month. BPL ration card families and now APL too will get 20kg wheat at Rs2 per kg and 15kg rice for Rs3 per kg. The central government has decided to provide 5kg rice free to per BPL family. Though, APL persons will not get any benefit from this. Energy minister Nitin Raut had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to provide subsidized cereals to APL families in view of the lockdown. Raut had stressed in the letter that many people were unable to earn anything due to the lockdown and would starve if not given subsidized cereals. Thackeray concurred and put up the proposal before the state cabinet, which cleared it on Tuesday. A revenue official said there 15.45 lakh beneficiaries of BPL ration cards in the city and they need 4,634 quintal wheat and 3,528 quintal rice per month. The corresponding figures for Nagpur rural are: 16.27 lakh, 4,801 quintals and 3,940 quintals. There are 2.54 lakh saffron ration card-holder APL families in the city and total number of beneficiaries is 9.03 lakh. The corresponding figure for Nagpur rural is: 1.06 lakh and 3.90 lakh. Thus, there are total 12.94 lakh beneficiaries of saffron ration cards in the district. District civil supplies officer Chetan Tayade said Food Corporation of India (FCI) has enough rice and wheat to provide rations to APL families and free rice to BPL families in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/apl-families-to-get-subsidized-rations-too/articleshow/75055953.cms||Ashish Roy
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lioness gives birth to six cubs in Sakkarbaug Zoo||RAJKOT: In a rare event, a lioness gave birth to six cubs at Sakkarbaug Zoo in Junagadh on Tuesday night. The zoo officials, while cheering for the lioness, said that it would be a challenge for them to help all six to survive. With this, the forest officials said, 17 lion cubs have been born in captivity in Sakkarbaug Zoo and Ambardi Safari Park of Amreli, in last eight days. The lioness which gave birth to six cubs was healthy and so were the cubs, said forest officials, adding that the last time a lioness gave birth to half-a-dozen cubs was in Babra vidi forest area of Mangrol range in Junagadh in July 2018. However, only four of them could survive. There have been instances where a lioness has given birth to five cubs but that is also not common, said chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) D T Vasavda. “It’s rare that a lioness gives birth to six cubs together. It happens once in 3-4 years. We are trying to save all the cubs who so far are all healthy,” said Vasavada. There are over now 60 Asiatic lions in Sakkarbaug Zoo now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lioness-gives-birth-to-6-cubs-in-sakkarbaug/articleshow/75054712.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||FCI in Rajasthan working overtime to maintain PDS||JAIPUR: Around 1,000 employees and 1,100 labourers of FCI in Rajasthan are working overtime to ensure that the functioning of the public distribution system (PDS) remains uninterrupted. The corporation has to ensure that around 5 crore beneficiaries are provided ration on time without compromising the Corona protocol. The state government had decided that NFSA beneficiaries will get wheat twice a month for April and May. The distribution of wheat allotted under PMGKS will take place after April 15. FCI officials said 10 special wheat rakes were brought in from Haryana in the first week of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fci-working-overtime-to-maintain-pds/articleshow/75055942.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC permits filing of urgent cases online||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has permitted the advocates and litigants to file urgent matters through email without physically coming to the court in the interest of public at large amidst the nationwide lockdown following Covid-19. The HC has started e-filing facility for advocates and litigants through a specially developed and secured online e-filing module. This module will save petitions and documents in servers of high court using Case Information System (CIS) software. Users will also get regular updates about case status and orders passed through automated SMS and email facility of CIS. Tracking of cases will also be much easier, said an order issued by the registrar. He said the link of this e-filing module has been made live and the same is available on the website of the Rajasthan high court. Initially, e-filing of urgent cases of any category can be made through this facility. Before e-filing, the advocates or parties in person are required to create their user account on the e-filing module. Detailed guidelines are available on the website of Rajasthan HC. (www.hcraj.nic.in) Advocates are required to create user accounts with their help of their Bar enrolment number, mobile number and email address already saved in Case Information System (CIS), which is being used by courts all over India. It said the facility of filing of cases through email shall be simultaneously continued for few days so that the advocates/party in person may create their user accounts and start e-filing. Hard copy of e-filed cases shall be filed along with requisite court fees on filing counters within seven days after the normal work resumes, said the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-permits-filing-of-urgent-cases-online/articleshow/75055946.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Coaching centres keep NEET aspirants busy with online tests||COIMBATORE: With medical and engineering entrance exams getting postponed owing to the lockdown, coaching centres in the city have been keeping aspirants busy with online classes and tests. The National Testing Agency had recently announced that JEE-Main and NEET (UG) exams were being postponed to the last week of May, and that the exact date would be announced after assessing the situation in the coming weeks. Following this, coaching centres in the city have moved online. Representatives from the centres said JEE portions have been completed at most centres and online tests are being held. As for NEET, some centres are conducting online video classes. Mentors at coaching institutes said that some students were confused owing to the uncertainty. Some of them said they are expecting that the entrance tests will be postponed beyond May. K Sivakumar, a representative of Time Coaching Centre, said entrance exams and admissions will be further delayed. “We expect the test to get delayed till June. But students can make use of this time and prepare well,” he said. Jayanthi Venkatesan, director of IIT Study Circle, said the exam will be held sooner or later, even if it has been postponed. “For the time that has been lost, the IITs must make up in some way by making the test a little shorter. And later, if there is a delay in opening colleges, they have to cut down on a semester,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coaching-centres-keep-neet-aspirants-busy-with-online-tests/articleshow/75055545.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Two-year-old tests +ve in Bodeli||Vadodara: A two-year-old girl in Bodeli town of Chhota Udepur district tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to two. Officials said that the girl is the granddaughter of a 60-year-old man who tested positive on April 5. “We had taken samples of 14 members of the patient’s family. While all others have tested negative, the two-year-old girl’s report turned out to be positive,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. All family members are currently under quarantine at government quarantine facility. Mayatra said that the administration is in the process of shifting the girl to GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri of Vadodara. “We are also contemplating on sending the girl’s mother too along because she is just two-year-old and may need mother’s care,” he said. Meanwhile, the area from which the two patients belong have already been cluster quarantined and sanitation and disinfecting activity is being conducted on daily basis. The 60-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi on March 23 after attending the congregation of Tabhlighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, had tested positive on April 5. He is undergoing treatment at the hospital in Gotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-year-old-tests-ve-in-bodeli/articleshow/75054449.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka CM praises nurse who left kid, 3, to join Covid-19 battle||BELAGAVI: A 32-year-old mother who is a staff nurse at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) had a surprise caller on Wednesday: chief minister BS Yediyurappa. The CM was calling Suganda Korepura to express his admiration for her dedication and spirit of selfless service. As the country battles to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection, nurses and doctors have been at the very front line of this battle, and the hardest part for many has been the prolonged separation from their loved ones, since most healthcare personnel are being housed at lodges in addition to being kept in quarantine for a fortnight. For Suganda, this estrangement from her family was particularly painful, since it meant having to leave her three-year-old daughter behind. Undaunted, Suganda decided to join the battle instead, much to her daughter’s grief. This sacrifice on her part earned her appreciation from the CM. “You have been doing a good job despite not being able to see your child. Please cooperate in the future as well. I would like you to take care of your concerns as well,” Yediyurappa told Suganda. An elated Suganda said, “I would not even have dreamed of the CM calling me. It left me speechless. His appreciation has filled me with a newfound satisfaction with my work. I am very grateful to him.” Suganda, who has been staying at a hotel since March 1, attended to a few infected patients from April 3 through April 5. Donning protective suits, she assisted doctors as they attended to the first positive cases in Belagavi district. She will now have to spend the next fortnight in quarantine. “My daughter was very unhappy that I was going away from her, but we have to put everything else aside. It is not just me, many others working at our hospital too have made similar sacrifices. For all of us, duty comes first,” said Suganda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cm-heaps-praise-on-nurse-who-left-three-year-old-kid-to-join-covid-19-battle/articleshow/75052682.cms||Shreyas HS
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Needle found in lioness’ stomach||RAJKOT: The veterinary doctors at Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh were surprised when they found a sewing needle in the stomach of a 10-year-old lioness on Wednesday. The needle was removed successfully after a surgery that lasted for nearly five to six hours. The lioness was brought to Sakkarbaug Zoo from Shetrunji Range in Bhavnagar district three day ago after trackers noticed that she was ill. The lioness was frequently vomiting and coughing and unusually not changing her location. This made forest teams suspicious about her health of lioness. She was tranquillized and taken to the veterinary hospital in Junagadh. Deputy conservator of forest, Sakkarbaug zoo, Abhishek Kumar said “After thorough examination of oral cavity and external body surface, we suspected it to be case of foreign body ingestion. We took the thoracic and abdominal x-ray and found a radio opaque linear body inside the stomach.” “To the best of my knowledge, this is the first time that doctors must have opened the stomach of a lion or lioness for surgery,” said Kumar added. The veterinary doctors tried to see the foreign object in the body parts of lioness through endoscopy and tried to extract it. “However, they could not extract it as it ha pierced the stomach and protruding into peritoneum, which is the membrane that forms the lining of abdominal cavity,” Kumar added. The doctors then took the decision to remove it surgically and ultimately extracted the long metallic needle. Deputy conservator of forest Bhavnagar Sandeep Kumar said, “Bhavnagar has a big landscape and the lioness is moving around in the grassland. Farmers often throw throw sewing needles in the open and it could have eaten by some herbivore animal. The lioness might have preyed upon this animal and the needle got stuck in this stomach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-needle-found-in-lioness-stomach/articleshow/75054754.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Collector checks quality of food served to needy||COIMBATORE: District collector K Rajamani conducted a surprise inspection at a kitchen that was set up to serve food to the needy during lockdown on Wednesday to check for adherence to safety and quality parameters. It is to be noted that the civic body, along with NGOs, had set up several temporary kitchens across the city to feed the homeless, disabled and other needy people daily. Rjamani, accompanied by a battery of officials, visited the kitchen at the North taluk office and inspected the food preparation. The kitchen prepares food for 6,970 people daily. Expressing satisfaction over the quality, he instructed the officials to maintain the same standards and feed the needy without turning anyone away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-checks-quality-of-food-served-to-needy/articleshow/75055559.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Swab samples of 30 primary contacts of Tabligi Jamaat delegates taken||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Health officials on Wednesday collected samples of throat swabs and blood from 30 primary contacts, mostly family members, of the eight attendees of Tabligi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. While four of the attendees have tested positive for COVID-19, the remaining tested negative. The four positive cases are being treated at ESI Hospital in Coimbatore while the other four are being monitored at the isolation ward of Ooty government hospital. “A team of health officials lifted samples from all the 30 primary contacts. The samples will be sent to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital lab for Covid-19 test,” collector J Innocent Divya said. The attendees returned to their homes in the district on March 24. They were with their families for at least two days till they were home quarantined by the officials on March 27. On March 31, the eight people were shifted to the isolation ward in Ooty government hospital. While the three attendees of the religious congregation are from Coonoor and Kotagiri each, two are from Ooty town. The localities where their families live are sealed as per containment plan. Meanwhile, the Nilgiris district is expecting the imported rapid test kits in a day or two for conducting tests at the three containment areas. “The government has instructed to conduct sample tests in the containment areas too. The exercise of sample tests for COVID-19 in those areas will commence on Friday using the rapid test kits,” Divya said. As many as 435 people with travel history are under home quarantine in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/swab-samples-of-30-primary-contacts-of-tj-delegates-taken/articleshow/75055552.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nashik||NSS cadets to help dist administration||Nashik: The city-based students of National Service Scheme (NSS) have voluntarily come ahead to contribute in any administrative activities in the ongoing crisis. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has instructed all its affiliated colleges to voluntarily come forward for the same. There are more than 12,500 SPPU students in the district, who are associated with NSS. SPPU has given a list to various administrative departments with the number of all the NSS candidates. They are in process of making a google form for the volunteers after which they will be given training before joining the services they opt for. Ravindra Aahire, district coordinator of SPPU, Nashik said, “We have told all our students to come forward on their will and tell us how would they like to help out in this time of crisis.” The volunteers have made digital banners saying how to stay careful to keep novel Coronavirus at bay. They have also made one-minute videos while spreading awareness about Covid-19 and encouraging people to stay indoors, Aahire added. “The students are spreading posters and videos through various digital platforms. They have made digital human chains by sharing the posters and videos,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nss-cadets-to-help-dist-administration/articleshow/75036371.cms||pragya jain
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Tobacco growers face huge losses in Guntur||GUNTUR: With auctions being cancelled as part of containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, tobacco farmers fear that most of their quality leaf bales are likely to get spoiled resulting in huge losses. Growers of Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) variety in the state are on verge of facing unrecoverable damage as they were unable to sell their harvest. If the produce goes unsold for a little longer, it will cause devastating losses for lakhs of farmers, farm labourers, and their dependants. Moreover, lack of proper storage facility will result in early damage. Experts say that the tobacco industry and the government should extend support to these growers in such times. “The industry must open processing facilities and the government should allow the tobacco board to reopen auctions centres immediately, under the relaxations granted for the agriculture sector,” said an exporter on conditions of anonymity. He added that following social distancing norms at auction platforms will not be difficult as tobacco is a regulated crop. “We can’t repay loans or pay wages if the auctions do not resumed immediately,” said Ch Venkateswara Rao who has crop in Tangutur of Prakasam district. Meanwhile, YSRC MLA Sudhakar Babu demanded that the tobacco board chairman resume auctions immediately and BJP leader Raghunatha Babu should urge the Centre to compensate the growers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-growers-face-huge-losses/articleshow/75055558.cms||Samdani MN
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Govt grants sanction to set up VRDL in Ytl, Chanda||Nagpur: In reply to Nagpur bench of Bombay high court orders, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed that it had granted administrative sanction to set up Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCHs) at Chandrapur and Yavatmal on April 4. The reply was filed by Mumbai-based Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on the government’s behalf, in response to petitions filed by CH Sharma and businessman Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda.. Additional government pleader Deepak Thakre informed that VRDL couldn’t be set up in backward district of Gadchiroli in the absence of proper set up and even GMCH. “For VRDL, proper set up is required along with qualified technicians and pathologists, who aren’t available in Gadchiroli. Therefore, it’s very difficult to have such a facility there,” he told TOI. After hearing replies and arguments from all sides, justice Atul Chandurkar reserved the order till Thursday. Earlier, amicus curiae Anup Gilda pointed out TOI’s report of Tuesday, which said Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) didn’t grant approval for Covid-19 testing laboratories at GMCH in Nagpur and Akola, despite the fact that full set up was ready. The report also mentioned that the proposals for ICMR’s approval for these two VRDLs along with AIIMS were dispatched at the same time, but only latter received the nod. Later, the collector’s reply admitted that mere imposition of Section 144 of CrPC was insufficient to control citizens and, therefore, he had requested police commissioner to strictly ensure that not a single person or vehicle would be allowed to roam unnecessarily on roads. Similar appeal was made to superintendent of police for rural areas. On HC’s directive to set up isolation wards inside jails, the collector informed that he had requested IG Prisons along with deputy director of health and deans of IGGMCH and GMCH to make efforts. Accordingly, a separate quarantine barrack has been set up inside the Central Jail, where 15 inmates could be accommodated and all new prisoners are first kept there for 14 days and then shifted elsewhere after medical tests. The collector added that governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari had held meeting with all divisional commissioners on March 28 where he directed them to take care of migrants. Accordingly, shelter camps were set up for such people across the state and in cities where they are being provided breakfast and food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-grants-sanction-to-set-up-vrdl-in-ytl-chanda/articleshow/75055955.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa government’s quarantine sticker project off to rocky start||PANAJI: The health department’s initiative to put stickers outside the houses of people who have been quarantined hasn’t quite gotten off to a smooth smart. Officials have encountered an unexpected roadblock — the fear of stigmatisation, that has made many wary of these stickers. In a few places, health officials faced resistance, too. One health officier said that in his jurisdiction, most people have already completed the 14-day quarantine period, but he is still worried. “People are bound to object,” he said. “I don’t know how we will proceed, but since it’s a government order, we will have to do it.” An official at another primary health centre said that its health workers fear being attacked. “There is bound to be resistance, as putting stickers leads to stigmatisation,” he said. “I had to call the police after two suspects objected when we went to their house to put stickers. They questioned us and argued with our staff. We had received complaints from their neighbours that they had been defying home quarantine norms.” The stickers were pasted outside the houses of the two suspects, as well as two others who had attended Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, the official said. Along the coastal belt of North Goa, a health official said that his centre isn’t required to put stickers as most people have completed their quarantine period. “There were a few who are half-way through their quarantine period, and they have been very cooperative,” he said. Meanwhile, a health official heading a primary health centre with jurisdiction over slum areas said that he is tackling the problem by taking the help of society heads or people of the ward. “If you explain and convince them, it works,” he said. “People in the society or ward help those in quarantine get whatever they need. This way, they are not compelled to go out. This approach has worked in my jurisdiction.” A similar procedure has been adopted by a health official in North Goa who, until a week ago, was tracking over 300 people in his jurisdiction. “A lot depends on how we approach people and explain to them why we are doing what we are doing,” he said. “When we go with stickers, they are scared and worried. I assure them that no harm will come to them. We have a few houses to put stickers on. I have told suspects to remove stickers after completion of their quarantine period in case health workers fail to do it in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govts-quarantine-sticker-project-off-to-rocky-start/articleshow/75055961.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Fitness coaches exercise caution, upload virtual workout sessions||COIMBATORE: With gyms in the city closed for the third straight week, fitness coaches in the city are going the extra mile to ensure their clients keep themselves fit during the lockdown by airing virtual workout sessions on Facebook Live, Instagram Live and Zoom.While the online sessions are shorter and less intense, the coaches insist that they will help reduce weight, build immunity and increase stamina. On Monday, Nithyanandhini Manoharan, head coach at 45 Degree Fitness, launched a half-an-hour Instagram Live session. “I decided to do it because my followers feel more motivated to have me push them every second. Earlier, I was just posting routines on Instagram and sending them on WhatsApp. But they said it was not as motivating as working out in a gym live,” says Manoharan, who is also conducting personal training sessions on Zoom. Some coaches who were posting daily workout plans on their Instagram pages and WhatsApp are now also working on ways to conduct live personal sessions. “In the initial five days, people did not workout at home, thinking the lockdown was temporary. Once they realized it was a 21-day affair and that they were eating more, they decided to work out,” says coach Ravi of Ravi’s Fitness. “Many people shoot videos of themselves working out and send them to us to check posture and to motivate others,” says coach and working partner of Fit Velocity K Narendra Prasath. “We are looking into ways to conduct an entire session, so members can just follow us and finish the entire workout.” Working out during a virus outbreak is a crucial factor in building immunity, coaches say. “Fitness plays a big role in immunity. May footballers got affected in the UK and Europe but they all recovered quickly, because of physical fitness,” says Manoharan. “It also helps maintain muscle strength, stamina and calorie burning to at least a partial extent, because when we are at home the whole day, we burn lesser calories, which may lead to weight gain,” says Prasath. “Home workouts also help us spend time more effectively and ensure good sleep, which also helps to build immunity,” adds Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fitness-coaches-exercise-caution-upload-virtual-workout-sessions/articleshow/75055562.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Covid roundup||Three booked for making Tik Tok videoRajkot: Three unidentified persons were booked on Wednesday for making a Tik Tok video and uploading it on the social media while breaking the lockdown order on Amin Marg in Rajkot. “In the video, two persons are seen playing garba while parking their car near the house of BJP corporator Nitin Bhardwaj, while the third person is shooting the video,” said an official from the cyber cell of the Rajkot police. Deendayal Port Trust donates Rs 8cr to PM cares fundRajkot: Deendayal Port Trust in Kandla of Kutch district has donated Rs 8 crore to PM cares fund, an initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the country’s fight against the outbreak of coronavirus. That apart, employees of the port trust donated their one day salary, which amounted to Rs 42 lakh, to the fund.Two hospitals with 250 beds designated in PorbandarRajkot: In order to combat the outbreak of Covid-19, the Porbandar district administration has designated two hospitals with 250 beds. A facility of 150 beds has been created at the isolation ward of Bhavsinhji Hospital, while 100 beds have been provided to the isolation ward of Morarji Thakarar Hospital. Fake journalist booked Rajkot: A woman who posed herself as a journalist while roaming on the road was arrested for the alleged violation of the lockdown order in Savarkundala in Amreli district on Tuesday night. The accused was identified as Vilas Baldaviya (32). 546 arrested for lockdown violationRajkot: As many as 546 people were arrested for the alleged violation of the coronavirus lockdown in Rajkot city and Jamnagar district in the past 24 hours. In Rajkot city, 143 people were arrested, while in Jamnagar district, 403 people were held for the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-roundup/articleshow/75054776.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Man in Goa dies in isolation ward, but not from Covid-19||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that a 38-year-old man who died in the isolation ward at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, didn’t die of Covid-19. “He died from other complications and not from Covid-19,” Sawant said. “The cause of his death has been given as diabetes mellitus with bilateral pneumonia with adult respiratory distress syndrome with respiratory failure.” Sawant further said that in four tests — three conducted at GMC and one at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune — the man tested negative for Covid-19. The deceased, who returned from the US on March 22, was admitted to GMC on March 28 and treated as a Covid-19 suspect after he complained of a fever and sore throat. However, he was discharged after he tested negative for coronavirus. He returned to GMC on April 3, and was again tested. To remove all doubts, his swab samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, but again, he tested negative. Meanwhile, Sawant said that an expert from NIV has been called to Goa and will train a second team to conduct Covid-19 tests at GMC. He added that 47 samples that were tested on Wednesday are all negative. The directorate of health services, in its bulletin, stated that reports of 11 suspects are awaited as of Wednesday — a day that saw as many as 47 persons put in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-dies-in-isolation-ward-but-not-from-covid-19/articleshow/75055968.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man ends life after losing job during lockdown||NAGPUR: A 41-year-old man committed suicide on Wednesday allegedly after losing his job as a waiter in the current lockdown. Namdev Susendre, 41, committed suicide by hanging himself from the ventilator in his rented room in Adhyapak Layout. Pratap Nagar police have registered a case of accidental death. According to police, Namdev used to live alone in a rented room in the house of Devashish Sable. Namdev worked as a waiter and was disturbed for sometime due to financial problems. Cops said Namdev had told his house owner that he was depressed as he had lost his job at a Saoji restaurant which is shut in the lockdown. Cops said Namdev did not have enough money to survive. This might have driven him to take the drastic step. The incident came to light when Devashish called Namdev but he did not respond. Namdev was found hanging by the house owner who informed Pratap Nagar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-ends-life-after-losing-job-during-lockdown/articleshow/75055962.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Jamaat leaders pitch for containment drive||COIMBATORE: Jamaat leaders are taking a series of steps to ensure cooperation of their community members with the city corporation and public health department in their drive to contain local transmission of coronavirus. In some areas such as Ukkadam and Podanur, a few jamaat leaders accompanied the nurses when they went door-to-door to screen people for symptoms and identify senior citizens in the high-risk category. A few doctors from the community have also expressed their willingness to intervene and convince the families that are uncooperative. Last week, 23 people in the city corporation limits had tested positive for Covid-19. All of them were attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. However, there was a feeling among many of their families that they were unnecessarily being targeted and scrutinized, prompting them to behave rudely to the health department authorities, who were on the screening drive. It was, however, heartening to see R Sadiqullah, a senior Jamaat leader from the mosque in Uppilipalayam, accompanying a Muslim nurse on Tuesday as she went door-to-door in Rose Garden to check if any resident was having Covid-19 symptoms. He said, “The truth is currently our community does feel victimized, especially due to false propaganda on social media and by some newspapers and channels after the coronavirus outbreak. But we know what a danger even an asymptomatic positive patient could pose. So, we have decided to help the health department officials.” The jamaat leader said they have been explaining to the affected how the virus could affect their families, neighbours, people in their locality and members of their own community. It was with the help of Jamaat leaders like Sadiq and Javed that health department nurses and volunteers had taken up the massive containment exercise on Tuesday. “Many people consider it just another ploy of the central government to target them. While most of the nurses and sanitary workers are also Muslims, they go door-to-door only accompanied by the Jamaat leader from the nearest mosque or a Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) volunteer,” said a nursing staffer with the Raja Street PHC. In Ukkadam alone, there are five positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jamaat-leaders-pitch-for-containment-drive/articleshow/75055570.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS gets booths to collect throat swabs safely||Hubballi: Doctors at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi have received two booths in which they can collect swabs to test for Covid-19. One of them was developed by Gadag-based physician Dr Prakash Sankanur, and another by the Young Indians team of Hubballi. Dr Sankanur has already donated one such telephone booth-like structure to collect throat swabs to test for Covid-19 to Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences. MLC S V Sankanur handed over the booth to KIMS doctors. KIMS medical superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chavan received the booth, and said that it is useful for doctors and medical staff to collect throat swabs with a higher level of protection. Dr Srinivas Joshi of Young Indians was were present on the occasion. Later, district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar accompanied by MLC Pradeep Shettar, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan and other district officials, visited KIMS and inspected the booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-gets-booths-to-collect-throat-swabs-safely/articleshow/75052753.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Walled City private hospital sealed after four staff test positive||JAIPUR: A private hospital in Suraj Pole area of the Walled City was sealed by the health department on Wednesday after four healthcare staff tested positive for Covid-19. Suraj Pole is a neighbourhood of Ramganj which is the Covid-19 hotspot in the state capital. Earlier, in Bhilwara, a doctor from a private hospital had tested positive for the virus. The hospital became a hotspot and started reporting infections rapidly, with 27 having diagnosed with Covid-19 so far. In Ramganj area in the city, 94 persons have been found infected with the virus till now. In addition, five from Suraj Pole and four from Ghat Gate areas of the Walled City and two from Bhatta Basti, near the Walled City, have also tested positive. A team of health department officials rushed to the spot after samples they collected from the private hospital during random testing turned out to be positive. “After disinfecting the hospital, we have sealed it late on Wednesday evening,” said a health department official. The health department started random sampling of the community on Tuesday. “All the four persons are asymptomatic and but they tested positive for the virus. We have referred them to SMS Hospital where the doctors have admitted them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-pvt-hosp-sealed-after-four-staff-test-positive/articleshow/75055965.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Sudden lifting of lockdown could be disastrous: Experts||Dharwad: Experts are of the opinion that a sudden lifting of the lockdown could prove disastrous and the government should not withdraw it completely till foolproof indication that there is no threat of Covid-19 spreading further. Political analyst and public administration expert Prof Harish Ramaswamy said it is important to heed the words of the scientific community in such times. It is expected that the crisis is yet to unfold fully and ending the lockdown should not be an option at this stage, he said. “The way forward will be three-fold. First, the current lockdown will have to be extended by at least four weeks without a break to enforce self-quarantining and social distancing and reduce the pressure on our healthcare system. Second, to ensure people remain calm, they need to be made fully aware of the government’s strategy, besides being guaranteed the supply of essentials during this crisis. Third, an increase in the number of daily tests on asymptomatic people is absolutely vital to bring community transmission of the virus under control and eventually curb it,” he said. Former IPS officer Gopal Hosur, who headed the state intelligence wing, said the period after the lockdown is lifted needs to be handled carefully to ensure people’s safety and the working class is not deprived of its daily requirements. “There should be no law and order problem as a large number of people come out of their homes. The relaxation of the lockdown should happen in a phased manner, in two-three months, and when economic activities pick up pace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sudden-lifting-of-lockdown-could-be-disastrous-experts/articleshow/75031873.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||‘Salary will be paid directly to PWD contract workers’||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to accommodate 1,185 PWD contract workers under the PWD Labour Society. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there will be no financial implications on the state exchequer. He said that during the past 5-10 years, people were working with PWD on contract basis. Tenders were floated to hire contract labour, he said, and this has been continuing for a long time in the department. Sawant said that after the work is completed, they used to not get salaries for nearly nine months. “With this, salaries would be directly paid to labourers and not the contractor who used to deduct a commission for himself and pay the balance to them,” he said, adding that PF and ESI will now be deducted. The cabinet also decided to transfer land admeasuring 3,500 sqm belonging to the tourist department in Priol constituency for the construction of a new police station at Mardol. Sawant said the cabinet has decided to continue financial assistance to pre-primary schools for scheduled tribes (ST) in remote areas. He said the cabinet also decided to continue the scheme for orphaned children and those of widows belonging to the ST community. He also said that the cabinet has approved the land transfer at Cudchirem to Goa Solid Waste Management Corporation for setting up a construction and demolition waste management facility. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/salary-will-be-paid-directly-to-pwd-contract-workers/articleshow/75055975.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Man falls off third floor, gets electrocuted; two booked||Rajkot: An autorickshaw driver was electrocuted after he fell off the balcony of his flat on Navlakhi road in Morbi town on Tuesday night. Police said that the deceased Ashokpari Goswami (37) fell off third floor of Satnam Apartment while trying to save himself from Abu Musa anbd Raju Parmar, who had attacked the auto driver with bats, over some petty issue. Police have booked Musa and Parmar for culpable homicide.While he was being chased, Goswami lost balance and fell off the balcony. During the fall, he got stuck in an overhead electric wire and got electrocuted before falling on the road. Goswami died on the spot. According to police, one Suraj Gadhvi, who lives in the same apartment as Goswami, had allegedly beaten up one Vishwas Patadia. Nursing a grudge against Gadhvi, Patadia had allegedly told his friends — Musa and Parmar — to attack all the residents of Satnam Apartment. “While Musa and Parmar could not find Gadhvi, they allegedly attacked other residents including Goswami when the incident occurred,” said P B Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Morbi B division police station.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Musa and Parmar, who went absconding after the complaint was lodged against them. Goswami is survived by his wife and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-falls-off-third-floor-gets-electrocuted-two-booked/articleshow/75054809.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||DM arranges medicines for heart patient after daughter-in-law’s plea on Twitter||Pilibhit: District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, on Wednesday morning, arranged the delivery of 11 different life-saving drugs to a local cardiac patient, which his daughter-in-law had purchased in Lucknow, but was unable to send to him due to the nationwide lockdown.Kanupriya Gupta and her husband, who live in Lucknow, were at their relative’s place in Noida when the lockdown was implemented. Unable to return to Lucknow and send the medicines which she had already purchased for her father-in-law Ramesh Agarwal (64), a desperate Kanupriya took to a microblogging site to write on her predicament, tagging the state government, DM and police with a request that they be issued a delivery pass for the emergency.Agarwal, a cloth merchant in Pilibhit, is a cardiac patient and is receiving medical treatment at the cardio-thoracic vascular surgery department of Max Hospital, New Delhi.“I normally deliver his medicines from Lucknow, as they are not available in Pilibhit. But with both me and my husband stuck in Noida due to the lockdown, I can neither return to Lucknow to retrieve the medicines, nor send them to Pilibhit,” she told TOI over the phone.Luckily, DM Shrivastav responded to her tweet on Tuesday evening, requesting her to forward her father-in-law’s prescription to his official WhatsApp number, which she did.“I was extremely happy and more than a bit surprised when I received a message from my father-in-law that the medicines had been delivered to him by the administration on Wednesday morning,” Kanupriya said.“After I received the prescription, I directed additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi, to arrange for them without fail. The ACMO circulated the prescription to eminent medical stores in Pilibhit city, and ensured the availability of all medicines,” said the DM.He added, “This was not just a matter of addressing an individual’s problem, but also of raising the confidence of people on the administration at a time of crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-arranges-medicines-for-heart-patient-after-daughter-in-laws-plea-on-twitter/articleshow/75054844.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vets allay fears of Covid-19 contagion among animals||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following reports of a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 at the Bronx Zoo in New York, veterinarians in the state have assured pet owners against fears of animals contracting the disease. “Pet owners just need to follow a few guidelines which are similar to the guidelines prescribed for humans. Don’t allow your pet to go out until and unless it’s very important, wash their paws as much as possible and wash their utensils properly before giving them food or water,” said Raja Gopal, a vet in Visakhapatnam. Some vets suggest that masks may be used for dogs when their owners take them outside for a walk. “Even if there is a chance of human to animal transfusion, which seems low, a mask would prevent it,” said Raja Gopal. “There is no instance of pets such as dogs, cats and ornamental fish and even cattle being infected with Covid-19. Normally, coronavirus in animals does not develop into respiratory problems. It creates digestive problems and is curable,” said Rajesh G, a vet in Vizag. With the lockdown in place, most veterinarians suggest that pet owners keep some generic medicines at home. “For normal times we don’t ask owners to stock medicines. Animals, especially dogs, are adaptive to any situation,” said Makkena Srinu, a vet in Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vets-allay-fears-of-covid-19-contagion-among-animals/articleshow/75054821.cms||Arpit Basu
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||98 buildings acquired, 30 hotels ready for patients in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The administration has readied 30 hotels for isolating or quarantining Covid-19 patients in the district if needed. So far, it has identified 81 hotels for arranging emergency isolation beds, authorities said. Ajitabh Sharma, nodal officer Jaipur, who on Wednesday inspected the newly acquired buildings to be used as quarantine facilities, said 98 buildings have been acquired by the district administration that would serve as new quarantine centers. “These buildings have around 4,600 rooms, along with toilet facilities,” he said. The administration has so far identified 15,000 emergency isolation beds for quarantining patients. These beds are being arranged in hotels, university hostels, community halls, dharamshalas, clubs, resorts and other private buildings in the city. ADM-IV Ashok Kumar said, “Now, there are around 1,100 isolation beds available at Sawai Man Singh Hospital (SMS) and Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS). We may acquire all private hospitals if need arises. We have already assigned our staff in 30 hotels and identified 81 hotels in the district.” Emergency isolation beds identified at some of the prominent private hospitals include NIMS Hospital, JNU Hospital, Liberty hospital (Mansarovar) and Manipal Hospital and Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. Some of the hotels which have been identified for arranging isolation beds are Lord Plaza (near SMS Hospital), Radisson Hotel, The Lalit Hotel, The Fern Hotel and Red Fox Hotel. “We have just identified these hotels. We will use them as and when required,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/98-buildings-acquired-30-hotels-ready-for-patients/articleshow/75055970.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Employees to contribute to municipality relief fund for treatment of Covid-19 patients and to run community kitchens||Bareilly: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to provide financial assistance to the needy in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. For the purpose, the corporation will be maintaining a relief fund which will be used in the treatment of coronavirus patients in the city.Official sources said all corporation officials, barring sanitation staff, will be contributing some amount of their salaries to this fund. An amount will also be sent to the CM-Cares fund, while the rest is utilised to provide food and to run community kitchens in the city during the lockdown period.Speaking to TOI, Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “The civic body has decided to maintain a relief fund by contributing some amount from the salaries of municipal corporation employees, and utilising it in the treatment of people diagnosed with the virus. All corporation employees (Grade I, II, III & IV), barring sanitation workers, will be contributing some amount to the relief fund. We may also contribute in the CM-Cares fund if required, as well as run community kitchens, which are currently being operated by BMC in the city to provide food to the poor and destitute.” According to information from officials, there are around 3,500 employees of Bareilly Municipal Corporation (Bareilly Nagar Nigam). Of these, around 2,000 are sanitation workers. Employees could be asked to contribute amounts ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 2,500 to the fund, depending on job profile.The civic body has been taking appropriate measures to combat Covid-19 spread in the city. Frequent sanitisation and fogging is being conducted across all BMC wards, along with unclogging of drains and cleaning of roads and public spaces. Besides, BMC is currently operating community kitchens at two places — BMC premises and Harunagla — to provide food to the needy and homeless. The civic body has also deputed its vehicles in the field, for identifying destitute and distributing food packets to them during the lockdown. Around 1,000 food packets are being distributed among the needy every day, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/employees-to-contribute-to-municipality-relief-fund-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-and-to-run-community-kitchens/articleshow/75054864.cms||Maria Khan
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Three dealers booked for lifting ration in Jaipur||JAIPUR: District supplies officer (Jaipur-II) Gopal Singh on Wednesday said that FIRs have been registered against three ration dealers for lifting ration using fraudulent means. The authority letters of these three and four others were also suspended for irregularities. FIRs were registered against ration dealers Kanaram Yadav, Manish Sharma and Laduram Yadav for misusing the OTP system in lifting ration. Among other four whose authority letters were suspended include Bhairon Ram Yadav, Vikas Sharma, Jagdish Prasad Prajapat and Mohanlal Bunkar. District Collector Joga Ram on Wednesday issued notices to six officers of women and child development department for absenting themselves from duty. The officials include Lavlin Sharma, Jitendra Gurjar, Rajendra Naruka, Sangeeta Bhati, Smt Subodh and Mamta Bairwa. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-dealers-booked-for-lifting-ration/articleshow/75055991.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Woman kills self of harassment; husband, in-laws booked||RAJKOT: Husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law of a woman who died on April 4 after consuming pesticides on April 1 in Devda village of Gondal taluka in Rajkot district were booked on Tuesday night. Police said the victim, identified as Parul Paghdar (24), was driven to take the drastic step out of the alleged harassment caused by her husband Nitish Paghdar, father-in-law Ramnik Paghdar and mother-in-law Bhanu Paghdar. ‘The accused were booked on the complaint of Parul’s brother Mahesh Satashiya,” said Ajaysinh Jadeja, sub-inspector with Gondal taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-kills-self-of-harassment-husband-in-laws-booked/articleshow/75054842.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||576 samples collected from Ramganj, nearby areas||JAIPUR: The district administration on Wednesday collected 576 samples randomly from Ramganj area and a few other places in the Walled City. These samples will be sent to the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital laboratory for tests to check if there is widespread transmission for Covid-19 in the district. On Tuesday, random sampling was done of 38 people, said district collector Joga Ram. In all, 237 samples were collected in Ramganj, 30 in Amritpuri, 30 in Bhatta Basti, 20 in Laxmirayanpuri, 30 in MD Road area, 16 in Mohammadi Hospital, 30 Nilgar ka Mohalla, 32 in ICM and 160 in Moti Katla. “We started random collection of samples of people for tests from yesterday (Tuesday). This is the first time we are collecting samples on a random basis in the field. This will help us in ascertaining if there is community spread in the district or not. Also, if at all there is community transmission, how wide is the spread. We will do it on a regular basis,” he said. “Random sampling has started only in Jaipur. Other districts have not started random collection of samples. This will also help us assess whether the virus has spread to other areas in the district,” he added. Ajitabh Sharma, nodal officer of Jaipur for prevention of Covid-19, said the district will get more than 1,500 corona anti-body rapid test kits by April 12. “Five mobile vans and two sampling centres have been built. About 28 workers including doctors, nurses and lab technicians are doing sampling work at these centres. A total of 576 samples were collected at these centres. Cluster-based sampling will start by dividing the area into thirty small parts from Thursday,” said Sharma. “During the lockdown period, workers at grocery stores, health workers, hospital workers, police, dairy, newspaper hawkers, water and power supply workers are getting in direct and indirect contact with other people. More than 1,500 such random tests will be done in batches,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/576-samples-collected-from-ramganj-nearby-areas/articleshow/75055977.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rapid tests for essential service providers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In order to avoid a possible ‘havoc’, the Rajasthan government has decided to screen and test essential service providers who come into contact with hundreds of people daily. A senior official of the state government said that they would use rapid antibody blood testing kits to sample test about 2,000 such service providers in the city. “Even as the lockdown continues and people are following the stay-at-home orders, they still visit the neighbourhood kirana stores and dairy booths, and buy vegetables from street vendors. These service providers come in contact with hundreds of people every day. If somebody is carrying the virus, it can create havoc in the area. That’s why the priority is to test them first,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, energy department, who is the nodal officer for Jaipur city. Currently, there is no system to screen them. While social distancing practices are followed by many of these essential service providers, it’s not water-tight, given the number of transactions they make in a day or the number of people they serve every day, said Sharma. “There is a small window of possibility. One does not know how many people a vegetable vendor meets, starting from the point of procuring vegetables from the mandi and in what condition he conducts himself in terms of social distancing. That’s why there is urgent need to test them,” added Sharma. The state government is expected to receive 8,000 rapid antibody blood testing kits by April 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rapid-tests-for-essential-service-providers/articleshow/75055993.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Five Tablighi Jamaat members test Covid-19 positive in UP’s Rampur district||Rampur: Five Tablighi Jamaat members from Uttarakhand, who have been quarantined at the community health centre (CHC) in Tanda tehsil after police traced them to Rampur border along with six others, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. CHC in-charge Dr Ramji Lal told TOI that all the five positive patients would be shifted to the isolation ward in neighbouring Moradabad district hospital.A total of 11 Jamaat members— residents of Haldwani and Nainital in Uttarakhand — were quarantined at the Tanda CHC on April 4 and their samples were sent to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh, while five of them were found to be positive for the deadly virus, said Dr Lal. All the 11 members had been staying in Moradabad district for 28 days before they were quarantined, added Dr Lal.Speaking with TOI, Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “Police traced all the 11 Tablighi Jamaat members to Rampur border when they were on their way to their home district in Uttarakhand on April 4 and they were quarantined at the Tanda CHC. Later, five of them were tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-tablighi-jamaat-members-test-covid-19-positive-in-ups-rampur-district/articleshow/75054881.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown curbs hit pet food stocks in Vizag and Vijayawada||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown has made procuring pet food a challenge for pet owners with most shops in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada running out of stock. Proprietors of pet shops also claim that when attempting home delivery of pet food, police are stopping them at some junctions. “Stocks of pet food were not available at the pharmacies in locality. On Monday I drove around 10 kms to buy the food,” said M Arun Kumar, a resident of Madhurawada in Visakhapatnam. Pharmacies confirmed that they were running low on supplies as several pet owners had stocked up in bulk in the initial days of the lockdown. “We don’t procure pet foods in bulk. Whatever stocks we had got exhausted. Fresh supplies are not coming,” said Gangaprasad Rao, owner of a pharmacy. Nor do all localities in the two cities have a pet shop in close proximity. “We tried to home deliver pet food but police are stopping us at several crossings across the city. Now, we are delivering only to places where we are sure that police is not there. Pet food should have been an essential commodity,” said M Prasad, owner of a pet shop in Visakhapatnam. “The situation is the same here,” added Sai Latha, owner of a pet shop in Vijayawada. As an alternative, vets suggest pet owners switch over to homemade food. “If they are accustomed to packaged pet foods they might be reluctant to eat homemade food initially but would eventually get used to it,” said Makenna Srinu, a vet in Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-curbs-hit-pet-food-stocks/articleshow/75058390.cms||Arpit Basu
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown curbs hit pet food stocks in Vizag and Vijayawada||VISAKHAPATNAM: The lockdown has made procuring pet food a challenge for pet owners with most shops in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada running out of stock. Proprietors of pet shops also claim that when attempting home delivery of pet food, police are stopping them at some junctions. “Stocks of pet food were not available at the pharmacies in locality. On Monday I drove around 10 kms to buy the food,” said M Arun Kumar, a resident of Madhurawada in Visakhapatnam. Pharmacies confirmed that they were running low on supplies as several pet owners had stocked up in bulk in the initial days of the lockdown. “We don’t procure pet foods in bulk. Whatever stocks we had got exhausted. Fresh supplies are not coming,” said Gangaprasad Rao, owner of a pharmacy. Nor do all localities in the two cities have a pet shop in close proximity. “We tried to home deliver pet food but police are stopping us at several crossings across the city. Now, we are delivering only to places where we are sure that police is not there. Pet food should have been an essential commodity,” said M Prasad, owner of a pet shop in Visakhapatnam. “The situation is the same here,” added Sai Latha, owner of a pet shop in Vijayawada. As an alternative, vets suggest pet owners switch over to homemade food. “If they are accustomed to packaged pet foods they might be reluctant to eat homemade food initially but would eventually get used to it,” said Makenna Srinu, a vet in Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-curbs-hit-pet-food-stocks/articleshow/75054878.cms||Arpit Basu
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Stricter curfew rules for Jaipur||JAIPUR: Police have deployed 4,500 personnel in Walled City, which is under strict curfew with no residents being allowed to go out of the area. Medical teams are carrying out door-to-door screening after more than 90 positive cases of coronavirus emerged from the area. Additionally, two police personnel are escorting every medical team. ACP Ajay Pal Lamba said, “We are providing security to all health workers irrespective of whether they want it or not. The aim is that they should test as many without fearing for their safety.” The administration imposed curfew in the Walled City nearly two weeks back, but so far, it has allowed certain relaxations. Now, no person who is a resident of the Walled City, can come out irrespective of the reason. This is applicable to everyone who stays within the Walled City, including mediapersons and the medical staff. The medical staff that resides inside the Walled City cannot come out but the staff from outside will be allowed to go in for screening and treatment purposes. Mediapersons who reside inside, can report from within, but will not be allowed to come out. Also, mediapersons and medical staff from outside can go inside the Walled City. “This strict and special restriction was implemented from Monday midnight for a population of 12 lakh residents of Walled City,” said an official. Initially, the curfew was imposed after a person, who had history of travel abroad, tested positive for coronavirus in Ramganj but the prohibition on residents of Walled City was implemented after the number of positive cases went over 90 in this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stricter-curfew-rules-for-walled-city/articleshow/75055996.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: After SC orders, HC hearings begin via video conferencing||NAGPUR: In line with Supreme Court guidelines, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court started video conferencing facility for hearing cases on its premises from Wednesday. It was started initially in two courts — civil and criminal — which are operating on temporary basis for urgent matters in the wake of restrictions due to coronavirus outbreak. While the civil court is presided over by justice Atul Chandurkar, criminal bench was headed by justice Vinay Deshpande. Under this facility, the judges are sitting in one courtroom while lawyers are asked to plead their cases from another. Camera and screens are placed in all four courtrooms where judges and lawyers can interact, but while mandatorily wearing masks. The civil judge heard an important petition demanding increase in testing facilities for Covid-19 patients at places like Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli in Vidarbha. “The judge was sitting in room ‘D’ while we argued the matter from room ‘H’,” Anup Gilda, who’s amicus curiae, told TOI. The criminal matters were heard from courtroom ‘C’ by justice Deshpande with lawyers arguing from room ‘H’. “It was a welcome change to argue via new facility. The audio and video were very clear and you can also clearly hear orders pronounced by the judges. Screens were set up in both courts. While judges were accompanied by clerks, lawyers were asked to enter the room one by one to maintain social distancing,” Rajendra Daga, who argued the bail matter, told TOI. The HC administration has already started taking preventive measures following the Covid-19 outbreak. Every lawyer, visitor and HC staff is being thermally scanned at the main entrance gate by the police and told to use the sanitizer. Masks are compulsory before entering the premises. Once inside, they are again told to use sanitizers. Social distancing is strictly maintained not only inside the premises, but also in the courtroom. The lawyers are told to wait outside till their case comes up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-sc-orders-hc-hearings-begin-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/75055994.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||More Covid-19 cases come forward, administration tracking chain of contacts||TIRUPATI/VIJAYAWADA: With 13 more Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Wednesday, the authorities are making all efforts to trace, test and treat all those who were linked to the new patients. The new cases are from Anantapur (7), Chittoor (3) and Kurnool (1), Guntur (1) and Krishna (1) districts. At Anantapur GGH, two doctors and two paramedic staff tested positive after attending to a patient who died due to coronavirus. The district medical and health department have begun tracing all those who have come into contact with the four. In Chittoor district, three positive cases were reported — one in Tirupati and two from Nagari, closer to the Tamil Nadu border. Two students and a teacher from TTD’s Dharmagiri veda patashala were admitted to SVRR Government General Hospital in Tirumala with symptoms on Wednesday. Their swab samples were sent for tests to SVIMS. With one new case, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kurnool went up to 75, the highest in the state. District collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa urged people to remain indoors and stay away from religious and non-religious events. The officials are yet to establish the source of virus contraction in the new cases reported from Machilipatnam, Guntur and Kurnool. While the patients in Machilipatnam and Kurnool died with infection, one in Guntur is under treatment. All the three patients do not have history of foreign travel nor have primary contacts with foreign returnees. The patient who died in Machilipatnam had serious co-morbidities and died with other complications. Tests conducted after his death confirmed Covid-19 infection, putting officials on their toes to trace his primary and secondary contacts and the source of contraction. Similar cases were reported from Guntur and Kurnool where officials are yet to establish the source of virus contraction. The Guntur district administration has shut down the city with additional restrictions. District collector Samuel Anand Kumar said that people should not come out of their homes unless it was extremely urgent. He also urged people to buy essential commodities like vegetables sufficient for at least four days and the relaxation time has been reduced from 11 am to 9 am. Red zones have been set-up with three kilometre perimeter and movement of people in these red zones has been restricted so that outsiders will not enter the area and those living within the red zone will not leave the place. The officials have made arrangements to supply essential commodities at the door step in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/more-covid-19-cases-come-to-fore-admin-tracking-chain-of-contacts/articleshow/75055598.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Five test positive in Vadodara on single day||Vadodara: Vadodara recorded its biggest jump of COVID-19 cases in a single day on Wednesday with as many as five individuals from Nagarwada and nearby areas testing positive for the deadly virus. With this, the number of infected persons in the city since the outbreak of coronavirus has touched 18. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal informed that all the five new cases, including three males and two females, surfaced after mass sampling was carried out in Nagarwada-Saiyedpura area of the old city, which has already been declared containment zone since Sunday. It was on Sunday that a 54-year-old man from Nagarwada tested positive for the virus. After the man, his 27-year-old son and a 15-year-old boy staying in his neighbouring Saiyedpura area had also tested positive. Late on Tuesday night, the 15-year-old boy’s 22-year-old brother tested positive. On Wednesday, the duo’s 60-year-old grandmother, 46-year-old father and 21-year-old sister-in-law tested positive. Two others including a 20-year-old and a 57-year-old man, who tested positive, are the ones who had come in close contact with the 54-year-old resident who was the first from the area to test positive. Sources said the 27-year-old youth, who has tested positive for the virus, is a qualified homeopath who used to go to a clinic in Tandalja area. The entire area around his clinic has been identified as containment zone and mass testing of people is being planned, said senior IAS officer Vinod Rao, special secretary appointed to handle Covid-19 situation in central Gujarat. With the five new cases, the city has recorded total 18 cases so far. Of these, two patients have died, six have been discharged while 10 are under treatment at GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri, which has been declared COVID-19 hospital for central Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-test-positive-in-vadodara-on-single-day/articleshow/75054463.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Salem||From salons to farmlands for a haircut||Krishnagiri: With customers refusing to visit hairdressing salons, where they say physical distancing can’t be maintained due to space constrains, barbers are now offering services on agricultural lands in Mekalachinnampalli village near Hosur in the district. The state government had earlier permitted salons to function for four hours a day from 6am. However, the response from the customers wasn’t encouraging as they were concerned about high chances of contracting the virus in small enclosed places like salons. One of the villagers, M Samykannu, told TOI that maintaining physical distancing at salons was not possible. “Due to space constraint, customers can’t maintain the required distance of 6ft gap,” he said. There are eight barbers in the village, with each of them having their own salon, which remained closed for the past two weeks. K Subbaiyah, a barber, said, “We don’t have any option to run the family. So, we have made temporary arrangements on agricultural lands. Most of the customers are bringing their own blades, combs and scissors. Some of them come with plastic chairs or wooden stools too.” The barbers said they would completely disinfect the combs, scissors and other items after every use. The villagers have welcomed the move and expressed the readiness to extend their support to the barbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/from-salons-to-farmlands-for-a-haircut/articleshow/75055601.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Indore||Cop attacked in Indore locality, NSA against 4||Indore: Another police team came under attack in Indore’s Chandan Nagar – a Covid-19 epicentre – late Tuesday night, leaving a constable injured. In response, police moved in with force and nabbed six suspects, four of whom have been booked under NSA. This is the third attack on cops and health workers in the state in a week – on April 1, two women doctors and their police escort came under heavy brickbatting in Indore’s Taat Patti Bakhal area and on April 6, two cops were stabbed and slashed by a mob in Bhopal’s Talaiya. NSA has been invoked in all three cases. According to police, a police team, accompanied by members of Nagar Suraksha Samiti, a formal body of civilian volunteers assisting police, was enforcing lockdown when it came under attack in Chandan Nagar on Tuesday night. The team came across some men roaming in the streets. “Constable Surendra asked them to go home and not loiter around during curfew restrictions. But they turned violent and pelted stones at the team,” additional SP Manish Khatri said. Outnumbered, the team had to retreat. Police responded swiftly. Personnel from three police stations searched the area and identified six persons involved in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cop-attacked-in-indore-locality-nsa-against-4/articleshow/75055596.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa CM: Cashew farmers to get market rate||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the state government has already ask Goa Bagayatdar to procure cashew nuts from farmers at market rate. “I have spoken to officials of Goa Bagayatdar to give proper market rate to cashew farmers,” he said. Sawant said cashew farmers will get a proper rate from Thursday. Earlier, minister for trade and commerce Vishwajit Rane has requested the chief minister to come to the aid of cashew farmers in Goa. Maintaining social distance himself, he appealed to Sawant in a tweet on Monday to have Goa Bhagayatdar help farmers recover their money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-cashew-farmers-to-get-mkt-rate/articleshow/75055995.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||40 new cases in Rajasthan, Jhalawar gets its first Covid-19 patient||JAIPUR: Forty more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday, out of which 23 are from Jaipur. The total count of positive cases has increased to 383 till date in the state. According to the health department report, 23 persons were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Jaipur, six in Bikaner, five in Kota, two from Jhalawar, one each from Jodhpur, Karauli, Jhunjhunu and Banswara. The report says, 13 persons linked to Tablighi Jamaat have been found infected with the virus in Jaipur. They belong to Bhagalkot of Karnataka. However, four persons, who are staff of a private hospital in Suraj Pole area of Jaipur, have been tested positive for Covid-19. The health authorities have sealed the hospital after disinfecting it. Two persons from Ramganj and two from Ghat Gate and one each from Kho Nagoriyan and Bhatta Basti area have been diagnosed with Covid-19. They have been sent to SMS Hospital for treatment. In Bikaner, five relatives of a 60-year-old woman, who had died recently after being tested positive for Covid-19, have also been found infected with the virus. While one woman has also been diagnosed with the disease, who was in close contact with a Covid-19 patient. A 50-year-old woman in Banswara has also been found infected with the virus. She was in close contact with a Covid-19 patient. In Jodhpur too, a woman, a close contact of a Covid-19 patient, has contracted the virus. In Kota, five persons have tested positive for Covid-19. They all are relatives of a 62-year-old woman, who had died in Kota recently after being diagnosed with the disease. Jhalawar reported its first cases on Wednesday when two persons were found infected with the virus. Health department officials said that they had a travel history. “Both of them had travelled to Indore and returned to Jhalawar recently,” said a health department official. In Karauli, a 75-year-old person, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, has been tested positive for Covid-19. In Jhunjhunu, one person was diagnosed with the disease, who was in direct contact with a person linked to Tablighi Jamaat, already found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-new-cases-in-raj-jhalawar-gets-its-first-covid-19-patient/articleshow/75056000.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant: Need not fear surveyors||PANAJI: Responding to public anxiety over the community survey announced due to the coronavirus outbreak, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that people need not fear the surveyors as they will not come in contact with persons who have been home quarantined. “Goa being a model state we should not miss a single Covid-19 case and everyone should cooperate with the survey. There is no risk of any sort. The surveyors will not visit the houses of people under home quarantine, they will only try to find asymptomatic patients,” said Sawant. The chief minister also said that no persons have come to Goa from foreign countries after March 22 and the last domestic flight to the state arrived in Goa on March 24. He also said that those called to be surveyors—booth level officer (BLOs), auxiliary nurses, aanganwadi workers and teachers— will be given gowns and masks as a precautionary measure. The state is set to conduct a door-to-door survey from April 13 to 15 in order to avoid community transmission of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-need-not-fear-surveyors/articleshow/75056008.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: From salons to farmlands for a haircut||KRISHNAGIRI: With customers refusing to visit hairdressing salons, where they say physical distancing can’t be maintained due to space constrains, barbers are now offering services on agricultural lands in Mekalachinnampalli village near Hosur in the district. The state government had earlier permitted salons to function for four hours a day from 6am. However, the response from the customers wasn’t encouraging as they were concerned about high chances of contracting the virus in small enclosed places like salons. One of the villagers, M Samykannu, told TOI that maintaining physical distancing at salons was not possible. “Due to space constraint, customers can’t maintain the required distance of 6ft gap,” he said. There are eight barbers in the village, with each of them having their own salon, which remained closed for the past two weeks. K Subbaiyah, a barber, said, “We don’t have any option to run the family. So, we have made temporary arrangements on agricultural lands. Most of the customers are bringing their own blades, combs and scissors. Some of them come with plastic chairs or wooden stools too.” The barbers said they would completely disinfect the combs, scissors and other items after every use. The villagers have welcomed the move and expressed the readiness to extend their support to the barbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/from-salons-to-farmlands-for-a-haircut/articleshow/75055607.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Man, son shot dead in Kheri||Bareilly: A 48-year-old man and his 25-year-old son who were on way to purchase grain in Mankipura village under Fardana police station in Lakhimpur Kheri district were allegedly shot dead on Wednesday morning. The man succumbed to his injuries at the hospital while his son was declared dead on arrival. According to police, Ramesh Shukla, his son Bholu Shukla along with a friend were on way to purchase grain in Mankipura village when unidentified persons shot at them. After firing shots, the assailants allegedly stabbed Bholu with sharp object. Police said Bholu died on the spot while his father hid himself at a shop. The accused fled from the scene after firing at the duo. The locals took Ramesh and his son to a hospital where Ramesh latter succumbed to his injuries. Station house officer, Fardana police station, Vimal Gautam, said, “We are waiting for a complaint from deceased’s family. The deceased had enmity with someone and the family is suspecting their role. Ramesh was accused of murder in a case years ago but he was later acquitted in the matter. We will register an FIR after receiving complaint from the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-son-shot-dead-in-kheri/articleshow/75054900.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||No drinking water, soap or sanitiser at ward, woman takes to Facebook||Bareilly: A 34-year-old woman, who has been admitted to an isolation ward of district hospital in Shahjahanpur, shared her experience on Facebook on Wednesday and said the treatment meted out to her made her feel as if she “has murdered someone”. The woman, who is a theatre artiste, was isolated after her samples were collected for Covid-19 test on Tuesday. She said there was no drinking water, no soap or sanitiser in the washroom and there was no woman guard outside the ward where she is being housed alone. She alleged that even the isolation ward was locked from outside. The woman claimed that after a few hours of her Facebook post, the senior officials provided drinking water, soap, sanitiser and got the ward cleaned. Officials, however, said that basic facilities like water and soap were already available at the ward and the Facebook post was an "emotional outburst as she was anxious over her Covid-19 test results". Her test report is expected to arrive on Thursday. The woman said, “I returned from Delhi to Shahjahanpur on March 19. After I had fever and bodyache, I went to hospital on Tuesday where I was told that it is seasonal fever and I was given medicines. I later got a call from ASHA worker who enquired about my travel history. Someone from district hospital later called up and asked me to come to give my samples for Covid-19 test. After my samples were collected on Tuesday afternoon, I was left alone in a deserted ward.” She wrote in her Facebook post, “This is worse than jail. In the name of facility, there is no sanitiser to clean hands and no handwash in the bathroom. I am alone in this ward which is locked from outside. No woman guard, nothing to save from mosquitoes and no drinking water facility. I am scared about my security. It feels as if I have murdered someone.” The woman told TOI on Wednesday, “After my Facebook post, officials started receiving calls. They provided drinking water, soap, hand sanitiser, mosquito-kit and got the ward cleaned. The ward has been unlocked. Staff and guard are sitting outside. I don’t have any issue now.” However, officials claimed that all facilities were already available at the isolation ward. Chief medical officer Dr RK Gupta said, “At least 61 people have been quarantined so far and no one had complained earlier. We provided all facilities like food and water to her and even a guard sat outside the ward. The ward was sanitised before she was admitted. As the woman was alone in the ward, she became anxious and emotional and wrote the post.” Nodal officer at district hospital Dr AUP Sinha said, “We put a latch for her safety and the women staff sat outside. But as the woman was alone in the ward and her samples were collected for Covid-19 test, she became nervous. We met her and she told us that she is satisfied.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-drinking-water-soap-or-sanitiser-at-ward-woman-takes-to-facebook/articleshow/75054922.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Avoid regular review meetings, HC tells public representatives||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday advised public representatives against conducting regular review meets in view of the Covid-19 pandemic as it would potentially increase the chances of virus spread. Responding to a letter written by an advocate, the high court on Wednesday observed that as maintaining social distancing is the only solution available for now to contain the spread of the virus, it is better to avoid such meetings. Advocate G Lakshmi Narayana in his letter to the Chief Justice said the Union government has issued clear guidelines to be followed with regards to maintaining social distancing. However, the minister for tourism, Muttamshetti Srinivas held a review meeting in a private function hall with a large number of people in attendence, he said. He said the meeting was being held to create awareness on Covid-19 spread but they made a mockery of the Union government’s advisory by not following either social or physical distancing in the meeting. He sought action against the minister and directions to the officials to take steps so that such incident are not repeated. Taking cognizance of the letter, the high court suggested the government advocate to inform all officials and public representatives to follow the national protocol on maintaining social distancing and avoid regular meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/avoid-regular-review-meetings-hc-tells-public-representatives/articleshow/75055620.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Hotels chosen for private quarantine: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: The state government has created ‘paid’ quarantine centres by tying up with some private hotels. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said, “We already have government quarantine centres in place. However, if someone is interested in staying at a private quarantine centre, the government has created the facility. We have tied up with some hotels.” Sawant said if people come to the state after the lockdown is lifted, the government will not allow them to stay at home. If they don’t want to stay at government quarantine centres, they can opt for private quarantined centres by paying the necessary fees, the chief minister said. “If somebody feels that the facilities at the government quarantine centres are not good enough, they can choose to stay at the paid quarantine centres,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotels-chosen-for-private-quarantine-cm/articleshow/75056012.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Salem||Six Tasmac employees suspended||Namakkal: Six employees of Tasmac have been suspended for selling liquor in the black market. A Tasmac salesman, K Murugesan, 45, was found selling 800 liquor bottles to a bar owner M Veerangan, 44. Police caught Murugesan and seized the bottles. “We have arrested the bar attender while the owner managed to escape,” police said. A senior Tasmac official later ordered his team to check illegal liquor sale in the district by checking the liquor stockpile. “At five Tasmac outlets, we identified less stocks than the stock mentioned in the books ,” said Badarinathan, a senior Tasmac official. Tasmac bar supervisors Venkatachalam, 45, Sekar, 48 and salesmen Murugesan, Sathish Kumar, 38, Dhanapal, 35 and Srinivasan 40 were suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/six-tasmac-employees-suspended/articleshow/75055621.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Stay home for Easter, urges minority body||VIJAYAWADA: Managing director of Andhra Pradesh State Christian (Minorities) Finance Corporation, N Yeshu Ratnam appealed to the Christian community to stay indoors and observe Good Friday (April 10) and Easter (April 12) at homes. In the backdrop of Good Friday prayers and worship, police in major cities and towns in the state visited prominent churches and requested that churches not be reopened for Good Friday and Easter (Resurrection Sunday) due to the lockdown. Probably for the first time, Good Friday and Easter celebrations in many parts of the state would be held without the participation of parishioners. With the increasing number of coronavirus positive cases in the state, the majority of the churches have stopped conducting masses and prayers held on Sundays have been streamed online to through social media platforms. Some churches in Vizag, Vijayawada and a few other cities have made elaborate arrangements to stream live prayers on Friday and Easter Sunday. Police dispersed a Palm Sunday gathering at Rayavaram in East Godavari district and at another church in West Godavari district. Both pastors were taken into custody. Sources said that a majority of churches have acknowledged the request and pastors have asked worshipers to respect the lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stay-home-for-easter-urges-minority-body/articleshow/75054929.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Six Nizamuddin returnee found negative for Covid-19; Saudi-return woman recovers, tests negative for second time||Pilibhit: In relief of health department officials, administration and people, six locals, who were quarantined upon their return from the Nizamuddin congregation on April 5, have been tested negative for Covid-19, while the 73-year-old Saudi Arabia-return woman has also been tested negative for the second time. Chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said, “The nasal and throat swabs of the six Nizamuddin-returned suspects were sent for testing on April 6. All of them — five aged between 19 and 21 years, while one is 45-year-old — are found negative for novel coronavirus. The woman's report, issued by King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, was received here on Wednesday." Pilibhit has, so far, been reported only two positive cases — the woman and her 33-year-old son, who landed in Mumbai on March 18 after completing their 20-day-long pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. The Mumbai airport authorities had allowed them to carry out onward journey after putting stamps on their arms, requiring them to quarantine themselves in Pilibhit, but they erased the stamp and concealed their travel history from the Pilibhit administration after they reached home on March 19, said sources with the district administration. The mother and son were shifted to the isolation ward at the district government hospital on March 21 after she complained about cough and sore throat on March 20. Their blood test reports by KGMU, which was received here on March 22, confirmed them to be positive for novel coronavirus.Expressing satisfaction over her second report, DM Vaibhav Shrivastav said, “The complete recovery of the elderly woman is a matter of great relief, but we should not be overconfident about the results, as we still have a long way to go, especially with her son continues to be positive.”Dr Chaturvedi said the third report of her son would come by Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-nizamuddin-returnee-found-negative-for-covid-19-saudi-return-woman-recovers-tests-negative-for-second-time/articleshow/75054955.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Two quacks found treating patients with expired medicines, booked||Pilibhit: On a whirlwind tour to check the administration’s preparedness for novel coronavirus, the district magistrate (DM) of Pilibhit on Wednesday stumbled on two illegal roadside clinics being run by quacks, with hoards of impatient patients standing outside, flouting the social distancing norms. DM Vaibhav Srivastava spotted the two quacks in Kalyanpur village on Pilibhit-Madhotanda road. During checking of the clinics, he also found stockpile of expired medicines. Following his orders, the two quacks were taken into custody and an FIR was registered against them. The DM told TOI that he was on way to Madhotanda to take the stock of novel coronavirus-related management in community health centre and to review the compliance of lockdown by the people when he saw the two quacks at their clinics on main road busy checking patients. “The quacks were identified as Yogesh Dewal and Krishna Kumar. They could not produce any valid degree of authorized medical course. And they had stocked almost all medicines of expired dates,” said the DM. The stock of medicines was impounded and the illegal clinics were sealed. Now, the health officials have been directed to launch a special drive to identify the quacks across the district and to ensure stringent legal action them, he said. A written police complaint against them was filed by medical officer in-charge of Neuria community health centre Dr Ajiz Hassan Ansari, who said that the crowd of patients was found at both the illegal clinics. “The two quacks were also held liable for flouting the social distancing norms during the lockdown period as they had not ensured any arrangement for maintaining the suggested gap of at least one meter,” Ansari said. The SHO of Gajraula police station, Jai Prakash Singh, told that the two accused were booked under relevant sections of IPC and under 3/4 of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-quacks-found-treating-patients-with-expired-medicines-booked/articleshow/75054989.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Translators help bridge gaps insocial distancing in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Leaving no stone unturned in Gadchiroli, which has reported no coronavirus patient till date, the district administration has decided to overcome language barriers by roping in translators at some places to create awareness regarding social distancing among the tribals. The officials have been taking help of translators to educate the masses about the importance of social distancing, personal hygiene etc in local Gondi, Madia and Telugu languages. The tribals are also being taught to prepare homemade masks and its proper use. The Maoist-infested Gadchiroli, sharing borders with Chhattisgarh and Telangana, could prove a tricky challenge for the administration to contain the disease here with its forested terrains having no robust health care infrastructure for the tribal population plagued by unawareness. Collector Dipak Singla has issued order to keep essential and emergency services open only between 7am and 1pm. “Petrol pumps have been told to cater to the needs of only government officials on duty apart from the ones related to essential and emergency services,” he said. Singla, stressing on social distancing, has already shifted markets to Gadchiroli stadium and asked vendors selling vegetables on handcarts to park themselves in different wards. “We have also distributed around 10,000 pamphlets in local languages about the coronavirus, how to keep it at bay and precautions,” he said. Rahul Gupta, sub-divisional magistrate and project officer for Gadchiroli and Aheri, said, “Following the guidelines of the central government, a ‘handbook’ was published in local languages on how to prepare masks at home. Revenue and tribal departments have jointly published it. These can be used as a training module for members of the self-help groups to prepare and distribute them free of cost among the masses,” he said. Gupta further said women are being engaged in large numbers by the self-help groups in Kurkheda block in North Gadchiroli. Aheri tehsildar Omkar Otari said he has roped in some translators to address the local population in Madia, Gondia and Telugu languages regarding the significance of social distancing, use of masks and other precautionary measures. “We are taking help of the translators to create awareness among the villagers regarding the importance of shutting off their links and contacts with the rest of the places so as to avoid contracting the Covid-19. After understanding the importance of social distancing, the villagers are now disallowing entry to others into their hamlets,” he said. Under the supervision of collector Singla, Gadchiroli also has become one of the first districts in the state to complete its health surveys by March 20 identifying 16,000 persons with travel history and quarantined them. “The quarantine period of around 12,500 persons is already over,” he said. Out of the 37 samples from the district sent for testing, 26 have been negative for Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/translators-help-bridge-gaps-insocial-distancing-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/75056055.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 9, 2020||Cuttack||Two UPHCs to provide 24X7 health service in Sambalpur||SAMBALPUR: Two Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) will provide round-the-clock health services to the people, who depend on the Sambalpur District Headquarters Hospital (DHH). The step has been mooted after the district administration took the decision to convert the Sambalpur DHH into a 200 bed Covid-19 hospital, including 30 bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Nodal officer of district Covid-19 cell Sukanta Tripathy said the work on converting the Sambalpur DHH into Covid-19 hospital has started. The Covid-19 hospital here will be ready within 7 to 10 days. “To ensure that patients depending on Sambalpur DHH for health services do not face any difficulties after the DHH is converted into Covid-19 hospital, a decision has been taken to provide health service 24X7 at two UPHCs in Ainthapali and Baidyanath Chowk,” he said. “Initially, we planned to provide 24X7 healthcare facility at the two UPHCs. However, if required, we will start providing round-the-clock health services at other UPHCs too,” he said. Official sources said the patients, who have been admitted to DHH will be shifted to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla. Similarly, the patients admitted to the gynaecology ward and Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital will be shifted to some private nursing homes. The officials of the district administration have started dialogue with the private nursing home in this regard. The Sambalpur DHH has a sanctioned strength of 149 beds. Patients from across Sambalpur district besides from neighbouring districts depend on the government-run hospital for health services. Earlier, the district administration planned to convert the Pulaha hostel of the Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla into a Covid-19 hospital. But later, the decision was changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/two-uphcs-to-provide-24x7-health-service-in-sambalpur/articleshow/75062936.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJD wants more say for states to deal with lockdown issues||BHUBANESWAR: The BJD on Wednesday urged the Centre to give states more say in dealing with lockdown issues like allowing inter-state movement of trains and operating domestic flights. The party feels this will enable the states to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in an effective manner. The issue was raised by Pinaki Mishra, BJD’s leader in Lok Sabha, as well as others during a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation. “The lockdown may not be lifted at one go on April 14, although a clearer picture will emerge when the Prime Minister holds a video-conference with all chief ministers on April 11,” Mishra told TOI from New Delhi. “On behalf of our party, I said the states should have the leeway to decide whether they want to allow inter-state train or flight movement immediately or in a staggered manner,” the BJD leader added. The party also demanded that the Centre should immediately release funds to the states under the various centrally sponsored schemes, especially Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) that helps in creating jobs in rural areas. There are around 36 lakh active job-card holders in Odisha under the rural job scheme. “Under MGNREGA, the state government is expected to get Rs 551 crore under labour component and Rs 251 crore under material component from the Centre, which is part of the first instalment,” said a state panchayati raj department source. With the Centre yet to release GST compensation to the states since December, Mishra demanded that the amount should be released immediately. He also asked the Centre should consider the state’s demand to revise coal royalty to financially empower the states to fight Covid-19. Revision of coal royalty has been a long-standing demand of the Odisha government. The BJD also raised objection to the Centre’s recent decision to suspend the Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund for two years. During the video-conference, Mishra said the amount for MPLAD should be deposited in the chief minister’s relief fund. “We get the MPLAD because we are elected by the states. So, rather than putting the amount in a consolidated fund of the country, it should be deposited in the state kitty so that states will get additional resources to fight the pandemic,” the Puri MP said. MPs get Rs 5 crore per annum under the MPLAD scheme. Odisha has 21 MPs in Lok Sabha and 10 in Rajya Sabha. Stating that the large economies of the world are spending around 10 per cent of their GDP in the fighting against the Covid-19, Mishra said the package announced by the Centre is too small. “We have decided to spend only Rs 2 lakh crore which includes a pro-poor financial package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore. We should spend around Rs 15 to Rs 20 lakh crore in fighting the pandemic. Time has come to breach the fiscal deficit barrier,” Mishra said. The BJD leader, also a senior Supreme Court lawyer, highlighted the need for refinancing sectors like MSME, airline industries, hospitality and real estate industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjd-wants-more-say-for-states-to-deal-with-lockdown-issues/articleshow/75053724.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Two UPHCs to provide 24X7 health service in Sambalpur||SAMBALPUR: Two Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) will provide round-the-clock health services to the people, who depend on the Sambalpur District Headquarters Hospital (DHH). The step has been mooted after the district administration took the decision to convert the Sambalpur DHH into a 200 bed Covid-19 hospital, including 30 bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Nodal officer of district Covid-19 cell Sukanta Tripathy said the work on converting the Sambalpur DHH into Covid-19 hospital has started. The Covid-19 hospital here will be ready within 7 to 10 days. “To ensure that patients depending on Sambalpur DHH for health services do not face any difficulties after the DHH is converted into Covid-19 hospital, a decision has been taken to provide health service 24X7 at two UPHCs in Ainthapali and Baidyanath Chowk,” he said. “Initially, we planned to provide 24X7 healthcare facility at the two UPHCs. However, if required, we will start providing round-the-clock health services at other UPHCs too,” he said. Official sources said the patients, who have been admitted to DHH will be shifted to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla. Similarly, the patients admitted to the gynaecology ward and Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital will be shifted to some private nursing homes. The officials of the district administration have started dialogue with the private nursing home in this regard. The Sambalpur DHH has a sanctioned strength of 149 beds. Patients from across Sambalpur district besides from neighbouring districts depend on the government-run hospital for health services. Earlier, the district administration planned to convert the Pulaha hostel of the Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla into a Covid-19 hospital. But later, the decision was changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/two-uphcs-to-provide-24x7-health-service-in-sambalpur/articleshow/75053738.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||Stranded Lucknow man found hanging in Bareilly hotel||Bareilly: A 28-year-old resident of Jankipurm area in Lucknow, Anurag Deep Gupta, was found hanging in a room at a guest house here on Wednesday, where he had been staying since March 18. The body was found hanging in room number 105 of the guest house on Railway Warehouse road under Subhashnagar police station limits here. When Gupta didn’t come out of the room in the morning, guest house manager Nadeem knocked at the door, but didn’t get any response, said police. Suspecting that something was wrong, said police, Nadeem peeped into the room through the ventilator and found Gupta hanging from the ceiling fan. He alerted police immediately. Police said they tried to get access to his contact details from his mobile, but it appeared that the victim had deleted all mobile data before taking the extreme step. The manager said left stranded in the city due to the lockdown, Gupta made several attempts to return to his home, but in vain. He was upset and used to take meal only once in a day, he added.Station house officer (SHO) of Subhashnagar police station inspector Harishchand Joshi said police broke opened the door and sent the body for post-mortem examination. “The victim had deleted all contact numbers and chats from his mobile phone before taking the extreme step. We learnt from his ID card that he was a resident of Jankipurm area in Lucknow. We have informed the police station concerned in Lucknow so that they could contact his family and inform them about the incident,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stranded-lucknow-man-found-hanging-in-bareilly-hotel/articleshow/75054968.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa's Bondla zoo steps up to keep big cats safe||PANAJI: After reports that a tiger at New York City’s Bronx zoo tested positive for coronavirus — the first case of human-to-animal transmission of the virus — Goa’s Bondla zoo has taken measures mandated by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to ensure its big cats are safe. “There is no case of coronavirus in animals in India, and the situation is Goa is also under control. Besides, there are no tigers at the zoo here. We therefore don’t see any possibility for infection,” said principle chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Subhash Chandra. The zoo currently has five leopards and two jungle cats. On Monday, India put its zoos, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves on “highest“ alert, asking authorities to watch the big cats 24x7 for any abnormal behaviour and take “immediate preventive measures to stop transmission and spread of the virus from human to animals and vice versa”. In Goa, the zoo and national parks have been shut since March 15 as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. At the zoo, only the staffers directly involved in feeding and taking care of the animals are being asked to report for duty, the PCCF said. “Activities of those workers who take care of the garden and cottages have been curtailed. Only those who indulge in cleaning of night shelters and essential staff to manage the animals have been called in to work,” a zoo official said. In addition, the zoo’s uniformed staff, range forest officer and in-house veterinary doctor are also on duty, sources said. “The contractors hired to provide animal feed are also providing us with food.” The zoo has restricted the movement of its staff to contain the virus. An official said that all staffers working at the zoo at the moment are residents of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bondla-zoo-steps-up-to-keep-big-cats-safe/articleshow/75056017.cms||Nida Sayed
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||District moots geo-mapping and sentinel surveillance||Thiruvananthapuram: The district, which has not recorded positive cases for the past six days and registered a 64% dip in persons under home isolation in the past one week, will initiate the second line of action employing geo-mapping and sentinel surveillance. A sentinel surveillance system is used when high-quality data are needed about a particular disease that cannot be obtained through a passive system, as per World Health Organization. The health team will map the places where positive cases have been reported in the district. This will be followed by classification of areas as buffer zone and containment zone. Areas within 3km of occurrence of positive cases will be categorized as containment zone. The area beyond containment zone will be marked as buffer zone. When the cases were reported, the health team had done an extensive screening of primary contacts who were identified during contact tracing in these areas. There were two cases in which number of primary contacts was very high and screening was done for a large number of contacts. As part of sentinel surveillance, the process will be repeated to ensure that there are no missing links. The persons under high-risk category; those who had come in close contact with the person who was tested positive will also be screened to detect any late onset of symptoms. Persons with influenza like illness (ILI) in areas under containment zone and buffer zone will be screened in the second line of action. As per WHO, whereas most passive surveillance systems receive data from as many health workers or health facilities as possible, a sentinel system deliberately involves only a limited network of carefully selected reporting sites. Data collected in a well-designed sentinel system can be used to signal trends, identify outbreaks and monitor the burden of disease in a community, providing a rapid, economical alternative to other surveillance methods. Data collected from containment zones will be a key factor in understanding dynamics of transmission, especially in case of outbreak of disease in clusters; something which has not occurred in the capital so far. District collector K Gopalakrishnan said that geo-mapping, which has been used mainly in areas where positive cases were recorded so far, will be used extensively from now on. “We have been regularly tracking trends in cases related to influenza like illness based on call service data, patients reporting at private and government hospitals and even from ambulance data. The symptoms of patients being picked up are being closely monitored. This will be extended across the district, especially in areas where cases have already emerged,” said Gopalakrishnan. The district has so far had 388 primary contacts and 363 secondary contacts from various positive cases reported in the district. Road screening done by the team has also enabled to identify a positive patient who had landed in Chennai airport and then came via road to Neyyatinkara. He was taken to General Hospital and during the testing, his sample turned positive.  In the last one week, the district could bring down number of persons under home isolation from over 18,000 to below 7,000. The number of persons being hospitalized with symptoms has also decreased slightly in district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-moots-geo-mapping-and-sentinel-surveillance/articleshow/75053759.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Collector orders toshift Bodad familiesto relief camps||Yavatmal: Taking cognisance of TOI report on the plight of 80 families of migrant labourers on the verge of starvation at Bodad, published on Monday, district collector MD Singh has directed resident deputy collector Lalitkumar Warhade to shift entire labour force to relief and rescue camps. After reading the TOI report, office-bearers of an NGO led by Dr Chetan Dharne reached Bodad and provided the families a kit each adequate to sustain them for a week. Later talking to TOI, Dr Dharne assured that the families would starve no more. Yavatmal tehsildar Kunal also visited the labourer families and took stock of the situation. He later briefed the collector. Engaged by a Pune-based private contractor for laying pipeline for underground drainage system, the labourers had been staying in makeshift tents at Bodad village, 5km from the city. After the lockdown was imposed on March 24, the contractor had stopped work and payment. It also came to fore that the collector was misled by the site supervisor of the contractor that he has given Rs15,000 to each family. It has now been confirmed that only Rs1,500 was given to each family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-orders-toshift-bodad-familiesto-relief-camps/articleshow/75053771.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Door-to-door survey to trace virus-affected||Berhampur: Officials of the Ganjam district administration on Wednesday decided to launch a door-to-door survey to trace people with symptoms of coronavirus. This initiative is akin to a model of Bhilwara in Rajasthan, which has successfully managed to contain the spread of the life-threatening virus. “We will begin the process of checking up people’s health on Thursday and aim to complete it by next Saturday,” district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said. He added that the anganwardi workers, helpers and primary schoolteachers will go from door-to-door to do the health check-up of about 40 lakh people. They will make a note of answers related to their travel history, health status and symptoms of influenza-like illness. Kulange said since the questionnaires are easy to comprehend, there is no need to train the survey team in handling them. “We will educate them over phone before they start the survey. The district will use the survey responses to decide who needs to be tested for the novel coronavirus infection. The survey will also help us know the status of those who are under home quarantine,” he added. Not a single person has tested positive for coronavirus in Ganjam district so far. The health administration has sent the samples of 267 suspected persons for tests. Sources said the 105 samples, whose reports have come, have tested negative. “We are waiting for the test reports of the other samples,” Uma Shankar Mishra, the chief district medical officer, said. The district administration on Wednesday withdrew the ‘hot spot for Covid-19’ tag from Matia Sahi under Kukudakhandi block. “After medical screening of the 130 persons, who had returned from the hot spot Covid-19 areas of Bhubaneswar, nobody showed any symptoms of coronavirus,” Shinde Dattatraya Bhausaheb, the subcollector of Berhampur, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/door-to-door-survey-to-trace-virus-affected/articleshow/75053749.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mark Shab-e-Barat indoors: Waqf board||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district minority welfare department, additional Waqf board officials and Muslim leaders and politicians have appealed to community members to observe Shab-e-Barat prayers on Thursday from home and not congregate at burial grounds to offer ‘fateha’ or at mosques. A circular issued by the district minority welfare officer and additional Waqf board officer on Wednesday stated that members of the Muslim community are advised not to leave home in view of government instructions on maintaining the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mark-shab-e-barat-indoors-waqf-board/articleshow/75055015.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amid lockdown, Kendrapada sees boom in baby coronas||Kendrapada: Amid the fear and uncertainty let loose by a pandemic that is threatening human existence itself, the district is witnessing a baby boom. And despite the dread the novel coronavirus has been spreading, many parents are calling their newborns ‘Corona’. Jharana Das (26), wife of Ranjan Das in Karilopatana village of Kendrapada, gave birth to a daughter on Saturday. “The daughter was born in the district headquarters hospital in Kendrapada. We named her Corona,” said Ranjan. Joshnyarani Rout (24), wife of Krushna Chandra Rout, from Kulasahi village gave birth to a daughter on Monday morning. She, too, was named Corona. “We decided to name her Corona as she was born during the lockdown period,” said Joshnyarani. “The word corona has no meaning in Odiya language. The closest one comes to is karuna, meaning kindness,” said Dr Basudev Das, a researcher and member of Odisha Sahitya Academy. Badal Hazara and wife Subhakanti chose to go ahead with the second option. The couple from Suniti village welcomed a son on Monday. “We decided to name my son Karuna (kindness),” said Badal. Malati Behera (23), wife of Ajaya Behera of Iswarapur village, gave birth to a daughter in the CHC at Rajnagar on Tuesday. “To remember the lockdown, we decided to name our daughter Lock,” Aajya said. Some 21 years back, the coastal district was torn apart by the Super Cyclone. In its aftermath, many parents named their children as Barsha (rain) and Paban (wind). “During last year’s Cyclone Fani, many named their children Fani,” said Biraja Pati, a social worker in the district. This time, parents have taken a liking for corona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amid-lockdown-kendrapada-sees-boom-in-baby-coronas/articleshow/75053768.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Mass testing of samples underway||Vadodara: Another round of mass testing will be conducted in Nagarwada-Machchhipith localities by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) after five more persons tested positive from the areas.  A large-scale mobilisation of health workers was done and police personnel were also deployed with the teams to ensure that the process of collecting samples was smooth. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that 300 more samples will be collected from the area. He said that the area was contained and movement of people was restricted. According to sources, five teams will remain present in the area to collect samples. Ten other health teams will remain present in the area to assist those taking samples and examining people there. Forty police personnel will also remain present during the drive. Officials said that the need for more sampling was felt as there were some persons with symptoms like upper respiratory tract infections or flu. So far, five persons have tested positive from the 92 samples that were tested as a part of a mass testing drive since Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mass-testing-of-samples-underway/articleshow/75054501.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||60-yr-old woman donates life’s savings to PM CARES fund||Dehradun: A 60-year-old woman from Chamoli’s Gauchar town donated all her life’s savings to the PM CARES Fund on Wednesday. The woman, Devki Singh Bhandari, donated the Rs 10 lakh that she had saved, pledging it to help the country in battling the threat of the disease. Bhandari had lost her husband Hukum Singh – who worked in the state sericulture department – a few years back. She does not have any children and spends her time in social work activities in Chamoli district. Presently, she stays in a rented accommodation and aids a few children financially in their higher education. Outlining the reasons for donating her savings, she said, “Covid-19 is a global issue and the country is facing a big challenge. Through fixed deposit and pension money, I had collected an amount of Rs 10 lakh in my bank account. I decided to give it away as a contribution from my side in fighting this battle. I hope that others, too, come forward to help the government in fighting against this disease which has spread across so many countries rapidly.” In a tweet on Wednesday, Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank lauded the contribution of Devki Singh Bhandari. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, too, hailed her gesture, saying, “ We had heard of stories of generous persons like Daanveer Karna but today, we are seeing it with our own eyes. By her selfless act, Devki Singh Bhandari, while staying alone, has considered the whole country as her family, and set a remarkable example for all.” State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj also thanked her for the generous contribution saying, “She is an inspiration for everybody. We salute her dedication towards the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/60-yr-old-woman-donates-lifes-savings-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/75053767.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Collector: Vehicles will be allotted for urgent needs of tribespeople||Thiruvananthapuram: District collector K Gopalakrishnan visited the Podiyam tribal settlement here on Wednesday to see whether the relief measures in view of the lockdown are reaching the community. The collector informed the members of the tribal community that he reached there to check whether they are getting enough rice and provisions. He collected phone numbers from some of the residents and said that he would directly inquire to know whether reports of tribal promoters are true. The elated tribal community members invited him to their houses. Collector reached the tribal settlement under Kuttichal panchayat by around 9.30am. The inhabitants complained that though they received rice and provisions, there was a scarcity of vegetables and curry powders. He directed tribal promoters to check requirements of each houses and provide the necessities. The promoters were asked to enquire about requirements for the coming days too. He said that those who lack money should be given items free of cost. The collector made the inhabitants aware about the threat of Covid-19 and how important it was to stay indoors. He told them not to go out of the settlement till the end of the lockdown. Vehicles of forest or ST development departments should be allotted for emergency needs, including medical emergencies, the collector said.  He promised that government-sponsored kit, consists of 17 items, will be distributed in the area within two days. Two mobile medical units with health workers will visit the area in every two days, he said. K S Sabarinathan MLA, Kuttichal panchayat president and ward members interacted with the collector. He also visited the centre where tribal persons exhibit the items they collect from forest for sale. Around 1,659 persons belonging to 586 families are staying in 27 settlements in Mokkottivayal and Podiyam areas under Kuttichal panchayat. The Podiyam settlement lies around 8km away from the Agasthyarkoodam checkpost under the Peppara forest division. Three tribal promoters under schedule tribes’ department submit daily reports to higher authorities. Meanwhile, the youth commission has deployed volunteers of youth defence force to provide necessary items and medicines to 206 settlements in the hilly regions of the district. This was following reports that around 6,800 tribal persons are facing hardships under the lockdown.  The district panchayat has started a helpline for tribal persons: 9037367806. The helpline was launched based on the direction of state government and minister for welfare of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, said district panchayat president V K Madhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/collector-vehicles-will-be-allotted-for-urgent-needs-of-tribespeople/articleshow/75053783.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Surat||West zone residents told to stay at home as cases surge||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday ordered the residents living in Adajan Patiya, Cause-way Road, Gorat, Rander Gam, Hanuman Tekari and areas near Bhanki Stadium to stay at home compulsorily till April 14. These areas fall in west zone of SMC which has has reported eight Covid-19 positive cases, the highest cases the eight zones so far. "If anyone living this area is found violating the order, will be booked under IPC 188 and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897,'' the notification issued by SMC stated. SMC officials say that the decision was taken after Covid-19 positive cases from these areas surged and people are seen commuting in large numbers from Adajan Patiya and Dabholi Bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/west-zone-residents-told-to-stay-at-home-as-cases-surge/articleshow/75055028.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bareilly||No drinking water, soap or sanitiser at ward, woman takes to Facebook||Bareilly: A 34-year-old woman, who has been admitted to an isolation ward of district hospital in Shahjahanpur, shared her experience on Facebook on Wednesday and said the treatment meted out to her made her feel as if she “has murdered someone”. The woman, who is a theatre artiste, was isolated after her samples were collected for Covid-19 test on Tuesday. She said there was no drinking water, no soap or sanitiser in the washroom and there was no woman guard outside the ward where she is being housed alone. She alleged that even the isolation ward was locked from outside. The woman claimed that after a few hours of her Facebook post, the senior officials provided drinking water, soap, sanitiser and got the ward cleaned. Officials, however, said that basic facilities like water and soap were already available at the ward and the Facebook post was an "emotional outburst as she was anxious over her Covid-19 test results". Her test report is expected to arrive on Thursday. The woman said, “I returned from Delhi to Shahjahanpur on March 19. After I had fever and bodyache, I went to hospital on Tuesday where I was told that it is seasonal fever and I was given medicines. I later got a call from ASHA worker who enquired about my travel history. Someone from district hospital later called up and asked me to come to give my samples for Covid-19 test. After my samples were collected on Tuesday afternoon, I was left alone in a deserted ward.” She wrote in her Facebook post, “This is worse than jail. In the name of facility, there is no sanitiser to clean hands and no handwash in the bathroom. I am alone in this ward which is locked from outside. No woman guard, nothing to save from mosquitoes and no drinking water facility. I am scared about my security. It feels as if I have murdered someone.” The woman told TOI on Wednesday, “After my Facebook post, officials started receiving calls. They provided drinking water, soap, hand sanitiser, mosquito-kit and got the ward cleaned. The ward has been unlocked. Staff and guard are sitting outside. I don’t have any issue now.” However, officials claimed that all facilities were already available at the isolation ward. Chief medical officer Dr RK Gupta said, “At least 61 people have been quarantined so far and no one had complained earlier. We provided all facilities like food and water to her and even a guard sat outside the ward. The ward was sanitised before she was admitted. As the woman was alone in the ward, she became anxious and emotional and wrote the post.” Nodal officer at district hospital Dr AUP Sinha said, “We put a latch for her safety and the women staff sat outside. But as the woman was alone in the ward and her samples were collected for Covid-19 test, she became nervous. We met her and she told us that she is satisfied.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-drinking-water-soap-or-sanitiser-at-ward-woman-takes-to-facebook/articleshow/75055027.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Move on to grow turmeric in agency areas under PPP mode||VIJAYAWADA: With the outbreak of Covid-19, there is huge demand for immunity booster supplements. To meet the demand, pharma sector is looking out for turmeric with high content of curcumin. The state government has decided to grow turmeric at Chintapalli, Araku and Paderu areas in Vizag agency in Public-Private Partnership (PPE) mode. In a tweet, minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said turmeric with high curcumin content was in high demand with pharma industry as it is a key ingredient to boost immunity in the fight against viral replication. The government has initiated PPP model for integrated agriculture development in Chinatapalli for growing such turmeric. Tribal farmers in Chintapalli, Paderu, Araku and other areas in Vizag agency will get support from the government to expand turmeric cultivation. Dr V Siva Kumar, scientist at Horticulture Research Station, Chintapalli, said demand for turmeric has increased after the outbreak of Covid-19 as turmeric has medicinal properties, adding that turmeric can also be used for making medicines for cancer treatment. In Chintapalli, Araku and Paderu, Roma and other varieties of turmeric are grown on around 10,000 hectares. Chintapalli turmeric has around 6 to 6.5 per cent curcumin content compared to the 4 per cent in regular variety. Turmeric with high curcumin is in demand in pharma industries for immunity boosting content. The pharma firms will extract curcumin from turmeric in crystal form for medical use, Siva Kumar added. Sources said the state government has begun discussions with some firms to support and promote tribal farmers to improve quality and area under cultivation of the turmeric crop in Vizag agency. The government will also extend support to turmeric growers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/move-on-to-grow-turmeric-in-agency-areas-under-ppp-mode/articleshow/75055035.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Judicial fraternity to donate to PMCARES||VIJAYAWADA: The judicial fraternity has decided to contribute to the Prime Minister Citizen’s Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PMCARES) by way of donations. After discussing with all HC judges in full court through video conference, chief justice J K Maheswari came forward to donate Rs 50,000 as his contribution and all other judges decided to donate Rs 25,000 each. In order to show unity and responsibility of the judicial fraternity, it was also decided that all registrars in the HC, principal district judges and additional district judges to contribute Rs 20,000 each, senior civil judges Rs 15,000, junior civil judges Rs 12,500, officer in gazetted category Rs 10,000, non-gazetted officers Rs 5,000 and other subordinate staff including drivers to contribute Rs 1,000 each to the PMCARES. The HC made it as voluntary contribution not mandatory. However, those who are not willing to contribute are asked to inform the same to take the reason on record. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/judicial-fraternity-to-donate-to-pmcares/articleshow/75055638.cms||---
April 9, 2020||India||Elgar case: SC gives activists a week to surrender||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted one week’s more time to social activists Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to surrender in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee, however, questioned them for not surrendering in compliance of its order by which the court had on March 16 directed them to surrender within three weeks after rejecting their anticipatory bail plea. “Though we expected that the accused would surrender, honouring the order of this court, they have not done so. We are told that in Bombay, the courts are functioning. It would have been appropriate for the accused to surrender as the courts are open and not totally closed. However, since the petitioners have enjoyed the protection for long, by way of last opportunity, we extend the time granted to surrender for one week,” the court said. The activists approached the SC for more time to surrender in view of the coronavirus outbreak. They contended that they are suffering from various ailments and should not be allowed to expose themselves to public places. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, opposed their plea and told the SC that jail will be a safe place for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elgar-case-sc-gives-activists-a-week-to-surrender/articleshow/75056480.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Man drinks sanitiser after mom asks him not to go out in lockdown||Nainital: A man, in his twenties, allegedly consumed sanitisers in Rudrapur area of Udham Singh Nagar district after his mother stopped him from going outside as the lockdown is in force. Speaking to TOI, police officials said that Sumit Kumar was taken to district hospital after his mother informed her neighbours about the incident. "His mother told us that she had asked him to not go out due to the lockdown but the man got angry and consumed a 100 ml sanitiser bottle. The doctors confirmed that they found sanitiser in his stomach and removed it. Doctors say that the man’s condition is stable now," said Rudrapur SHO Kailash Bhatt. Kumar, hails from Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh, and has been living in Rudrapur for a few years. He works at an industrial unit in Pantnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-drinks-sanitiser-after-mom-asks-him-not-to-go-out-in-lockdown/articleshow/75055044.cms||Prashant Jha
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham portals to open on due dates; call on yatra after decision on lockdown extension||Dehradun: With Uttarakhand government recommending the Centre to extend the Covid-19 lockdown, an uncertainty shrouds the format of the Char Dham Yatra this year. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI on Wednesday that he is scheduled to hold a video conferencing session with the district magistrates of Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi, and Chamoli to discuss the preparations and other matters related to the Char Dham Yatra. However, a final call would be taken only after Centre’s decision on lockdown extension and its duration. Maharaj said, “The portals of all the four shrines will be opened on the due dates. We will ensure that our preparations are in place but the yatra format will be finalised only after Centre’s announcement on lockdown.” The minister said that the state was planning to seal the border of three districts — where the four revered shrines are located — after the lockdown ends. “The pilgrims would be allowed only after a proper thermal check-up and scanning. Their mobile numbers, the phone number of their drivers, vehicle numbers, route to be taken, and their detailed itinerary would be mentioned in a log book, so that we can track them at any time,” said the minister. On the issue of medical facility, he said that teams would be deployed at the district borders and also on the routes. “We will consult the priests and till the time the lockdown is lifted, the activities at Char Dham may be limited to rituals being performed by priests,” he added. The portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri are to be opened on April 26, followed by Kedarnath on April 29 and Badrinath on April 30. Last year, the yatra saw a record turnout of over 32 lakh pilgrims. Both Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines recorded a pilgrim footfall of over 10 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-portals-to-open-on-due-dates-call-on-yatra-after-decision-on-lockdown-extension/articleshow/75055049.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 9, 2020||Pune||Retail association not to support bandh calls||Pune: The Pune District Retail Traders’ Association on Monday said it would not take part in bandhs called by any political organizations in the wake of the current economic slowdown. Members of the retail association said extending support to the bandhs called by any political party added pressure to the sector that was already dwindling in the city. “Our businesses have already taken a hit because of the advent of the e-commerce firms. Extending support to bandh calls by various political parties further affects our trade,” Pune District Retail Traders’ Association president Sachin Nivangune told TOI . He added that the association had been putting in time to sensitize its members across the city to not extend support to any call for bandhs. “We know of cases where the workers of various political parties, which had called for a bandh, visit the retail outlets and force the owners to down their shutters. The shopkeepers have no option, but to meet the demands of political party workers simply out of fear,” said Nivangune. “There have been several instances of bandh supporters pelting stones at the shops and outlets refusing to down their shutters. We have taken cognizance of all such situations and are holding meetings with our members. We are telling them how to react to such kinds of coercive practices,” he said. Nivangune added that the retailers would file a complaint against people forcing them to shut shops during bandhs “called for personal interests”. He said, “The association is also trying to convince shopkeepers to insure their units against such violent incidents. We are pushing for bulk registrations for getting the shops insured. We are, at the same time, in touch with companies to ensure that we can claim insurance amounts for the damage caused to shops during such violent incidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retail-association-not-to-support-bandh-calls/articleshow/74448516.cms||Neha Madaan
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Hosp staff to adorn uniforms stitched by prisoners||Thiruvananthapuram: Soon, the entire staff of Sri Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology will adorn uniforms stitched in the tailoring unit of Poojappura Central Prison here. The new uniforms are being introduced to implement Covid-19 protocol. According to Dr Vivek V Pillai of SCTIMST, till now only the staff who worked in intensive care units and operation theatres wore gowns. Now, with the hospital gearing up to treat emergency Covid-19 cases, hospital authorities have decided to implement this protocol. “This is a protocol that is followed in hospitals in foreign countries. Once the staff reach the hospital they would change into the hospital uniform,” Vivek V Pillai said adding that the advantage of implementing this uniform system at this point of time is that the staff can be sure that no kind of contamination reaches home when they return home after work. The uniforms, which are of cotton and terry cotton fabric, can be washed and reused again, he said. He also said the prison was the safest choice to entrust with the work when the hospital authorities decided to provide gowns for all the staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics. The prison inmates belong to a community that has very less exposure to outside world. The hospital has placed an order for 500 gowns. The fabric for the same were also provided by the hospital. The prison department had come to the help of public when medical stores in the state ran out of masks due to panic buying. Prison superintendent B Sunil Kumar said even though it is an important work, the main priority of the prison tailoring unit is still the manufacturing of masks. At present as many as 25 prison inmates are working in the tailoring unit. Out of these, three are engaged in the works of gown manufacturing and the rest are involved in the production of masks. The first set of 25 gowns were handed over to the hospital authorities on Wednesday by DGP Rishiraj Singh. The prison authorities have also taken 10 new trainee tailors from among undertrial prisoners in the central prison to meet manpower shortage in the tailoring unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hosp-staff-to-adorn-uniforms-stitched-by-prisoners/articleshow/75053795.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||CAU postpones off-season plans||Dehradun: Several plans of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) have been postponed due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the state. One of the major plan was to have a designated office with proper facilities and resources to carry out daily affairs of CAU. For this, the body had found an apt space in the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium and was supposed to shift in the first week of April. Another important plan was to grade state players for an annual contract. “Players had to be put in different grade categories like A, B, and C. But due to the lockdown, the work related to the grading system has been put on hold. Also, we were supposed to conduct an annual award ceremony starting from this year. We wanted to felicitate the top performers of our state but the ceremony has been postponed now,” CAU secretary Mahim Verma told TOI. He added that the work regarding the installation of a proper cricket academy at the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium has also been put on hold and so is the hiring of support staff. When asked about the post lockdown strategy, Verma said, “It will definitely be difficult for us to conduct all the work which we had planned for the off-season period. We would have lost a lot of days by the time everything comes to normal. Therefore, we will see how the situation pans out and focus on the works related to the upcoming cricket season.” Last year after getting BCCI membership, the funding of the association was increased significantly. As a consequence, the association had planned to improve the state of cricket in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-postpones-off-season-plans/articleshow/75055066.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC seeks reply on excesses, declines to be harsh on cops||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday made it clear it will not do anything to demoralise police, who are struggling to enforce the lockdown for the larger good of society, but advised authorities to ensure that the men in khaki must enquire into the reasons why people are out on the roads. “That will be better rather than straightaway beating them,” the HC judges said A bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T Amarnath Goud, made these remarks while hearing a public interest petition (PIL) that charged police with acting in an excessive manner. The bench converted four letters written by advocates, all espousing the causes of various sections of people in the backdrop of the Covid-19 lockdown and the state government’s orders to strictly enforce the relevant guidelines, into PILs. The judges said that they would not presume that the police force all over the state was acting in a hasty manner. A letter referring to an incident in Wanaparthy wanted the advocate general to advise the director-general of police (DGP) to ask his men to adopt a friendly approach while dealing with lockdown violators. Advocate-general BS Prasad informed the bench that the DGP was in favour of friendly policing and necessary instructions were already given by him. The bench issued notice to the state home secretary, the DGP and other police authorities asking them to file their replies by April 16 on the Wanaparthy incident, where a man was beaten up in front of his minor son. The high court, while hearing another PIL (letter) that sought protection to doctors employed at Covid-19 wards, sought to know about the security arrangements made by the state at such hospitals. “Inform us within a week about the steps taken in this regard at all Covid-19 hospitals situated both in Hyderabad and in the rest of the state,” the bench said. The two-judge bench sought to know the response of the state on another PIL that wanted the state to use disinfectants at all public places like markets, Rythu Bazaars, etc., because they were getting crowded during relaxation periods. The judges also sought a reply from the state on another PIL that said that salary and pension cut imposed by the state were violating the rights of the employees and pensioners. All four PILs were posted to April 17 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-reply-on-excesses-declines-to-be-harsh-on-cops/articleshow/75056039.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Heritage city heals in emptiness, silence||AHMEDABAD: The 609-year-old ‘living’ World Heritage City lies desolate. Life seems to have been sucked out of its winding alleys. Never in its history have the city’s streets been empty because of an invisible enemy. Nearly 13 checkposts were created all along the Walled City perimeter and thermal guns are aimed at nearly 25,000 people. The area’s residents, despite the imposition of IPC Sections 144 and 188, ventured out to run errands and get provisions for their friends and family members stuck in other pols. The only people who now roam on these streets wear ‘medical suits’.  The health workers collected nose and throat swabs of 700 residents here on Wednesday. “On Thursday, health surveys will begin across the Walled City, looking for people with symptoms,” said a senior AMC official. “Prices of vegetables and provisions skyrocketed after the Jamalpur and Kalupur markets were closed,” said Pankaj Bhatt, a resident of Raja Mehta ni Pol. “A kilo of potatoes now costs Rs 30 and a kilo of okra costs Rs 120. Sugar’s price has gone up from Rs 35 to Rs 42 per kilo. People have enough money to buy provisions for two or three days and not for an entire week.” The 5.6 sq km area used to be defined by its near claustrophobic mix of people and vehicles. The 19 major and minor shopping districts have now closed: Teen Darwaza, Rani no Hajiro, Lokhand Bazaar, Chandi Bazaar, Bartan Bazaar, Manek Chowk and the new China electronics market among them. The mosque, the synagogue, and the Parsi fire temple have fallen silent. Even the busy Kalupur Swaminarayan temple and the Hasti Bibi no Gokhlo wear a deserted look. A resident of Doshiwada ni Pol, Gopal Bhavesh, said: “There are many poor labourers who are stuck alone in various pols without food. They used to depend on a tiffin service, which has now stopped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heritage-city-heals-in-emptiness-silence/articleshow/75055710.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag AMTZ to scale up manufacturing of testing kits, produce ventilators||VISAKHAPATNAM: Think3D, a medical equipment manufacturing facility under the aegis of the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) in Visakhapatnam, will start mass production of Covid-19 testing kits including face shields, ventilator splitters, and other machined components. The facility was virtually launched by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy from his camp office in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the facility, as of now, manufactures 2,000 testing kits per day. “Once it gets the laser welding equipment, the production will be scaled up to 25,000 units per day. Starting from April 15, for the first time in India, AMTZ will produce ventilators also. It will start with 3,000 ventilators a month which will soon be scaled up to 5,000 units per month,” he said. The minister further said that about 20 tests can be done with each kit. “The cost of each kit would be Rs 1,200. By May, around 7.5 lakh kits would be manufactured and delivered to other states as well. The central government has already placed orders for 3,500 ventilators and assembling of the units will start from April 15. The state government is planning to scale up the supply of kits so that 4,000 tests can be conducted a day. DNA, RNA, PCR tests can also be done through these kits and the results can be known in 55 minutes,” he added. Special chief secretary Rajath Bhargava said ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has given its approval for kits to be manufactured at AMTZ. “The drug controller general of India has granted exemption from manufacturing approvals for ventilators in view of the crisis. As a token of support, the commerce and industries department is donating 1,000 Covid-19 kits and 10,000 litres of hand sanitizers to the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-amtz-to-scale-up-mfg-of-testing-kits-produce-ventilators/articleshow/75055051.cms||Reshma Jain
April 9, 2020||Agra||141 Aligarh villages sharing borders with sensitive districts like Noida sealed||Agra: The Aligarh administration, as a precautionary measure, sealed 141 villages which share their borders with neighbouring districts where cases of novel coronavirus have surfaced recently.All the villages are being sanitised by the administration.District magistrate (DM) CB Singh told TOI, “So far, 156 people, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, or had come in contact with its attendees, have been identified and put under quarantine. All of them were tested negative for Covid-19, but the administration is keeping a tab on them.”“All the villages which share borders with Noida, Mathura, Bulandshahr and Hathras are being sanitised. Soaps and masks are also being distributed among the locals in these villages,” the DM said.Several committees have been formed to maintain the supply chain of essential commodities to locals during the lockdown period, he said.“A few complaints were received against some local area councillors for not maintaining the supplies and also about ration distribution. They are being resolved with the help of police,” DM Singh added. Meanwhile, spokesperson of AMU, Shafey Kidwai, told TOI that a total 122 samples were tested at the varsity’s hospital on Wednesday and none of them was found positive.“Till date, 1,175 samples have been tested at AMU’s Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College’s lab. Of these, 59 were positive including 48 from Noida, four from Hathras, three from Bulandshahr, two from Mathura and one each from Agra and Badayun,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/141-aligarh-villages-sharing-borders-with-sensitive-districts-like-noida-sealed/articleshow/75055085.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Agra||1st Covid-19 death in Agra, 2 more test +ve||Agra: A 76-year-old woman passed away at the SN Medical College as the city witnessed its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday. The elderly woman was the grandmother of a 28-year-old man who had returned from Europe recently. The woman was found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The medical report of the grandson is awaited. Also, two more people were tested positive, taking the district's tally to 65. The two individuals are wife and daughter of a lab technician of a private hospital who was tested positive on April 6. Earlier, the owner of the hospital and his son, both doctors, were found positive. They are currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Resident of Kamla Nagar locality, the woman after being tested Covid-19 positive was shifted to the isolation ward at SN Medical College on Tuesday. She had been a patient of interstitial lung disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and was kept under isolation in a critical condition. Doctors tried their best, but could not save her." Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The two new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. The area near their house and places they had visited are being monitored. We are conducting a screening of people there. Their contacts are being identified. We will be conducting a health check of all these people." In Firozabad, three more men with links to Tablighi Jamaat were tested positive for Covid-19 - taking the district's tally to 10. Chief medical officer of Firozabad Dr S K Dixit said, “The three new positive cases are from Hajipur area of Rasoolpur police jurisdiction. Two men had taken part in the Jamaat event, while one is a contact.” According to a health official, the infected men came to the district on March 25. All the three have been shifted to an isolation facility at a private hospital near the Firozabad-Agra district border. Meanwhile, in a written order from district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh, grocery stores and vegetable shops will now be open on alternate days for two hours between 7am and 9am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1st-covid-19-death-in-agra-2-more-test-ve/articleshow/75055076.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana promulgates ban on spitting in open||HYDERABAD: In the interest of public health and safety, especially bearing in mind the spread of Covid-19, the state government on Wednesday promulgated the ban on spitting pan, any form of chewable tobacco or non-tobacco products and sputum in public places, institutions and streets once again. The government had imposed a ban on spitting in public places earlier also, but it was hardly enforced. “The Covid-19 pandemic has brought to the fore the importance of hygiene and cleanliness in both personal as well as public spheres. There is a dire need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices that may potentially lead to spread of such viruses and other infections,” said A Santhi Kumari, special chief secretary, health, medical and family welfare department, in a government order. She said, “In the interest of public health and safety, spitting of pan, any chewable tobacco or non-tobacco product and sputum is banned.” The Epidemic Diseases Act gives the civic authorities the power to enact the rules. Violators can be booked under section 188 of the IPC, which prescribes a punishment of up to six months or a fine of up to Rs 1,000 or both. According to section 327(2) of the GHMC Act, 1955, a person can be imprisoned for a month or fined up to Rs 5,000 if he/she spits in public places. “There is a need to implement the existing laws. An anti-spitting law that can be implemented by both the health and municipal authorities like in Maharasthra is the need of the hour,” principal secretary, municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD), Arvind Kumar said.He further said the onus is on the public to avoid the urge to spit. “While the government frames the rules, implementation cannot be one hundred per cent successful till people have self-control,” he said. GHMC in July last year had imposed a fine of Rs 100 on a TSRTC driver for spitting on a road near Kushaiguda depot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-promulgates-ban-on-spitting-in-open/articleshow/75056044.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: 258 people arrested for defying lockdown in Uttarakhand, 75 cases lodged||DEHRADUN: At least 258 people were held and 75 cases were lodged in different parts of Uttarakhand on Wednesday for allegedly violating prohibitory orders imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus amid the nationwide 21-day lockdown. According to senior police officials, all the violators were arrested under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for venturing out on the streets despite preventative orders in place. In all, 4,435 persons have been booked in 1,086 cases for defying lockdown across Uttarakhand in last 15 days of lockdown, according to Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand director general (law and order). Besides, 13,151 vehicles have so far been issued challans and 3,499 vehicles were seized for plying on the road without any valid reason. From the challans issued, police have collected penalty to the tune of Rs 60.51 lakh in last 15 days. To ensure effective implementation of lockdown order, the whole state has been divided in 102 zones and 500 sectors. For effective enforcement, almost 6,000 police personnel and additional 20 companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have been deployed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-258-people-arrested-for-defying-lockdown-75-cases-lodged/articleshow/75055077.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Two doctors, two nurses test positive for virus in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Four medical personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday even as the tally in AP went up to 348 with 34 new cases reported. This is the first time in the state that medical staff have contacted coronavirus during treatment of a Covid-19 positive person in Anantapur district. According to health authorities, two doctors and two nurses came into contact with a Covid-19 person, who died recently. They had attended to the man and offered initial treatment in the chest ward. The patient had a known case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. He was subsequently shifted to the ICU, where he tested positive for Covid-19 and succumbed to its complications on April 4. This comes amid the suspension of a government doctor in Narsipatnam of Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday for making allegations over shortage of personal protective equipment to the medical staff. In all, the state recorded 34 fresh positive cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 348. Guntur registered the highest number of 14 cases, followed by Anantapur 7, Nellore and Krishna 6 each, Chittoor 3, Prakasam 3 and West Godavari 1. Anantapur district medical and health officer Anil Kumar said they have been listing out all the medical personnel, who came into contact with the Covid-19 patient and his contacts to send them to quarantine wards or place them under home isolation. “We will conduct medical tests on all these persons,” said Anil Kumar. Three Covid-19 patients were discharged from GIMSR Hospital in Visakhapatnam after their three consecutive samples came negative. Four patients were successfully treated so far in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-docs-2-nurses-test-positive-for-virus-in-ap/articleshow/75056051.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Over 1,000 stranded Nepalese workers unhappy with Nepal government’s decision to extend lockdown till April 15||PITHORAGARH: Stuck at the Indo-Nepal border in Dharchula for days, more than 1,000 Nepalese migrant workers have expressed their disappointment with Nepal’s decision to extend lockdown from April 7 to April 15. These workers, mostly daily wagers, are currently stranded at five entry points to Nepal in Pithoragarh district — Dharchula, Jauljibi, Baluakote, Dauda, and Jhulaghat. They have gone out of work due to lockdown in India and want to return to their homes in Nepal. “The district administration has arranged camps for these stranded workers at JSN Stadium, fire station, Government Inter College Baluakote, Baram, and Jauljibi. National Hydro Power Corporation, Dauliganga, is providing them with food, clothes, bed, and medical facilities and the camps are being run by the local administration. On Monday, 40 more Nepalese workers reached in Dharchula thinking that the border would have opened on April 7,” AK Shukla, SDM Dharchula, told TOI. “Nepal government’s decision to extend lockdown till April 15 has disappointed us. The local administration here is providing us with food and shelter but we don’t know how our families are doing there. We have been waiting for the border to open for more than a week now. Now, we will have to wait for more,” said Krishna Bahadur, a Nepalese worker. Another Nepalese worker Ramesh Ram told TOI, “We appeal to the Nepalese government to open the suspension bridge and allow us to return to our villages. We don’t know if our families have ration or not. All the workers in camps here are physically fit and no one has coronavirus-like symptoms. We are even ready to stay in quarantine in Nepal.” “We will take care of all these workers until the lockdown is lifted. We are providing them with every necessary facility,” added SDM Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-1k-stranded-nepalese-workers-unhappy-with-nepal-govts-decision-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-15/articleshow/75055088.cms||Prem Punetha
April 9, 2020||Agra||Police arrest man who murdered daughter for meeting ‘friend’ at night||Agra: After a 15-year-old girl was allegedly killed and her body was discreetly cremated by her parents in Firozabad district to avoid any probe, local police arrested the absconding father. Earlier, the girl’s mother was arrested too.Both the accused were present before the judicial magistrate and later sent to jail on Wednesday.Identified as Guddu and his wife Nitesh, the two were booked under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender).According to police, the girl, identified as Prabha, was youngest among four siblings. Her two elder sisters are married. Late on Monday in Mohammdabad village, Prabha was brutally killed by her father in front of her mother. Later, the couple cremated her in a farm field.On Tuesday morning, locals alerted the police about the incident. The girl’s mother was then arrested, while her father went missing.Station house officer (SHO) of Tundla, Gyanendra Kumar, said, “Guddu was hiding in a hay stack at his village farm field. During interrogation, he claimed that he was angry with his daughter after she went to meet her male friend in late hours. The teen boy lives next to the girl’s house.” Guddu is a daily-wage worker. He usually transports goods on his buffalo-pulled cart.“After killing her, Guddu and his wife Nitesh cremated the girl’s body in a farm field. However, our forensic team managed to retrieve charred remains. It was a brutal murder,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/police-arrest-man-who-murdered-daughter-for-meeting-friend-at-night/articleshow/75055092.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanitation workers felicitated in Secunderabad Cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: More than 40 sanitation staffers, working at Picket in Secunderabad Cantonment, were felicitated for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic by residents on Wednesday. Some youngsters distributed a pair of clothes and saris to the workers, who sweep city roads and clean the drainage network. Each worker was also given Rs 500 for their medical and other expenses. The group said it will also distribute gloves and masks to the workers in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-workers-felicitated-in-cantt/articleshow/75056056.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Why not direct procurement of farm produce, asks Madras high court||CHENNAI: Information technology sector and other industries might fall due to Covid-19 crises but we cannot let agriculture fall, said the Madras high court, calling for the state’s response on a PIL seeking direct procurement of farm produce by the government till the lockdown ends. A division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha made the observation on Wednesday while hearing the plea moved by advocate G Rajesh, seeking direction to the state government to directly procure agricultural produce, particularly perishable items such as fruits and vegetables, directly from farmers in view of the nationwide lockdown. According to the petitioner, there are 16 village panchayats in Erode district alone that are horticultural zones producing bananas and watermelons. Due to the lockdown, the highly perishable produce could not be transported to the major markets — Chennai, Bengaluru and Cochin, the petitioner said. Claiming that produce from thousands of acres are piled up across the state, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the authorities concerned to take measures to procure them directly from the farmers till the lockdown is lifted. “The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has procured paddy from farmers since February. But payments for the procurement has not been released yet,” the petitioner said. Pointing out to a government order issued by Karnataka for direct procurement of perishable farm produce and distribution of the same in district and taluk level, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the Tamil Nadu government to pass a similar order. When the plea came up for hearing, additional advocate general P H Arvind Pandian informed the court that through a communication dated April 7, the chief minister has announced certain reliefs and exemptions to farmers across the state. Officers at district, taluk and block levels have been nominated to help farmers and their contact numbers have also been published, Pandian added. As the petitioner claimed that details of such nodal officers are not known to many of the farmers, the court directed the state to publicise it so it can be utilised by farmers. This apart, the court directed the state to file a report on the details of payments made to farmers for paddy procured in two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-why-not-direct-procurement-of-farm-produce/articleshow/75055654.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet announces additional ration for card holders||DEHRADUN: With the possibility of lockdown being extended further, the Uttarakhand cabinet has decided to provide a certain amount of free and additional ration to more than 23 lakh ration card holders in the hill state. At present, there are 13.46 lakh families, which have a primary household (PHH) card or a Antyodaya Ration Card. They are provided 35 kg ration per card. These card holders are given pulses at Rs 2 per kg and rice at Rs 3 per kg. For these card holders, the state cabinet has decided to provide 5 kg free of cost pulses and rice for a period of three months. Besides, there are an additional 10.27 lakh ration card holders, who are covered under the State Food Safety Scheme. These card holders are provided 7.5 kg ration – 5-kg rice and 2.5-kg pulses. The rice is given to them at Rs 11 per kg and pulses Rs 8.60 per kg. The quantity of ration for card holders covered under the scheme has been doubled for a period of three months. “They will get the additional ration at the same rate,” minister Madan Kaushik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-cabinet-announces-additional-ration-for-card-holders/articleshow/75055099.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 3 Bangladeshi preachers defy lockdown rules, arrested||CHENNAI: Three religious preachers from Bangladesh, who carried out religious activities illegally in the city despite the lockdown, have been arrested at Periyamet, police said. Despite restrictions, they visited a few houses and conducted activities where people gathered in groups. Police said Hussain Mohammed Amir, Saleem Hussain and Hussain Abdul reached the city on March 20 on a one-year tourist visa issued on February 17, police said. They were staying in the big mosque in Periyamet and had not informed or obtained permission to carry out the religious activities. Based on a tip, a police team visited the mosque on Tuesday. “Though lockdown was in place, they carried out the religious activities without hindrance,” said an investigating officer. Police sources confirmed that the three did not participate in the Tablighi Jamaat meet held in Delhi. Police booked them under 51b of the Disaster Management Act; 13 & 14 of the Foreigners Act; 188, 269 & 271 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act; and 134 & 135 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. They have been admitted to Stanley Government Hospital and are being tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-bangladeshi-preachers-defy-lockdown-rules-arrested/articleshow/75055662.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Forest officers deployed for Covid-19 duties across Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh forest department has deployed almost half its strength to tend to Covid-19 duties across the state. According to principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) N Prateep Kumar they have reserved less than half of the required strength to tackle regular forest-related duties including tackling forest fires. With the recent incident of a tiger testing as Covid-19 positive in the US, the Central Zoo Authority has issued specific guidelines to take precautionary measures to ensure the animals aren’t affected by the disease across all wildlife conservation centers in the state. Kumar said that they have installed CCTV cameras and kept the animals under constant surveillance. Apart from that, they are also taking blood samples of animals suffering from health issues and are sending it for testing at the Animal Health Institute. “A Government Order (GO number 239) was issued where the respective district collectors are given the authority to delegate work for the forest officials. The forest officials deputed for Covid-19 duties include assistant beat officer, forest beat officer, forest section officer, deputy range officer, forest range officer, divisional forest officer and sub divisional forest officer,” Kumar said. Apart from uniformed officers, district forest officers and sub district forest officers have already been placed under the district collectors’ disposal. The officials are being deputed towards containment, prevention and relief measures during the pandemic. However, the decision comes at a time when raging forest fires are being reported in Tirupati, Anantapur and Srisailam. Most recently, a major fire broke out at Seshachalem forest on March 26 due to summer heat. Officials point out that it is common for forest fires to occur during the summer season in the state considering the extreme temperatures that would prevail during the later part of this month. The state forest department has already been grappling with severe staff crunch and now, less than half of the required staff are available to handle any forest fires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/forest-officers-deployed-for-covid-19-duties-across-ap/articleshow/75055656.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Banks yet to process EMI deferment applications||Bengaluru: Bank borrowers, including small businesses, startups, and individuals, who have sought EMI deferment are finding their accounts are getting debited. Banks, working with reduced staff and processing delays, say they are working on delaying debits so that all moratorium can be attended.Take the case of S Lalitha (33), who owns a plastic manufacturing company in Chennai that employs 18 people. She had asked for a deferment to her monthly EMI of Rs 65,000 as early as April 1. And yet her account got debited on April 5.Dev Singh, an Indian Army soldier, based in Jammu and Kashmir, says his financial responsibilities have increased post-lockdown as his younger brother, a college student remains in Delhi even though his hotel management college is closed. “I had taken a car loan and the monthly EMI is Rs 14,295. But because I had to send money, I wanted to defer this EMI. Despite applying for deferment my account got debited.”Another borrower from Greater Noida Jaya Sharma said, “Banks are simply not reachable. I tried my education loan officer; his boss, the call center, sent multiple emails; filled up 3 different forms that the bank put out in a week for EMI deferment (the bank kept changing forms). Despite which the EMI of Rs 18,000 was debited for the education loan I had taken on behalf of my brother.”Customers are facing issues like invalid call center numbers, unavailable bank managers, website glitches and problems in downloading and uploading documents. “My bank has posted the application form as a PDF on the website. Now how will I edit the PDF? I can’t even download, print and sign the document as I have no printer, internet centers and the photocopy shops are closed. They couldn’t make the application an editable Word Doc,” said Delhi-based Meena Sharma. Sharma has availed an education loan for her son— who is in the US— but is sure her EMI of Rs 60,000 will be debited on April 10, given the lack of response from her bank.Banks, on the other hand, said they will try to honor all requests from the customers. Kotak Mahindra Bank has said if any customer, who has opted for a moratorium, finds his/her account debited, the EMI will be refunded by April 15-20. Some lenders are delaying the EMI debits until all requests for moratorium are processed. This has given anxious moments to borrowers who want to continue clearing their EMIs.Raghav Diwan from Bhopal is worried about being hit with additional interest charges. “I have an EMI debit of Rs 11,900 every month on the 1st for my car loan. This month my bank did not deduct the amount. I am worried. I don’t want to be pushed into this moratorium. I want to pay the loan on time.”Axis Bank has fixed April 15 as the deadline for moratorium requests and will not debit any EMI until then. “EMI will be debited for customers who have not availed of the moratorium, post-April 15,” said the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-yet-to-process-emi-deferment-applications/articleshow/75055657.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||31k covered under cluster containment||Ahmedabad: State health department officials said that 31,257 persons are covered under cluster containment in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) area. The area includes 28 clusters and 31 health department teams have initiated door-to-door survey. The number is the highest in the state, followed by 30,850 persons in Surat and 28,638 in Bhavnagar corporation areas. In Vadodara and Rajkot, 5,110 and 3,766 persons are under containment respectively. In all, the state has 99,621 persons in 44 identified zones where 126 teams of health department and municipal corporations have been deployed. AMC data revealed that cumulatively 892 samples have been taken from the city of which 82 are positive and 644 are negative. Results for 162 are pending. At three AMC-run hospitals, 1,270 field-level tests were performed from April 4 to 7. In all, 1,475 persons are under quarantine including 1,282 at home, 186 at quarantine centres, and 7 at hospitals. “New cases are primarily coming from the eight hotspots,” said a health department official. “We are also seeking the support of doctors to identify the patients showing symptoms of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/31k-covered-under-cluster-containment/articleshow/75055709.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Get us bananas, pay our bills: Callers dial 100 with bizarre requests||BENGALURU: Seconds after receiving a call on the police control room number, a young constable was dumbfounded by the caller’s unusual request: “Sir, we are running out of bananas. Can you please send your Hoysala patrol squad to fetch us a few?” When the constable regained composure and tried to drive home the point that 100 should be dialled only in case of emergencies, the caller replied: “We have a habit of eating bananas after dinner. We are out of stock and can’t step out because of the lockdown.” Under pressure since the Covid-19 related shutdown was announced, police turned down the request. This is not an isolated incident. Police claim they have been getting such calls on a daily basis. They had earlier announced that 250 Hoysalas would be converted into emergency vehicles that can be accessed by people in distress (for example, to reach the nearest hospital). TimesViewAt a time when the police department’s resources are stretched, it is absolutely irresponsible on the part of the citizenry to expect cops to work as errand boys. Such calls will lead to a diversion of resources from real emergencies, as police have few ways of distinguishing a genuine request from an outright lie on the basis of a phone call. And being human, it’s quite possible that tempers might flare and something untoward may result from some of these ridiculous requests. It’s the responsibility of citizens to be as selfsufficient as possible.However, some callers dial 100 for flippant reasons like wanting to visit their relative’s house or the nearby grocery shop. On Tuesday, Ganesh, a police constable with Bagalgunte police, answered a distress call by 70-year-old Kanthamma, a resident of Bagalgunte, who complained of a severe headache. It was only when cops reached her house did they learn the actual reason for the call: She wanted to visit her relative in Malleswaram. Another policeman, who is entrusted with the task of dispatching patrol vehicles, said: “I got a call from a man who wanted us to visit a hospital and pay his bill as he didn’t have any money.” Some even dial 100 seeking police’s help in getting a mobile charger or topping up their prepaid numbers. Deputy commissioner of police (command centre) Isha Pant told TOI: “We have been convincing people to contact us only if there is an emergency. But there’s also a rise in enquiry calls from the public seeking details about Covid-19. We put them in touch with the resources available.” However, patrol police have a different story to share. “Some people dial 100 and ask us to take them to hospital and insist we wait till they get treated. Can we wait for two or three hours just to drop a patient back to his/her place?” wondered a constable. Narrating another incident, a police official said, “A couple who had been to hospital on a two-wheeler had a fight over a petty issue. The woman called the control room to drop her back home so that she needn’t depend on her husband to do so. We had to convince the couple to go back home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/get-us-bananas-pay-our-bills-callers-dial-100-with-bizarre-requests/articleshow/75055403.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||For migrants, it’s ghar wapsi, reunion and rural reconnect||HYDERABAD: The 21-day lockdown announced by the Centre last month to check the spread of coronavirus has triggered a reverse exodus of sorts to rural areas. Many, who still have homes and ancestral property in the countryside, have packed their bags and left their homes in the city — albeit temporarily — in a bid to stay safe from the virus. And the trend was visible in districts close to Hyderabad like Rangareddy, Nalgonda and Medak. As cities have turned vulnerable to the spread of the virus, many left for the villages after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Janata Curfew on March 22. “We have a farm in Nalgonda, but we live in Himayatnagar. After the lockdown was announced, my family and I left for our village. Many came down on Ugadi too as police were a little lenient on the day,” said Putta Venkat Reddy, who owns a farm in Parada village in Kattangoor mandal in Nalgonda district. Many who have come down from the city are spreading awareness on coronavirus in the villages. This has set another trend in the villages with many participating in harvest activities. “We have 30 acres of land in Kandukur in Saireddyguda gram panchayat of Rangareddy district just 20 km away from the Shamshabad Airport. I have two sons. We live in Champapet in the city. Both my sons have joined me in the village during lockdown,” Venkatram Reddy, primary ariculture cooperative society director of Kandukur, said. Reddy’s sons, who are preparing for competitive exams, began helping the harvest of onions. The family went to the native village on March 26. “They are not used to village life at all, but are helping me now,” he added. “It is interesting to see people reconnecting with their roots in such a situation,” Yadagiri Kasani (70), a resident of Devarayamjal village in Rangareddy district, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-migrants-its-ghar-wapsi-reunion-and-rural-reconnect/articleshow/75055583.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Covid-19 fears stoking OCD relapse, say doctors||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old city doctor has stopped going to work. Nursing a morbid fear that hospitals are a source of contamination, she doesn’t even step out of her room and keeps off everyone, including her children. Her husband, also a doctor, has to go through the rites of cleanliness, including washing currency notes, on her insistence. The woman is among the Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) patients witnessing a relapse in the wake of coronavirus concerns. Covid-19’s handwash mandate and OCD can be the worst of combinations, say psychiatrists who are witnessing patients’ struggles. Endless handwashing, fear of the virus and illusions about its presence on their hand are forcing many psychiatric patients to spend hours in front of the washbasin, they say. “The patients now have supporting facts that only heighten their fear and obsession,” said Dr Mahesh Gowda, psychiatrist, director, Spandana Health Care and Rehab Centre. He has been seeing 3-4 cases of OCD per day during the lockdown. The woman-doctor is one of his patients. Another 19-year-old woman who had managed to claw her way out of OCD after discontinuing her studies for two years is now in the thick of a worse lapse. “The girl is a cleanliness addict. She had recovered well with medicines and therapies. The fear of the virus has now made her situation difficult as she thinks it’s on her hand. When she came to see me just before the lockdown, she used to wash her hands a minimum of 100 times a day,” said Dr Vinod Kumar, psychiatrist and head, Mpower, The Centre. OCD patients who had shown signs of recovery or were doing well are back to being haunted by their obsessions. “They are a lot more troubled now. In some cases, there is a combination of Illness Anxiety Disorder (IAD) coupled with OCD. In cases that I have come across, there is an irrational fear of contamination. Getting them back to normal is tough now. I have seen 12 such cases in a week,” added Dr Vinod. He cited the example of a 30-year-old man with IAD, who had a fear of cardiac diseases. He now thinks he has Covid-19. The man had travelled in Metro and believed he had contracted the virus. When his throat began itching, he thought it was nothing but Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-fears-stoking-ocd-relapse-say-doctors/articleshow/75055086.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cop & wife’s gesture earns DGP’s praise||HYDERABAD: After a constable of a police station in Siddipet district took his wife to donate blood in an emergency situation, DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Wednesday took to social media to appreciate the cop. Constable Shekhar in Raipol police station received a message that there as an urgent need for B positive blood. Wasting no time, he took his wife Rekha to the government hospital for donating blood as she has B positive blood group. “He immediately took his wife Smt.Rekha who is of same blood group to help the needy by donating. Salute to her concern&attitude being a family member of POLICE.(sic),” Telangana police tweeted. The constable and his wife won the praise of the DGP, who tweeted: “In this fight against #COVID19, taking care of one’s self health itself is a biggest contribution to #TheSociety. This Cop’s family has done a step ahead,taking for granted to serve the #EmergencyFirst. Portraying the tough-support of every #Police making them to take #TheToughest (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-wifes-gesture-earns-dgps-praise/articleshow/75055659.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Micron to partner with Telangana in fight against Covid-19||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is partnering with Micron India to fight the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The company on Wednesday announced that it is donating Rs 7.5 crore towards fighting Covid-19 in India, most of which will be spent in Telangana since a majority of the company’s workforce is located in Hyderabad. Speaking to TOI, Anand Ramamoorthy, MD of Micron India, said, “Given the scale and enormity of the task, we are immediately accelerating our efforts to provide funding, resources and support to those most affected by this crisis.” Ramamoorthy said they have also placed an order for 100 high-end ventilators for Telangana. He said they have been in touch with CMO and IT minister’s office on how to help battle the virus through a multi-pronged approach. Micron had formed a task force last week comprising members from finance, engineering, sales and other wings to work with partner agencies on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/micron-to-partner-with-state-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75055678.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SCR planning manufacture of ventilators||HYDERABAD: Amid rising coronavirus cases and the impending shortage of medical equipment, the South Central Railway (SCR) is planning to manufacture ventilators. Railway officials said that the prototype was built at the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala, Punjab and the models are to be replicated at the carriage workshops and production units. “Production units in the zone are directed to procure ventilators, PPEs and medical equipment to meet the demand and equip the isolation coaches with them,” said SCR public relations officer, Ch Rakesh. According to officials the ventilator prototype was made with locally-sourced components. “Procurement of medical equipment, PPEs and ventilators are the priority of the SCR,” Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-planning-manufacture-of-ventilators/articleshow/75055641.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Impending water crisis may be bigger problem than Covid-19: Hyderabad activist||HYDERABAD: City-based green activist Kalpana Ramesh has said more people may face dire consequences because of scarcity of water than Covid-19, if we are not careful. Calling for water conservation now, she says the state is staring at an impending crisis. The activist, who has shared short videos on social media on how to conserve water even during a lockdown, said, “At a time when hygiene is top priority, how do we expect our daily wage immigrant workers to keep clean without access to clean water? With temperatures set to soar, we will face a water shortage soon.” Speaking about the mindless waste of water, even in washing one’s hands, Ramesh said, “One needs to wash one’s hands if we go out or come in contact with someone who is showing symptoms. Washing one’s hands repeatedly for no reason, is not necessary.” In her video, the activist, who received praise from the Prime Minister for her water conservation campaign, said, “Bathroom cleaning still takes less than five litres of water, and it takes less than 50 litres to clean the whole house.” Speaking to TOI, Kalpana highlighted other measures that one could follow. “Keeping the shower pressure low, using half flushes, using a bucket for bathing rather than the shower and steam mops are simple steps that can be taken while at home.” Stating that resources were directly proportionate to one’s health, she said it was necessary to take up rooftop water conservation (rainwater harvesting) so as to prevent urban flooding. “If people plan rainwater harvesting now, we can prevent a shortfall in the coming months. Preventing urban flooding also ensures the reduction in pathogens across the city,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/impending-water-crisis-may-be-bigger-problem-than-covid-19-activist/articleshow/75055604.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||T-Consult to help poor in rural areas||HYDERABAD: In order to treat poor people in rural areas during Covid-19 crisis, especially those who do not have access to doctors, a novel project called ‘T-Consult’ was launched in Makthal of Narayanpet district. “With the lockdown in place, it is apt in a situation where people need not step out to consult a doctor,” the Narayanpet district collector said in his statement. “62 doctors from various fields joined together to provide free consultation to the rural poor,” said collector Harichandana Dasari. The project, which was rolled out in association with Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), would be offered in 39 villages of Makthal mandal. According to officials, the aim is to ensure tele-medicine services to rural residents. “Makthal will be the first mandal in the country to have 100% access to telemedicine,” an official said. “Recently, a pregnant woman lost her life due to delay in approaching a gynaecologist. This project will put an end to such a mess,” the official said. Jeeyar Integrative Medical Services (JIMS) Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital offered free consultation and medicines to the villagers. Officials are planning to extend the programme to some more mandals based on the success in Makthal. Chinna Jeeyar Swamy launched the project in a video-conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-consult-to-help-poor-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75055631.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda cop gets charge memo for assaulting farmer||HYDERABAD: Nalgonda SP issued a charge memo to a sub-inspector for assaulting a farmer in Damaracherla village on Tuesday. According to sources, SI Narasimha Rao had an argument with farmer Subba Rao when the latter was returning from the fields in his car. The SI, who was on bandobust duty, stopped the car. When Subba Rao said he was a farmer and was returning home from the fields, the SI did not believe him. He then tried to remove the car’s ignition key, following which Subba Rao held the SI’s hand and the SI hit him on the face. “The farmer sustained an injury on his lips. I have called the SI and the farmer to my office on Wednesday. After an enquiry, a charge memo was issued to the sub-inspector,” Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-gets-charge-memo-for-assaulting-farmer/articleshow/75055622.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tablighi Jamaat Markaz caused spike in Gujarat’s Covid-19 cases: CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani said that while the number of Covid-19 cases was relatively low in Gujarat in the initial phase, a spike in cases has been recorded because of people either visiting the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin or local people coming in contact with the attendees. “The government has sealed all 15 affected areas and is trying to test every possible person to control the spread of the virus” Rupani said. The CM added that the central government will decide on extending the lockdown but the state is preparing to put containment measures in place. “Our aim is ensure social distancing is maintained to check the spread of Covid-19,” he said. On Tuesday, deputy CM Nitin Patel had also said that members of the Tablighi Jamaat played a major role in spreading coronavirus in the state and the country, by not cooperating with the authorities and hiding their travel history. “Even in Islamic countries, including Pakistan, we have not heard of violations of the government’s instructions,” Patel had stated. “Unfortunately, in India, some radicals and religious fanatics spread a rumour that it would harm their religion.” Patel had gone on to say: “After returning to their homes from Delhi, they should have informed the authorities. This could have contained the spread.” He had added: “If members of the jamaat had informed the authorities or come forward for medical check-ups, the quantum of spread would have been less. They should understand that their action mostly affected people from the minority community only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/markaz-caused-spike-in-states-cases-cm/articleshow/75055707.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: 25 teachers to be on 'Covid-19 duty'||DEHRADUN: The Doon district administration has decided to depute 25 teachers from the state education department for coordinating the community surveillance of Covid-19 suspected cases. The teachers are being deputed in addition to 200 ASHA workers who are helping in community surveillance of 53,949 people. The 25 teachers will support the community surveillance in areas such as Lakhibagh, Muslim colony, Kargi Grant, Banjarawala and Keshavpuri. In addition, there will be restriction on the sale of medicines for regular cold and cough to customers without a valid prescription. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “We are ensuring that the medical store owners help us keep a record of people coming to buy medicines for cold and cough. The stores have been asked to maintain the address details of the customers buying such medicines. The same must be communicated to the office of chief medical officer for preventive measures.” Private medical clinics have also been asked to report to the administration in case a patient with Covid-19-like symptoms visits a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/25-teachers-to-be-on-covid-19-duty/articleshow/75055124.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kochi||Cochin Cancer Research Centre helps connect patients and oncologists||KOCHI: At a time when many of the cancer patients are facing hardships in getting doctors’ advice or consultation, Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) has set up a cancer helpline which acts as interface between patients and oncologists. The facility has almost become a virtual cancer care hospital where around 200-250 patients are given medical advice and consultation through telephone every day. The service is provided with the cooperation of doctors of private hospitals and doctors belonging to Cochin Oncologists Group. Once a patient calls up, those at the control centre at Ernakulam General Hospital will help address his or her problem.  “Many of the patients are unable to visit hospitals. So, they can call up the helpline. There are 30 lines and the calls are being attended by medical social workers and junior doctors. If a caller requires just clearance of common doubts regarding the treatment, the call will be diverted to a panel of doctors belonging Cochin Oncologists Group and they will clear the doubts. There are around 30 doctors with the group. If the patient needs to consult a doctor whom he or she used to consult, the call will be connected to the hospital where the doctor works,” said CCRC director Dr Mony Kuriakkose. “Doctors with various hospitals, including private hospitals, have allotted different timings for consulting patients,” he said. Though they get calls from patients from all across the state, most of them are from central Kerala. “Besides facilitating teleconsultation, we also provide treatment to the patients. We are giving chemotherapy to Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) patients also. Many of them from the central Kerala are unable to go to RCC. So, they will be given chemotherapy at Ernakulam General Hospital from where CCRC now functions. We are providing chemotherapy to around 40 patients a day,” Dr Kuriakkose said. “Given the situation, many cases where chemotherapy can be postponed have been differed. There more than 20 beds for chemotherapy at the general hospital. Patients will be given chemo in two shifts. So, we can give chemo to more than 40 patients a day,” he said. One of the operation theatres at the general hospital has been allotted to CCRC authorities for conducting surgeries of their patients. “There is an increase in number of patients and trauma cases at the general hospital as the Government Medical College, Ernakulam has been converted into Covid treatment centre. There are some problems with the availability of operation theatre. So, we have made available operation theatres of Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital for two days a week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ccrc-helps-connect-patients-oncologists/articleshow/75063403.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Locals shower flowers on police team in Udham Singh Nagar district||NAINITAL: Several residents of a minority community dominated area in Udham Singh Nagar district showered flowers on a police team that had come to the area on patrol. The people of Sultanpur Patti area of US Nagar stood on their roofs, balconies and doorsteps to drop flowers at the police team and also thanked them for their services. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, locals said that they wanted to appreciate the contribution by the police in fighting the pandemic while also showing that the people stand by them. "We have been disturbed with videos and reports of attacks on police and health teams. However, all of us appreciate the work done by the people who are risking their lives to make sure that people follow the lockdown norms. Therefore, to show our respect and to boost the morale of the police, we decided to shower them with flowers," said Mohammed Rafi, a local. Rafi added that locals made sure that social distancing is maintained while they thanked the police. "We made sure that all of us stood apart from one another and maintained the social distancing guidelines. We also made sure that no one touches the policemen so as to mitigate the chances of spread of virus," Rafi said. Locals said the police have maintained a healthy dialogue with the people living in the area and is also keeping a strict vigil in the area by routinely patrolling the border with neighbouring districts of UP. "Police officers as well as the local SHOs and sub-inspectors have maintained a continuous dialogue with the locals and are even patrolling the borders to prevent suspects from entering the area. Therefore, it is necessary that the public also shows its support towards the police and appreciate their efforts," Rafi said. Meanwhile, after the first Covid-19 positive case was reported from Almora's hill town of Ranikhet, the district administration sealed its three localities ordering over 5,000 people to stay inside their homes. The health department had tested four people, all of whom are reported to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz, and one of them was found to be positive. The localities - Sudamapuri, Quraishiyan Mohalla and Lower Khari Bazaar - were sealed at midnight and the administration has said all the residents will be screened to check if they show any symptom of the virus. All four of the Jamaatis had reached Ranikhet on March 16 after attending Tablighi Jamaat congregations at Bageshwar, Dharchula, Champawat, Pilibhit, Moradabad and finally the markaz. While three of them are reported to be from Bihar, one is a local. All four of them were finally quarantined 15 days later at Chiliyanaula on March 31 . "The police and health department teams have started visiting the area and screening people for the symptoms. Meanwhile, the person who was found positive has been taken to the hospital and 16 others who came in contact with him have also been quarantined for the next few days," said Abhay Pratap, SDM, Ranikhet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-shower-flowers-on-police-team-in-us-nagar/articleshow/75055114.cms||Prashant Jha
April 9, 2020||Mysuru||Decision on relaxing lockdown in unaffected districts today||Mysuru: Minister for health and family welfare B Sreeramulu said the decision to relax lockdown in the districts without Covid-19 cases will be taken at a cabinet meeting on Thursday. In Mysuru to review measures taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus, he said that the government is seeking the opinion of medical experts in this regard. “We’re in a situation where we have to stand united and fight the virus,” he said on Wednesday. Sreeramulu said that a few districts, including Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Bidar, have been identified as red zone. He said the state has so far recorded 181 positive cases and 28 patients, including one in Mysuru, have recovered. Jubilant Generics served notice The minister said that the proprietor of Jubilant Generics Ltd, a pharmaceutical company, has been served a notice to explain the Covid-19 outbreak in its plant in Nanjangud. “There are information that the company had visitors from Australia and Japan. It also got a consignment from China. Investigation is under way to find the source of the infection,” he said. Sreeramulu said the issue of Jubilant will also come up for discussion in Thursday’s cabinet meeting. Of the 35 positive cases in Mysuru district, 24 are from this company. It is the first cluster case in Karnataka. Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan has requested the government to keep the plant closed till Covid-19 is eradicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/decision-on-relaxing-lockdown-in-unaffected-districts-today/articleshow/75052817.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||New norms for disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department on Wednesday issued additional guidelines on safe management of bodies of suspected and confirmed coronavirus cases. Giving bath to the body, which is a tradition in many religions, has been prohibited. Touching or hugging the body is also not allowed. Family members (not more than three persons) are permitted to see the body in the hospital at any point of time through a protected glass window, however, they are not allowed to enter the mortuary or come in contact with the deceased. During the transit from the hospital to the graveyard, no family members or relatives shall be allowed in the vehicle carrying the body of the coronavirus victim. The number of family members, who wish to attend the last rites at the graveyard, are restricted to only five and they shall reach through their own transport along with safety gear. The government on Wednesday also expressed the need for having a designated burial ground for the disposal of coronavirus victims. The body of the victim will be transported in a dedicated ambulance to coronavirus cases to the graveyard by a group of four body handlers. In case of non-availability of a site at their regular burial site, the municipal authorities shall dispose the body as per the availability of sites. The body shall be covered in a plastic sheet ensuring that the face is visible. The body will be placed in a leak-proof zip bag which must have a transparent section for viewing the face of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-norms-for-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies/articleshow/75055636.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for abusing Asha workers in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Tandur police on Wednesday arrested two persons for allegedly abusing two Asha workers and refusing to disclose their details. Yasir Khan and Naseer Khan were arrested and sent to judicial remand for using foul language against workers who approached them to collect details about their health condition. After receiving a complaint from the workers, police arrested the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-abusing-asha-workers/articleshow/75056060.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cooking oil company in Hyderabad gives Rs 2.5 crore for Covid-19 relief operations||HYDERABAD: As part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative, Freedom Healthy Cooking Oils have contributed a total Rs 2.5 crore towards Covid-19 relief operations. Of the total contribution, the company gave Rs 50 lakh to the PM-Cares fund, Rs 50 lakh each to chief minister’s relief funds for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Chief ministers’ relief funds for Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Odisha were given Rs 25 lakh each by the cooking oil manufacturers. The organisation has also collaborated with the AP government to distribute edible oil worth Rs 25 lakh to underprivileged sections living in localities around the cooking oil production units. “GEF India (makers of Freedom Healthy Cooking Oils) is humbled to contribute to Telangana chief minister relief fund...We are confident that our contribution will have a positive impact on communities that have been hit hardest by this unprecedented crisis,” said Gemini Edibles & Fats India managing director, Pradeep Chowdhry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cooking-oil-co-gives-rs-2-5-cr-for-covid-19-relief-operations/articleshow/75055682.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||13 booked for violation of lockdown orders by Keesara police||HYDERABAD: Keesara police on Wednesday arrested eleven workers and two building owners for violation of lockdown orders. Building owners Ragula Pentaiah (60), Samanthi Ramulu (63) along with 11 workers, were booked for involvement in the construction of two buildings. Police noticed the construction activity around 2 pm and on enquiry found that the accused don’t have any valid reason or requisite permission. They were booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-booked-for-violation-of-lockdown-orders/articleshow/75055625.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||82-year-old woman beats coronavirus, is among oldest in Maharashtra to go home||MUMBAI: An 82-year-old from a western suburb has returned home after recovering from Covid-19, showing that those from the most vulnerable age group can beat the virus too. The woman was reunited with her family last week after spending nearly seven days in Kokilaben Hospital’s isolation facility. A 93-year-old man and his 88-year-old wife from Kerala are the country’s oldest couple to have survived the infection while a 101-year-old Italian is said to be the oldest in the world to beat the virus. Speaking to TOI, the octogenarian’s son said she did not develop any major symptoms despite testing positive. “She had travelled to Gujarat so we got her tested as a precaution. Once she came positive, we hospitalized her. It was a stressful few days for us till she came home. She is doing well now,” said the son. The family had opted the for home-based testing facility and called the experience seamless. She is one of the oldest patients to have recovered from the infection in the state. A health report prepared by the department of medical education showed till Tuesday, there were around 12 people in the age group of 81-90 to have contracted the infection. As on Wednesday, only one individual in the age bracket of 90-100 years was positive. “This case gives us hope and confidence that Covid-19 is not a death sentence for the elderly,” said Dr Santosh Shetty, CEO, Kokilaben Hospital. He said the woman needed oxygen support and basic medication. “She had great will power and that makes a lot of difference,” he said, adding the woman has underlying health conditions. The hospital’s 19-bed Covid unit has several patients in their 70s. An 82-year-old Delhi man has also recovered and is to be discharged from Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital soon. Of the nearly 1,200 who have contracted coronavirus in the state, around 10% have recovered. A 76-year-old woman was among the most recent to be discharged from S L Raheja Hospital, Mahim. She had a history of international travel. A CT scan showed she was suffering from bilateral pneumonia. “She came with complaints of fever and dry cough for 14 days. After treatment, she went home in eight days. Swabs of the patient’s husband were also sent for testing, which came negative,” said Dr Hiren Ambegaokar, CEO, SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim. TOI had reported on Wednesday about a 78-year-old Nerul resident who was successfully treated at Kasturba Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/82-year-old-woman-beats-virus-is-among-oldest-in-state-to-go-home/articleshow/75054244.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation, NGOs feed over 1.26 lakh stranded people||NAGPUR: In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), in association with various non-government organizations (NGOs), has started as many as 26 community kitchens across the city from March 29 to serve food to the underprivileged and those stranded amid the coronavirus pandemic. This generous gesture has given a ray of hope to many who are stranded in the city and also to those in need of food due to the national lockdown. Till April 7, the NMC-NGOs partnership has provided over 1.26 lakh meals twice a day to 63,362 persons, mostly migrant workers, from across the country. “In a bid to curtail the spread of coronavirus and also to provide food to stranded people, more than 26 community kitchens have been made operational in the city,” said assistant municipal commissioner Milind Meshram. Apart from its five shelter homes, the NMC, along with the district administration, has started an additional 13 shelter homes across the city from March 29. On the first day, two meals (lunch and dinner) were served to 1,957 people through 18 community kitchens. With each passing day, the number of stranded people in shelter homes has increased manifold, but it did not stop the NMC and NGOs from providing cooked food. “We also increased the number of community kitchens and on April 7, we served two meals (lunch and dinner) to 26,273 stranded people at 177 shelter homes across the city from 26 kitchens,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-ngos-feed-over-1-26l-stranded-people/articleshow/75056061.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Eights months’ mom to-be works eight hours daily in the field||VADODARA: The final weeks of pregnancy are most crucial ones for the expecting mother and also for her family members. While in ordinary case, this woman would have been doted upon at home by moms and aunts, meet Aruna Variya, a health worker in Chhota Udepur, who is out on the field fighting Covid eight long hours a day, every day. “In the present circumstances, health workers are needed the most as otherwise ground-level work will be left incomplete. Also, since my health is permitting me to work, I am continuing to do my job,” said Variya, whose husband Jayesh works in the taluka panchayat in Godhra. Even Jayesh motivates her to keep going. “My husband keeps telling me that if my health is good then I should continue doing my job,” said the soon-to-be mom, who has been a health worker for the last nine years and also managing her home in Chhota Udepur singlehandedly. Variya’s day starts at 8 sharp in the morning when she reaches the Mandalva sub-centre which falls under Dungarbhint primary health centre in Chhota Udepur taluka. Armed with a bag carrying a register and pamphlets in Gujarati to create awareness among the people about the deadly virus, Variya starts her door-to-door survey, examining any tell-tale symptoms of the deadly virus. She asks people whether they have are suffering from cold, breathlessness or even fever and if they have travelled outside or had guests with travel history. “So many people are totally ignorant about what’s happening in the world outside. They have not even heard about coronavirus, let alone its prevention or care. I explain them what it is and how harmful and deadly it can be if proper precautions are not taken,” the footsoldier said, while talking to TOI, tired after a long day’s work on Wednesday. Part of Variya’s duty is also to visit the houses of the labourers who have returned home after the lockdown. “All of them have to stay under the 14-day mandatory home quarantine and I too ensure, through my daily visits, that none leave their homes and also keep a tab on their health,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/8-months-mom-to-be-works-8-hrs-daily-in-the-field/articleshow/75054541.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Airlines open bookings post-April 15, agents wary||HYDERABAD: The decision of airline operators to allow bookings for domestic travel post-April-15 has left many confused. Stranded in various parts of the country many are desperate to return home, but are not sure if the scheduled flights will take off. Most carriers are even offering international travel slots starting May 1. “I travelled to New Delhi for work and wanted to be home before the lockdown. Though I had tickets for two days, I couldn’t find transport to get to the airport. One of the flights even got cancelled. Now, I see tickets are available April 15 onwards. Though I am very keen on booking it, I am not sure if the lockdown will indeed be called off by then,” said Pulkit P, a businessman from the city. Also stranded in the national capital is Abhishek Verma, who appealed to the Union government, on Wednesday, to allow his wife to travel to Delhi from Hyderabad on April 15 — when services are expected to resume. “She is alone there,” he wrote. While all major carriers, including IndiGo and SpiceJet, confirmed that their bookings were open from mid-April, travel agents and aviation industry sources advised passengers against buying tickets in a hurry. “It is best to wait for a while, assess the situation and then book tickets. We have been in talks with airline operators about this — opening bookings on online portals — and have expressed our concern,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman of Travel Agents Federation of India (east). His counterpart in the state, Abdul Majid Faheem, too aired a similar opinion. “We, on our part, are not taking any bookings as of now. We are anyway reeling under losses and do not want to worsen the situation. We have told clients to wait till the lockdown is called off and government issues clear orders on air travel,” he said. Meanwhile, some airlines like AirAsia, while opening bookings from this month, have also announced free rescheduling of tickets for passengers until May 31. “We understand the uncertainty that the customers are currently confronted with while making their travel plans and hence we wanted to offer our customers a peace of mind where they can go ahead and make travel bookings without worrying about rescheduling charges,” said Ankur Garg, chief commercial officer, AirAsia India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/airlines-open-bookings-post-apr-15-agents-wary/articleshow/75055595.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||50kg flu drug exported to Indonesia on special flight||HYDERABAD: Customs officials of Hyderabad cleared Oseltamivir Phosphate, an anti-viral medication used for treatment of influenza, on a priority basis for export to Indonesia on Wednesday. According to customs officials, the shipment of the life-saving drug valued at $1.75 lakh and weighing 50kg, had arrived at air cargo complex, Hyderabad, for export to Medan in Indonesia. The medicine was to be lifted from Hyderabad to Indonesia on a special relief flight operated by Garuda Indonesia. However, since the airline did not have scheduled operations in Hyderabad, the exporter faced difficulty in incorporating the airway bill number and registering the goods for export. Customs officers at the air cargo complex coordinated with the exporter, airline, customs broker and Indonesian embassy representatives on the night of April 7 and cleared the medicine for export on a non-scheduled flight on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50kg-flu-drug-exported-to-indonesia-on-special-flight/articleshow/75055591.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: High last-mile transport cost pushes up prices of essentials||KOLKATA: The supply of essential commodities has more or less stabilized but lack of vehicles for last-mile transportation amd manpower shortage have led to 12%-20% rise in prices of provisions. With only a few mini-trucks being available and a handful of labourers coming to work during the lockdown, delivery cost from wholesale markets to retails shops has gone up. Though not all shops in Posta—the biggest wholesale hub in the east—are open, traders say supply has eased to a great extent with trucks now regularly rolling in with goods. This has ensured availability of most essential items at neighboourhood markets, but the escalated transportation cost has started reflecting on the prices of commodities at College Street market, Entally market, Maniktala market, VIP Bazar and Ahiritola. Flour, which used to cost Rs 30 per kg, has now been selling at Rs 36-38/kg, showing a rise of up to 25%. Maida, which cost Rs 30 per kg before lockdown, is now available for Rs 34/kg. Even the price of sugar has gone up by almost 15% from Rs 40 a kg before lockdown to Rs 44-46 per kg now. Wholesalers said labour cost had gone up owing to manpower shortage as many labourers had left for their villages when the lockdown was announced. Similarly, majority of the drivers of mini-trucks had also gone off to their villages; the few who are in the city are charging a much higher amount than usual. “There is no dearth of stock in the market. The goods trucks, which were stuck at various places across the state, have started arriving. The problem is lack of transportation and labourers. Both retailers and wholesalers are having to spend more on these two factors,” said Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association president Chandan Chakraborti. Shop owners in various markets pointed out that almost all essential commodities were available in the market, which clearly showed there was no production or supply-linked problems. “Even provisions, such as flour and pulses, the supply of which had turned low just after the lockdown, are available now. But the prices have gone up,” said Kishan Tulsyan, who owns a department store in Ahiritola. But efforts were on to normalize the prices. An enforcement branch officer from Kolkata Police said they were closely tracking markets to foil any attempt to hoard and artificially spike prices. Tarak Nath Trivedi, secretary of Federation of Traders and head of the Entally market committee, said they were taking all measures to ensure labourers did not leave for their villages any more. “The state government has started issuing permission for vehicles carrying goods, which is going to be of immense help because earlier, many drivers were scared to bring out their vehicles,” Trivedi said. Amit Shah, owner of Shah Flour Mill, said the government should also allow interstate movement of trucks because several flour mills in the state were shut due to the non-availability of wheat. “Wheat, which is essential for producing flour, comes from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Supply has come to a halt due to the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-last-mile-transport-cost-pushes-up-prices-of-essentials/articleshow/75055679.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Seized vehicles to be released only on court order||BENGALURU: Here is some bad news for those whose vehicles have been seized by cops for alleged violation of lockdown norms in the city. On directions from the Centre, police will book these vehicle owners under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and IPC Section 188 (punishment for violation of prohibitory orders). According to police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, owners of vehicles already confiscated and those that will be seized during the days ahead will be booked under the disaster management act. This means vehicle owners will now have to approach the jurisdictional court mentioned in the FIR, produce original documents and secure judicial order to get their vehicles released. The entire procedure may take a day or two. Police were till now seizing vehicles under the provisions of ‘public nuisance’ or ‘petty cases’ and issuing acknowledgements to that effect to the owners. As per plans, the seized vehicles will be released only after April 14 when the lockdown is supposed to end. The police inspector and sub-inspector from the law and order police station concerned are vested with the power to release them. “Even if the lockdown continues, vehicles that are seized till the midnight of April 14 will be released April 15 onwards,” a senior police officer said. However, owners of vehicles lacking proper documents will have a tough time in getting them back. “Usually, the court will ask for original copies of registration certificate, driving licence and insurance. Absence of any of these three documents could create trouble for the owner in getting back his or her vehicle,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-seized-vehicles-to-be-released-only-on-court-order/articleshow/75037172.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||State plans to grant aid to 12L construction workers||Even as over a dozen states have extended financial assistance to construction workers due to the 21-day lockdown, Maharashtra is yet to decide on the proposal. Labour minister Dilip Walse-Patil, who also heads Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, said the proposal to grant financial assistance to 12 lakh construction workers is under consideration and a decision will be taken soon. “We are examining it. So far, no decision has been taken,” he told TOI. — Prafulla Makpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-plans-to-grant-aid-to-12l-construction-workers/articleshow/75053918.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: More masks & sanitisers for Anganwadi workers||HYDERABAD: The Department of Women Development and Child Welfare (DWDCW) on Wednesday dispatched 1.15 lakh protective masks, 35,700 sanitisers for protection of 64,000 Anganwadi workers. Anganwadi workers are on the frontline interacting regularly with citizens. Despite lockdown affecting the movement of these workers, still they have reached out to seven lakh beneficiaries across the state. “Each Anganwadi worker would easily travel more than 10 km and cover over 50 beneficiaries. Some are ferrying essentials to the door steps of the beneficiaries using pushcarts and cycles,” said M Shankar, spokesperson of DWDCW. The first phase of disbursement of essential commodities began on March 23 while the second phase started on Monday. Each beneficiary has been receiving over 15-day quota of essentials. The official said that 64,000 Anganwadi workers across the state are catering to the needs of 3,32,427 pregnant women and lactating mothers and 4,61,800 children besides 8,446 undernourished children. “Anganwadi teachers have also been drafted for fever surveillance in the neighbourhood and also to distribute rations from the PDS shops. Despite being assigned multiple duties the workers are ensuring prompt and proper delivery of essentials,” said D Divya, commissioner, DWDCW. To protect the workers from the rapidly spreading pandemic, gears are being distributed. The department said that private firms and individuals have also donated masks and sanitisers. “While one lakh masks were purchased by the department, 10,000 masks were donated by Aurobindo Pharma and another 5,000 cloth masks were donated by CWC chairperson of Ranga Reddy district,” said an official. Around 35,000 sanitisers were donated by the government and private firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-masks-sanitisers-for-anganwadi-workers/articleshow/75055647.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Catch-22 situation of maintenance||Ahmedabad: A PIL in Gujarat high court on Tuesday highlighted the Catch-22 situation of dependent women, children and elderly people, who are legally entitled to receive maintenance through court orders. The PIL demanded relief for such dependent people because the men who are under obligation to pay maintenance too are not able to earn and pay due to Covid-19 condition that has resulted in the present nationwide lockdown. The high court was reluctant to entertain the PIL saying that the situation at present is not so bad. The petitioner advocate from Vadodara thought it fit to withdraw the PIL. Niraj Jain, a lawyer from Vadodara, submitted to the HC that there are number of women, children and elderly people, for whom various courts across the state has ordered their men, parents and sons respectively to pay monthly maintenance. Such maintenance amounts have been ordered under various provisions – the Criminal Procedure Code, the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act and the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act etc. Due to the lockdown, the express orders that the courts should take up only urgent cases and restrictions on mobility, it is impossible that any person, who is mandated to deposit maintenance amount in court, would deposit the same. The beneficiaries cannot enjoy the rights secured for them by the courts. Moreover, it will be difficult for the dependents to recover the maintenance amount. The petitioner urged the HC to direct the government authorities to make payment to those dependent people for the months of March and April, and when situation becomes normal, the government can recover the amount from those who are legally bound to pay their dependent family members. The petitioner claimed that such dependent family members have become destitute. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/catch-22-situation-of-maintenance/articleshow/75055705.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Makeshift markets are struggling to get started in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to start vegetable markets at 24 designated playgrounds or open spaces even after a week since the announcement. Because of the delay, the number of vegetable growers’ markets has reduced to 10 in different parts of the city on Wednesday. From April 1, in an effort to ensure social distancing and stop people from crowding vegetable markets, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had announced 24 playgrounds or open spaces as makeshift vegetable markets. The NMC had also announced that all weekly vegetable and roadside markets, which were either shut due to the anti-encroachment drive or the coronavirus scare, will be shifted to playgrounds. Subsequently, out of the 10 zones, the NMC is allowing farmers to sell their vegetables in open spaces or playgrounds in nine zones, excluding Satranjipura. From day one, mismanagement by the civic body has come to the fore. “The NMC could never make all the 24 markets operational. It exposed the NMC’s poor administration,” said Ashish Raut, a vegetable grower from Ooty village. According to sources, the markets which remained opened on Wednesday included Ram Nagar and Yeshwant Stadium in Dharampeth zone, Reshimbagh and Budhwar Bazaar in Hanuman Nagar zone, Raja Baksha ground in Nehru Nagar zone, Gadi Khana and Budhwar Bazaar in Gandhibagh zone, Sardar Patel Marg in Lakadganj zone, Kalamna Ring Road in Ashi Nagar and Jaripatka fruit market in Mangalwari zone. The growers told TOI that vegetable farmers from across the district have suffered a huge crop loss not due to the lockdown but due to poor mismanagement by the NMC. “Firstly, NMC closed Cotton Market, restricted growers’ entry into the Kalamna market and later, declared 24 open spaces across the city for vegetable markets. With no basic arrangements of drinking water, toilets and uneven surfaces in most of the open spaces declared as vegetable markets have found no takers,” rued Chetan Kewate, another grower. Even markets like Jaitala, Zingabai Takli ground, Sadar ground, which were opened in the first few days, too, were found shut, admitted a senior official from the NMC. A grower from Khaparkehda confirmed that he along with a couple of growers from his village had stopped coming to the Nagpur market due to mismanagement. While responding to a query, the officer pointed out that most of the vegetable growers were from the south district and prefer Reshimbagh and Budhwari bazaar. The NMC has already restricted the entry of growers at Reshimbagh so that they go to other places. Mundhe said the NMC has already started diverting vehicles directly to different playgrounds where markets have propped up. “Around 10 have started and the remaining are in the process,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/makeshift-markets-arestruggling-to-get-started/articleshow/75056072.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government says no to sari for staff in Covid care||KOCHI: The Kerala health department is of the view that the sari is a dangerous and impractical garment for hospital staff in the time of a highly infectious pandemic and wants them to adopt either pants or straight leg kurta suits. A key reason is that the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) supplied for Covid-19 protection includes a zip-up overall that is almost impossible to wear over a sari. The leg protection sleeves of the PPE kit are also not suitable for the six-yard wrap. A letter sent by the principal secretary, health, to directors of medical education and the department of health services said the dress code of hospital staff needs to change as there is a chance of such garments getting impurities and germs which would be dangerous to wearer and patients. While private hospitals in the state had long back made a dress code shift towards solid scrub tops and long pants for nurses, the state health department waited till 2012 to allow female nurses in government hospitals to wear churidhar. But the supporting staff still have sari in different shades as uniform. “I think even in most government hospitals 90% of nursing staff have shifted to churidhar. But support staff, including women attendants and cleaners, have sari as uniform,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). Senior lady doctors also prefer wearing sari to work, he said. “For those engaged in Covid-19 critical care, PPE suits are mandatory. Sari is not suitable for healthcare workers engaged in corona care,” said Dr Chacko said. Thrissur Medical College, which is designated as a specialised centre for Covid-19, is implementing the dress code for staff in critical care areas. “We have stitched uniforms - operation theatre-style tunics - for all those who are part of Covid care. Anyone entering critical care rooms like ICU and swab collection centres would have to wear this,” said Andrew M A, principal, Government Medical College, Thrissur. Hospital staff deployed for Covid-19 care duty are first asked to take a bath and then shift into the uniform. The same procedure is followed when the duty ends. A circular was issued by directorate of medical education to procure and issue uniforms or scrubs to all women healthcare workers who request them. The material should be one that permits daily washing at high heat and disinfection with chemicals. Hussain Koya Thangal, president, Kerala Private Hospital Association, said since an order has not been issued they have not implemented it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-says-no-to-sari-for-staff-in-covid-care/articleshow/75053864.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Five mutton shop owners booked||HYDERABAD: Five mutton shop owners were booked by the police in Chandanagar on Wednesday for not ensuring social distancing. The shop owners were booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to government order). Police said that four fruit shop owners were also booked for flouting the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-mutton-shop-owners-booked/articleshow/75056062.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Private dairies struggle as Aavin surges ahead in tough times||CHENNAI: As private players struggle to procure and market milk due to the Covid-19 pandemic, state-owned Aavin, with a lion’s share of household supplies, is trying to use the time to increase its market share. “Intake of proteins is essential to keep people healthy and fight the viral attack. Milk supplies will continue in every part of the state,” said animal husbandry secretary K Gopal, explaining what prompted the state-run cooperative to shift gears. “We felt sale could drop during the lockdown, but on the contrary, it has increased,” he said. Aavin is reaching out to more customers, depending on demand, and is procuring milk from those who earlier sold to private dairies. Since the lockdown began on March 24, Aavin’s milk procurement rose by 1.4 lakh litres a day and milk sales by one lakh litres a day, said its managing director M Vallalar. In Salem, its second biggest market after Chennai, milk sales went up from 1.5 lakh litres to 1.72 lakh litres a day in the last two weeks, said general manager C Vijay Babu. In Namakkal, sales rose from 60,000 litres to 70,000 litres. On the other hand, private dairies are under strain. Hatsun Agro Products managing director R G Chandramohan said sales of Arokya, the brand his company owns, dropped by about 20%. Many private dairies have reduced procurement price and stopped procurement in many areas, said M Viswanathan, a milk producer in Erode. Aavin has stepped in to fill this gap, said Gopal. “We got 35 new milk producers’ cooperative societies registered with 1,500 members since the lockdown began on March 24 midnight and started procuring milk from them. Since February 4, we have formed 104 new societies and added 6,465 new members in these societies. We also revived 110 defunct societies to restart procurement of milk from them. As of now, we have more than 9,000 milk producers’ cooperative societies with more than 20 lakh members. Chennai is the only place from where we do not procure milk, because rearing cattle is banned in the city,” said Vallalar. Despite not having a clear CSR policy, Aavin has been supplying milk and milk products free to many old-age homes, destitute homes and differently abled since March 24. Of the 223 lakh litres of milk produced in TN daily, about 51% is generated and consumed in the unorganised sector; 17% accounts for household retention - mostly in rural areas where it is perhaps the main source of protein. Only about 32% of the total production is handled by producers’ cooperative societies and private dairies, comprising the organised sector. Aavin, which on Wednesday procured 30.11 lakh litres of milk and sold 23.97 lakh litres, has tied up with Swiggy and Zomato for door delivery of milk, said Vallalar. It is also on the verge of launching an e-commerce portal. “Soon, people can renew their monthly milk cards online. They can also order online and get commodities home delivered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pvt-dairies-struggle-as-aavin-surges-ahead-in-tough-times/articleshow/75055681.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Keeping the traffic cops and the needy fed in times of crisis||SECUNDERABAD: Tough times, they say, bring out the best in us. As the country goes through a lockdown, G Shravan Kumar, and his team of five young friends, have taken it upon themselves to ensure that the poor in the city do not go hungry. Soon after the lockdown was announced, Shravan identified nearly 500 poor people and orphans in a few areas in Secunderabad Cantonment, including near Jubilee Bus Station and Secunderabad Railway Station. Food is cooked in the community kitchen at Laxmi Nagar community hall and distributed to the poor. “We arrive at the kitchen at around 5 am. We distribute the food packets from 6.30 am till 8 am. Everyday, we distribute around 200 food packets for breakfast,” Shravan, a former pharmacist who left his job to serve the needy, told TOI. The team members pool in their own money to buy the ingredients. They also distribute food packets to traffic cops manning major junctions. Shravan says that by 11 am, they start preparing lunch, adding that he will serve the poor till the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/keeping-the-traffic-cops-and-the-needy-fed-in-times-of-crisis/articleshow/75056070.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||More than half of all positive cases showed no signs of Covid-19||BHOPAL: More than half of the people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhopal were categorised as asymptomatic, meaning they did not show symptoms. The finding has alarmed health experts. Major symptoms and signs at the time of admission were reported as ‘NIL’ in 31 positive cases, going by a health department factsheet. As of April 7, there have been 83 corona-positive cases in Bhopal. Almost all of these persons have been hospitalised. Medical experts are calling for a relook at the need for hospitalisation of all positive patients and instead rationalise the use of precious resources like personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks before the surge in coronavirus cases. However, guidelines on hospitalisation differs between those sent out by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and private super speciality hospitals. MoHFW guidelines say that persons testing positive for COVID-19 will remain hospitalised till such time as two of their samples are tested negative as per the discharge policy. Private hospitals, on the other hand, suggest hospitalisation only for severe cases or those with pre-existing conditions. Some medical professional are sounding the alarm bells and demanding that the state government save on life-saving ‘PPE, gloves and masks’ now and hospitalise COVID-19 patients as per protocol. In the past week, a huge number of people have been admitted in private and government-run hospitals after testing positive for COVID-19. “We are yet to hit the peak curve of COVID-19. It is anticipated that life protecting essentials for medical professionals and their staff would be in great demand in the near future,” said a consultant on condition of anonymity. The health department has admitted that there is a shortage of PPE and other protective gear. This is the armour that would be used by health professionals to fight the war against COVID-19, the consultant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-than-half-of-all-ve-cases-showed-no-signs-of-covid-19/articleshow/75055142.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Alimony defaulters seek bail after Supreme Court order||Ahmedabad: After watching prisoners getting released for last 10 days, twelve inmates, who were jailed for not paying maintenance to their wives on court orders, also knocked on the court’s door on Wednesday.These applicants, including one Mukesh Khatik, urged the court to release them for two months looking at the Covid-19 pandemic. Public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt said, “They wanted temporary bail citing the Supreme Court’s order and giving an assurance that they will try to pay the dues to their wives.”Last week, in its order to release prisoners of lighter offences, the apex court had said, “There are all possibilities that jail inmates who have failed to honour the order of maintenance passed u/s 125 of the CrPC or in other matrimonial proceedings may be in jail. These jail inmates may be released on with or without conditions.”As 12 similar applications piled up, the legal aid society appointed an advocate for these defaulter husbands. Additional sessions judge H G Waghela redirected all these applications for temporary bail to the judicial magistrate, who takes up these case inside the jail premise as directed by the apex court. The court said, “The office is directed to return the present temporary bail application to the concerned jail authority for further proceeding.”The prosecutor said that these bail applications will be heard by the magistrate on Thursday.On Wednesday, a PIL highlighted the Catch-22 situation for those women, children and elderly, who are dependent on court-ordered maintenance. Citing the effects of the nationwide lockdown and the coronavirus pandemic, the PIL said that the maintenance amounts are not being deposited in courts, and dependants do not have any remedy. The petitioner wanted the government to pay such helpless people for two months and then recover the amount from those who are ordered to pay by courts. The HC felt that the PIL was premature, and hence it was withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alimony-defaulters-seek-bail-after-supreme-court-order/articleshow/75055704.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: LPG cylinder delivery up 15% in March||CHENNAI: Residents in Tamil Nadu received deliveries of more than 117 lakh LPG refills as they prepared themselves for the three-week lockdown. This is the highest ever deliveries by state-owned oil marketing companies in a month. Indane, the LPG brand of Indian Oil, delivered 68 lakh LPG cylinders. Normally, Indane delivers nearly 4 lakh refills a day or around 60 lakh a month. Other two, HO Gas and Bharat Gas delivered 49 lakh units cumulatively in March, as against a normal 45 lakh units. LPG refills for homes were delivered on Sundays too, besides operating the bottling units on weekends. “This is the highest ever. We presume that the residents wanted to stock up cooking gas anticipating shortages,” an official at Indian Oil said. While LPG demand rose nearly 15% in March, sales of automotive fuels plummeted. Initial estimates by oil marketing companies show that sale of petrol was down 65%, while that of diesel was down 75%. “With the lockdown, movement of private vehicles has stopped completely, while only 30% of trucks are ferrying goods, after an initial stoppage for three days. Even now, truck movement is yet to resume fully as drivers are apprehensive of lockdown and safety,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lpg-cylinder-delivery-up-15-in-march/articleshow/75055690.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 9, 2020||Agra||Smartphone thieves caught while fighting over spoils||Agra: Five men, who were allegedly involved in stealing high-end smartphones, were caught by Agra police, while they were fighting over who would get which of the stolen cell phones on Wednesday. The cops acted on an anonymous tip-off.The apprehended men were identified as Monu Singh (21), Badal (20), Shiva (20), Sagar (23) and Saurab (20). All hailed from the area under Sikandra police jurisdiction.Sikandra SHO Arvind Kumar said, “After the anonymous tip-off, our team rushed to the spot and saw the men engaged in a heated argument over distribution of the stolen phones among them. After our team had surrounding them from all sides, they were asked to surrender, and thereafter nabbed.”“During interrogation, the accused claimed that they had stolen the phones from a local cell phone store near Paschimi Chouraha on the night of April 5, after breaking down part of the store’s wall,” said the SHO.All the accused were sent to jail after being presented before a judicial magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/smartphone-thieves-caught-while-fighting-over-spoils/articleshow/75055147.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC quarantines 8 clusters, says CP||Ahmedabad: Addressing the media, city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia said that a total of eight localities have been cluster quarantined by AMC authorities and adequate police bandobust has been deployed in these areas. He added that so far 1,580 cases relating to the Covid-19 situation have been registered in the city in which 4,767 accused have been arrested. Bhatia said 1,499 cases have been registered under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 135 of the Gujarat Police Act, and 4,625 accused have been arrested. “On Tuesday, 168 such offences were registered, and 464 accused were arrested. Under IPC Sections 269, 270, 271 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, a total of 76 offences were registered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-quarantines-8-clusters-says-cp/articleshow/75055703.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru activist, wife stuck at NY||Mysuru: Online classes are helping a Mysuru-based activist and his wife pass time at Greenwich, Connecticut, near New York in USA, ever since the lockdown struck them. Bhamy Shenoy and his wife Suman Shenoy, who had planned to return to India on April 24, have been forced to postpone their journey for an indefinite period. Bhamy, a familiar face in the various civic activism in the city, along with Suman, travelled to US in mid-February. They are now staying with their daughter’s family. “We were looking forward to go to Costa Rica on March 16 before returning to India on April 24. But the home quarantine changed all our plans, and left us stuck in the East Coast, near New York city, the epicentre of Covid-19,” he told TOI from USA. Because of the disruption in the supply chain, Kannadigas are running out of groceries use to cook south Indian dishes. “Only a limited number of customers are allowed in grocery stores at once. Most shelves are empty, and we may not be able to buy essentials if the lockdown continues,” explained Shenoy. The couple also rued that their interaction with some Kannadiga families has been cut off due to home quarantine. Earlier, they used to get together with families from Karkala and Manipal in Udupi, Mangaluru and Mysuru. As all these families have young children, they are maintaining a safe distance. “All of them either work from home or socialise online,” he said, adding that they attend virtual drawing classes conducted by Dhanshree Gadiyar, a Cava alumni, every Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-activist-wife-stuck-at-ny/articleshow/75029558.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||Sheopur couple welcomes baby boy ‘Lockdown’||BHOPAL: A couple in Sheopur district has named their baby boy ‘Lockdown’, as India is amid the 21-day lockdown brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. The baby was born on Monday. Manju Mail gave birth to a boy in Bacheri village — about 30 kms away from the district headquarters of Sheopur. When the hospital staff asked the couple what name should they mention on the birth certificate, they said “Lockdown”. When the nurse confirmed the name, Manju said, “Yes, he is Lockdown, as he was born during the lockdown period.” Her husband, Raghunath said, “My son and our family will remember this time of crisis throughout our life ... It is a significant name. The whole world is using lockdown as a means to steam this pandemic. We should not take Lockdown lightly.” A WhatApp message has been going around these days, suggesting names for babies born during March-April. In addition, to ‘Lockdown’ names like ‘Corona’ ‘Social Distancing’ have also been suggested in the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sheopur-couple-welcomes-baby-boy-lockdown/articleshow/75055152.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Two persons held for attacking constable in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: South zone police on Wednesday arrested two youths from Old City in connection with the attack on police constable P Praveen Kumar of Chandrayangutta police station on April 4. Shaik Mohammed Ameeruddin and Shaik Saif Mohiuddin were nabbed by Task Force sleuths and handed over to Chandrayangutta police.  According to the police, constable Praveen and a home guard were on bandobust duty at a bank on Saturday to control the rush. “Ameeruddin stood in a queue. As he was not maintaining distance, Praveen asked him to do so. This annoyed Ameeruddin, who left the bank after collecting money, but the two accused returned with a rod and hit Praveen on the head,” said police. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-persons-held-for-attacking-constable/articleshow/75056071.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Pregnant woman in Bhatkal tests positive||Karwar/Mandya: A 26-year-old woman in Bhatkal who is five-month pregnant tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to nine in the coastal town in Uttara Kannada district. However, her husband, who recently returned from Dubai, has tested negative. His throat swab sample has been collected once again and sent for another test. The man landed at Mumbai airport on March 17 and stayed at the Maharashtra capital for four days before reaching Bhatkal by train. The administration had put a quarantine seal on his hand. Two days ago, his pregnant wife developed health problems and was shifted to a hospital. After spotting the quarantine seal on the man’s hand, doctors collected throat swab sample of the couple for testing. All the positive cases in the district have been reported from Bhatkal. Deputy commissioner Harish Kumar K told TOI that all of them had travelled abroad. Two Covid-19 patients admitted to the INHS Patanjali Hospital in Karwar were discharged on Tuesday. They have been shifted to a hotel and will be under observation. Currently, there are seven active patients in the district. Fourth case in Mandya district Mandya district recorded its fourth Covid-19 cases after a 35-year-old man from Malavalli tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. He was in primary contact with P 134 and P 138. “Out of the eight people from Malavalli kept under isolation (in Mandya), four have tested positive for Covid-19. They didn’t inform us about their Delhi tour,” said district in-charge minister R Ashoka, who visited the town on Wednesday. He said that Malavalli town will be under total lockdown for the next 28 days. “We will not allow anyone to move in or out,” he said. The minister said families in the containment zone in Malavalli will get foodgrain for free. Meanwhile, people in the district have alleged that police failed to implement lockdown. Major markets in the city are crowded and people are not following social distancing norms. Box Minister warns pvt docs In Chamarajanagar, health minister B Sreeramulu said private doctors who lock their clinics will lose their licence and fined. “We are ready to provide PPEs to all of them,” he said. He said the Covid-19 task force headed by him will meet in Bengaluru on Thursday. “After that CM B S Yediyurappa will convene a cabinet meeting. In the meeting, a decision on the lockdown will be taken,” he said. Sreeramulu denied any difference of opinion on Covid-19 management with medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar. The minister said the state government has decided to supply free milk to Soliga, Jenu Kuruba and Kadu Kuruba communities in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Uttara Kannada districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pregnant-woman-in-bhatkal-tests-positive/articleshow/75053869.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Business||Nasscom seeks govt help for benched staff||Bengaluru: IT industry body Nasscom is seeking a financial package from the government to save the jobs of employees in business process management (BPM) firms and global in-house centres (GICs) who no longer have any work. Nasscom has suggested that benched employees be paid only minimum wages along with statutory entitlements. It has also asked the government to introduce a furlough scheme, like in the UK, where for the period of lockdown, employees can remain with the company, but not take a salary. “During that period, the government pays 50% of the employees’ salary (no further contribution from the company) and during that period the accruals of the employee also ceases,” Nasscom said. It has asked the government also to bear the PF contributions of a certain section of employees and companies for the next three months. This, it said, is required immediately to prevent job losses after April 15. “BPM/GIC and parts of the IT Industry are operating at max 70% capacity utilisation. Assuming 20% of the industry is idling at home, that’s a very large number. Salary costs would be huge,” Nasscom said in response to a TOI query on its demand from the government.The IT/BPM industry has over 4 million employees. Of these, about a million are in the BPM segment — the one which provides finance, accounting, payroll, procurement, HR, supply chain, legal and other services to global and domestic companies. Many of the GICs — centres of global companies in India — do similar services work for their parent companies and their customers. As business around the world collapses, the demand for such services has also fallen.A back of the envelope calculation based on Nasscom data shows that if one leaves out larger firms, there would be some 4 lakh employees who would be vulnerable and a majority of them would have a basic pay of about Rs 12,000 a month. This would mean the government and the industry would have to chip in with a Rs 480-crore package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nasscom-seeks-govt-help-for-benched-staff/articleshow/75055694.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Teleconsultation soon for NRKs||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced that tele consultation facility for non-resident Keralites will be arranged by Norka to clear doubts about Covid-19 and to address non-covid medical conditions. The facility is being planned in the wake of reports that hundreds of Keralites who are trapped in different countries are not getting proper medical attention. There is also a plan to set up help desks in countries where there are considerable presence of Keralites. The virtual consultation of specialists in general medicine, ENT, surgery, paediatrics, gynaecology, ortho and ophthalmology will be arranged by Norka between 2pm and 6pm IST every day. Those want to avail the facility needs to register on Norka website. They will be allotted a time for virtual consultation with the requested specialist. There will also be facility for tele consultation. Norka will arrange the facility in association with IMA and quickdr.com. The government has also decided to make it mandatory for Kerala students who go for higher education in foreign countries to register with Norka. At present, expatriates who have completed six months of life in foreign countries are eligible for Norka registration. Norka registration will help students avail air fare concession and insurance coverage. Registration of students will help Norka to maintain a comprehensive data base of Keralite students abroad. The state government has so far identified 212 people who have attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizammuddin. Of them, 15 people have been tested Covid-19 positive, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Meanwhile, nine more new cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 345. Of them, 259 are currently under treatment. Among the nine cases, four are from Kannur, two from Allappuzha and one each from Pathanamthitta, Thrissur and Kasaragod. Among the positives reported on Wednesday, four people have come from abroad, two are attendees of Nizammuddin meet and three people became positive through direct contacts. Test results of 13 people have been declared negative. At present, 1,40,474 people are placed under surveillance, of which 1,39,725 are under home isolation and 749 are admitted to isolation facilities. The CM said 20,000 rapid antibody diagnostic kits will be reaching the state from Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday. The public works department has kept ready 1,73,000 bedded rooms for converting them into isolation rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/teleconsultation-soon-for-nrks/articleshow/75053883.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||Cybercrime cell warns against online fraudsters||Bhopal: Internet fraudsters are now targeting people searching for online bookings during the lockdown. These conmen have created fake websites, lookalike pages of big companies and their numbers come on top in the list when a victim searches for online services using search engines on their browser. They then ask people to install apps like Anydesk, TeamViewer, Quick Support and siphon money from their accounts after stealing information from their devices. Cybercrime branch on Wednesday issued an advisory regarding these frauds as many such cases have been reported recently. SI Rahul Alawa of cybercrime branch said that around half dozen cases of online fraud by screen sharing app have been reported recently. He said in lockdown, most of the people spend time using their smart phones. They search for services including online delivery of grocery, domestic LPG cylinders or customer care number of companies and complete KYC formalities for online wallets. SI Alawa said that fraudsters create fake websites of renowned companies providing online services and add their own numbers there. They optimise search engines so that their numbers are displayed on top of the list. Once the victim searches for contact numbers online, he finds the number of these fraudsters and calls them. The fraudsters then lure the victim in their net and once the victim starts trusting them, they ask him to download screen sharing apps on pretext of solving their problem by sending a link on their mobile phones. He said once the victim downloads and installs the application on his device, the fraudsters get control of his phone and steal information from it including details of online wallets, UPI apps etc. They siphon money from victim’s phone without his knowledge. “People should avoid downloading any application, especially a screen sharing application from the link sent by a stranger. They should not update their KYC credentials online after being asked by a stranger and should visit an authorised centre for that. Avoid clicking on any link sent by strangers,” advised Alawa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cybercrime-cell-warns-against-online-fraudsters/articleshow/75055171.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Suspension of ex-intelligence chief extended||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has extended the suspension period of former intelligence chief AB Venkateswara Rao by another four months. A government order (GO) in this regard was issued by AP chief secretary Nilam Sawhney. The senior police officer was suspended on February 8 on grounds of ‘serious misconduct’ during procurement of security equipment when he was the additional director general of the intelligence wing. The decision was taken after the director general of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) recommended action in its interim report. The DG-rank officer was accused of committing irregularities in the procurement of unmanned aerial vehicles and aerostats worth Rs 25.5 crore under the modernisation of the police force scheme. The home ministry also confirmed Rao’s suspension on the request of the state government last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/suspension-of-ex-intelligence-chief-extended/articleshow/75055699.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||18 booked in Ahmedabad using drone camera||AHMEDABAD: Eighteen people were booked in city on Tuesday for breaching lockdown norms on the basis of footage provide by drones. All accused were in Bapunagar, Isanpur and Dariapur. They were booked under Section 188 IPC and GP act Section 135. Nine persons were booked in Bapunagar, five in Isanpur and four in Dariapur. Police records show a drone flying over the diamond market in Bapunagar spotted three persons standing in a group violating the norms of lockdown. “They were instructed over the public address system to disperse, but they did not comply. Local police then acted upon a message received from the control room and booked the accused. “Chetan Patel and Krunal Savaj were arrested from the spot while the third, Ketan Shah managed to escape,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/18-booked-using-drone-cam/articleshow/75055702.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: Cabinet puts Kasaragod medical college hospital on fast track||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet that met here on Wednesday decided to create more posts at the newly set up medical college hospital in Kasaragod. It has been decided to create 273 posts, including those of 91 doctors. The decision has been taken in view of the increasing number of Covid-positive cases in the district. The state cabinet decided to appoint 50% of the posts with immediate effect. With this the 24-hour emergency wing, OP wing and specialty departments will start functioning at the hospital. At present, the hospital has been converted into a Covid-special hospital. With the joining of the doctors, the IP wing will also start functioning. The highest number of Covid cases have been reported from Kasaragod. Of the 263 positive cases undergoing treatment in the state, 131 people are admitted in the district. In these circumstances, the government decided to create more posts in the MCH and start the functioning of the hospital on a regular basis at the earliest, said health minister K K Shailaja. Presently, Kasaragod lacks specialty treatment due to lack of major hospitals both in the government and private sector. People are largely dependent on super-speciality hospitals in Mangaluru. However, now the Karnataka administration are not allowing patients from Kasaragod to enter Mangaluru. It is against this backdrop that the state cabinet decided to begin the functioning of the medical college hospital at the earliest. The Covid-special hospital has already started functioning with facilities for isolation wards, and ICUs getting ready at a rapid pace. An expert team from Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital has already reached the hospital to train the doctors in Kasaragod. The new posts created include 91 doctors and 182 non-academic staff. Among the posts of doctors, four associate professors, 35 assistant professors, 28 senior residents and 24 junior residents. In the non-academic category, the posts have been created for nursing superintendent, nurses, hospital attendants, pharmacists, lab assistants, radiographer, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cabinet-puts-kgod-mch-on-fast-track/articleshow/75053894.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Airport retail, duty-free shops to remain shut after lockdown||CHENNAI: The experience of flying out of Chennai airport when airlines resume services after the lockdown will be different for at least a few weeks. You might not be able to relish that favourite drink of yours, skim through a book or shop before you hop on to that flight as retail and duty free shops will remain closed to ensure social distancing. A few kiosks selling food and water will be available. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) will also impose restrictions on moving around at terminals, queuing at check-in counters and boarding gates, seating near boarding gates and in baggage pick-up areas. A senior official of AAI said it would be impossible to open all the shops inside the terminals. “Retail and duty free shops may not open because it could lead to crowding. And all products on display will have to be disinfected regularly as passengers touch them and could pose a risk. Only a few shops will be allowed to sell food and beverages.” He also said the airport will have to ensure social distancing of both passengers and staff. “This is going to be a challenge. It will be like setting the clock back to 20 years. Passengers may experience a bare terminal as it used to be in the olden days,” he added. Source said the airport may have to draw up a plan to ensure social distancing among staff, especially in the baggage handling area and also consider the way luggage is handled. “These are sensitive areas that need to be watched, to ensure that passengers and employees are safe from infection,” said an official. The international terminal is expected to remain closed even after the lockdown is lifted as airlines are not confident to operate international flights. IndiGo has announced that they are suspending all international flights till April 30. The ministry of civil aviation has not clearly stated whether flight operations will resume on April 15. Initially, it was thought that flights on trunk routes, connecting major metros, may be allowed. But it looks like that too may not happen for fears of overcrowding. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday tweeted, “these restrictions will be lifted once we are fully confident that the spread of the virus has been controlled and it poses no danger to fellow Indians. I thank everyone for their cooperation and help in these testing times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/airport-retail-duty-free-shops-to-remain-shut-after-lockdown/articleshow/75055700.cms||V Ayyappan
April 9, 2020||Pune||12 Covid-19 deaths reported in Pune in a day, most had underlying medical conditions||PUNE: Twelve more critically ill patients succumbed to novel coronavirus-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome at different hospitals in Pune, health officials confirmed on Wednesday. All of them had underlying medical conditions including diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and kidney ailments. This has pushed Pune’s Covid-19 toll to 20. Three of them had died a couple of days ago, and their throat swab reports turned out to be positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. This is the highest number of Covid-19 casualties reported on a single day in Pune. Besides, Pune reported 38 fresh cases of the contagion on Wednesday — also the highest reported on a single day so far. Most of them are close contacts of people earlier found infected with Covid-19 and belong to low-income groups. Some of them are slum-dwellers. Maximum cases are from Tadiwala Road, Hadapsar, Ghorpadi Peth, Parvati, Kashewadi slum in Bhavani Peth, Mangalwar Peth and Nana Peth. Of the 12 Covid-19 deaths, four were reported from Hadapsar. Two of these victims were from Sayyednagar slum in Hadapsar. “None of the 12 people who succumbed to the Covid-19-induced complications and associated underlying medical conditions had any history of recent foreign travel or any proximity to known infected patient or their close contacts. Most of them were elderlies and had diabetes and hypertension. They had tested positive for Covid-19 while undergoing treatment for breathlessness at different hospitals in the city,” district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, the nodal officer of the Covid-19 containment plan in Pune, told TOI. Among the victims, a 57-year-old woman, a resident of Sayyednagar in Hadapsar, was rushed to a private hospital in Fatimanagar when she complained of severe breathlessness around 10.30am on Tuesday morning. “Our medical staffers put in their best efforts to salvage her, but she died around 11.15am. She was a known patient of cardio-vascular disease,” said the hospital’s medical director. “In view of her severe difficulty in breathing and residential address, we fumigated the hospital, quarantined our 20 health workers who came in contact with her and sent her throat swab to the National Institute of Virology (NIV). The sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday,” he said. Another 73-year-old victim of Covid-19 was also from Sayyednagar — a slum area in Hadapsar. The man was admitted to a private hospital in Hadapsar for severe difficulty in breathing on April 2. He was put on ventilator support the next day as his condition worsened and he succumbed on Wednesday. He was a known patient of diabetes and hypertension. A 62-year-old man from Indiranagar on Handewadi Road in Hadapsar was admitted to the same hospital in Hadapsar on April 1 with complaints of cough and breathlessness. After his condition worsened, he was intubated and put on ventilator support on April 4. He died on Wednesday afternoon. A 40-year-old critically-ill man, a known patient of chronic liver disease undergoing aggressive treatment at a private hospital in Deccan and had tested positive for the Covid-19 infection on March 26, also succumbed to the associated complications around 4.15pm on Wednesday. He was a resident of Sahakarnagar. Another victim was a 44-year-old man from Raviwar Peth. He was admitted to civic-run Naidu Hospital for breathlessness. “He had uncontrolled diabetes and slipped into kidney failure during the treatment. He died early in the morning on Wednesday,” said a civic health official. A 71-year-old resident of Kondhwa, who also had diabetes and chronic kidney disease and had been undergoing treatment at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital since April 4, died of Covid-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on Wednesday. Another 54-year-old man from Hadapsar, undergoing treatment at the hospital for breathlessness, died of the complications the same day. A 55-year-old woman from Kasba Peth, also a patient of hypertension, was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 2. She succumbed to complications on April 7. Her throat swab reported tested positive for the contagion on Wednesday. Another 65-year-old man from Kondhwa was admitted to Sassoon hospital for breathlessness on April 6. He died of the complication the next day. His throat swab tested positive for the contagion on Wednesday. A 67-year-old woman from Ghorpadi Peth was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 4. She succumbed to the associated complication of the contagion two days later. Her throat swab tested positive on Wednesday. Another 63-year-old woman from Bhavani Peth was admitted to Sassoon hospital for breathlessness on April 4. She was undergoing treatment for kidney-related injury and had tested positive for the contagion. She succumbed to the respiratory distress and other complications on Wednesday. A 60-year-old resident of Samarathnagar at Baramati in Pune district was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 5 as he complained of difficulty in breathing. A known patient of chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension, he succumbed on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-pune-in-a-day-most-had-underlying-medical-conditions/articleshow/75056076.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 9, 2020||Madurai||NGO, Railway-IRCTC distribute free food||MADURAI: In the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, a group of volunteers from an NGO ‘Viruthai Vizhuthugal’ has distributed food packets in Virudhunagar town. Speaking to TOI, the secretary of Viruthai Vizhuthugal, M Nagendran said that for the past three years the members of the NGO were involved in various social activities such as planting saplings, cleaning bus stops on all the Sundays in Virudhunagar. He said that following the lockdown, it had planned to cook and distribute afternoon meal to the needy people including daily wage labourers, elderly people and abandoned people in Virudhunagar town. “When we came up with the idea of supplying food, the Virudhunagar municipality officials asked us to provide the materials for cooking at two Amma Canteens, where the employees would cook food in a hygienic manner and would hand it over to us,” he said. He said that the volunteers would assemble at the Amma Canteens around 11am everyday where the cooked food would be packed. The members have identified nearly 300 needy who are residing in different parts of the town and food packets are distributed to them in the afternoons. Similarly, the Railways in partnership with IRCTC had started distributing free food to the needy people from Wednesday. Food was prepared in the refreshment rooms in Madurai railway junction and 1,285 food packets were handed over to Madurai Corporation officials for distributing them to the needy people. The initiative would continue till April 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-rly-irctc-distribute-free-food/articleshow/75055708.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cops arrange medicine from Tirupur for Muvattupuzha child||KOCHI: Two days after a woman from Angamaly approached chief minister’s office seeking help in arranging an essential medicine for her 10-year-old daughter who has a brain disorder, police have arranged the medicine from a medical store in Tamil Nadu. Police said an email was first sent to the CMO seeking medicine for a child suffering from Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis (SSPE) — a rare form of chronic progressive brain inflammation caused by slow infection. The request was then forwarded to Angamaly police who arranged the medicine from Tiruppur and delivered at family’s home in Muvattupuzha on Tuesday. Police officials said even though they searched for the medicine, imported from Ireland, at several locations in Kerala, they were unable to find it. “We asked for the medicine in hospitals at Malappuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram, but we couldn’t get it. Later, we came to know that the medicine is usually brought from Bawa Medicals at Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu, and that it was a rare and expensive medicine,” said a senior officer with Angamaly police.  “The manager of the medical store in Tiruppur was contacted and the medicine was brought to Walayar border with the help of some volunteers. Shararaj and Sudheer, officials in charge of community policing with Palakkad police, got the medicine from Walayar and handed it over to Highway police,” said an official. The medicine was then brought to Ernakulam through the network of Highway police and handed over to Angamaly police. “The woman used to live in Angamaly, but had moved to a relative’s place in Muvattupuzha,” said the official. A team of police officials delivered the medicine to the family at Muvattupuzha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-arrange-medicine-from-tirupur-for-child/articleshow/75053928.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Wear masks or face action, collector tells citizens||Pune: District collector Naval Kishore Ram has made wearing of masks compulsory for people venturing out of their homes or those working in government establishments, failure of which will attract action under Section 188 of the IPC. In his order, Ram said any person stepping out of his/her home should use three-ply or cloth mask. Those travelling in public or private vehicles should wear the mask too. When it comes to government employees, they should wear the mask throughout during the office hours. ‘Those flouting the rules could face legal action and FIRs can be registered against them. Police will keep a strict watch on all people,” the collector told TOI. He said the action will be initiated under section 188 of the IPC, which prescribes punishment for disobeying any order duly promulgated by a public servant. “People can wear standard masks available with the chemist or even home-made washable masks can be reused after proper washing and disinfection,” the order stated. As per the order, people working in private offices should also wear the masks. The BMC too has issued the order after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday appealed to the people to use masks while going out of their homes to buy basic necessities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wear-masks-or-face-action-collector-tells-citizens/articleshow/75056082.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 9, 2020||Vadodara||Indian Immunologicals Limited, Griffith University join hands to develop Covid-19 vaccine||VADODARA/ ANAND: Hyderabad-based Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Anand-headquartered National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) will collaborate with Australia’s Griffith University to develop a vaccine for COVID-19. Through this cross-continental collaboration, scientists from IIL and Griffith University will jointly develop a ‘Live Attenuated SARS – CoV-2 vaccine’ or COVID-19 vaccine using the latest codon de-optimization technology, said Dilip Rath, chairman of NDDB and IIL. “This technology looks promising for developing a vaccine for prophylactic, active, single dose immunization against coronavirus in humans with an enhanced safety profile. The vaccine is expected to provide long-lasting protection,” he said. After the research gets completed, the vaccine strain will be transferred to the IIL, the vaccine-maker, who will then work with country’s regulator – Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) – to conduct further clinical trials which will be taken up in a phased manner. Rath further said that the IIL is a prominent player in veterinary biologicals and committed to addressing critical public health needs. “IIL is committed to develop high-quality vaccines that are affordable,” he added. Talking to TOI, professor Suresh Mahalingam Menzies from Griffith University’s Health Institute Queensland, said that they are very excited to be able to work closely with IIL to develop this crucial vaccine. “As this vaccine will be a live attenuated vaccine, it is expected to be highly effective as it will provide very strong cellular and antibody immune responses against the virus. The other benefit of such a vaccine is that it will have a proven track record for economical large-scale manufacturing and well-known regulatory approval pathway,” he said. Incidentally, IIL is one of the largest producers of foot and mouth disease vaccine in the world and was the first company in India to launch the purified vero cell rabies vaccine for humans. IIL and Griffith University are already conducting research and development of Zika virus vaccine, which is currently at pre-clinical toxicology testing stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/iil-griffith-univ-join-hands-to-develop-covid-vaccine/articleshow/75054613.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Highest single day spike in Vid, Yavatmal sends region’s Covid-19 tally to 50||Nagpur: Vidarbha reported 10 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, highest number of positive cases in a single day since March 11 when the first Covid-19 patient was detected in Nagpur. Out of these, eight are from Yavatmal and all of them closely associated with the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Akola and Buldhana recorded one case each taking Vidarbha’s Wednesday tally to 10 and overall number of Covid-19 patients to 50. Yavatmal became the first district in the region to report eight positive Covid-19 cases in a day. Out of the eight cases, only one is a resident of Yavatmal city. Other seven are from other states. “Eight more coronavirus cases have been reported from Yavatmal and out of them 4 persons are from Uttar Pradesh, two from West Bengal and one from Delhi and a local. All of them were in Yavatmal for religious activities,” said district collector MD Singh. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh also confirmed that all eight Covid-19 positive persons had Delhi travel history and the seven from other states came from Delhi to Yavatmal. “Yavatmal now has total 11 positive cases. Three of them have recovered and discharged. Eight patients are in the isolation facility of Yavatmal GMCH,” he said. Notably, samples of about 65 suspects were collected last Wednesday and all of them have been admitted to the isolation ward of Yavatmal Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) since then. Due to snag in the Covid-19 testing laboratory in Nagpur’s Mayo Hospital, these samples were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, on April 3. Results of 51 samples came out today, while reports of 14 others are still awaited. “Total 129 samples, including some from Yavatmal, were sent to the NIV. Out of them, seven tested positive today. All others tested negative,” said a laboratory official. As the government has now designated AIIMS Nagpur as laboratory for testing samples from Amravati division, 13 samples from Yavatmal were tested in AIIMS today. One of them — sample of the local resident of Yavatmal — tested positive. With seven tested in NIV and one in AIIMS, the total number of positive patients in Yavatmal is eight. Earlier, three patients having Dubai travel history were treated at the GMCH and they recovered fully. Their 14-day home quarantine period is yet to be completed. No new case in Nagpur: The city recorded no new case on Wednesday. The fifth patient, a businessman from Khamla, completed 14 days of the isolation on Wednesday. His swab samples were sent for testing. If tested negative, another sample will be tested on Thursday. If tested negative in the two tests back-to-back, the patient will be declared as recovered and will be discharged. Meanwhile, Nagpur’s first patient, an IT professional, will complete his 14 days of home quarantine on April 9. More than 50 samples of high risk contacts of positive patients and new suspects admitted to the GMCH and IGGMCH are yet to be tested. 12 cases in Buldhana now: AIIMS Nagpur also tested samples from Buldhana and Akola on Wednesday. One more suspect from Buldhana, a close contact of the admitted positive cases, tested positive taking the total number of cases from Buldhana to 12, including one death. “All confirmed positive patients are recovering in the 100-bedded isolation facility at women’s hospital in Buldhana. They are asymptomatic,” said civil surgeon Dr Premchand Pandit. Relief for Amravati: After three members of Covid-19 victim’s family tested positive on Tuesday, the administration in Amravati heaved a sigh of relief as no new case surfaced from any part of the district. The administration has screened 3,966 persons to date and quarantined them all. It has sent 238 throat swab samples for testing out of which 170 have tested negative and four positive. Eleven samples have been rejected. Meanwhile, a suspected patient from Melghat tribal belt has been admitted to Covid-19 ward today. Second case in Akola: Akola reported its second positive coronavirus case on April 8, within 24 hours of the first case came to fore. This patient is a resident of Akot Fail area, which is another densely populated area of the town. More alarming fact is that the patient had no travel history at all. “We have sealed the Akot Fail area and started active surveillance within 3km area. High risk contacts of the patient have been already isolated in hospital,” said district collector Rajendra Papalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/highest-single-day-spike-in-vid-yavatmal-sends-regions-covid-19-tally-to-50/articleshow/75055721.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Karnataka allows patients, treatments get delayed||Kannur: With Karnataka giving conditional permission to take patients, who seek treatment in Mangaluru hospitals, via the border at Thalappady, Kasaragod district administration has put in place all arrangements. However, things are not smooth and there are various types of obstacles, according to people closely monitoring the developments there. On Wednesday morning, two patients were permitted by the medical team posted by Kasaragod administration but the Karnataka medical team denied permission to one, saying that she could be taken to Kannur, as she was being taken for MRI scanning. In the evening, one more patient was permitted. Though the second patient with chest pain was permitted to cross the border, there was delay on the part of the hospital in Mangaluru, as they wanted to complete the medical examinations as per protocol to confirm that the patient did not have any symptoms of Covid-19, said one source. The treatment is provided in isolation rooms. Only a few patients approached the medical team from Kasaragod and some of them were sent back, as they could be taken to the local hospitals in the district, said the officials at the border. It is tough to follow the conditions by Karnataka, and it might adversely affect the patients, said Manjeshwar MLA and IUML leader M C Kamaruddin. “I was told that the Karnataka medical team is referring all patients to one medical college only and this would affect them because there are many people with different ailments,” he said. The patients are taken to KS Hegde Medical Academy from where they would be taken to Wenlock District Hospital to collect specimen for Covid-19 testing and only then treatment would be provided, which means there is huge delay in providing the treatment. Moreover, in the prevailing scenario, cancer patients or people who need dialysis could not be taken there, said Manjeshwar block panchayat president AKM Ashraf. Though Kasaragod district administration has promised that all dialysis patients would be provided facilities in hospitals in the district, there is still a concern, he said. Karnataka opened the Thalappady border for emergency patients with a slew of conditions. Kasaragod district collector has appointed medical officers to monitor the patients round the clock at the border. Also, the service of health department’s ‘108 ambulance’ has been made available at Thalappady.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/karnataka-allows-patients-treatments-get-delayed/articleshow/75053933.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Expert team creates prototype of low-cost mechanical ventilator in Pune||PUNE: A team from BJ Medical College & Sassoon Hospital and College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), has developed a prototype mechanical ventilator specially for Covid-19 patients. “The prototype mechanical Artificial Manual Breathing Unit-based ventilator system can adjust required tidal volume from 200ml to 550ml as well as breath cycles from 10 to 30 cycles/minute. The best feature of the prototype is that it can adjust inhalation to exhalation (I/E) ratio of 1:2, 1:3, 1:4. The prototype has tested successfully in a virtual environment and, after necessary certification and approvals, very soon we will perform clinical studies on the device,” said assistant professor Sandeep Anasane from the department of production engineering at CoEP, who was the co-investigator of the project. Apart from Anasane, the five-member team included project in-charge associate professor Sonali Salve from B J Medical College & Sassoon Hospital, Swapnil Bukshete researcher at Biomedical Technology Incubation Centre (BETiC) CoEP, Abhijeet Bhagat, who is the chief executive officer of Atmen Technovention Pvt Ltd and a former researcher at BETiC-COEP, freelance designer Subir Bhaduri and Deepak Dhiwar, a non-teaching staff member at CoEP. Since March 27, the team had been working single-mindedly towards developing a prototype mechanical ventilator. On Tuesday night, the first successful prototype was made by the team of doctor-engineers. While the basic model ventilator has been specially designed for Covid-19 patients, it can also be modified to include other uses later on, explained Anasane. Anasane further said that the ventilator will definitely be low-cost due to its indegenious design and technology. At the same time, it cannot be compared to a high-end ventilator as those perform a number of other functions along with basic ones. Explaining the complex terms, Bhagat said, “Now, the tidal volume is the amount of air volume that can be supplied by the Artificial Manual Breathing Unit bag to the person’s lungs at a time. Each person has a specific capacity of oxygen that he or she can inhale depending upon various parameters such as age, weight, and so on, and anything more or less can be damaging to the organ. This ventilator can control the tidal volume supplied to the lungs. The breathing cycle controls how many breathes you take in a minute and the I/E ratio stands for every 1 second of time taken for inhaling, what is the time for exhaling.” Bhagat further said that while virtual tests of the ventilator have been successful, the team will now write to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) under the Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, for certification that can lead to clinical trials in the future. While Salvi helped the team with inputs related to the clinical aspect of the project, CoEP director BB Ahuja and Ajay Chandanwale, dean of BJ Medical College & Sassoon Hospital, provided the team support and resources to develop the prototype.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expert-team-creates-prototype-of-low-cost-mechanical-ventilator/articleshow/75056084.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 9, 2020||Chennai||People should be wary even after lockdown: Expert||TOI’s Pushpa Narayan went live on Facebook with Dr V Ramasubramanian, senior consultant at the department of infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals, asking him questions on Covid-19 posed by our readers. Excerpts from the discussion. Why is this more serious than influenza or any other flu? The flu is less infectious. For example, flu can spread to 1.5-2 people from every infected person, while Covid-19 can spread to 2-3. The symptoms, though similar, are slow to occur in Covid-19. It starts with fever, dry cough or sore throat and it takes 5-6 days before it worsens. 80% of people have mild or moderate infection and do not require hospitalisation. Flu mortality is 0.1%, while that of Covid-19 can be as high as 2%-3%. How do I know whether I am infected. Should I get tested? Anyone who has fever or dry cough or sore throat should home quarantine themselves for 2-3 days. If it settles in 2-3 days, then it is unlikely to be Covid-19. If the symptoms persist, they need to get medical help. We buy vegetables/ newspapers everyday. How to use them? As long as vegetables are thoroughly washed, there is no problem. Many people are also asking if we should stop reading newspapers, for fear that it will carry the infection. It is ridiculous. The chance that a paper might carry a virus, even if it is handled by an infected person, is so remote. Can we expect a vaccine? There are only two ways as of now to get over the pandemic. One is that 60% of population should get infected, survive and develop antibodies. This is herd immunity. Second is, you vaccinate everybody. Vaccine development takes anywhere between 3 and 0 years. If we fastrack, it might be possible in 1.5 years but anything under a year seems highly unlikely at this point. What should our exit strategy be, now that we are nearing the end of the lockdown? Can we lead a normal life? Lifestyle changes have to be made to ensure we get out of the problem. This 21-day lockdown has probably helped flatten the curve but we still have not got rid of the virus. Even after the lockdown ends, we have to curtail physical proximity with other people. Congregations, especially at places like cinemas, malls should be dealt with carefully. The elderly should be extra careful. We should continue to wash hands often, follow cough etiquette, etc., Check out Facebook.com/chennaitoi for live discussion with Dr Raj B Singh, senior consultant and head of department of respiratory medicine, Apollo Hospitals, at 10am on April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/people-should-be-wary-even-after-lockdown-expert/articleshow/75055713.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: A doughty anganwadi worker wins life battle||PUNE: Her fighting spirit and love for her family spurred this anganwadi worker in her difficult battle against Covid-19. “She knows I can’t live without her. So, she is back home after a tough fight,” the woman’s husband said on Wednesday. The anganwadi worker was critically ill and on ventilator support for 12 days due to acute respiratory distress arising out of Covid-19. She was admitted to the Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical Hospital where she recovered and was discharged on Wednesday. “She has been a fighter all her life. She has her own struggles professionally every day. She cooks for the family early in the morning, prepares tiffin boxes for the children, sends them to school, uses the public transport from Wadgaon Budruk to reach Panshet and then walks from Panshet to the school. After school, she walks back to the Panshet stop to catch a bus home. She is back to the chores. Isn’t that a fight too?”the husband said. It was this struggle, her husband said, that made her capable of tackling the virus and helped her recover. Her treatment was almost free under the Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Her husband and three other family members were in quarantine at Naidu hospital. “She was not aware of this and kept asking the doctors why none of us had visited her. She wanted to see us, but the doctors handled the situation well. The doctors did a great job.” Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati Hospital, said, the 41-year old anganwadi sevika, who was admitted on March 16 and tested positive for Covid-19, later developed full blown ARDS. She was ventilated from March 20, extubated on March 30 and discharged on Wednesday at 3pm. “All her vitals were stable and she left for her mother’s place in a hospital vehicle,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-doughty-anganwadi-worker-wins-life-battle/articleshow/75056083.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||Show up or face criminal charges: Shivraj to Tablighis||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday gave a 24-hour ultimatum to Tablighi Jamaat members to show up for testing or face criminal charges. Chouhan appealed to people to follow the lockdown, saying: “Talk to the sofa, if you have to, but stay at home.” With a large chunk of the new cases across the state being Tablighi members – 20 are in Bhopal itself – the CM took a tough stand on those hiding travel history or symptoms of the disease. “The administration has quarantined everyone who attended Nizamuddin Markaz and identified the people from abroad who have been hiding in mosques. Even after this, if someone is hiding somewhere, then I request him to inform the administration within the next 24 hours,” tweeted Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/show-up-or-face-criminal-charges-shivraj-to-tablighis/articleshow/75055198.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Bakeries, sweet shops to remain open for four hours in Dharwad||TNN Dharwad: The district administration on Tuesday allowed bakeries in the district to open and function with minimum staff amid the nation-wide lockdown. Chairing a meeting of bakery owners in Dharwad on Tuesday, deputy commissioner Deepa said the government has exempted bakeries from the lockdown. The bakeries and sweet shops can remain open from 6 am to 10 am, she added. The bakery owners were asked to maintain hygiene in their outlets and function with minimum staff while ensure social distancing. Demand for home delivery of food surge Amid lockdown, several people depending on eateries and hotels for their meals have requested the district administration to allow home delivery food. “In big cities like Bengaluru, several companies like Swiggy and Zomato deliver food at the doorstep. We do not yet have any such arrangement here. People like me have to venture out at the risk of being infected or beaten up by the policemen,” said Santosh Patil, a private firm employee. “For such people, the administration should allow home delivery of food items by putting certain restrictions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bakeries-sweet-shops-to-remain-open-for-four-hours-in-dharwad/articleshow/75053923.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fruit kits and certificates await them||Thiruvananthapuram: While Taiwan honours persons who successfully complete home quarantine with goodie bags and stipends, the district administration is rewarding them with fruit kits and certificates showing successful completion of quarantine. Vattiyoorkavu MLA V K Prasanth and district collector K Gopalakrishnan visited the home of a person who has successfully completed 28 days quarantine period at Vattiyoorkavu and removed the sticker from the house, which said that a person was under quarantine in the house. The quarantine certificate and a fruit kit were also given to the person who successfully completed the quarantine period. “There was a sense of stigma attached to persons who were undergoing quarantine at homes. We want to dispel that feeling with this gesture. They did a service to the society and they should be honoured. Those who were referred to home quarantine did not have disease. They were just taking precaution for everyone around us,” said Anu S Nair, deputy collector, disaster management. The district collector has repeatedly insisted on observing strict room quarantine following instances of violation of norms. The sticker was also introduced as a means of discouraging visitors to the house. A system is also under process by which people who complete home quarantine can download quarantine completion certificates from the district administration website. Meanwhile, 230 persons were brought under observation on Wednesday. As many as 1,620 persons completed 28-days quarantine period without any sign of disease on Wednesday. As many as 23 persons were admitted to hospitals with symptoms and 27 have been discharged on Wednesday. The persons from Manacaud and Kollam, who were under treatment, were discharged after their tests turned negative. The Kollam resident has been shifted to the Covid-care centre in Kollam and the other person has been shifted to Nedumangadu district hospital. At present, four persons are under treatment in the district; the person from Malayinkeezhu, his two children and a resident of Pothencode. All samples sent from Pothencode have been negative. As many as 56 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday; 119 results were received on Wednesday and all results were negative. Results of 214 samples are pending in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fruit-kits-and-certificates-await-them/articleshow/75053956.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Asha volunteer treks 10km to check villagers’ health||PUNE: For Suman Ramchandra Dhebe (45), a community health worker under the Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) programme, trekking 10km through the remote and hilly terrain of Velhe taluka has become a daily routine. Ever since the coronavirus outbreak, it has been her job to provide medical aid and monitor the health of 1,000 villagers. Dhebe lives in Pole village, located about 49 km from Velhe town. “Since it is an emergency situation, I start my day at 8am, after cooking and completing my daily chores,” she told TOI over the phone. Her task is to visit as many as households as possible during the day. “My first priority is to identify new cases or patients with symptoms like a cold, fever or cough and immediately report to my seniors at the Karanjwale primary health centre, about 45km from here,” she said. Dhebe, a mother of five, has been an Asha worker since 2012. During her eight years of service, she has established good contacts in the nearby villages and is called “Doctor Bai” by the villagers. “Ever since the lockdown was imposed, people have become extra cautious. If I am late, they immediately call up and ask me where I have reached. They are happy when I take note of their health and give them their daily medicines,” she explained. Villages like Maangaon, Nivgunewadi, Upsal and some hamlets are on the hills and unreachable by vehicle. “Because of this, I have to walk least 10km everyday. I end my day by 5 or 6pm,” she added. Many villagers have come back home after the caronavirus outbreak, said Dhebe. “I have been monitoring their health with the help of grampanchayats for the last two weeks. Many of them have adhered to my request and remained at home. Fortunately, we don’t have any positive cases so far,” she said. The wife a marginal farmer, Dhebe says it’s her responsibility to perform her duty during these testing times. “People need my services now more than ever. Not only do I provide primary medical services to them but I also boost their morale,” she added.. Dhebe was elated when she got a call from her seniors,who said they appeciated her dedication. MP Supriya Sule too has lauded her efforts. Pune zilla parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Most of the villages in Velhe taluka are in remote areas and providing health care services there is a big challenge due to geographical constraints. Our ground staffers, like Dhebe, have been working hard during the last few weeks. Because of this, we have managed to quarantine people after one positive case was found in another area last month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asha-volunteer-treks-10km-to-check-villagers-health/articleshow/75056087.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Builders provide free ration, health checks for stranded guest workers||CHENNAI: Developers are offering a range of incentives to guest workers in the city to keep them engaged during the lockdown period which forced the construction sector to come to a grinding halt. Aside from television sets, indoor games and free ration, developers are offering free provisions and health camps at construction sites that double up as accommodation for the workers. About 25,000 workers, largely from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana Odisha and West Bengal, are engaged in major housing and commercial projects in the city and suburbs. Thousands more are engaged in small building constructions and housing projects of the Tamil Nadu government. While most are staying in city during the lockdown, some left before it came into effect. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India Tamil Nadu chapter chairman S Sridharan said every guest worker is offered free ration, including rice, dal and oil, at construction sites, where they stay in sheds. Workers are encouraged to stay engaged on site with the indoor games and additional television TV sets. However, the workers are not paid. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said developers are spending Rs 1,500 on each worker every week to provide essentials, which include cash incentives. “Initially, a chunk of workers wanted to go leave and sought special transport arrangements during the lockdown period. But, we held discussions assuring a safe stay at the construction site,” he added. Developers are also keeping an eye out for any sign of depression due to non-availability of alcohol. City-based developer Suresh Krishn said a team of engineers is in frequent touch with workers. “They talk to construction workers frequently. We give them Rs 100 every week to top-up mobile phones so they can keep in touch with their family,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/builders-provide-free-ration-health-checks-for-stranded-guest-workers/articleshow/75055723.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 9, 2020||Madurai||No time to criticize, give suggestions instead: Minister||MADURAI: Information and publicity minister Kadambur Raju, while responding to a question about Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan’s criticism about the efforts taken by the central government for containment of Covid-19, said that it is not a time for criticism instead good suggestions can be given. While addressing the media at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Wednesday, Raju said that the state government was taking all the effective steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He said that all these steps being taken by the government would prove effective only if the people stay inside their houses and follow social distancing. On being asked about the central government’s move to cut MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years and its effect on the process of fulfilling the election promises by the elected representatives, Raju said that the government had taken this decision to protect the people when the entire world is facing an unforeseen emergency situation following the Covid-19 pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-time-to-criticize-give-suggestions-instead-min/articleshow/75055719.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||On duty 24x7, Ytl cops greeted with flower petals||Yavatmal: It was a spectacular sight on Tuesday when over 300 policemen, who often face brickbats from public, were greeted by the citizens who showered flower petals on them acknowledging their round-the-clock efforts in maintaining law and order amid the lockdown. The 10-km-long route march was flagged off from the city police station by SP M Rajkumar and it passed through the main thoroughfares. The police, led by additional SP Noorul Hassan, were on a route march in sensitive areas of Sharada Chowk, Kalamb Chowk and Patipura localities of Yavatmal city where a large number of men and women from Muslim community lined up along the road and welcomed the cops by showering flowers. These areas have a notorious history of communal clashes leading to curfew in the past. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Hassan said he invited muftis from local mosques and explained them the current situation arising out of the lockdown and appealed to them to instruct the community members not to move out of their houses in the night to offer prayers in view of the Shab-e-Baraat on April 8 and 9. The community members should offer prayers at home only, he urged. These cops have also been deployed to maintain law and order in Pusad and Umarkhed besides Yavatmal during the Shab-e-Baraat. Prominent among others participated in the route march include SDPO Madhuri Baviskar, LCB chief Pradeep Siraskar, city police station officer Dhananjay Sayare, PSO of Awadhootwadi police station Anant Wagatkar, Lohara PSO Sachin Lule and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-duty-24x7-ytl-cops-greeted-with-flower-petals/articleshow/75051137.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Startup develops two modules to detect the contagion||Pune: A city-based startup FastSense Diagnostics is developing two modules to detect Covid-19, which would significantly reduce the time taken for the test results to come out. The company plans to roll out two products including a polymerase chain reaction-based detection kit for confirmatory analysis in lesser time compared to the existing detection methods. The proposed kit can test approximately 30 to 50 samples in an hour. The proposed technology ‘CovE-Sens’ is likely to provide a rapid, point of care detection along with screening and confirmatory test, with ease of operations, Preeti Nigam Joshi, the founding director of FastSense Diagnostics, said. “We have two prime modules: a rapid test kit for confirmatory analysis in less time in comparison to the existing detection methods and a portable module for rapid screening of target population. The modules would provide on the spot results in less than 20 minutes,” she said. In the past, the startup had developed products for rapid disease diagnosis, which had been funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). Ashutosh Sharma, the secretary of DST, said, “After the kits are developed they will have to meet the prescribed standards and be certified before they are officially released.” — Neha Madaan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/startup-develops-two-modules-to-detect-the-contagion/articleshow/75056086.cms||Neha Madaan
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Disinfection kiosks being set up in Vijayawada's crowded areas||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Wednesday begun setting up disinfection kiosks in the crowded areas of the city. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh and Vijayawada central legislator Malladi Vishnuvardhan (Vishnu) inaugurated a kiosk at Makineni Basavapunniah Stadium at Ajith Singh Nagar that now houses a makeshift market. The kiosk is designed like a tunnel through which every buyer has to pass. A solution of sodium hypochlorite and calcium hypochlorite will be blasted through a fogging machine. This will help disinfect the person in the kiosk. The accidental spread of the virus from the clothes and bags can be prevented with this strategy. Prasanna Venkatesh said, “We are taking necessary precautions to control the spread of Covid-19. Despite our requests, vegetable markets are noticing large crowds. So we have started installing disinfection kiosks. The public should consider the suggestions given by the civic authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/disinfection-kiosks-being-set-up-in-citys-crowded-areas/articleshow/75055716.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 151 under quarantine after attending funeral of positive man||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram district administration has placed as many as 151 people, including a former minister under quarantine after they attended the funeral of a 71-year-old man who died of Covid-19. The man, hailing from Ramanathapuram district had died at the Covid-19 isolation ward of Stanley Hospital in Chennai on April 2. His body was buried in a mosque in Keelakarai in Ramanathapuram on April 3. According to sources, several people, including Ramanathapuram MLA and former IT minister M Manikandan and his father, had attended the funeral as his test results were not known then. Later, when his test result turned out to be positive, officials from the district administration started to identify those who attended the funeral and asked them to remain in self-quarantine. Based on a complaint by the village administrative officer, the Keelakarai police registered a case against both sons of the deceased for organising the funeral despite being aware that their father was admitted to the isolation ward. They had also violated the 144 promulgation rules. They were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of IPC. They were also booked under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. Speaking to TOI, district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said of the 151 people, 11 are family members of the deceased, while five had performed the rituals during the funeral. All are being closely monitored and swab samples would be taken from them for testing, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/151-under-quarantine-after-attending-funeral-of-ve-man/articleshow/75055714.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Many institutes offer online courses for students||Thiruvananthapuram: Edumithra foundation, an educational NGO, has planned to provide online interactive classes for students who are staying indoors due to the spread of Covid-19. In addition to maths, chemistry and physics, the interactive classes will also provide information on robotics, space science and more. Classes are handled by experts in each subjects. The seven-day free online class will be given to students from classes V to XII.  Classes are designed in such as way to provide comfort to students who are stranded inside the house due to the lockdown. Access www.edumithrafoundation.com for classes starting from April 10. Registration can be done till April 9. Another firm Out of the Box (OFB) tech trainers have started a week-long free online workshop for school students to keep themselves engaged during the lockdown and learn and practice the scientific side of thinking skills and how to design their thoughts.  The course titled ‘imagination to image’ began on Monday.  “In this fun-filled one-week online session, we will make every participant understand the success steps of powerful thoughts that are different and creative,” said Arjun C P, co-founder and innovation coach at OFB. To join the workshop, visit www.ofb.org.in or call 80755 66081.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/many-institutes-offer-online-courses-for-students/articleshow/75053966.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Snooping on Delhi-returned Muslims: Phones taken sans any paper work||Nagpur: The Nagpur police cyber crime sleuths scanned the cell phones of eight Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members, who had officially attended the Markaz meet, and some Muslim Delhi-returnees in their absence, without giving any formal letter or order copy. The eight TJ members are at IGGMCH isolation ward while others are in institutional quarantine at MLA Hostels, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati and Central India Nursing College at Lonara. Commissioner of police BK Upadhyay told TOI there was no need to worry. “It is only to verify the contacts with whom they would have come in touch, to avoid further infections and take preventive medical measures,” he said. Asked if any suspicious data was found, in-charge of special branch and cyber crime DCP Shweta Khedkar said, “The verification is on. In case there is anything, it will come out in investigation. I appeal to all citizens to give proper and correct information.” Khedkar refused to comment on the number of people on the list for ‘cell phone verification’ or on whose orders the exercise was undertaken. NMC records say around 197 Delhi returnees have been quarantined. Sources said the move is aimed at tracing antigovernment content in these cell phones. The cell phones were collected from the isolation ward and quarantine centres, and taken to cyber crime office in the last couple of days. As part of their collective decision to cooperate with authorities, the members gave away the cell phones, which were returned after several hours. On second thoughts, these people are worried of being falsely implicated, as no official acknowledgement was given about the phones being in police custody for a specified period of time. At Lonara, some Muslims had insisted that the inspection be done in front of them, and refused to part with their cell phones unless an order was shown. Ultimately, the sleuths took them outside and scanned the phones before returning them. The Barelvi and other sects of Muslims fear more trouble in case their phones have been misused. “They showed me a list having only Muslim names. Some were Tablighi members. The policemen showed their IDs but didn’t give any order copy. I consulted some members and decided to cooperate in national interest. But what if the access is misused,” a member said. Lawyer Sudeep Jaiswal said it is a violation of fundamental rights and breach of privacy if consent is not taken. “The state is taking away liberty if it is not telling the reason behind the action. They are under quarantine not police custody. The purpose should be given in writing. The exercise should be curtailed when a satisfactory reason is not given for taking away personal belongings,” he said. Jaiswal said police can get all CDR details from telecom operators and there is no need to take people’s phones in this manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/snooping-on-delhi-returned-muslims-phones-taken-sans-any-paper-work/articleshow/75055728.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 9, 2020||Pune||Will extend curfew to other areas if needed: Pune CP||PUNE: Commissioner of police K Venkatesham on Wednesday said the curfew provisions in place in the jurisdiction of four police stations in the city could be extended to other areas, depending on the intensity and the spread of the Covid-19. Venkatesham, who led a route march in Katraj, Dhankawadi and Bharati Vidyapeeth areas with other senior police officers, including joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde, said, “We are now intensifying our vigil on the streets.” Asked if fringe areas like Vadgaon Dhayari, Sinhagad Road and Warje were being brought within the ambit of the curfew orders, Venkatesham said, “For now, our focus is on strict checking. People should not come out of their homes for non-essential purposes.” Police have barricaded Warje-NDA Road, Sinhagad Road, sections of the Pune-Satara road. Strict vigil is being maintained and vehicles are checked. From Tuesday evening, curfew was imposed under Section 144 (1) [3] of the CrPC in the jurisdiction of Swargate, Khadak, Faraskhana and Kondhwa police stations. “The number of Covid-19 patients and deaths were on the rise, following which the police and the civic administration identified the containment clusters and imposed curfew in the four police station areas,” he said. He said, “Shops of essential commodities will remain open for a couple of hours in curfew areas. If the intensity and extent of infection reaches other parts of the city, curfew will be ordered in those areas in consultation with the civic officials.” He said since the lockdown, 4,500 cases were filed under Section 188 and seized 9,900 vehicles of people who came out of houses for non-essential purposes. On the effort to trace those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month, Venkatesham said “We have traced many of these persons so far and many others voluntarily approached the hospitals and other authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-extend-curfew-to-other-areas-if-needed-pune-cp/articleshow/75056093.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Army, air force personnel defend the poor & needy from Covid double blow||CHENNAI: The air force and Army have risen to the occasion and are helping people cope up with coronavirus pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. Personnel from Air Force Station in Avadi distributed rice to the needy while army personnel provided water and cooked food to the poor and homeless in the city. The Indian Air Force has set up a 100-bed quarantine facility in its camp in Avadi and is planning to set up another 100-bed facility in the air force school and a Kendriya Vidyalaya. The quarantine centre will have indoor games, television sets, magazines, internet facility and a disinfectant facility, said an official. The move comes as the air force station is surrounded by densely poplated villages — Mittanamalli and Muthpudupet. The air force is also spraying chemical disinfectants using fire tenders on streets and buildings. As part of its efforts to help the needy, the station has so far distributed 2,500kg rice to women who had been involved in housekeeping before the lockdown. The official added that the Air Force Wives Welfare Association has taken up door delivery of provisions to all houses and has also launched a special vegetable market. Cloth masks are also being prepared for distribution. The air force is also- mulling manufacturing low-cost ventilators at its Avadi R&D facility. Meanwhile, Army personnel distributed cooked food, water, groceries, sanitation material through the week to daily wagers, guest workers and the homeless at Wallajah Road, Rajaji Salai, Broadway, Anna Salai and areas adjacent to Fort railway station. Government representatives helped the Army in identifying those in need and the material they required. The Army also provided groceries to the NGO Food Bank Chennai, for further distribution to the needy, said a press release. The initiative was coordinated by Army Wives Welfare Association (AWWA). Food and provisions were distributed among the poor at Coonoor, Wellington, Kotagiri and Ooty in the Nilgiris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/army-air-force-personnel-defend-the-poor-needy-from-covid-double-blow/articleshow/75055732.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||Congress questions logic behind ESMA||Bhopal: Congress on Wednesday questioned the logic behind chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s decision to invoke ESMA (Essential Services Maintenance Act) in tMadhya Pradesh. Former chief minister Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha questioned the reason for invoking ESMA when all doctors, medical staff, police personnel and the administration is working together.  Nath tweeted, “At this time of the coronavirus epidemic, all government doctors, medical staff, officers and employees are working day and night in the interest of the people of Madhya Pradesh by performing their duties with utmost sincerity. In this hour of crisis, all are one. But the decision to invoke ESMA in the state, is beyond comprehension.” Rajya Sabha MP and eminent lawyer Vivek Tankha also expressed his disagreement on Twitter. He tweeted, “On the call of the honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all officers, employees, doctors are working 24x7 irrespective of the lack of basic facilities. There is not a single denial of work — then what is the reason behind ESMA? ESMA is invoked during strike or violation of Section 5.” In a second tweet, Tankha said, “The situation for the imposition of ESMA is nowhere in the country till now and should not be. The entire country stands united. So who should ESMA be used against? Doctors, nurses, ward boys, other government employees or the people of Madhya Pradesh? This action goes against logic.” Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh also agreed with Tankha. He posted Tankha’s tweet and said, “I totally agree with you. ESMA is only used when government employees are going on a strike or are refusing to obey orders from the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-questions-logic-behind-esma/articleshow/75055214.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 9, 2020||Kozhikode||With kin in quarantine, PFI workers bury man||Kozhikode: Popular Front of India (PFI) workers have taken the initiative in burying the body of a person who died while staying in home quarantine at Beypore. The man or anyone in his family were not tested positive for Covid 19. But a member in the family had come into contact with another person who is now under observation in the medical college hospital. The family had been asked to go on quarantine as a precaution though the person in the hospital is not tested positive. Meanwhile, one of the family members died on Tuesday and the body was buried following the Covid-19 protocol. “There is no need to get scared in such circumstances, but we must exercise all precautions,” Sajeer Mathottaam, secretary of PFI Kozhikode south committee, wrote on Facebook. “PFI workers undertook the task of burying the body as per the wish of the deceased’s family. PFI workers V Musthafa, M Shanavas, Sufi Marad, Hakkil Marad and Jamsheer Marad were part of the team,” he said. PFI workers were also involved in the burial of some of those died during the Nipah outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/with-kin-in-quarantine-pfi-workers-bury-man/articleshow/75053969.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four areas in PCMC and Ghorpadi sealed too||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD/PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday sealed four areas, where some positive members are suspected to have lived in proximity with others. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) also sealed Ghorpadi area after a woman (77) tested positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday. The PCMC administration now plans to test the potential high-risk contacts and those from the area showing any Covid-19 symptom. “We will test as many people as we can,” Santosh Patil, PCMC additional commissioner told TOI. The four sealed areas are Gharkul Residency (buildings 1-20) in Chikhali, Jama Masjid in Kharalwadi, Kamlraj Residency and Rode hospital area in Dighi and Shivtirthnagar in Padwalnagar of Thergaon. “A 24-hour notice has been given so that people can buy what they want,” Patil added. On Wednesday, one more high-risk contact (36) from Kharalwadi tested positive. PCB officials said a woman (77) tested positive for coronavirus infection from Ghorpadi. As many as 21 people, including eight family members and her neighbours, have been admitted to the Naidu hospital’s quarantine facility. “The test reports of their samples are awaited,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said. “The woman’s daughter and son-in-law had visited her a few days ago, following which she started running a temperature. She was admitted to the Sassoon hospital, where her sample tested positive. Her daughter and son-in-law, too, tested positive and are in an Aurangabad hospital. As per the preliminary information, they had travelled to Delhi before visiting the woman in Ghorpadi,” Kumar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-areas-in-pcmc-ghorpadi-sealed-too/articleshow/75056090.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Puja, prayers offered for wellbeing of all||VIJAYAWADA: At a time when the entire state is under lockdown and people are being urged to maintain social distancing norms, temples and religious organisations are conducting prayers for early solution to the crisis. Right from Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devastanams to small temples, priests are chanting hymns and making holy offerings for the good health of denizens. Maha Mruthyunjaya Homam was performed at Kanaka Durga temple even as the premises remained closed. Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu Vardhan, who is also the chairman of AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation, performed Sri Dhanvantari Mrutyunjaya Maha Yagam at BRTS Road junction on Wednesday. “The coronavirus had become a major concern. There is growth in the state’s welfare and development ever since YS Jaganmohan Reddy became the CM, but the pandemic has obstructed our plans. Thousands of people have died due to this virus and we should be cautious. We performed the yagam to pray for protection,’ Malladi Vishnu said. A few churches and Masjids in the city also performed special prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/puja-prayers-offered-for-wellbeing-of-all/articleshow/75055726.cms||Venu Lanka
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||HSC e-textbooks for coming year uploaded on Balbharati website||MUMBAI: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, the state education department has made available the digital version of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) textbooks for the coming academic year. The textbooks, which were undergoing a revamp, have been uploaded on the Balbharati website now. This year, Maharashtra state board was working on changing the HSC (Class XII) syllabus. The textbooks were being created and were to be made available in the market before the academic year begins in June, as is the usual practice. The state had earlier announced the textbooks would be out in April. The plan was interrupted by the lockdown and students were worried about the delay impacting preparation for the exam next year. “Even if junior colleges remain shut, students can begin reading textbooks at home,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharati. From the Balbharati site http://ebalbharati.in/ students can download a soft copy of textbooks for the three streams of arts, science and commerce. “A few subjects, mostly optional ones, are pending a final nod from the textbook committee but we’re working on it. The members are working from home via WhatsApp,” said Gosavi. He added even if Balbharati has published soft copies online, Copyright Act would be applicable to other publishers and tutorial classes, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsc-e-textbooks-for-coming-yr-uploaded-on-balbharati-website/articleshow/75053975.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||Six journalists under quarantine in Sheopur||Bhopal: In a classic case of neglect and carelessness, half a dozen journalists have become Covid-19 suspect and were sent to a 14-day quarantine in Sheopur on Wednesday. All of them were in continuous contact with a family of a man who is the first corona positive case in the district. Earlier, a quack in Sheopur was tested positive for coronavirus. About 56 years of age, the man was already suffering from tuberculosis and had a weak immune system. His son, a student, had returned from Indore, which has turned out to be coronavirus hotspot in Madhya Pradesh. Though he had returned from Indore on March 27, he did not show any symptoms for coronavirus. But his father had started coughing and sneezing. Soon, he turned out to be a corona positive. Two of the Sheopur-based journalists were interacting with the family of the ‘doctor’. Ignoring the social distancing concept, they had even visited his house. A spokesman of the district administration said that after the man was tested positive, the administration started looking for people who contacted the family. So far, six journalists have been identified and all of them are being quarantined in a hostel building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-journalists-under-quarantine-in-sheopur/articleshow/75055268.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Publicity-hungry Karnataka politicians chided||BENGALURU: Senior politicians cutting across party lines invited the wrath of social media users for distributing relief material with their photographs embossed on the packets to poor people affected by Covid-19 lockdown. Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje, who distributed relief material to migrant workers and transgenders in Kengeri, Yeshwanthpura and Udupi had her photograph imprinted on them. The packets also had pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM BS Yediyurappa. According to sources, Karandlaje chose her former assembly constituency Yeshwanthpura and current Lok Sabha constituency in Udupi to donate food, indicating her political intent. Former minister and Mahadevpura MLA Arvind Limbavali also distributed customised food packets with his photograph along with that of Modi, Yediyurappa, BJP national president JP Nadda and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel.  While former KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao had stickers of his pictures on food packets, former minister and Congress MLA Krishna Byregowda also had his volunteers distributing relief material with his sticker on their T–shirts. Former CM HD Kumaraswamy went a step ahead and set up disinfection tunnels in Ramanagara and Channapatna with his son Nikhil Kumaraswamy’s pictures on it. Shivamogga district incharge and RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa, who has been promoting his son Kanthesh, distributed relief materials with his son’s photo. According to political analysts, the practice first came under heavy criticism during the 2015 Chennai floods when the ruling AIADMK pasted stickers of the then chief minister J Jayalalithaa on relief material. In times of crisis, be it war, natural calamity or disease, politicians look for opportunity to promote themselves, they pointed out. “It has always been a trend. While their intentions are good, but in this hour of crisis does it really matter if your branding is required? They fail to understand this,” said political analyst Harish Ramaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/politicians-pictures-on-relief-material-draw-flak-from-social-media-users/articleshow/75055554.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa wants lockdown till April 30, but will wait for Centre’s nod||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday arrived at a consensus to extend the lockdown in the state till April 30 to restrain the spread of Covid-19 virus, but left it to the Centre to take the final decision on it. The cabinet also suggested that section 144 should not be withdrawn till there normalcy returns. “Cabinet members are of the view that the lockdown should continue, but the decision will be taken on April 13. As the chief minister of the state, I have to first convey this suggestion to Centre. On April 11, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with all the chief ministers on the Covid-19 issue,” CM Pramod Sawant told reporters. But health minister Vishwajit Rane, who had told TOI on Tuesday that he was in favour of lifting of lockdown in phases and had strongly made a case for section 144 to continue, said he conveyed it to the cabinet on Wednesday. “We are all firm that the lockdown should continue,” he said. The 21-day national lockdown ends on April 14 and Modi has sought suggestions from all states before taking any decision on future steps to battle the pandemic. Sawant said most states have conveyed their suggestions to the Prime Minister. “I cannot tell you right now what we will keep open and what we will keep closed in the state. It will be decided on April 13,” he said. Chief ministers have been given authority to take a decision in the interest of the state, Sawant said. “Ministers have said that they will agree with whatever decision is taken in the interest of the state in consultation with the PM,” Sawant said. Science and technology minister Michael Lobo said the Prime Minister would take a decision looking at the national scenario. “Our cabinet is of the opinion that the lockdown should be extended till April 30, but let the PM announce it. We will have to maintain social distancing for another six months even after the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Lobo said after the Prime Minister lifts the lockdown, the tourism industry will have to put in suitable protocol before opening. “My view was very clear — extend the lockdown to April 30. It is not that Goa is 100% out of the woods, the situation can change any time. It is because we are consistent and continuing with strong measures that we have not reached any collapsible stage like other states. Section 144 CrPC should continue,” panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-wants-lockdown-till-apr-30-but-will-wait-for-centres-nod/articleshow/75056103.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Shops shut, no essentials, but Goa CM claims all is well||PANAJI: On Tuesday, nearly two weeks after the lockdown, when chief minister Pramod Sawant made a bold statement that supplies have normalised across the state, he was perhaps speaking only about select places which seem to have stocked it up to cater to the demands. But a quick check across the state by TOI has shown that at most places shuttered shops and lack of essential items like wheat flour continued to hurt people. For instance, at Quepem, since the lockdown only the Sahakar Bhandar in the town area has been dispensing groceries and other essential items, but with shutters only half open. And in places where items are available, it is being sold at exorbitant rates as retailers point to increased transportation cost, even as they worry that stocks may run out quickly with replenishments not coming in at a fast-enough pace to meet the demand. Distributors and retailers are concerned that worse shortages, than experienced in the initial period of the lockdown, may be in store for Goans. Even in areas like Porvorim and Margao, where supply of essential items was mostly smooth, some items like biscuits, wheat flour and urad dal were hard to come across. Across South Goa, retailers haven’t been able to replenish stocks of essential goods owing to irregular supply from distributors. “We have exhausted our stock of rice and wheat flour and there’s been no supply from the wholesalers since the lockdown. The rice mills in Maharashtra and Karnataka are closed down for want of labour,” said P L Masurkar, a retailer from Margao. While there has been no increase in prices from the manufacturers’ end, retailers pointed out that they have to bear the hike in transportation cost. “Now as everything has closed down, the vehicles used for delivery of goods go empty during return trip, unlike earlier when they would be able to make money both ways. To make up for the ‘loss’ they have increased transportation rates,” says Mahantesh Yalamalli, a retailer from Curchorem. There’s been a steep hike in rates of fruits and vegetables too. Fish continued to be sold at unauthorised places at many parts of South Goa at exorbitant rates with the authorities turning a blind eye. Quepem municipal council’s former chairperson Manuel Colaco alleged that some grocery shop owners are selling commodities at higher rates and said that authorities should display contact numbers of civil supply inspectors to whom citizens can complain. The situation at Sanguem is no different despite all the shops being open. “People keep moving from one shop to another in the hope of getting what they require,” said Meuzie Barretto, a resident of Sanguem town. Last week, taking cognizance of the situation, the Bicholim deputy collector had directed all the shopkeepers selling essential commodities to keep their shops open. However, till date, many grocery shop owners have not yet opened their shops, said residents. On the other hand, many grocery shop owners in Bicholim complain that they don’t have enough stock. The former sarpanch of Mayem, Tulshidas Chodankar, said the government should make necessary arrangements for stock of essential grocery items to be supplied to retailers. He also said that the authorities should conduct a thorough inquiry to check for hoarding, thus creating “artificial scarcity”. In Ponda town, with most of the grocery stores open, the supply has partly normalised. The supply of essential commodities has improved considerably in the Calangute-Candolim belt with many grocery shops and supermarkets open. The crowding by people at shops and vegetable vendors has also reduced. The situation is the same in Canacona, where residents are seen adjusting to social distancing norms in queues outside grocery stores. Fish is scarce, but residents are supplementing their diet with whatever vegetables are available. Valpoi Municipal Council chief officer Rajesh Ajgaonkar ordered the supermarkets and also Bhagayatdar at Valpoi to give customers a choice of home delivery. VMC chairperson Akhtar Ali Shah has appealed the locals not to visit the market unnecessarily, as the council is trying to start delivery of supplies to the doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shops-shut-no-essentials-but-cm-claims-all-is-well/articleshow/75056094.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Do not panic, urges CM; sends experts to North Bengal||KOLKATA: The state government has decided to send two senior health experts—one of them part of the government’s global advisory committee—to take charge of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. A senior physician of the hospital has been kept in isolation after he showed symptoms of Covid-19. The state, which does not want a repeat of what happened at NRS Hospital—79 health workers there had to be quarantined after a patient, who died there, tested positive—is sending Gopal Krishna Dhali from SSKM Hospital to north Bengal. “We are thankful that Dhali has agreed to go to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital and stay there. Abhijit Chowdhury will accompany him,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, urging healthcare providers across the state not to panic. The government has distributed 2.37 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE), 1.28 lakh N95 masks, 2.99 lakh gloves, 42,251 litres of sanitisers and 5,000 thermal guns to hospitals. The CM reassured health workers that things were looking up in Bengal. “Of the 16 Covid-19 patients admitted to ID Hospital in Beliaghata, three were released on Wednesday. Another two have tested negative for the virus. That leave us with 11 active patients at ID Hospital in Beliaghata,” Banerjee said. She also tried to allay fears among people, saying the government had adequate stock of hydroxychloroquine tablets in the state to treat Covid-19 patients. Senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who is on the global advisory board set up to tackle the pandemic and its socio-economic effect, pointed out the situation in Bengal did not look as scary as in other places. “Bengal’s scene looks a little different from the overall figures in India. It shows the lockdown has worked so far. We have to strictly follow the lockdown, social distancing and personal protection. There may be a need within a week or 10 days to go for geographical quarantine for hotspots,” Mukherjee said. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said the medical expert panel was considering the proposal to use plasma of people recovering from Cobid-19 for treatment of patients. “It has been tried out in China. Doctors in Sanghai have used plasma therapy. Mayo Clinic in the US is also leading a national initiative to help treat Covid-19 patients using plasma donated by those who have recovered,” said Chowdhury, who will leave for north Bengal to take stock of the health infrastructure at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital and submit a report to the government on measures that should be taken to upgrade the facilities. He said the government had already dispatched 77 devices to hospitals there for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/do-not-panic-urges-cm-sends-experts-to-n-bengal/articleshow/75055738.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kochi||Coronavirus: Kerala lost chance to make 'wonder drug'||KOCHI: The high ranges and Wayanad regions of Kerala and the Anaimalai Hills of Tamil Nadu could have perhaps boosted world’s fight against Covid-19, because these areas had cinchona plantations that had been producing 45,000kg of quinine annually by 1880s. Chloroquine, a synthetic derivative of quinine, an antimalarial drug, is being touted as the ‘wonder drug’ in treating coronavirus-infected patients. Sadly, these plantations were wiped out during the last few decades as synthetic chloroquine and its lighter form hydroxychloroquine gained huge market share as a cheaper alternative to quinine. “If these factories were working now, treatment against coronavirus might have been more effective,” said D Aravindakshan, former MD of Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, Alappuzha. He said if there is dearth of hydroxychloroquine, it could be derived from the original natural source—quinine—through a synthesis process called chlorination. “Initially, you derive chloroquine from quinine. As it is a very strong medicine, there is a possibility of four in every hundred patients die as chloroquine affects the working of their heart. Hence, to lighten the medicine, drug manufacturers add a hydroxy radical to it, producing hydroxychloroquine,” Aravindakshan said. Cinchona, a tree native to Peru, was well-known for centuries for its medicinal power against fever. The first plantation in the country was set up in 1860 at Doddabetta, near Ooty by East India Company. The second plantation came up at Naduvattam. Realizing cinchona’s monetary value, the Travancore government opened a plantation at Peermade, in 1862 and another one was set up in 1878 in Munnar. Though India was growing cinchona, its bark from which quinine is extracted, wasn’t processed locally initially. Factories were set up at Naduvattam and West Bengal. Kerala also lost its chance to synthetically produce hydroxychloroquine in the state using ingredients from China or Europe. A project by a firm to produce capsules at a facility in Palakkad got into legal troubles and the case is now before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-lost-chance-to-make-wonder-drug/articleshow/75054026.cms||Shenoy Karun
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai police say only a few violating curfew norms||MADURAI: Madurai city police say crowd movement is very much under control for the past one week and that the number of unruly people is negligible. Such people are being dealt with strongly through arrests and seizure of vehicles. People are allowed to purchase vegetables and other essential items by maintaining social distancing till 10 am after which strict restrictions come into force. City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham said only 2 to 3% people who don’t obey the rule are booked and vehicles seized. So far, around 2,000 vehicles have been seized and about 1,500 cases registered. The commissioner believes that restrictions can be imposed without using force against people. Deploying police in strengths at junctions, registering cases, sensitizing traders to ensure social distancing, surveillance of areas using drones and usage of public address system are some of the measures used by the city police, he said. “We are using public address system at all places where people gather to manage them effectively. We have taken up various sensitisation activities. On Wednesday, 25 autorickshaws, one for every police station, were deployed to sensitise people. They will hit all streets urging public to stay at home,” he said.  Police officers are coming up with many novel ideas to sensitise people. An SI from Teppakulam station has organized various competitions like painting, story writing, poem, essay writing and short-film to keep the residents engaged at home, he said.  In Kanyakumari district, police seized over 2,200 vehicles for defying section 144 order. “Compliance rate is good after we started seizing vehicles as the violators will not be able to get back their vehicles till the curfew is lifted,” Kanyakumari SP N Sreenath said.  Kanyakumari district police also started monitoring remote areas and places where people gather in large numbers using drones from March 26. “It is more a deterrent mechanism and has given a message to the people that they are watched by the police, remotely,” he said. However, he expressed concern over poor compliance in the coastal areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-police-say-only-a-few-violating-curfew-norms/articleshow/75055734.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||NMC makes wearing of masks compulsory from today||Nagpur: Residents cannot step out any more without wearing a mask. Violation of the order could mean arrest and being booked under section 188 of the Indian Police Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), which has a minimum punishment of six months’ imprisonment. The mask must be at least three-ply or a homemade one. The order, issued by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday “in larger public interest”, applies to citizens as well as all government officials and comes into immediate effect. It mandated wearing of masks in public places like roads, hospitals, offices, and markets under Rule 10 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. It is mandatory even when moving in one’s personal or official vehicle. No person/officer can attend any meeting, gathering, workplace, site without wearing a mask. The state government’s general administration department has also made masks mandatory for all staff in the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions. They must be worn from the time of entry to exiting a public office, said Tuesday’s circular. Masks are already mandatory at Mantralaya. Dr Jayanti Shastri, head of the Kasturba Molecular Lab in Mumbai, said with increasing asymptomatic infection, wearing a mask was important. “When a person talks, coughs or sneezes, there are droplets. The mask ensures the droplets do not fall on anybody or on a surface. It protects others from getting an infection,” she said. Dr Samir Dalwai, national joint secretary of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said the mask is especially meant to protect those around a person. “It decreases the incidents of viral shedding and thus reduces the spread of infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-makes-wearing-of-masks-compulsory-from-today/articleshow/75055737.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Haritha Keralam launches waste mgmt campaign||Thiruvananthapuram: With sporadic summer rainfall and unscientific management of waste, the state may soon have to fight other diseases along with Covid-19. Understanding this, the Haritha Keralam mission has launched a campaign to give awareness on proper waste management, water conservation and healthy lifestyle. The campaign was planned based on the government’s understanding that effective waste management is needed to prevent spread of diseases such as dengue, leptospirosis and cholera in the coming months. The campaign, which is being conducted in association with health department and local bodies, began on world health day on Tuesday. Scientific management of waste with the support of local bodies and awareness on household waste management will be part of the campaign. The Haritha Keralam mission is planning to continue the campaign even after lockdown to support health department, local government and other government departments in checking spread of monsoon-related diseases. The campaign will cover various aspects such as methods of managing kitchen waste, arranging micro material collection facility in houses to store non-bio degradable waste that could be handed over to Haritha Karma sena after lockdown, prevention of water logging around houses, best hygiene practices, avoiding chances of growth of pests like rats, preventing use of contaminated water, effective use of water, making kitchen garden etc. Haritha Keralam mission vice chairperson T N Seema said its district co-ordinators could be contacted for any details related to waste management. “WhatsApp groups formed for management of Covid prevention activities, Kudumbashree, residents association, NGOs, youth volunteers etc., will provide necessary awareness,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/haritha-keralam-launches-waste-mgmt-campaign/articleshow/75053981.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Morning rush for ration and tiff in queues in cordoned-off Kondhwa||PUNE: A rush for the essentials replaced the usual morning calm on Wednesday in the lanes and bylines of Kondhwa with a section of residents trying to ensure a timely stock of ration as long as the shops stayed open. Sanjay Agavekar, a resident of lane number 11 off Salunke Vihar road, said, “I stood in a queue at a grocery store on the road along the NIBM post-office, as all shops in my area were shut. A few men mumbled that people from other places were visiting shops in their localities,” he said. “Two of the men in the queue told me to stay in my own area. I requested them to allow me to buy milk and they cooperated,” Agavekar said. The owner of a grocery store at lane number 11 said he had kept his outlet closed because he was not sure about the police action. “It is only on Wednesday that I got to know that shops selling essentials can be open for two hours in the morning. I am yet to decide if I will open the shop on Thursday,” he said. Another grocer on Narayan Annaji Shinde Road said, “I saw many stores closed on Wednesday. After selling milk in the morning for some time, I shut the shop, as I did not want to take any risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/morning-rush-for-ration-tiff-in-queues-in-cordoned-off-kondhwa/articleshow/75056098.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 62-year-old has longest spell of hospitalisation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The 62-year-old Covid-19 patient who is undergoing treatment in General Hospital, Pathanamthitta, is the patient now undergoing the longest spell of hospitalisation in the state. She was tested positive on March 10 and completed 28 days in hospital on Wednesday. Till date, she has not become negative in successive tests. The woman was one among the nine people who became positive in the first cluster of cases reported from Ranni in Pathanamthitta. “All the eight people have become negative and have been discharged. She is the only one who is yet to test negative,’’ said P B Nooh, district collector, Pathanamthitta. She was one among the direct contacts of the three-member family who had come from Italy to Ranni. “Even though once she was tested negative, in the next test she again became positive. Hence, we are waiting for her to become negative in two successive tests,’’ said the district collector. Till March 10, as many as 17 positive cases were reported in the state, of which all the 16 have been discharged now. Similarly, all the positive cases reported till March 15 have also been discharged in the state. “It is not a matter of concern since she is not having any major health issues. The doctors have been constantly monitoring her and she is stable. The doctors have said in certain cases a few people will have longer infected period. There is nothing to worry,’’ Nooh said. Meanwhile, on Wednesday one more positive case was reported in Pathanamthitta. He had come from Dubai on March 21 and is admitted to the isolation ward of the general hospital. Four primary contacts have been identified of this positive person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/62-year-old-has-longest-spell-of-hospitalisation/articleshow/75053994.cms||Rajiv G
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||Churches to live stream Good Friday mass through Facebook & WhatsApp||GJ/TNN Dharwad: Bishop of Karnataka Northern Diocese, Church of South India Ravikumar Niranjan has appealed to the devotees to hold Good Friday special mass in their respective homes and take part in the mass prayer programme which will be telecast through social media platforms. “Holding special mass in churches, taking out procession of crucifixion of Jesus and breaking the 40-day fast has been the practice since time immemmorial. However, this year as Covid-19 infection has engulfed the entire world, devotees have to follow the guidelines of the government and stay indoors and offer special prayers,” he said. Several churches have floated Whatsapp and Facebook groups and plan to live stream the prayers. Devotees may log in to these sites to take part in proceedings, he said. The special mass will be held from 9:00 am -10:30 am and there will be talk on Jesus’ message from 12:00 noon to 3:00 pm, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/churches-to-live-stream-good-friday-mass-through-facebook-whatsapp/articleshow/75053132.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: 225 teams set up for home surveys||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed 225 teams on Wednesday to conduct home surveys in high-risk containment areas sealed since Monday. The teams, each comprising a teacher and nurse or Asha worker, will visit households in the containment areas to check the health status of residents. The PMC has provided ambulances and support staff in each ward to take symptomatic people to nearby hospitals for check-ups. Besides, sanitation drives have been planned at specific locations, housing societies and residential colonies where the Covid-19 patients or deceased live in the sealed areas. “Updates will be taken every two hours from the surveyors. They will then be shared with the Smart City Corporation for compilation,” Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said. Rubal Agrawal, PMC’s additional commissioner, said a society level containment plan was ready. “Our staff help in giving daily necessities to every housing society. Relaxation to a particular society in sealed areas will be given on the basis of the results of containment plan,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/225-teams-set-up-for-home-surveys/articleshow/75056106.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 9, 2020||Madurai||21 more positive in south, count now 192||MADURAI: Twenty-one new Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts took the total number of positive cases in the region to 192 on Wednesday. The fresh cases include 16 in Theni, taking the total to 39 in the district. The other new cases in the region include four in Tirunelveli and one in Dindigul. All the 12 women who tested positive in Theni are from Bodi, from where 14 men who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi had tested positive. A total of 88 family members of the 22 positive cases in the district have been screened so far. In all, 38 family members of the 14 positive cases from Bodi were tested of whom 16 turned positive. Results of 14 people from Periyakulam who were in contact with the TJ delegates are expected tomorrow. Containment plans were in place in Bodinayakanur as positive cases were already reported there. Theni district administration has closed all the open markets in the district as a precautionary measure. Groceries as well as vegetables can be bought only through mobile markets in the towns and villages. On the brighter side, four people who had earlier tested positive and were undergoing treatment in the isolation wards in Madurai (3) and Tirunelveli (1) were discharged on Wednesday after testing negative in the confirmatory tests. They are the first set of people who recovered from the disease and were discharged from the southern districts. The three from Madurai are relatives of the 54-year-old who died of the infection on March 25. “His wife and sons were under home quarantine since 16 days ago, when the man tested positive. Following his demise they were tested and tested positive. They will be monitored for a few days and retests will be conducted if they showed any symptoms,” Madurai district collector T G Vinay said. It may be recalled that a 43-year-old Tirunelveli man who returned from Dubai was the first to test positive from the southern districts on March 22. “He will be under home quarantine for 14 days,” district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said. Talking to TOI she said that of the 40 positive cases in the district 36 were primary contacts who were infected elsewhere and returned to Tirunelveli. “We identified 171 close contacts of these persons and samples were sent for testing on Tuesday. Of the results obtained for 53 persons today, 49 tested negative while four tested positive,” she added. Tirunelveli district administration is also working on thermal mapping of the areas where the positive cases were reported. “It will be uploaded in the district website and is aimed at helping people know where the positive cases are from and to be cautious.Identity of the infected persons will not be revealed. It will be made available to the public in a couple of days,” Shilpa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/21-more-ve-in-south-count-now-192/articleshow/75055739.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Mandar, FC Goa’s skipper & most-capped player, follows coach Lobera to Mumbai||PANAJI: FC Goa captain Mandar Rao Desai has turned down a three-year contract from the Goan franchise and instead opted to join his former coach, Sergio Lobera, at Mumbai City FC. Lobera has agreed to a deal to coach Mumbai, and is now keen to have senior players he has worked with in the past join him. Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh and Senegalese defender Mourtada Fall are understood to be on top of his list, but it’s Mandar he has managed to convince first. According to sources, Mandar has already signed the offer letter from Mumbai, and will complete transfer formalities in the next 48 hours. Mandar’s departure will be a huge blow for Goa. The Super Cup champions have been negotiating with their captain for a while now. From an initial three-year contract and plenty of back and forth, there was some sense that they could agree to terms. But talks came to a halt when Mandar said he wouldn’t discuss any further and made his preference for Mumbai clear. “Mandar’s decision to join Mumbai is not about money. The difference in what Goa offered him and what he will be paid at Mumbai (both with three-year contracts) is not significant. It’s clear that he wants to continue his association with Lobera,” said one official. Mandar is the Indian Super League’s (ISL) highest-capped player for a single franchise. A fan favourite in Goa, he has been with the team since the inception of the ISL in 2014. His return leg semifinal show against Chennaiyin FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda was his 100th appearance for the club. He was handed a special jersey for his achievement by club president Akshay Tandon prior to the clash. Now, that appears to have been his last game for the club. Why Mandar chose to give up on Goa captaincy in the AFC Champions League group stage — a first for any Indian club — and follow in Lobera’s footsteps is not difficult to understand. Mandar believes the Spanish tactician gave his game a new direction after he shifted him from a regular winger to a left-back, a decision that resulted in a national call-up from coach Igor Stimac. Mandar’s exit from Goa will free up space for another player to step into his boots. Saviour Gama looks to be the most natural replacement, having been on the bench for a while now and giving a good account of himself whenever thrown into action. Goa have also signed Sanson Pereira from Salgaocar SC, while Sarineo Fernandes is likely to be promoted to the first team from the development squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandar-fc-goas-skipper-most-capped-player-follows-coach-lobera-to-mumbai/articleshow/75056108.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 9, 2020||Pune||Check-ups of essentials’ providers in Maharashtra||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Talegaon Dabhade Municipal Council (TDMC) will conduct a health check-up of people supplying essential commodities at its primary health centres on Thursday and Friday as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Deepak Zinjade, chief executive officer, TDMC, said, “There are around 300 grocers and vegetable vendors in the town. Only those found healthy during the check-up will be allowed to continue with their services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/check-ups-of-essentials-providers/articleshow/75056101.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||47 primary contacts in Gadag test negative||Hubballi: Gadag DC M G Hiremath said that 47 people, who were in primary contact with P 166, have tested negative for Covid-19. They include seven healthcare professionals. Hiremath said the swab samples of 49 people were sent for test and two were rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/47-primary-contacts-in-gadag-test-negative/articleshow/75053468.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Lockdown brings hooch into market||BENGALURU: Cashing in on the huge demand for liquor — just about any kind — dozens of illegal home distilleries, located mostly in rural areas of the state, are producing country-made liquor which guarantees a bigger high than any other form of alcohol. Aware of the racket, excise department officials have been conducting a series of raids and the results have been staggering. In 6,915 raids between March 27 and April 5, officials confiscated 5,021 litres of Indian made liquor (IML), 1,465 litres of beer and 632 litres of wine. Bengaluru division alone accounted for half the seizures – a dubious distinction. Officials recorded 292 cases and booked 123 people, besides seizing 3,687 litres of IML from 1,841 raids — the highest across any division. “The only way to curb this illegal trade is to conduct widespread enforcement drives. We will conduct more raids over the next few days,” said additional excise commissioner SL Rajendra Prasad. The bigger worry for the government and the liquor industry — from the point of view of loss of income — is the increasing supply of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor or hooch. Officials seized 1,062 litres of toddy and 797 litres of ID liquor, but say it’s only the tip of the proverbial iceberg. Most of the illicit version is being supplied from Telangana where toddy tapping and sale is legal. Officials say another worry is the health issue. They say illegal distillers are using liberal quantities of methanol, a toxic ingredient, besides alprazolam tablets (used to treat anxiety), battery acid and intoxicating powders, to make the brew stronger. And as if that isn’t enough, villagers in many parts of the state are concocting their own brand of intoxicating drinks. For example, districts in the Malnad region are known for its urea drink, which is prepared using urea, jaggery and special soil cakes called ‘nadu sarai’. Karnataka is known for a variety of country-made liquors, which is prepared from rice, wheat, maize, jaggery and citrus fruits. These drinks are considered better than legal liquor, but manufacture and sale of these drinks completely ended after the government allowed IMFL liqour shops in every nook and corner of the state. Now, with the lockdown in place, they are back with a vengeance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-brings-hooch-into-market/articleshow/75055449.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||PMC reserves six crematoriums for Covid-19 victims||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will perform the last rites of Covid-19 victims if their family members are unwilling or unable to do so. The PMC was recently in a fix after relatives of a Covid-19 patient, who died at the Sassoon hospital here, refused to perform the last rites. It sought guidance from the Centre as to how to deal with the situation. The PMC has decided to seek help from the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) and fire brigade department for transportation of the body and sanitation of the vehicle after transportation. The PMC has reserved six out of 21 crematoriums in the city for cremation of Covid-19 casualties. "The PMC has made the arrangement to ensure the last rites are performed scientifically. The crematoriums have been assigned as per location of the hospitals," said Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC’s electrical department. He said the hospital, where the patient died, the local ward office, health department and fire brigade department have to coordinate for completion of the last rites. Kandul said the PMC will transport the body in a PMC ambulance. If these ambulances are not available, help from the PMPML, which has Pushpak ambulance, will be sought. The PMC officials said gas-based crematoriums will be reserved for coronavirus casualties.The crematoriums will be disinfected before and after the cremation. "Safety gear has been provided to those handling the bodies. He said instructions have been issued to doctors, nurses and other hospital staff about how to handle the bodies of the deceased," said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-reserves-6-crematoriums-for-ncov-victims/articleshow/75056115.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man commits suicide depressed over wife’s jewellery theft drama||TUTICORIN: Depressed with his wife’s actions for enacting a gold jewellery theft drama last week, a 59-year-old man committed suicide in Tuticorin district. Vincent of Periyaselvam Nagar was found hanging from the ceiling of a room in his home on Wednesday morning. “No suicide note was found. But during inquiry, we came to know that he took the extreme step due to depression over the fact that his wife had stolen 100 sovereigns of jewellery,” superintendent of police of Tuticorin district, Arun Balagopalan said. Vincent, who worked at Tuticorin port, and his wife were staying alone in their home. Their two daughters are married. Inquiries revealed that his wife feared that her husband might not give the due share of jewellery to their daughters. She gave him sleeping pills on Thursday night (April 2). She then hid 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery and some cash in a pit she had dug on a piece of vacant land close to their home. The next morning, she gave an impression that the jewellery had been stolen. But during police inquiry, she confessed to having hidden the jewellery and cash. A case was registered against the woman, but she was not arrested. Following the incident, one of their daughters came to live with them. On Tuesday night, Vincent sent the daughter to her home and took the extreme step. Police said there had been disputes between the couple over the years. “We are considering counselling for his wife,” the SP said. The Thalamuthu Nagar police retrieved the body and sent it to the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-commits-suicide-depressed-over-wifes-jewellery-theft-drama/articleshow/75055740.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kochi||Priest’s Covid campaign targets idlers & frustrated||Kochi: “There are mangoes on that tree in your yard, why are you idly sitting around, instead of plucking them,” asks father Davis Chiramel, in his typical Thrissur lingo, as he meets people cooped up in their homes while driving through villages in Thrissur. The man, known as ‘Kidney Priest’ for his campaigns on organ donation, has now donned a new role: The role of an announcer who spreads information on fighting Covid-19. And he has givenhis own twist to the art of making public announcements. He uses colloquial lingo, goes around chatting with residents and generates a positive vibe, all the while telling them how they can better their lives at homes. At Kadangode in Thrissur, Chiramel is a familiar figure as he has always been active in social causes, be it organ donation drive or campaign against hartals.  He has now got a special permission from district administration to create awareness about Covid-19. Chiramel doesn’t restrict his campaigning to advices on quarantine regulations but makes it a point to have casual interactions with the people he meets. “They are bored sitting at home. They are frustrated about not being able to work. The only thing that I can do now is to spread some positive energy among those who are at home. So, I try to tell them what all they can do even if they are under lockdown,” says Chiramel. He strikes up candid conversations with whoever he meets. “I tell children to water the plants at their courtyards and parents to harvest from their kitchen garden and give them to the needy. There are hundreds of things that you can do at homes and I remind them about them,”J he says. He points out that the lockdown period was an ideal time to change life for better. “Earlier, all of you used to rush through your lives and now you are home, so make use of it. Parents are now happy that they get to be with their children. So, instead of staring at your phones all the time, go and talk to them. Give a foot massage to your mother or father and that will be the best gift you can give them,” says Chiramel. Chiramel’s announcements are now shared in WhatsApp groups and people who have heard just fragments of his conversations are demanding complete audio recordings of his talks. “I used to tell everyone to go out during hartals and never to stay home. But now it is time to stop the pandemic. To do so, everyone has to stay home,” the priest tells the people with a microphone in hand, and continues his journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/priests-covid-campaign-targets-idlers-frustrated/articleshow/75054051.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||IB cancels exams for classes XI, XII||The International Baccalaureate (IB) has announced cancellation of its diploma programme and career-related programme exams for classes XI and XII. The exams were scheduled from April 30 to May 22. It is among the first boards to cancel the exams. In a circular recently issued to schools across the world, the IB said, "The students will be awarded either a diploma or a course certificate which reflects their standard of work. The achievement will be based around the students’ coursework and the established assessment expertise, rigour and quality control already built into the programmes." Schools have received the revised internal assessment guidelines to award students a grade using a calculation that takes into account coursework mark and predicted grade as submitted to IB by respective schools. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ib-cancels-exams-for-classes-xi-xii/articleshow/75054030.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Dindigul district administration appoints nodal officers for Covid-19 works||MADURAI: District administration has appointed nodal officers in each of 10 taluks in the district to help people get their basic necessities fulfilled during the lockdown and also get their queries about Covid-19 addressed. Dindigul collector M Vijayalakshmi has said all steps are being taken to ensure that the people maintain social distancing, and that crowding in public places is prevented through various measures. Dindigul district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases among the southern districts. Groceries and vegetables are being supplied to the doorsteps of the public to ensure that they remain indoors, and do not crowd in public places. The Madras High Court had said that steps should be taken to ensure that people had access to an uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and medicines. Telephone numbers of officials in the rank of tahsildars have been officially displayed by the district administration to help people to access their requirements. Control rooms have been established for each of the 10 blocks and the telephone numbers of the concerned officials have also been given. These numbers have been displayed prominently for all 10 blocks in the district and it is being circulated through social media. People have been asked to approach these people for their requirements, and also for travel passes for emergencies such as funerals, marriages and medical reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dindigul-dist-admin-appoints-nodal-officers-for-covid-19-works/articleshow/75055741.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Holy Week goes online with spiritual helplines, e-retreats||In an unprecedented move, Christian faithful have been asked to mark Holy Week this year sans the many rituals and ceremonies associated with it. While Palm Sunday didn’t see the distribution of blessed palms, Maundy Thursday won’t have the customary washing of the feet. There will be no enactment of the passion of Christ and home blessings at Easter, either. Nevertheless, the Church is keen on catering to the spiritual needs of its flock from afar. The Jesuits, for instance, have begun a spiritual helpline to give the laity some direction and comfort during the Holy Week amid the lockdown. They have also adapted to the times and have begun an online retreat that will culminate on Easter Sunday. “It’s not just grain and other food that people require during this time. They also need someone to talk to. There are the sick, aged, lonely, bored and those who require counselling,” said provincial of the Goa Jesuit Province, Fr Roland Coelho SJ. “They can just call the spiritual helpline and talk to priests, share their feelings and fears and seek advice,” he said. Fourteen priests available on the helpline — which was launched at the beginning of the Holy Week — have been counselling the laity and providing spiritual guidance in Konkani, English, Marathi, Tamil and Kannada. The Goa province of the Jesuits extends to parts of Maharashtra and Karnataka, too. For the first time, churches that used to schedule timings for confessions will not be doing so, as social distancing will not be possible while administering the sacrament. The faithful have been requested to say the Act of Contrition on their own and confess their sins to a priest after the lockdown. Holy Week celebrations — Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Holy Saturday — that culminate in Easter Sunday, will be “simple and modest”, Fr Archibald Gonsalves, superior at the Carmelite Monastery in Margao, said. “We continue live-streaming all religious services, including the adoration, but we are really missing the people. It’s a different celebration without the community of believers being present and participating. We will be giving more importance to the spiritual celebration. Everything will be low key in the current situation,” he said. Parish priest of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception church, Panaji, Fr Walter de Sa, too says celebrating the Holy Week without a congregation during the lockdown is a painful experience and unprecedented. “We are used to people from the parish not only actively participating but making all arrangements for the Holy Week in the church. This is not possible this year. We continue to keep them informed about the timings of masses and services so that they can be united with us,” he said. Although their regular choir won’t be able to lift everyone’s spirits, the priests will sing various parts of the Easter vigil to make it more festive, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/holy-week-goes-online-with-spiritual-helplines-e-retreats/articleshow/75056118.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: APMC shuts Manjari & Khadki veggie sub-markets||PUNE: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has shut two sub-markets at Manjari and Khadki to avoid overcrowding of people. The markets receive bulk supply of vegetables and fruit and will be reopened after adequate arrangements to ensure social distancing and less footfall. Over 100 pickup vans and tempos supply vegetables and fruits to the Manjari and Khadki sub-markets every day. All the produce that reach the two markets is supplied to local retail outlets. APMC sources both the markets had played a crucial role in maintaining the supply of vegetables in the city’s suburbs when the main market at Gultekdi was closed because of suspension of activity by the traders and commission agents. KCB to open marketAfter a three-day closure of its bazaar area following the detection of a Covid-19 positive case, the Khadki Cantonment Board has decided to open its vegetable market at a new place on an open plot on the old Pune-Mumbai highway from Thursday. The new market will operate from 7am to 1pm every day. Meanwhile, the commission agents’ association at the Gultekdi Market Yard on Wednesday requested the APMC to close the unit following the rise in the number of coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/apmc-shuts-manjari-khadki-veggie-sub-markets/articleshow/75056111.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government makes wearing masks in public mandatory||BENGALURU: Education minister Suresh Kumar, who briefed reporters on the outbreak on Wednesday, said the state government has made it mandatory for everyone to wear a mask while out in a public place such as a road or a grocery store. “A homemade mask is enough. But everyone must wear a mask in public place,” Kumar said. He said the Centre has decided to include all healthcare providers under its ‘Gareeb Kalyan Yojana’. “If a healthcare provider dies while treating a Covid-19 patient, his/her family will be given Rs 50 lakh,” Kumar said. Referring to a video of a Belagavi nurse’s son crying to be with his mother, the minister lauded frontline health workers. “Sundanda, the nurse, hadn't gone home for 15 days. There are many such Sundandas in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-makes-wearing-masks-in-public-mandatory/articleshow/75055464.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Health checkup for sanitation workers||Udhagamandalam: The administration has kickstarted health checkup for 163 sanitary workers attached to Coonoor municipality from Wednesday. “As forefront workers during this pandemic period, sanitary workers in Coonoor municipality are in the field without a break”, said K Balu, municipal commissioner. “In a bid to safeguard their health, we have planned health checkup for all of them”. The municipality has divided the workers in a batch of 20 per day for the checkup so that there is no shortage of workers in the field. As a precautionary measure, the Coonoor municipality is not deputing elderly sanitary workers to containment areas, Balu said. Coonoor municipality houses around 12500 dwelling houses within its limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-checkup-for-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75169832.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Grocery kits in Theni district to be available for Rs 1,000||Madurai: A week after launching the monthly grocery kit comprising 27 items for Rs 2,000, the Theni district administration has decided to reduce the value to Rs 1,000 by cutting a few items. They also plan to take it door to door to make it more affordable and accessible. The 10kg boiled rice and 5kg idly rice – that accounts for about Rs 750 will not be part of the kit. “This is because some have preference for a specific brand,” Suresh Christopher, officer in-charge for implementing the project, said. He hoped that these measures will increase the demand for the kits. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam launched the scheme on April 2 to encourage social distancing. People from anywhere in the seven taluks across the district can place their orders by calling the customer care centres at 7548857532, 9585350940 or 9487644135. The items will be delivered free of cost. To encourage the residents, 21 gold prizes for 98g (12.2 sovereigns) have been announced. The prizes are classified into seven sets of first (8g each), second (4g each) and third (2g each) at three for each of the seven taluks. The winner will be selected by lots by the end of April. “We have received 300 orders so far and have delivered nearly 100. The rest will be covered in the next two days. This includes two bulk orders. An education institution placed an order for 75 kits for people of the locality and its employees. An estate has placed an order for 60 kits,” said Christopher. Most number of orders so far has been placed by residents of Theni, followed by Periyakulam, Chinnamanur and Bodinayakanur taluks. “Every day, we send 10 to 15 extra sets of grocery as there have been instances of neighbours buying the kit after seeing the quality and quantity of items delivered to those who placed the order,” he said. Officials said the scheme was initially popularised only on social media and now they have started displaying it at the district collectorate and are erecting banners with the pictures of items in the kit at more than 20 prominent places in the district. Meanwhile, the Tirunelveli district administration has also announced a similar free door-to-door delivery kit of 25 items for Rs 1,000 from Wednesday. Consumers of Tirunelveli district can place their orders by calling 0462-2333038.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grocery-kits-in-theni-district-to-be-available-for-rs-1000/articleshow/75055744.cms||M K Ananth
April 9, 2020||Goa||IIT-Goa to study if Covid-19 is air-borne in India||PANAJI: At the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, faculty members from multiple departments — mechanical engineering to physics — are collaborating to calculate and predict the extent respiratory droplets from human sneezing and coughing spread. Definitive scientific data in this direction was required as the Covid-19 pandemic is taking its toll on the world. Researchers said that tiny droplets from an infected person may be present even after that person has left the room. The safe distance practice to be promoted will depend on the lifespan of the droplets as well the extent of their spread. Through numerical and experimental approaches, researchers at IIT Goa are studying the effect of atmospheric conditions in defining the spread and lifetime of the respiratory droplets. Santosh Kumar Das from the physics department is solving a differential equation (hydrodynamical-bacteriological analogy) to study the evolution of the virus (liquid drop from sneezing and coughing) in air. He said that this will enable computation of how far the droplet carrying the virus can travel in air. Similarly, faculty members Sakthi Prasad and Arindam Das are designing low-cost, high-frequency, cold plasma-based, negative ion generators for flow visualisation to check the effect on microdroplets. “IIT Goa has begun working on addressing multiple challenges related to Covid-19. They range from personal protective equipment (PPE), drug discovery, rapid detection kits, epidemiological modelling to development of contact-less interfaces,” said IIT Goa director B K Mishra. Also, researchers the world-over have noted that possibly the trajectory of spread of Covid-19 in India is different from the patterns seen in Europe or elsewhere. “On these lines, a team comprising four faculty members from computer science and mechanical engineering departments, are working on developing models and predictive algorithms on spread of Covid-19 pandemic specific to the Indian population. Based on the data available globally and locally, they will study patterns of the susceptible population and transmission dynamics of this pandemic,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-goa-to-study-if-covid-19-is-air-borne-in-india/articleshow/75056125.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 9, 2020||Kolhapur||At 16.4 degree Celsius, Shivajinagar coolest place in Maharashtra||PUNE: The mercury climbed up to 40°C in several locations in Maharashtra on Wednesday but the city was much cooler throughout the day after Shivajinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 16.4°C in the morning — the coolest in the state. Malegaon, Parbhani, Amravati and Wardha in Maharashtra have been among the hottest spots in the country recently with the mercury touching 40°C. But the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon has stopped going north and hovering around 38°C for the past couple of days. The heat quotient in the city is expected to stay the same or drop slightly because the Met office has forecast day temperatures below 40°C for Pune at least for the next 3-4 days. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar dropped to 35.9°C — 1.4 degrees below normal. The day temperature in Lohegaon was also 35.9°C on Wednesday, while the minimum was 18.7°C. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said, “Northerly winds have been reaching parts of Maharashtra from time to time and so Pune’s minimum temperature suddenly fell down to 16.4°C on Wednesday morning — a drop much lower than our expectations. During the next few days, Pune’s maximum temperature may also be below 40°C as we expect partly cloudy skies for a few days from Thursday.” Kashyapi said these clouds would be of convective nature and chances of very light rain associated with thundery activity cannot be ruled out in Pune on April 11 and 12. “There can be isolated thundery activity in the afternoon on April 11 and 12. The night temperature has been on the lower side in Pune and some parts of Maharashtra because the wind pattern has been northerly on and off in the lower atmospheric-level. The northerly wind flow is likely to continue over Pune on Thursday as well, while other parts of the state may experience southerly wind flow. We also expect an interaction between these winds over the Marathwada and the Vidarbha region because of wind discontinuity. This interaction is likely to result in moisture incursion, which may cause partly cloudy sky conditions from April 10 evening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/at-16-4c-shivajinagar-coolest-place-in-state/articleshow/75063830.cms||Neha Madaan
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Two more Tablighis from Kamptee test positive in Agra||NAGPUR: Two Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members from Kamptee have tested positive for Covid-19 at Agra in Uttar Pradesh. A few days ago, one 16-year-old Tablighi from Kamptee had tested positive in Korba district of Chhattisgarh. After Korba boy tested positive on April 4, Kamptee tehsil office team led by tehsildar Arvind Hingne has been tracing Jamaat members on religious tours from Kamptee. “Six groups are on 40-day tour to cities like Korba, Agra, Malegaon, Khamgaon, Amravati and Chandrapur. All of them started from Kamptee on or before March 1. The Korba boy was among 16-member team of which remaining 15 are said to be negative. Officials in Agra, Malegaon and Khamgaon informed two members, one 73-year-old and one 43-year-old, in Agra group are positive and rest are negative,” Hingne said. He added two groups comprising 23 members returned from Amravati and Chandrapur to Kamptee on March 29. “Heads of two gave me details of all members. We brought them all, took samples and quarantined them at Central India College of Pharmacy, Lonara on Tuesday. Reports of all are awaited,” he said. Hingne also said, “Group which was in Amravati might have met a religious person who came from Australia. To be on safer side, we have asked family members of these 23 persons to follow home quarantine,” he said. It also means the groups that returned to Kamptee, did so after lockdown was imposed in entire country on March 25. Some days ago, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had traced, examined and quarantined 60 Jamaat members. None is a resident of city, they were camping here on similar religious tour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-tablighis-from-kamptee-test-positive-in-agra/articleshow/75055743.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Illegal home closed down||MADURAI: The Madurai district administration rescued 16 inmates including 10 minors from illegal children’s home located on the outskirts of Thirumangalam on Wednesday and also closed down the home. While some of them have been sent along with their parents, a few of them were shifted to a legal home. Sri Ragavendra Children Home had been functioning in Pandian Nagar for two years. It came to the notice of officials when locals approached them to provide relief materials being provided to underprivileged people. Officials supplied food and other requirements. However, when they inquired about the status of approval of the home with Senthil Raja, who was running it, they came to know that it was an illegal home. The issue was brought to the notice of Madurai district collector T G Vinay, who ordered closure of the home, on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/illegal-home-closed-down/articleshow/75055746.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||At 16.4 degree Celsius, Shivajinagar coolest place in Maharashtra||PUNE: The mercury climbed up to 40°C in several locations in Maharashtra on Wednesday but the city was much cooler throughout the day after Shivajinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 16.4°C in the morning — the coolest in the state. Malegaon, Parbhani, Amravati and Wardha in Maharashtra have been among the hottest spots in the country recently with the mercury touching 40°C. But the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon has stopped going north and hovering around 38°C for the past couple of days. The heat quotient in the city is expected to stay the same or drop slightly because the Met office has forecast day temperatures below 40°C for Pune at least for the next 3-4 days. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar dropped to 35.9°C — 1.4 degrees below normal. The day temperature in Lohegaon was also 35.9°C on Wednesday, while the minimum was 18.7°C. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said, “Northerly winds have been reaching parts of Maharashtra from time to time and so Pune’s minimum temperature suddenly fell down to 16.4°C on Wednesday morning — a drop much lower than our expectations. During the next few days, Pune’s maximum temperature may also be below 40°C as we expect partly cloudy skies for a few days from Thursday.” Kashyapi said these clouds would be of convective nature and chances of very light rain associated with thundery activity cannot be ruled out in Pune on April 11 and 12. “There can be isolated thundery activity in the afternoon on April 11 and 12. The night temperature has been on the lower side in Pune and some parts of Maharashtra because the wind pattern has been northerly on and off in the lower atmospheric-level. The northerly wind flow is likely to continue over Pune on Thursday as well, while other parts of the state may experience southerly wind flow. We also expect an interaction between these winds over the Marathwada and the Vidarbha region because of wind discontinuity. This interaction is likely to result in moisture incursion, which may cause partly cloudy sky conditions from April 10 evening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-16-4c-shivajinagar-coolest-place-in-state/articleshow/75056124.cms||Neha Madaan
April 9, 2020||Bhopal||After 11 days, Jabalpur reports new Covid case||Jabalpur: After 11 days, a patient tested positive for corona in Jabalpur on Wednesday. Eight people including a family of a jeweller from the city his staff and a foreign student had tested Covid-19 positive, the last being 11 days ago. Four of the eight positive patients have already been discharged after recovering fully. The new patient is 60-year-old man his contact history is being traced, said sources. He is from Adarsh Nagar locality from the city and had returned to Jabalpur from Hyderabad on March 20, sources said. Earlier in the day, as a precaution district administration ordered to close the ‘sabji mandi’ for next three days. Vegetables and groceries are available in the city, through authorised vendors and retailers, said sources. The decision to close the mandi was taken in wake of the large crowd gathering at the ‘sabji mandi’, sources said. In a first corona virus positive case of the state, a total of four patients, including two females and two males were found positive in state on March 20 in Jabalpur. Of the four, three were of a jeweller family who had visited Dubai recently and the fourth was a student who studied in Germany and had returned to the city, sources said. Later, four employees of the jeweller were also found positive for COVID19. Police also registered a case against the jeweller for not informing the administration about the fact that he had returned from Dubai and was having Covid-19 symptoms. Of the total 8 positive patients, four including the first three patients, jeweller, his wife and the student who had returned from Germany and an employee of the jeweller have been discharged from the hospital after recovery, the condition of the remaining four patients are also stable and they are likely to recover in next few days, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-11-days-jabalpur-reports-new-covid-case/articleshow/75055301.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Civic body to get Pushpak buses||Pune: The PMPML would provided its four Pushpak buses — used to transport bodies — to the civic body. The PMC had earlier requested PMPML to provide “Pushpak buses” and operate them round-the-clock because of the rising Covid-19 deaths. A PMPML official said PMC assured that drivers would be provided with PPE kits. “These buses are given to people at nominal charge of Rs200. The white buses have no seats and a space is created to keep the body,” PMPML’s joint managing director, Ajay Charthankar, said. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-get-pushpak-buses/articleshow/75056117.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||3 non-Muslims tagged TJ members, quarantined||Nagpur: In another example of harassment, a 24-year-old labourer, a non-Muslim, was picked up from Mouda and has been quarantined under questionable circumstances at Ravi Bhavan for last one week. The man, who works as housekeeping staff in public sector power company at Mouda, is a native of Bhandara. He said he never travelled outside the tehsil since 2012 but all his pleas were ignored. Beside him, two other Hindus have been tagged as Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members, along with their three Barelvi Muslims friends with whom they had undertaken a religious tour from March 12 to 14. These five from Saoner have been quarantined at Ravi Bhavan. These are among the 197 people traced and quarantined by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district officials as Covid-19 suspects having history of Delhi travel. Civic chief Tukaram Munde and district collector Ravindra Thakare didn’t respond to TOI queries. The labourer told TOI he was warned of action if he refused to report at Mouda police station. “On March 31, a policeman called me to police station. They took me to a hospital and dropped me home. Next day, they called again but there was no one concerned at police station when I reached. When I came back after waiting for hours, a health official called and again asked me to come. I was brought to Ravi Bhavan by evening. My test results are negative and they have admitted a wrong person has been brought,” he said. The labourer said there was no one to look after his elderly parents at Mouda. The five from Saoner said they first visited a dargah at Roorkee and later headed to Haridwar for darshan. The two Hindus requested cops and district officials to clarify about their identity as the insinuation has caused harassment to their families at Saoner. The three Barelvi Muslims too said they were facing social boycott from their sect members. The Barelvi and TJ have an acrimonous history where each had alleged the other to be a non-believer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-non-muslims-tagged-tj-members-quarantined/articleshow/75055752.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 9, 2020||Goa||One Covid patient recovers: Health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Wednesday that ‪one Covid-19 patient has recovered, bringing down the total number of positive cases to six. This is the first case of recovery after the state detected its first three coronavirus cases two weeks ago. “The patient will be kept under monitored quarantine for another 14 days as per protocol before being finally discharged,” Rane said. All patients are beng treated in ESI hospital in Margao which has been identified as Covid-19 hospital. The health minister ‪applauded the medical staff for their dedicated service and efforts to ensure that patients are given the best treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-covid-patient-recovers-health-min/articleshow/75056128.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 44 more from NRS test negative||KOLKATA: Forty-four more healthcare workers at NRS Medical College and Hospital have tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday. This came as a huge relief for the hospital authorities as well as the health department as 79 healthcare workers at NRS, including 35 junior doctors and nurses, were kept on quarantine after a patient, who died in the hospital on Saturday morning, tested positive for Covid-19. The asymptomatic patient’s confirmatory report came after his death and he had been treated without any precautionary measures being taken. Sources said results of five more swab samples were awaited. “On Tuesday, 30 samples had tested negative. Now with 44 more testing negative, it is a huge relief. We hope the few will also test negative,” said a source in the hospital. A health department source, however, said as a precaution, all the 79 would continue to be in quarantine even though none showed any symptom. If any of them developed symptoms during this period, their swab samples would be tested again, the source added. The healthcare workers are also being given hydroxychloroquine, as recommended by the ICMR. The 35-year-old male patient of haemophilia from Maheshtala was brought to NRS on March 30 and he died on April 4. Since he did not show any symptom, he was admitted in the general medicine ward and later, shifted to the critical care unit when his condition deteriorated. Doctors at the CCU sent his swab samples. “Both the CCU and the general medicine ward remains still sealed for now. We cannot admit any patient till these wards are completely fumigated,” said a hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/44-more-from-nrs-test-negative/articleshow/75055753.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 9, 2020||Madurai||8 Thai nationals booked for violation of visa rules||MADURAI: The district police have booked 10 people, including eight from Thailand, who came to India last month on a tourist visa and involved in religious propaganda, for violation of visa rules. The accused were identified as Saaudee, Phonngoh, Abubak, Doloh, Suphap, Dusit, Arrep, Usman, Rabeek and Reyajdeen. They have been booked by the Austinpatti police under sections 13 and 14 (1) (b) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and various sections of the IPC including 188-disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and 270- malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. They have also been booked under various acts such as Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and National Disaster Management Act. According to police, the eight foreigners accompanied by two locals - Rabeek and Reyajdeen - visited various places in Madurai to preach religious ideology from March second week. They were recently tested for Covid-19. Although they tested negative, they have been kept under medical supervision on the premises of a private engineering college in Uchapatti. The Kenikkarai police had registered a similar case against eight Indonesian nationals a few days back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-thai-natls-booked-for-violation-of-visa-rules/articleshow/75055754.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai MP provides medical equipment to GRH||MADURAI: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan on Wednesday handed over medical equipment worth Rs 56.17 lakh to the Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, in the presence of the dean of Government Rajaji Hospital, Dr S Sangumani.  Speaking to reporters, he said that the medical equipment purchased using the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLAD) fund will be used at the Covid-19 isolation ward in GRH. The letter of intent for purchase of the equipment had been sent to the Central government on March 25 and the equipment arrived on Tuesday. As the fund was easily accessible the suppliers could be identified and the equipment bought on time. Now with the central government’s move to stall MPLADs for two years, such work would be hindered, he said. Venkatesan said that N95 masks and other personal protective equipment for the staff of GRH has been provided. The medical staff can also bring it to his notice if there was need for any more equipment, he said. Venkatesan said that the Indian government gave consent to supply hydroxychloroquine to USA in a short span of two hours, yielding to the American government’s demand, which was highly condemnable. The Indian population was four times that of America and that should be given consideration. The needs of the people of our country should be put first, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-mp-provides-med-equipment-to-grh/articleshow/75055749.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Daily cases went above 20 only on 5 days in state||Thiruvananthapuram: The slow rate of Covid-19 transmission in Kerala has helped avoid an upward spike in the number of cases. The pattern of cases during the past one month has drawn parallel to cities like Singapore and Hong Kong which have become models in checking the spread of the virus. While South Korea too presented a similar pattern, it did so by resorting to vigorous testing without lockdown. In the 26 days after five cases were confirmed in Pathanamthitta, the daily cases went above 20 only on five days. The number remained between 10 and 20 on seven days and on the other 14 days, it was below 10. In the past 14 days, Singapore’s daily cases varied between 50 and 70 and it soared over 100 only on April 5 and the number dipped to 66 on April 6. During the same period, Hong Kong recorded 30-50 cases/day. Its highest was 82 which came down to 24 on April 6. South Korea had 242 cases on March 11 and the number dipped gradually to 47 on April 6. The progression rate of primary wave of infection wasn’t alarming. The state could maintain 80% imported cases and 20% local transmission for a considerable period and the trend was reversed slightly by March-end when local transmission cases rose by 24%. Till Monday, local cases increased to 28%. Kerala hasn’t seen super spreaders who transmit infection to large numbers; in South Korea it was patient number 31. In Kasaragod, a Gulf returnee had triggered a super spread scare after he violated home quarantine norms, but the damage was minimal. Epidemiologists associated with Covid-19 management said they expected a spike in transmission to primary contacts by March end, which didn’t happen. The timing of lockdown was perfect and the second wave—transmission from primary to secondary contacts—was kept in check by this barrier. Foreign arrivals were effectively home quarantined. “We tackled the foreign arrivals issue. Even assuming a minimum incubation period of seven days, secondary cases would have come up if there was a transmission from primary contacts,” said an epidemiologist. Followed by screening at airport, state set up Covid-19 care homes for persons in transit. The number of persons confined at home increased steeply; 5,191 persons were put in home isolation on March 13. In 10 days, 63,937 persons were put in home quarantine. In three days, the number crossed 1 lakh. The state saw over 1.5 lakh persons coming under home surveillance for the past two weeks. Kerala made good use of its local governance system to put together a ward-level surveillance system. Some districts introduced mobile apps and geo-fencing to keep tabs on those in home quarantine. Kerala’s ‘break the chain’ campaign echoed the circuit breaker campaign from Singapore. Owing to its aggressive contact tracing and social distancing methods enabled by a timely lockdown, the state could further reduce transmission. But, officials have asked the government to maintain vigil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/daily-cases-went-above-20-only-on-5-days-in-state/articleshow/75054084.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 9, 2020||Madurai||This summer, Madurai may escape water crisis||MADURAI: City will safely sail through this summer season as water levels in dams supplying water to the city are better placed compared to last year. However, Madurai corporation has prepared a drought management plan and kept it ready as a precautionary measure, say officials from Madurai corporation. Water level in Mullaperiyar stood at 114 feet on Wednesday, which is one-and-half feet higher compared to the same day last year. Similarly, Vaigai dam level stood at 45.75 feet on Wednesday, which was 42.56 feet last year. A major proportion of water required by Madurai corporation is fulfilled by Vaigai dam. Madurai corporation draws around 115 MLD from Vaigai dam. Water obtained from infiltration wells from Vaigai river bed and combined Cauvery drinking water scheme constitute the rest. City gets 10 MLD from combined Cauvery scheme. While water yield from Vaigai river bed used to be around 20 MLD, it has now come down to 12 MLD. “Recently, I held a meeting to discuss water demands during the summer season. Available water will be enough to safely sail through the summer, just like last year,” said Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan. Officials said that the water requirement at households has increased. But, it would not be a problem since requirement for commercial units has come down with more than 35,000 shops closed. The stored water is also used for disinfection purposes. There are 12 vehicles are used for the purpose which includes five jet rod vehicles, three fire tenders and four sprayer vehicles, officials said. An official from engineering wing said that so far there has not been any disruption of water supply in any part of the city. Few tail-end areas which faced difficulties in receiving water was supplied water through trucks. Water related complaints are attended to at once and they are rectified in no time. “At this time of the pandemic, water is essential at houses as people need to maintain personnel hygiene and we are well aware of it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/this-summer-city-may-escape-water-crisis/articleshow/75055762.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Migrants outside shelter camps in Pune worry about food||PUNE: Uncertainty about what will happen between now and April 14 hangs heavy in the air for migrants living in their own accommodations. For many who did not go to the shelter camps, the immediate concern is about the next meal. Premshankar, a mason, lives in Kharadi’s Boradevasti in Pune. He walks 3km every day to the shelter camp set up by the administration for food. After a few visits, the officials said they would not travel to his vasti to deliver the ration required for 25 people who live here. He and the others were told to report to the camp for food. “We can’t keep walking up and down 3km for food. We have requested our families in Uttar Pradesh to send money so that we can buy the essentials,” Premshankar said. The group is counting the days till lockdown ends and they can go home, but realises there is a long wait ahead. “The government should send us back in batches,” Premshankar said. However, labour minister Dilip Walse Patil on Wednesday said the state government has not decided anything about the migrant workers and their movement after April 14. “There are over 3.5 lakh workers and the state will take care of them. All collectors will ensure that there is enough supply and no one goes without food,” he told TOI. Workers at construction sites too have run out of food supplies. “Our contractors assured us that they would give ration, but it is not given every day,” Ramlal said. He is put up at a construction site in Handewadi on the outskirts of Pune. District administration officials told TOI that they were providing food in shelter camps. “We will continue to provide food even if the lockdown continues, but workers do not want to stay on,” some official said. At a shelter camp in Handewandi, migrant workers said they had no money and all they did was wait for the meals. “ It is a long wait here. The government must send us back,” a group of workers said. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal’s assurance that everyone would get rations and his promise of action against blackmarketing and hoarding of food grains did little to ease daily labourer Venudas Goradwar’s big worry. He has just Rs 100, and a small daughter and wife to feed. A daily wage labourer in Nigoje village in Chakan at a spare parts factory, Goradwar has not been paid for several days in March. He has no ration card and the local grocer won’t loan him any essentials. “Volunteers gave us a small kit with groceries. But we have no soap, nor toothpaste. My rent is overdue and I have no money for a gas cylinder refill. I hope nobody falls ill as a hospital or medicines at this point is difficult. I sent what I earned to Gadchiroli,” he said. He has no idea when he will begin working again. Nor do the 40-45 workers living nearby. Volunteer Pravin Jadhav said migrants in Indapur, about 100km from Pune, are struggling. “We gave kits to a 100 sugar cane cutters from Madhya Pradesh living in an open area in makeshift huts. They eat once a day. They have no money, no ration card and hence no food at home,” he said. Mathew Mattam, a founding member of Centre for Youth Development in Pune, said the number of migrants who need help is overwhelming. “Some are stuck in cities, some in villages, and some en route to their villages. Those in cities get some help but those in the villages are hard-pressed. The administration must strengthen the panchayat and ward system for food supplies essential to survival in such a crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrants-outside-shelter-camps-worry-about-food/articleshow/75056131.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's Whitefield apartment dwellers clocked 500km indoors||BENGALURU: Elisha Nochomovitz, the Frenchman who ran a marathon (42km) within the seven-metre balcony of his apartment in Toulouse (France), made global headlines on March 20 by dedicating his feat to healthcare professionals fighting the coronavirus. Closer home, residents of a gated community in Whitefield have together clocked over 500km to stay fit and fight the lockdown blues on Sunday. Interestingly, the people from 23 residential towers of Prestige Shantiniketan ran inside their houses and in balconies. When the apartment’s fitness group, Running Ninjas threw the ‘PSN Indoor Running Challenge’, 60 people, including 14 women, said they were game. On Sunday, the runners and walkers in the 10-52 age group covered over 500.5km and recorded the same on activity apps. Prakash Upadhyay, cyclist-techie, who coordinated the event along with runner Aashutosh, said the response was encouraging. “The challenge was to come out of the lockdown insecurities and collaborate with the community to stay fit in an enjoyable way,” Prakash said, adding that they all stuck to the pandemic-related guidelines issued by the government. While eight runners completed half-marathon (21km), one went ahead to do 30km. At 10, Vivaan was the youngest participant and ran 5km, while Prasanna (aka Anna) was the oldest at 52 and did 30km. Anna said this was for the first time that he ran indoors. “I did not even go to the corridor or the balcony,” said the ultra-marathoner, who is also the fitness inspiration for fellow residents. “Work from home has made everyone’s life sedentary. Push-ups and squats that we do were not giving us the complete workout, so indoor running was good,” he added. The event, according to Prakash, has made the residents share their indoor workouts on social media, especially with those befriended on Sunday. “We are happy the challenge has made them active,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/whitefield-apartment-dwellers-clocked-500km-indoors/articleshow/75055475.cms||Charan Sadu
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Bar operator and Lonikand booze shop owner booked||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police filed a case of disobedience against a bar operator on Baner Road and seized liquor bottles worth Rs15,000 after its employees were found surreptitiously selling them via the back door of the establishment while keeping the front gates locked. According to the Chatushrungi police, a night patrolling team found a few motorcycles parked in front of a bar on Baner Road late on Sunday. On closer inspection they found that the bar employees were selling foreign liquor bottles to the group of men. The police then asked the group to leave the spot immediately and later seized all the liquor bottles from the bar. Police said liquor bottles worth Rs15,000 have been seized and a case against the bar operator has been filed under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. In a similar case, the Lonikand police in rural Pune booked the owner of a liquor shop for selling beer in violation of the district collector’s order imposing a total shutdown of liquor shops and bars in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. A night patrolling team of the Lonikand police on Monday heard commotion at a spot behind a closed liquor shop at Khandvenagar in Wagholi. The police team went to the spot and found a group of men sitting behind the shop and drinking beer. The police took down their details and seized all the beer bottles in the shop, worth Rs5,880. The police said the group of men and the liquor shop owner had breached the provisions of CrPC 144 and thus a case against them was registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The police have ordered all the liquor shop owners and bar owners to keep their establishments closed and not to serve liquor illegally to their patrons, said senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bar-operator-lonikand-booze-shop-owner-booked/articleshow/75056137.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three of family +ve, guard with Tablighi link likely carrier||NEW DELHI: Three members of a family in Defence Colony have tested positive for Covid-19 after possibly getting infected by their security guard who had apparently visited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin. A case has been against the guard for hiding information from the authorities. Mustaqim, a resident of Okhla, was absconding but was traced and handed over to health officials on Wednesday. All three patients are in hospital and the remaining family members have been advised to stay in home quarantine. Police doubted Mustaqim after family members told them that he was quite close to them and used to move in and out of their C-Block home frequently. He did not report for duty from April 3 and the following day the three family members were tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection, said a police officer privy to the investigation. “Technical surveillance has found that he had gone to the Alami Markaz, the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters. We started suspecting Mustaqim after he stopped picking his phone,” he said. Another guard in the area, he added, told the cops that Mustaqim was not feeling well and had allegedly told him about attending the Jamaat. A driver working for the family said Mustaqim had even gone to buy milk for them. The case was registered on Tuesday under IPC 188 (not obeying order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection), said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). On Tuesday, two days after the family was found positive, the station house officer of Defence Colony police station circulated a message on the residents’ group asking everybody to avoid public space such as parks and requesting them to stay alert about householdkisPDG helps. The preliminary inquiry has revealed Mustaqim used to help in some household work too, the message read. Requesting the residents to follow the directives, the SHO said, “My men will be on patrol in the area and violators will be prosecuted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-of-family-ve-guard-with-tablighi-link-likely-carrier/articleshow/75055768.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Delhi||93 members of Tablighi test +ve, Delhi count 669||NEW DELHI: As many as 93 members of Tablighi Jamaat, who were evacuated from a mosque in Nizamuddin last month, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 669. Delhi has the third highest number of Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra (1,135) and Tamil Nadu (738). Of the total cases, officials said, 64% are the Jamaat members who had participated in a religious congregation at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. Apart from the Tablighi Jamaat members, 214 persons found positive for Covid-19 have travel history and the reasons for infection among at least 29 others are still being investigated. “Local transmission has been observed in some areas, being referred to as Covid-19 hotspots. The government is aggressively tracing and testing anyone who may have contact with the infected individuals,” said an official. One of the emerging clusters for Covid-19 testing is Delhi State Cancer Institute where 22 staff members have been tested positive for the disease. Three cases were confirmed positive on Wednesday, sources said. The results of the patients at the hospital who are suspected to have contracted the infection too are awaited, the source added. Meanwhile, as many as 30 healthcare workers at AIIMS had to be advised self-quarantine, as one patient admitted to the emergency wing recently tested positive for Covid-19. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) also installed its newly developed full body disinfection chamber at the hospital to help in controlling the spread of coronavirus. A senior DRDO officer said the walk-through enclosure is designed for personnel decontamination, one person at a time. The decontamination is started using a foot pedal at the entry. On entering the chamber, electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hyposodiumchloride. The mist spray is calibrated for an operation of 25 seconds and stops automatically indicating completion of operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/93-members-of-tablighi-test-ve-delhi-count-669/articleshow/75055767.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to deduct 15% salaries of CM, ministers and legislators||PATNA: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the government’s proposal to deduct 15% of the salaries of CM, ministers and legislators for the coronavirus eradication fund. The salary of Bihar CM and ministers is Rs40,000 per month. The cabinet also cleared the proposal to promote students from class I to XI, barring class X, of all government schools without taking examinations, as the schools have been closed in view of the three-week nationwide lockdown to contain Covid-19 outbreak. It was also decided to form Sitamarhi municipal corporation comprising areas falling under Sitamarhi Nagar Parishad, Dumra Nagar Panchayat and 17 adjoining ‘maujas’. For the 2020-21 financial year, the government had made electricity cheaper by 10 paise per unit for the consumers of all categories under Mukhyamantri Vidyut Upbhokta Sahayata Yojana. The cabinet sealed the decision. Further, the cabinet sanctioned the payment of Rs5,494 crore to National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) against electricity subsidy given to consumers by the state government. The cabinet also approved the energy department’s proposal to raise Rs703.16 crore from financial institutions to be used by Bihar State Power Transmission Company to strengthen the power transmission network in Bagaha (West Champaran), Bhore (Gaya), Daudnagar, Barachatti (Gaya) and Barari (Bhagalpur) grid networks. That apart, the cabinet also cleared the finance department’s proposal to raise Rs26,419 crore through market borrowings from financial institutions. The cabinet gave its nod to increasing the state contingency fund from Rs 350 crore to Rs 8,470 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. It was also decided to give three-month extension to the Bihar Taxation Disputes Resolution Act, 2019, and its accompanying Bihar Taxation Dispute Resolution Rules, 2020. The state cabinet also approved the allotment of Rs115.62 crore to meet the expenditure to be incurred on the survey of river Gandak from the India (Bihar)-Nepal border in its basin to Sonepur near which the river falls into the Ganga. The proposal had been moved by the water resources department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-deduct-15-salaries-of-cm-ministers-and-legislators/articleshow/75054086.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Human intelligence tracks down 40 Tablighi Jamaat members in Yavatmal||NAGPUR: Even as seven of the eight Covid-19 positive cases in Yavatmal were found to have a Tablighi Jamaat connect, sleuths have identified 52 persons in a drive to scan members of the organization in the district. State authorities are mainly tracking persons by their digital footprint on the basis of cell phone calls. However, 40 of the 52 persons zeroed in upon at Yavatmal were found purely on the basis of direct human intelligence. The 40 are confirmed to have a Tablighi connect, with chances that the rest may not have gone to the Jamaat’s Markaz, but had been somewhere else in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. All of them have been quarantined. Piyush Singh, divisional commissioner of Amravati, which covers Yavatmal district, said, “Mobile tracking has also led to confusion as this has brought people of other sects into the net, because their phone location was at Nizamuddin. However, 40 persons were found purely on basis of direct intelligence from sources about their Jamaat link.” Total 649 persons are being tracked in Nagpur and Amravati divisions for their Jamaat Markaz links. In the six districts of Amravati division, 206 contacts were identified, of which 152 have been quarantined, while the rest are within Maharashtra but living in other districts, where they have been quarantined, said the commissioner. In Nagpur division, 419 of 443 persons have been traced, with 25 living within Maharashtra but outside Nagpur division jurisdiction, and 93 living in other states. The respective collectors have been informed about their location, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, commissioner of Nagpur division. The highest number tracked is in Nagpur district at 282, of which 20 are yet to be traced. Abdul Bari Patel, secretary of Tablighi Jamaat’s Nagpur and Chhattisgarh wing, said it is expected that his counterpart in other districts of Vidarbha would have also informed the police about members who visited the Markaz. These persons can be either those who had been to the Nizamuddin Markaz or members of the Tablighi Jamaat who have come down to Nagpur on preaching tours, he said. Sources said members keep visiting the Markaz from time to time as they also tour other parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/human-intelligence-tracks-down-40-tj-members-in-yavatmal/articleshow/75055760.cms||Shishir Arya
April 9, 2020||Pune||2 held for smuggling liquor in milk cans||Pune: The Kothrud police on Tuesday arrested two men for smuggling liquor into the city under the guise of carrying milk cans. Liquor stores across the city have been closed in view of the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The police have recovered about 10 litres of liquor that suspects Manohar Kalvankar (43) and Sameer Yadav (36) had placed in milk cans. DCP (Zone-lll) Pournima Gaikwad has issued directives to the police to keep a watch on the inflow of liquor into the city during the lockdown. Meanwhile, officers from the Wanowrie police station on Wednesday seized 350 litres of liquor. The police have also destroyed about 400 litres of chemical. A police team, led by inspector Salim Chaus, raided the spot at Wanowrie based on a tip-off. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-for-smuggling-liquor-in-milk-cans/articleshow/75056141.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray appeals to retired medical staff to join Covid-19 battle||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday appealed to retired army personnel, nurses, ward boys and others trained in medical services to come forward and help the state in its war against coronavirus. “We have created an email ID. Please register with us on it if you wish to help the state. Maharashtra needs you,” said Thackeray in a video address to the state. The email ID is covidyoddha@gmail.com. Thackeray further said people who leave home must wear a mask or a clean piece of cloth to cover their faces. “This should become a habit, not only for now but for the next few months,” he said. The chief minister said people should ensure used masks are disposed of properly too. “These masks should be burnt by finding a safe, open place and the remains thrown in the dustbin. We have to ensure that masks are disposed of properly or else that too could lead to a bigger crisis,” said Thackeray. He apologized for the inconvenience caused to the people due to the lockdown and other restrictions. “We had to take these steps as we had no other option. This too shall pass,” he said. Thackeray said people who have health issues such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity should watch their food habits while at home and do some light exercise. He said the government had taken a decision in Tuesday’s cabinet meeting to provide rice and wheat at subsidized rates to people with saffron ration cards in the state. “I have been asked why are we not giving ration for free when the Centre has already announced it. That's because the Centre has only announced rice is to be given free and that too to people covered under the National Food Security Act, which doesn’t include saffron ration cards. We will soon start giving free rice and also cover the middle class in the scheme,” he said. Thackeray further said separate clinics for cough, cold and fever will be set up in every ward and ‘Covid hospitals’ will also be set up to ensure there is no transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-appeals-to-retired-med-staff-to-join-covid-19-battle/articleshow/75054104.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Sigh of relief for Telangana as Centre releases Rs 269 crore GST share||HYDERABAD: At a time when Telangana was staring down the barrel amidst the lockdown and dwindling revenues, the Centre released Rs 269 crore towards the state’s share of GST compensation. Senior officials heaved a sigh of relief as the grant could not have come at a worse time when the state is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The amount of Rs 269 crore, which was released in the late hours of Tuesday, was the fifth instalment Telangana received. In the four previous instalments, the state had received Rs 175 crore, Rs 700 crore, Rs 1,036 crore and Rs 352 crore respectively towards its share in 2019-20. Thus far, Telangana had received Rs 2,532 crore, including the fifth instalment, towards GST compensation. Sources said the finance ministry had released about Rs 34,000 crore in two phases to states as compensation for their revenue loss in the goods and services tax (GST) regime. An amount of Rs 14,103 crore was released on Tuesday night to all states. “This amount was primarily released to provide further relief to states fighting the coronavirus outbreak,” sources said. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the other day that that Telangana used to get about Rs 400 crore to Rs 450 crore income a day during non-lockdown period and got only Rs 6 crore in the first week of April. Sources said the government has already began scouting for various sources with the revenues falling steeply due to economic slowdown and the lockdown. Various departments have been asked to provide data on the deposits — expected to be around Rs 2,500 crore — which the government is planning to put to good use during the fight against coronavirus. Officials said the government wanted to improve the non-tax revenue and cut down the financial leakages in all departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sigh-of-relief-for-t-as-centre-releases-rs-269cr-gst-share/articleshow/75055766.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 9, 2020||India||NGOs get easier access to FCI grains to feed the poor||NEW DELHI: The food ministry on Wednesday instructed Food Corporation of India (FCI) to allow NGOs and charitable organisations involved in providing cooked food to the poor and needy at Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS) rates without going through the e-auction process. This is being done to ensure such organisations involved in the noble service don’t face scarcity of foodgrains. “The details of lifting of foodgrains by such institutions would be intimated to the concerned district magistrates to ensure that the foodgrains are utilised for the intended purpose,” the ministry said in a statement. The FCI sells stocked foodgrains at Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS) rates to only state governments and registered bulk users like roller flour mills. But this is done through e-auctioning. These entities can purchase one to 10 tonnes of grains at a time from FCI at the predetermined reserve prices. “This relaxation is being made for NGOs and charitable organisations to pick stock from FCI considering their crucial role in this crisis,” said an official. FCI has so far delivered about 3.2 million tonnes of foodgrains to state governments to meet the requirements under regular National Food Security Act allocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ngos-get-easier-access-to-fci-grains-to-feed-the-poor/articleshow/75056498.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No shortage of essential drugs: Min||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja here on Wednesday sought to allay the fears that state may soon run out of emergency medicines. Terming such fears as baseless, the minister said there was enough stock of emergency medicines. “The state drug controller has informed that the state currently has a reserve of emergency medicines that can cater to the demands for next two months. The government keeps a track on the availability of as many as 30 drugs which people take routinely for cardiac problems, renal issues, stroke and diabetes. Availability of medicines from 25 companies are under close watch. Government agencies keep in touch with such companies and take all efforts to ensure regular supply of emergency medicines. Hence, there is no need for people to panic and attempts to stockpile such medicines is unwarranted,” the minister said. If anybody is facing problems in accessing medicine, they may contact district drug inspectors. In case of emergency, assistant drug controller can be contacted at 7403006100, the minister said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-shortage-of-essential-drugs-min/articleshow/75054106.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra government gives financial aid to five Nashik districts||NASHIK: The state government on Wednesday declared that it will be giving financial aid of Rs 5 crore to five districts under the Nashik divisional commissionarate for fighting the Covid-19 crisis. Nashik divisional commissioner Rajaram Mane told TOI that the amount would be mainly used by the districts for buying medical equipment to treat positive patients. The five districts under Nashik divisional commissionarate include Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. This is for the second time that the state government will be providing financial assistance to these five districts on Covid-19 issue. Last month, these five districts had got Rs 5 crore where Nashik and Ahmednagar were given Rs 1.5 cr each and the remaining amount was distributed equally between Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. “This time Ahmednagar would be given substantial amount as it is the worst affected district under the Nashik commissionarate,” said senior government sources. Ahmednagar district has currently 25 positive patients followed by Nashik two and Jalgaon one. Dhule and Nandurbar are yet to have any confirmed case. The bulk of the positive cases in Ahmednagar so far is attributed to the group of 35, who came to the district after attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Four of them were tested positive and they, in turn, infected 17 locals, who came into contact with them. Mane said that the local administration of the five districts are working overtime to restrict the spread of the virus and treat those infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-gives-financial-aid-to-five-nashik-districts/articleshow/75056154.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Dehradun||Four new Covid-19 +ve cases found, state tally now 35||Dehradun: With four new coronavirus cases reported from the state on Wednesday, the total cases in Uttarakhand have now reached 35. Among the four new cases, two are from Roorkee and the other two are from Haldwani. According to the health department, all the new patients are members of Tablighi Jamaat and they have been admitted at facilities in Roorkee and Hadwani. Yugal Kishore Pant, director of National Health Mission, Uttarakhand, told TOI that more than 1,400 state residents were tested for Covid-19 till Wednesday. Of these, reports of 181 patients are still awaited. “As many as 1,189 samples tested negative for coronavirus in Uttarakhand. Among those found positive, five patients have already been discharged after full recovery,” he said while adding that the positive cases found from Roorkee on Wednesday were kept in institutional isolation since April 1. The other two positive cases from Haldwani had surrendered on April 6 after DGP’s warning. Around 42,812 people are under home isolation across 13 districts of Uttarakhand. The state has so far diagnosed Covid-19 cases from only five districts of the state — Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, Haldwani, and Kotdwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-new-covid-19-ve-cases-found-state-tally-now-35/articleshow/75053240.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Coronavirus outbreak compels hospitals to postpone over 70% of surgeries||BENGALURU: More than 70% of surgeries in Bengaluru hospitals have been deferred owing to Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown, say doctors. The deferred surgeries are non-emergency but necessary in nature and include cancer, gallbladder and uterine procedures. “All non-emergency, but necessary surgeries have been postponed in our hospitals. This is Covid-19’s collateral damage, unintended though. The situation should be true of other hospitals too,” Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, told TOI. TimesViewThe Covid-19 pandemic is a black swan event and it is affecting nations with far better healthcare infrastructure than India. And under the circumstances, this was inevitable. Not only will we see an enormous number of fatalities as a result of the virus, we will also witness casualties of collateral damage. The question is, how are we going to handle this? Response to the pandemic also needs to take these factors into account and a comprehensive plan for public health needs to be put in place and carried out on a war footing -- because, we are at war.Observing that the lockdown was required but genuine patients were also not able to seek help because of it, he said the deferred surgeries are not cosmetic procedures but ones like transplants and gallbladder removal where patients continue to suffer in the absence of timely intervention. The only units working uninterrupted in most city hospitals are the dialysis centres, which are essential for renal-failure patients to survive. Dr BS Ajaikumar, chairman & CEO, HealthCare Global Enterprises Limited, said non-Covid-19 deaths are likely to increase in the days to come. “I don’t know if we are over-reacting to the Covid-19 situation. The lockdown was necessary but was implemented with poor planning. There should have been arrangements for needy patients to take public transport to travel to Bengaluru. There are many patients from other districts who are unable to commute,” he said. Dr Ajaikumar cited the example of a 53-year-old woman, who missed her scanning due to the lockdown. She finally got it done on April 6 by which time her cancer had progressed and spread to other organs too. “Cardiac ailments and cancer will only aggravate with time and without timely intervention,” he said. A prominent doctor from Bengaluru has shot off a letter to chief minister BS Yediyurappa in this regard. “By now we are all well aware of the coronavirus issues and its ability to spread. While we are focusing on this as a nation we cannot ignore the collateral damage the actions are causing on other diseases and the economy. Treatment of diseases such as cancer and heart ailment may get postponed and may cause more loss of life and more financial difficulties to the families concerned. The lower socio-economic groups and middle class will suffer a lot,” the letter read. The doctor warned the CM of the possibility of suicides increasing given the debilitating economic impact of the lockdown. At Hosmat hospital which looks into orthopaedic issues, the number of surgeries is down by more than 90%. “All that we are getting are fracture cases that need immediate medical attention. There are cases of people, especially the old, falling at home and of ligament tear,” said Dr Ajit Royan Benedict, medical director, Hosmat Hospitals. Attending to fracture casesIn the thick of the lockdown, the hospital treated four cases of road accidents from Hoskote, Kolar and Bengaluru. “Multiple hip fractures and shoulder fractures due to fall at home are operated upon as they are emergency cases. They need to be followed up with physiotherapy sessions. We are teaching these patients and their relatives physiotherapy exercises while they are in the hospital,” said Dr Kumardev Arvind Rajamanya, a city-based orthopaedic surgeon. Children across the country are missing out on routine immunisation, say paediatricians. “Babies aged below six months must be immunised with primary doses of injectable polio, DPT, HIB, Hepatitis B, BCG. Parents must bring them to hospitals and get their children immunised at least. There could be a sudden surge of vaccine preventable diseases, if the lockdown continues for more than three months,” said Dr SM Prasad, professor of paediatrics, Dr BR Ambedkar Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-70-of-surgeries-shelved-in-bengaluru-hospitals/articleshow/75055498.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat chief traced to Delhi's Zakir Nagar residence||NEW DELHI: Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Khandalvi has finally been traced to his residence in Zakir Nagar. It is now being ascertained whether he has been infected by novel coronavirus. His kin had earlier told the cops that he was in quarantine. Delhi Police will now get him tested by doctors and may question him over a video call. A decision on whether Saad will be shifted to a government quarantine centre or he will be allowed to stay at his residence till he completes his self-isolation period is yet to be taken. Saad, along with six others from Tablighi Jamaat, were booked for violating government orders and holding a congregation despite a ban on public gatherings. Police are on the lookout for the rest of the members. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesIn his reply to the Crime Branch’s notice issued earlier last week, Maulana Saad had said that he was in self-isolation. Delhi Police had later sought documents and information related to the congregation. Police had earlier said that Saad was untraceable at his residence in Zakir Nagar. Teams were also sent to his other houses at Nizamuddin and Muzaffarnagar to question his family members. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsSaad was allegedly staying with a relative in self-isolation when the cops tracked him down. Police have asked for Saad’s medical reports from his family members. The Markaz representative had, however, refuted allegations that Saad was absconding. He had informed media that if police asked Saad to appear for questioning, the Markaz chief would be available. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignCops are, meanwhile, also planning to question Saad’s son, Maulana Yousuf, who had issued statements and put sermons on the YouTube channel, Delhi Markaz, asking the followers to join prayers at mosques in defiance of the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-chief-traced-to-zakir-nagar-residence/articleshow/75055771.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Barber booked for opening outlet||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday registered an offence against a salon owner for operating his facility at Darumbre village near Talegaon Dabhade during the lockdown period. Senior inspector Kishor Mhaswade of the Shirgaon police said they got information about a person operating his salon during the lockdown in Darumbre village. “When a police team went to check the spot, the shutter of the shop was down but there were a few customers inside,” Mhaswade said. “When the police told the owner to close shop, he started abusing the police,” he said. The Shirgaon police booked the salon owner under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. “Our probe is on,” Mhaswade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barber-booked-for-opening-outlet/articleshow/75056143.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Decentralise funds, release cash to states: TRS to Modi||HYDERABAD: While reaffirming the Telangana government’s view of extending the lockdown beyond April 14, TRS parliamentary party leaders have asked the Centre to decentralise funds to the states to combat Covid-19. TRS Rajya Sabha floor leader K Keshava Rao and floor leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao, who participated in a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, said the Centre should release the funds instead of centralising everything. “We made it clear that situation could worsen after relaxation of the lockdown and likely to spread to rural areas where no medical facilities are available. We cannot reimpose the lockdown and if it is imposed, it will be of no use,” Keshava Rao told TOI. “We said all the MPs have forgone two years of MPLADS funds and 30% of their salary for a year. The amount should be allocated to the respective states to fight against the virus instead of going to PM’s consolidated fund,” Keshava Rao added. He said the Centre is meeting needs of PPE, N-95 masks and even medical equipment through PMO. “The required funds should be released to the states and the Centre can monitor utilisation of funds, if it wants to,” he said. The party asked Centre to release arrears to the state as its revenues are dwindling due to lockdown. The party leaders told the PM that instead of Rs 400 crore revenue a day, the state is getting a paltry Rs 1 crore a day now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decentralise-funds-release-cash-to-states-trs-to-modi/articleshow/75055773.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 9, 2020||Goa||Goa Chess Association's new move: online chess||PANAJI: After successfully conducting two online blitz chess tournaments —national and state level -- Goa Chess Association will continue to conduct such tournaments to keep players busy when everything has come to a standstill following the coronavirus pandemic. Roopa Belurkar, president of Queens Chess and Cultural Club, along with husband Sanjay Belurkar, executive member, GCA, took up the challenge to host a three-minute game tournament on Friday. Buoyed by its initial success, the pair organised state level tournament. “We have been active in organising tournaments. However, with the lockdown, we figured out this is the best way to go about,” said Roopa. They started spreading the word through social media and received an overwhelming response with 187 entries for last week’s tournament. “The money earned from the tournaments will be donated to Goa State Covid-19 Relief Fund, while Goa players will be given a free entry as we want our players to flourish,” said GCA secretary Kishor Bandekar. The association has tied up with experienced international arbiter Anandh Babu VL from Tamil Nadu. “We had conducted a small-scale online tournament before but not like this one. We took a brave step and things fell in place as we have necessary experience and online platform to conduct such tournaments. We also have anti-cheating software which detects any wrongdoing, so any apprehension regarding false play is ruled out,” said Babu, who also worked as a chief arbiter at the Goa Grand Master Chess. The novelty of the tournament is not only playing but learning from other games too. Once the tournament is over, all games are available online to study moves and learn. According to organisers, the number of participants are growing with each tournament and players are studying moves from all over India. “It is a different experience to conduct such novel tournaments. In a standard tournament, we need volunteers, venue, tables, stop-clocks and whole other logistics requirements, while online require us to be on the computer all the time. “We need few hours to pair players, check their Fide identities and registration after receiving entries. We are glad to play our part for the betterment of the game in Goa,” said Sanjay. GCA president and power minister Nilesh Cabral has nothing but words of praise for the organisers. “It was a good effort from our people to do something like this. I am happy to have such trustworthy volunteers who came forward and found a way to keep things running. We would like to keep it going and get better and better,” Cabral said. The next tournament will be held on Friday. Those interested can obtain more details from Anandh Babu (9894278402).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcas-new-move-online-chess/articleshow/75055344.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: District APMCs reduce onion auction timings, curtail auction||NASHIK: The Lasalgaon and Pimpalgaon APMCs have restricted auction of onions to 500 vehicles per day and are also working from 9am to 1pm daily, in view of the lockdown due to the Covid-10 pandemic, sources at the Lasalgaon APMC on Wednesday. However, the smaller onion markets, including Kalwan, Satana, Nampur, Umrane, Satana, Chandvad, Yeola, Vinchur and Niphad, have limited their auction to 250 vehicles per day while following the 9am-1pm timings. Farmers who want to sell their produce have been asked to get their names registered with contact numbers with the APMCs a day prior to the auction. The APMCs will keep them informed about the status of the auction. “We are facing problems in implementing the social distancing norm and shortage of workers. Hence, we have restricted auctioning of onions up to certain number of vehicles to avoid farmers crowding the markets,” APMC officials told TOI. “The new process is inconvenient for farmers as they have to go APMCs a day before and register for auction. The APMCs then call the respective farmers after one or two days to bring their produce for auctioning,” said Kuber Jadhav, an onion grower. Around 700 to 1,000 vehicles carrying onions arrive at the Lasalgaon APMC while 200 to 500 vehicles come in at other APMCs in the district. The Lasalgaon APMC officials said that another reason for imposing restrictions is the drop in demand of onions. “The demand has reduced to a great extent in domestic markets. Besides, transporting and unloading of onions is another issue. To make things worse, parties from various states are not making payments until their stock of onions is sold.” Nivrutti Nyaharkar, another onion producer, said they already have a lot of stock of the late kharif onions and have no option but to sell the produce at the prevailing markets rates. “The shelf life of kharif onions is less than 25 days. Also, farmers are in need of money, so they have to agree to the market rate and sell their produce,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-apmcs-reduce-onionauction-timings-curtail-auction/articleshow/75056170.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||High temperatures, alcohol won’t protect you from Covid-19: Scientist||NAGPUR: Temperatures higher than 25 degree Celsius do not prevent coronavirus, neither do vaccines against pneumonia. These and many other myths related to the disease were busted during the webinar observing 62nd Foundation Day of CSIR’s National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri). Due to the ongoing lockdown, the event was held online on Wednesday afternoon. Rup Lal, senior scientist at the National Academy of Sciences and platinum jubilee fellow at New-Delhi based The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), stated that people need to stay away from misinformation. “Drinking alcohol, being able to hold your breath for 10 seconds, vaccines and high temperatures do not protect you from coronavirus. Also, the disease cannot be transmitted through mosquito bites,” said Lal. Stating that the asymptomatic patients are turning out to be a serious problem, the scientist stressed that virology and microbiology should be introduced in the political system. “Our policymakers need to be aware of the havoc microorganisms and viruses can create,” Lal added. Further stating that strains isolated from USA are the most evolved, Lal stated this rapid evolution needs to be considered seriously for the development of drug or vaccine to combat the Covid-19. Scientists also drew parallels between the ongoing pandemic and climate change. Rajan Welukar, former vice-chancellor of GH Raisoni University, pointed out that policymakers should learn from coronavirus and implement them to combat the bigger battle of climate change. “Covid 19 pandemic is co-related to climate change. There is no better time than this to realize that investments in climate resilient infrastructure are very important. Coronavirus is giving us a wake-up call,” said Welukar. He added that climate change was a challenge much more dangerous than the pandemic. “The curve of Covid-19 will become normal. But the problem of climate change is only going to increase,” he said. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar highlighted some prominent developments of the institute and its future projects. “One of the megaprojects is metagenomics study of Ganga river from its origin to end. We have also developed a noise pollution application which is currently being used worldwide by almost 3 lakh people.We are also documenting all water bodies across the country,” said Kumar. He added that Neeri will also be looking at how to deal with old vehicles plying on roads. The director further announced all employees of Neeri will be contributing their one day’s salary to combat coronavirus for the next 12 months. The institute also distributed personal protection equipments including gloves, sanitizers and masks to corporators and different NGOS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-temperatures-alcohol-wont-protect-you-from-covid-19-scientist/articleshow/75055779.cms||Manka Behl
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Starving citizens stop cops on route march to ask for food||Nagpur: Some citizens, starving due to the national lockdown enforced to break the coronavirus chain, rushed out of their houses to plead for help before cops who were on a route march at Isasani locality in Hingna police station jurisdiction a few days ago. The cops ensured supply of ration and food for many of the families from various sources. Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, who was leading the route march to enforce section 144, and ensure citizens remained inside their houses, was left stunned to see a sizeable number of the population left without rations at home. Most of them claimed they were not able to manage proper meals even once a day due to the lockdown that is now in its third week. The cops later launched an impromptu survey in the locality, after which it came to fore that many residents did not have ration cards, and also most of the families had already exhausted the saved food stock or grains at home. Masaal said an urgent letter was sent to the tehsildar at Hingna, alerting him about the scarcity of food in different slums and colonies in the fringes of the city like Isasani, where immediate government intervention was required. “We had to arrange for food through police stations of Hingna and MIDC immediately to save people from starving,” he said. “We have requested the revenue department to make arrangements through some schemes available with them for providing ration and food to the people who do not have any ration card,” said the DCP. It’s learnt MIDC police have already arranged food for over 42,000 persons in the last one week. MIDC police station senior inspector Hemant Kharabe had also requested the tehsildar to extend the timing of the ration shop from 8am to 8pm. Elsewhere on Wednesday, zonal DCP Vinita Shahu, leading a contingent of Sitabuldi police during a route march, was received with showering of petals at Ramdaspeth, with citizens cheering for the cops. A day ago, Shahu had received similar adulation at Surendragarh. Meanwhile, the flying squads of the crime branch conducted three raids at different places, pulling up traders for unfair practices. Police and officials of the other government agencies registered three offences for selling sale of sanitizers above the fixed prices. A bakery was also booked for selling overpriced eatables. City police have registered 138 offences for violating Section 144 and detained 73 persons. Around 39 vehicles were also seized during the daylong action. Rural police and state excise department jointly raided a country-made liquor den at Tingda and arrested 10 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/starving-citizens-stop-cops-on-route-march-to-ask-for-food/articleshow/75067111.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guidelines to open mobile phone shops, workshops||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has issued guidelines for opening mobile phone shops, automobile workshops and shops selling vehicle spare parts during the lockdown period in the state. As per the guideline, mobile phone shops can be opened on Sundays, while automobile workshops can function on two days a week — Sunday and Thursday. Vehicle spare parts shops can also open for business on these two days. According to a Facebook post by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the government is also considering permission for shops selling electrical appliances once a week, to enable people to buy fans and air-conditioners in the wake of the onset of summer. Registered electricians can visit houses for urgent repair works. As apartments have a centralized electrical system, permission will be granted in case of repair works there as well, the CM’s FB post said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guidelines-to-open-mobile-phone-shops-workshops/articleshow/75054126.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Complaints of misbehaviour at Dwarka, Bakkarwala||NEW DELHI: Two more cases of alleged misbehaviour by Tablighi Jamaat members who have been kept at different quarantine centres in the city have been reported to police. Inmates of a quarantine centre in Dwarka allegedly threw bottles filled with urine towards an open ground. The civil defence volunteers told police that the bottles were thrown from the flats which were occupied by Tablighi Jamaat members. At another centre, some members from Tablighi Jamaat have been accused of spitting on the doctors treating them. According to police, around 6pm, civil defence personnel deputed at the quarantine centre at DUSIB flats in Dwarka, complained that two bottles were lying in the open area near the pump house. “The bottles appeared to be filled with urine. It is assumed that the same have been thrown by the suspects under quarantine in four flats in F-Block as the pump house is located behind these flats. The intention behind the indecent activity was maybe to spread the novel coronavirus among other people. A video has also been recorded by a civil defence volunteer,” stated the FIR. At Bakkarwala quarantine centre in outer Delhi, some members from the Alami Markaz allegedly spat on the doctors treating them. Based on the complaint of the sub-divisional magistrate, Punjabi Bagh police registered a case. As per the complaint, some inmates who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz were misbehaving and spitting on the medical team members deployed at the centre. One of them, Mohammad Irshad, has been booked in this connection. Further investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/complaints-of-misbehaviour-at-dwarkabakkarwala/articleshow/75055776.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government seeks info on finances of departments||HYDERABAD: With the revenues of the state hit badly due to the lockdown, the finance department has asked all the heads of the departments (HoDs) to furnish information on savings bank deposits, current and fixed deposits in various banks as on March 31. The government also sought information from various corporations, agriculture market committees and other societies on the deposits they have. Sources said if the fixed deposits are closed prematurely, the money is likely to be transferred to the exchequer and used to tackle the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-seeks-info-on-finances-of-depts/articleshow/75055772.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: NGO streamlines veggie shopping in Deccan with tokens, time slots||PUNE: To ensure minimal crowding, NGO Keshav Sita Memorial Foundation Trust has developed a special token and time slot system for purchasing vegetables in the Deccan area. The residents reached Canal Road as per the allotted time slot to purchase vegetables and fruits on Wednesday. As many as 440 residents living around Abhinav Marathi Medium School, Law College Road, Bhandarkar Road and Prabhat Road booked tokens between Sunday evening and Tuesday evening before stepping out to purchase vegetables as per their allotment. Trustee of the NGO Shirish Phadtare said, “For the last five years, our trust has been working on plastic collection in these areas and we are in touch with several residents over WhatsApp. They told us that they were facing difficulty in finding fresh fruits and vegetables. We spoke to additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde to seek the required permission. On approval, we tied up with an agency called Shashwat to set up the stall. We have received complete support from the Deccan Gymkhana police station.” Another trustee Medha Tadpatrikar said, “On reaching Canal Road, the residents were required to hand over a list of requirement to a staff member seated at a desk. Meanwhile, other staffers started packing the listed items. Payment was made at the last counter. We are planning to organize this activity twice a week until the lockdown ends.” Home deliveries on the basis of the token system have also been started since Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngo-streamlines-veggie-shopping-in-deccan-with-tokens-time-slots/articleshow/75056169.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Family court hears matters via video conferencing||PUNE: The family court here started hearing urgent matters through video conferencing (VC) from Wednesday after a notice issued on Tuesday by its officiating principal judge Subhash R Kafre. The VC hearings will be held between 12pm and 2pm on notified court working days. The court has released details of procedure to be followed by lawyers and litigants appearing in person. To join the VC, lawyers or litigants are required to install ‘Vidyo’ software app on their computer or smartphones. For an urgent hearing, the lawyer or litigant must e-mail their request to mahpunefc@aij.gov.in along with a signed soft copy of the matter in PDF format. Following the judge’s approval, the court registrar will communicate the date and time for VC hearing and share a link||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/family-court-hears-matters-via-video-conf/articleshow/75056157.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 9, 2020||Meerut||13 +ve cases in Meerut zone, 2 in Amroha||Meerut: There were at least 15 positive Covid-19 cases at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College on Wednesday. Out of the total number of cases, five were reported from Saharanpur, three each from Meerut and Muzaffarnagar, and two each in Amroha and Baghpat. The positive cases reported from Meerut zone on Wednesday were linked to the Jamaatis, while Amroha district administration was yet to confirm.Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Rajkumar said, “Three new cases have been reported in Meerut - all are Jamaatis. While two are from Khiwai, one of them is from Bhawanpur area. Containment plan in these areas has been pressed into action and tracing of their contacts is on. As many as 147 new samples have been sent for testing on Wednesday.”Notably, as many as 200 samples were tested at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College on Wednesday, out of which, 16 were found positive - including one repeat testing from Saharanpur - taking the count to 15. With the positive cases, the total tally of districts are: 38 in Meerut (including one admitted in Kanpur), 19 in Saharanpur (12 of them admitted in Lucknow hospitals), three in Muzaffarnagar, five in Baghpat and two in Amroha.Confirming the cases, Dr Amit Garg, head of microbiology department, said, “Out of the total 200 samples sent to the lab on Wednesday, 15 tested positive. These included five in Saharanpur, three each in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar, and two each in Amroha and Baghpat.”Muzaffarnagar chief medical officer, Dr Praveen Kumar Chopra, said, “These are the first set of cases in Muzaffarnagar, thereby taking the district's tally to three. All of them are Jamaatis and contact tracing is being done to ensure that the infection is contained.”In Meerut, 15 teams reached out to 1,026 houses and covered a population of 2,956 on Wednesday, according to Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/13-ve-cases-in-meerut-zone-2-in-amroha/articleshow/75055348.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dedicated a/c in CMDRF for Covid donations||Thiruvananthapuram: Special arrangements are being put in place for the management of contributions in CMDRF towards Covid-19 related relief activities, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. As part of this, sub-accounts (CMDRF account number 2) would be opened in 18 banks. Treasury savings account would also be started in the same name. The contributions received in CMDRF since March 27 would be transferred to the new account. A new link in the home page of government website has been introduced so that contributors can directly open the dedicated account for Covid-19 relief. However, there is no change in the mode of payment to CMDRF. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dedicated-a/c-in-cmdrf-for-covid-donations/articleshow/75054161.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Help us return home by staying indoors: Migrant workers||Nashik: The migrant workers housed in different shelter homes across the district have also appealed to the people to remain indoors and maintain social distancing so that the situation comes back to normal, helping all those stranded in going back to their homes. “The pain of being away from the family in such difficult times can be understood only by those stuck away from their loved ones. While the food, shelter and sanitation are much better than what we used to get at our homes, dealing with loneliness is an ordeal,” Jiten Singh, who hails from Shravasti district in Uttar Pradesh, said. Singh along with 50 other migrant workers had got onto a truck after the driver of the vehicle had promised to help them in crossing the Maharashtra border. However, they were caught by police on March 30. There are as many as 1,579 migrant workers that have been housed in shelter homes across the district. The district administration is taking care of their food and other basic facilities. Around 90 per cent of the shelter home inmates are migrant workers while the remaining 90 per cent are either beggars or those stuck in the city after the lockdown was imposed. “We all are from the same district in Uttar Pradesh, but most of us never met when we were in Bhiwandi. Sitting idle is killing use,” Umesh Singh (31), another migrant at the shelter home, said. Kush Singh, who has studied till St XII, is the most educated among the 51 workers. “When we were brought to the shelter home, everyone was anxious and just wanted to leave. However, after being counseled by the medical team, people have understood what we are dealing with and have cooled down,” he said. The youngest of the lot, 18-yearold Kishore Singh, had come to Bhiwandi to get a job. “Though I am being helped by many, due to the social distancing norm it has become difficult to kill our time. The mobile internet pack is over due to which we can’t even make video calls to our loved ones or play online games. All we do is eat and sleep,” he said. Kailash Ahire, in-charge of one of the shelter homes, said the food is being supplied by the various companies through their kitchen. “Some locals are also contributing by donating snacks. Everyone is following the rule of social distancing and are healthy,” he said. Across the district there are 18 shelter homes of which 10 are in Nashik city and eight in rural areas. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “The migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Nepal are staying in these shelter homes. We are ensuring their proper care and proving them with food and other essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/help-us-return-home-by-staying-indoors-migrant-workers/articleshow/75056178.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Standalone centre to collect blood in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a bid to address the problem of blood shortage and reduce cross infections to donors and recipients during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the state health department has decided to collect blood centrally at the standalone blood centre at Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) Narayanguda. Apart from cutting off the chance of cross-infections through blood, it will enable quality testing at a single place and help optimise resources. “No regular voluntary blood donation camps are being set up by government blood banks since the last two weeks. The government has decided to collect blood at stand alone blood centres at IPM Narayanguda to avoid cross infections to voluntary donors at hospital attached blood centres. Additional staff will be deputed to IPM Blood centre as per requirement,” read the order issued on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/standalone-centre-to-collect-blood/articleshow/75055774.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad generates less waste, consumes more water||HYDERABAD: The city has been generating 1,500 metric tonne (MT) less garbage per day (normal 6,000 MT ) during the ongoing lockdown. However, water consumption has gone up a bit. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials said there was zero solid waste generation from commercial establishments, indicating the lockdown was effective to a great extent. “We are able to lift the entire garbage and move it to Jawaharnagar as the attendance of sanitation workers is good. The entire solid waste is generated from residential areas as there is no commercial activity,” GHMC additional commissioner Rahul Raj told TOI. Around 20,000 sanitation workers were working to keep the city clean. “Cleaning up the road is hassle-free. There is not much garbage on the streets as well as there is no movement of people. We have around 2,500 entomology workers, who usually do fogging and anti-larval activity. They are now involved in disinfecting the city. We are using sodium hypochlorite to disinfect the city,” he added. Principal secretary, municipal administration and urban dev elopment department, Arvind Kumar said, “We have been able to ensure all the essential services, more specifically sanitation garbage lifting solid waste management and drinking water and sewerage, are maintained uninterrupted with minimum inconvenience. For this, municipal workers in Hyderabad are being brought from their home (from a cluster point) by buses so that their absence could be minimised.” “There might be a few hiccups and occasional delays in maintaining daily sanitation and garbage lifting, but we are trying our best to minimise such locations and have been able to ensure a smooth normal operation till now. For this purpose, zonal commissioners have been specifically empowered to engage extra vehicles, if needed,” he added. However, water consumption by citizens hasn’t dropped in the city. HMWS&SB director (technical) VL Praveen Kumar said, “Despite no commercial activity, there is an increase in domestic use. We are supplying 410 million gallons per day (MGD) of water to the city.” HMWS&SB chief manager Prasanna Kumar said, “The liquid waste is the same. There is no change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-generates-less-waste-consumes-more-water/articleshow/75055784.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Private labs add teeth to Delhi’s corona testing capabilities||NEW DELHI: If you need to get a test done for Covid-19 in Delhi, you can either go to a private laboratory, hospital or a government testing facility, where tests will be done for free, as per the order of the Supreme Court. Delhi has eight private labs and seven government facilities approved for Covid-19 testing. Together, they have conducted 9,332 tests till date, in which 588 (6%) proved positive and 7,897 (85%) negative. The results of the remaining are awaited.The number of tests being conducted is low because many of these labs received approval for testing only recently. Also, the criteria fixed by the government for testing for Covid-19 were initially restricted to people who had travelled abroad or had known contact with an infected individual. Now, anyone showing symptoms such as fever, dry cough and breathing difficulty can get tested if a qualified physician deems it necessary. Prominent chain Lal Path Labs has sample collection centres across Delhi, but has received approval for testing at its Rohini facility. A company official said, “A prescription signed by the doctor and a government photo ID (Aadhaar/voter card/driving licence/passport) to support residential address and contact number of the suspect patient are needed.” Form 44 describing the symptoms of the patient at the time of sample collection has to be filled by the patient or the physician. “Reports are made available within 48 hours,” the official added. Dr Dang’s Lab offers home collection of samples as well as a drive-through facility. It’s an innovative setup in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh ensuring minimum exposure to infection of both the patient and the medical personnel, claimed Arjun Dang, CEO, Dr Dang’s Lab. After booking an appointment for a drive-through test and uploading necessary documents, the car, whose number and colour are noted by the lab, drives into white box. “Our medical officer asks the person to tilt the head to collect two swabs from the nose and throat. The person can then leave for home and test reports will be sent via e-mail,” Dang. At Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, a standalone facility outside the emergency wing has been created for collection of test samples by trained staff. For testing in public hospitals, the government has created a helpline number which directs the caller to a dispensary where the physician assesses the need for a test. Thereafter, the person visits one of the six sample collection centres at Ram Manohar Lohia, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty, Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and Janakpuri Super Specialty hospitals. Samples are sent from here to the approved labs in AIIMS, Lady Hardinge Medical College, National Centre for Disease Control, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Maulana Azad Medical College and at Safdarjang Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-labs-add-teeth-to-citys-corona-testing-capabilities/articleshow/75055788.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 9, 2020||Mysuru||Solar-powered lights to deter animals a hit among farmers||Mysuru: With incidents of elephants and wild boars straying into villages from tiger reserves increasing each day, villagers living on the forest fringes have started installing solar-powered animal deterrent lights in their agricultural lands. The instrument, which is being manufactured by some youths from Bengaluru, has become popular among farmers living near the reserves. In order to prevent wild animals from entering the villages, the forest department has taken up various measures including digging elephant proof trenches (EPT), erecting solar fencing and rail barricades at forest borders. However, despite all the steps, there are regular incidents where elephants and wild boars destroy standing crops while tigers and leopards attack cattle and human beings. The instrument is manufactured by a Bengaluru-based company, Katidhan Tech Pvt Ltd, where the youths, Syed Rehmatul Ayan and Subham Banerjee are directors, Rakesh Pawar is the product technologist, Sikandar is the hardware engineer and Sangeetha Patil is the product designer. Rakesh Pawar told TOI that the instrument was developed after they found a farmer using a torchlight to avoid animals entering his field. “We made four prototype devices and tested them in various fields where there are human-animal conflicts. We found the solar- powered light more effective. The instrument has LEDs that flash in a random pattern. It automatically switches on at night and switches off during the day. It is effective in protecting gardens, livestock, agricultural land and farm houses from wild animals,” he said. Pawar said that the instrument has been installed in fields in HD Kote and Hunsur taluks which are close to the forest. “We have installed them in fields in Kanakapura, Hosur and others areas in the state. As it can be easily mounted on trees or poles, it is very effective in mitigating man-animal conflicts,” he said. Vijaykumar, a farmer from HD Kote, said since the powerful lights is visible to animals from more than a kilometre, they will not enter the fields. “The random lighting pattern scares the animals away, thereby saving crops,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/solar-powered-lights-to-deter-animals-a-hit-among-farmers/articleshow/75053261.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||KDMC mayor, a retired nurse, writes to chief civic to offer her service||After the CM appealed to retired medical staff to come forward, saying Maharashtra needs them to fight Covid-19, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation mayor Vinita Rane, a retired nurse from Nair Hospital, has offered her service. She has written to KDMC commissioner Dr Vijay Suryawanshi for the purpose. Rane was recently home-quarantined for 14 days after eight of the over 1,000 invitees to a wedding she attended in Dombivli tested positive for coronavirus in March. — Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kdmc-mayor-a-retired-nurse-writes-to-chief-civic-to-offer-her-service/articleshow/75054141.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 9, 2020||Meerut||UP Police file FIR after WhatsApp video calls for restricting entry of vendors from minority community||Meerut: Police in UP’s Meerut have filed an FIR and are trying to trace the people who have recorded and circulated a video on WhatsApp, which calls for boycotting the vendors of minority community in colonies.The case was filed under section 66 (computer-related offences) of the IT Act soon after the circulation of the “instigating” video asking people to “stop entry of minority community’s vending carts by checking their identity cards, as they were spreading dirtiness amid spread of novel coronavirus”.Ashutosh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Nauchandi police station, said, “An FIR has been filed against unknown persons for circulating an instigating video inciting people to ban the entry of minority community vendors in their colonies. Unknown people have been booked under Section 66 of the IT Act.”The video, which was apparently shot in Meerut’s Shastri Nagar, shows a group of people sitting outside a house and talking to each other. The person recording the video is heard saying that the residents of Shastri Nagar have come together to ban the entry of minority community vending cart pullers inside the colony because they were spreading dirtiness.“The video has been sent to the cyber cell to trace the exact location and also to find the person who made it. Action will be taken once the accused are traced,” said Kumar.Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “Action will be taken against those circulating misleading content on social media. They will be dealt as per the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-file-fir-after-whatsapp-video-calls-for-restricting-entry-of-vendors-from-minority-community/articleshow/75055350.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 9, 2020||Meerut||Prisoners in UP’s Meerut jail come up with 16-foot long sanitisation gallery||Meerut: To disinfect all those entering the Meerut jail premises, a 16-foot long sanitisation gallery has been built and installed at its gate by six prisoners, amid the increasing threat of novel coronavirus’s spread in the region. Meerut jail’s superintendent BD Pandey said, “The gallery has been setup at the entry gate of Meerut jail to ensure that anyone carrying the infection is completely sanitised by sodium hypochlorite, which has been filled in the tankers above. The gallery has 12 sprinklers and it was made by six prisoners over three days.” Covered with a fibre sheet, the setup was built with a budget of Rs 40,000.Meerut’s district magistrate (DM) Anil Dhingra lauded the initiative.“I plan to replicate it at Collectorate. This will help in sanitisation of people entering the premises there, just like in the jail here,” the DM said.It comes days after Meerut’s Cantonment Board came up with a sanitisation cabin for those involved in essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/prisoners-in-ups-meerut-jail-come-up-with-16-foot-long-sanitisation-gallery/articleshow/75055355.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana readies 13 government hospitals and 5,100 beds||HYDERABAD: With the coronavirus positive cases crossing 400 in the state, the Telangana government has identified 13 state-run hospitals and 5,100 beds to be used for isolation wards and treatment of coronavirus. The hospitals include Ayurvedic General Hospital and Ayurvedic Medical College at Erragadda, Government Homeopathy Hospital at Ramanthapur, Nature Cure hospital at Ameerpet, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital at Masab Tank, Nizamia Unani Hospital at Charminar and ESI hospital at SR Nagar. At present, five hospitals—Gandhi Hospital, Fever Hospital, Chest Hospital, King Koti Hospital in the city and MGM hospital in Warangal— are treating Covid-19 patients and have isolation wards. Besides, arrangements are also being made to convert Gachibowli stadium into a temporary hospital with about 1,500 beds. “Of these, only Gandhi, King Koti, Chest and MGM hospitals have around 600 ICU beds with ventilators while the rest are being used as isolation wards. Gandhi Hospital alone has 500 ICU beds,” a senior official of the health department said. Though the government has identified some more hospitals and medical colleges with about 12,000 beds, they would be utilised as and when the situation warrants, according to official sources. “Of these 5,100 beds, 4,080 beds are ready and another 1,010 will be ready in the next couple of days. The facility at Gachibowli Stadium would be ready by next Monday,” sources in the health department said. As many as 270 Covid-19 patients are being treated at Gandhi Hospital. “As almost 25 districts in the state have reported coronavirus cases, one hospital at district level was designated for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The hospital would evaluate patient situation, collect samples and send samples to Hyderabad for tests,” a health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-readies-13-govt-hosps-5100-beds/articleshow/75055817.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Second case against Indonesians, head of worship place named||HYDERABAD: Close on the heels of Karimnagar police filing cases against 10 Indonesians for violating visa regulations, Ramagundam police on Wednesday booked a case against them and the head of a worship place for not informing cops about their religious activities. This was the second case registered in Telangana against the same group of Indonesians, who had tested positive for Covid-19. The case was registered under sections 420, 269, 270, 188 of the IPC, 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act and 14(1)(b), 7, 13, 14(c) of the Foreigners Act. “We have also named the head of the worship place in Ramagundam as an accused in the case along with the Indonesians for not informing us about the activities of foreigners,” Ramagundam inspector Karunakar Rao told TOI. On Tuesday, criminal cases were registered against 70 foreigners in Hyderabad and 12 Vietnam nationals in Nalgonda districts. Karunakar Rao said the 10 Indonesians reached Ramagundam town in AP Sampark Kranti Express from Delhi on March 14 morning. “From the railway station, they went to a worship place and took part in prayers. They spent about one hour at the worship place and went to Karimnagar in an auto. They came on a tourist visa and participated in religious activity which is in violation of law,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-case-against-indonesians-head-of-worship-place-named/articleshow/75055794.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 9, 2020||Meerut||40 Bijnor villages reeling under dark for 2 days||Bijnor: At least 40 villages in Bijnor district were reeling under the dark for the last two days as electricity supply was snapped due to damaged poles and some other technical faults. With the lockdown in force, the power department staff was also “taking its time” to mend the faults, sources said.The power supply was disrupted at a time when farmers in the region are looking to irrigate their crop.When contacted, junior engineer of power corporation, Zahid Iqbal, said, “There was a technical fault in transmission power house. Some poles were also damaged. They were repaired on Wednesday. Power supply will resume soon.”Sonu Kumar, a villager of Madhusudanpur, said, “Over 40 villages, including Mandawali, Dharuwala, Bakarpur, Muzafarpurkeso, Kaziwala, Narulapur are without power for the last 36 hours. Villagers are facing a lot of problems. We have asked authority to repair power lines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/40-bijnor-villages-reeling-under-dark-for-2-days/articleshow/75055356.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 9, 2020||Meerut||UP Police file FIR after WhatsApp video calls for restricting entry of vendors from minority community||MEERUT: Police in UP’s Meerut have filed an FIR and are trying to trace the people who have recorded and circulated a video on WhatsApp, which calls for boycotting the vendors of minority community in colonies. The case was filed under section 66 (computer-related offences) of the IT Act soon after the circulation of the “instigating” video asking people to “stop entry of minority community’s vending carts by checking their identity cards, as they were spreading dirtiness amid spread of novel coronavirus”. Ashutosh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Nauchandi police station, said, “An FIR has been filed against unknown persons for circulating an instigating video inciting people to ban the entry of minority community vendors in their colonies. Unknown people have been booked under Section 66 of the IT Act.” The video, which was apparently shot in Meerut’s Shastri Nagar, shows a group of people sitting outside a house and talking to each other. The person recording the video is heard saying that the residents of Shastri Nagar have come together to ban the entry of minority community vending cart pullers inside the colony because they were spreading dirtiness. “The video has been sent to the cyber cell to trace the exact location and also to find the person who made it. Action will be taken once the accused are traced,” said Kumar. Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “Action will be taken against those circulating misleading content on social media. They will be dealt as per the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-file-fir-after-whatsapp-video-calls-for-restricting-entry-of-vendors-from-minority-community/articleshow/75055359.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 9, 2020||Nashik||People revealing travel history praised||Nashik: Several people, who came to Nashik after having travelled to different coronavirus-affected places, have disclosed their travel-histories to the administration and have appeared for medical checks. One of the six is a young mother with a four-month-year-old baby. According to the administration, six adults and one child have come into Nashik from abroad and other parts of India in the past fortnight. Appropriate action is being taken in terms of conducting their health checks, throat swab collection etc, the officials said. Collector Suraj Mandhare has praised these individuals for their “responsible” behaviour. “There are six people, and a baby, who had returned from Canada, New Delhi and other places within Nashik. They appeared for health check-ups with the medical teams in Nashik. This is a welcome sign,” he said. “A women had come to Nashik from Canada along with her baby. She got in touch with the medical teams and has gotten tested. The health officials are now of monitoring her health parameters,” the collector said. There are also four members of a family who had travelled to Nashik from New Delhi — after their flight was cancelled. They family came to Nashik on March 20 and they too presented themselves for health checks. The sixth person had travelled from New Delhi to Malegaon on March 20 by the train. The state government and the district administration have been requesting people to reveal their travel histories to the local administration. The collector has now warned that intentionally hiding travel history would attract action. Nashik district has two positive patients so far. The first one was detected on March 29. He had a travel history to Ahmednagar. The second patient tested positive on April 6. He had gone to Agra for some work at the railway office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-revealing-travel-history-praised/articleshow/75056191.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Police still looking for Jamaat members hiding across Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is using physical and technical intelligence to trace Tabhligi Jamaat members suspected to be hiding in mosques and guesthouses across Delhi. The cops fear several foreigners may be staying in these places in central, northeast and southeast Delhi. At least 100 people, including 65 foreigners, have been identified as staying in Chandni Mahal and police are verifying how many of them had attended the Alami Markaz event. The house-owners in these areas have been asked to stay alert. Among the foreigners, at least 30 are women, who will stay in a quarantine centre in Gulabi Bagh. An FIR will be registered against the owners of the houses where these people were staying, said a police officer. Many of these people claimed that some of them had attended the congregation after receiving a Jamaat invitation on email. They assured that proper sanitisation measures were taken at the Alami Markaz and they were asked to stay inside to avoid contact with outsiders. A police source said apart from the Crime Branch, the Special Cell and the Special Branch are also tracking down Tablighi members. The deputy commissioners of police at each district have been asked to keep an eye on the shelters provided by the mosques. A week ago, the cops found seven people from Myanmar, including three senior citizens, hiding in the Aksha masjid in Shahdara. In northeast Delhi, around 106 people, including 84 foreigners, have been evacuated from seven mosques and sent to quarantine centres. In south Delhi, 36 foreigners from three mosques have been sent for isolation to one mosque where social distancing is possible. Police have also found 12 Indonesians at Akbari Masjid in east Delhi, 11 people from Kyrgyzstan at Badi Masjid and 13 foreigners at Choti Masjid, both in Hauz Rani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-still-looking-for-jamaat-members-hiding-across-capital/articleshow/75055792.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Youth, 21, shoots himself dead after girl refuses to go out with him||MEERUT: A 21-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself dead at the house of a girl after she refused to go out with him in Meerut’s Bahsuma region. The incident took place on Tuesday and local police suspect it to be a case of one-sided affection. The youth, Asif Ali, a student of Class XII, was a resident of Akbarpur. “He reached the girl’s house on Tuesday evening and asked her to accompany him. But she refused to come out. The youth, in a fit of rage, took out a country-made pistol and shot himself in stomach. He died in a hospital later,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-21-shoots-himself-dead-after-girl-refuses-to-go-out-with-him/articleshow/75055360.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Schools may advance summer holidays in Kolkata||KOLKATA: At a time when uncertainty looms over withdrawal of the lockdown, several schools across the city are planning to advance the summer vacation. Speaking to TOI, many school principals said that they were in favour of combining the summer vacation with the lockdown so that the new session can begin from the first week of June. Usually, the summer vacation extends till mid-June. “We run the risk of not finishing the syllabus if the classes do not start as soon as the Covid-19 ordeal is over,” said a city school principal. Another principal, too, felt that though regular school hours in the first week of June will mean holding classes in excessive heat, there is no other way around. ICSE, ISC and CBSE Class XII students will have to finish the examination once the new schedule is finalised by CISCE or CBSE after the lockdown is withdrawn. “We are waiting for the state government’s decision. If the lockdown continues for another 10-15 days, we will have to club the summer holidays with the lockdown period,” said Heritage School principal Seema Sapru. Some schools like Ram Mohan Mission may even forgo the summer vacation if the lockdown is extended and resume classes. “Classes can be held for a few hours in the morning. Unless the state issues a directive, I will need to keep the school open to complete the syllabus,” said the principal Sujay Biswas. Even St.James School is planning to club the summer holidays with the lockdown period.  “If the government extends the lockdown by another one week, we will have to close the school for the summer vacation,” said the principal T H Ireland. “We will also have to work on additional days like Saturday and other holidays,” he added. Don Bosco School Park Circus is also among those institutions that are likely to club the summer vacation with the lockdown period. “The school has already alerted parents about the classes remaining suspended till the end of April,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-may-advance-summer-holidays/articleshow/75055796.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC starts zonal vegetable markets in 40 locations||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), in order to reduce the number of people visiting the Jadhavwadi vegetable market, has started wholesale vegetable markets in 40 places across the nine zones of the city. This, according to the civic body, will help people in buying vegetables near their homes and avoid gathering at the market in Jadhavwadi. Thet administration was on high alter after 9 Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in the city within a span of 48 hours. On Tuesday, civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey issued a circular prohibiting retail sale of vegetables and fruits at Jadhavwadi market. He also enlisted 40 open spaces where vendors will be allowed to sell vegetables. The markets will remain open to two hours – from 7 am to 9 am. Aamkhas Maidan, Ramlila Ground in Cidco N-7, Shahgunj vegetable market, Mukundwadi vegetable market and Farshi Maidan at Cidco N-9 saw sale of vegetables on Wednesday. From Thursday, the vegetable markets at Aurangpura ZP ground, Rajiv Gandhi stadium in Cidco N-5, Ayodhya Nagari ground near railway station, Tapadiya Kasliwal ground, Jaibhim Nagar, Nandanvan Colony, Kasliwal Tarangan, Maji Sainik Colony, Kelibazar, Altamash Colony, Nehru Nagar, TV Centre, Eidgah Maidan (Rozabagh), ground near Harsul Jail, Sambhaji Colony in Cidco N-6, Naregaon AMC School, Chikalthana weekly market, API Corner, Chattrapati ground in Cidco N-2, Jai Bhawani Nagar, Dargah Chowk, Maurya Mangal Karyalaya, Gajanan Maharaj Mandir to Pundalik Road, near Waheguru Complex, near SBI Zonal office Town Centre, Renuka Mata Mandir (MIT), Deolai Chowk, Kanchanwadi, under railway station flyover, state GST office, Peer Bazaar, Tilak Nagar and Cantonment weekly market will be open for two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-starts-zonal-vegetable-markets-in-40-locations/articleshow/75055366.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Don’t fall into only promotional schemes: Police||Nashik: The cybercrime police on Wednesday cautioned people to not fall prey to any online promotional messages as it might be a new trick of the online fraudsters. The police said that due to the country-wide lockdown, many criminals have come up with unique ways to cheat people. People are spending time watching web series, playing online games or surfing online videos, etc which requires unlimited data. “The criminals would come up with fake lucrative date plans and hence people should take utmost precautions while opting for such offers,” said a police officer. Criminals are also sending a link along with such a message wherein if one clicks the cellphone of the concerned person automatically gets hacked. The persona then gets all the information of the victim’s location, camera, messages, gallery, phone information, the social accounts activated in it, storage, etc. They can also make phone calls from the victim’s cellphone and can even send messages, while the victim has the least knowledge of the same, said the officer. The police said that many people are getting phone calls with +90 code numbers asking for help to Covid 19 victims. People should be extra cautious about callers, who are asking for their personal bank details to deposit of Rs 2,000 through Jan Dhan scheme, as all such callers are fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dont-fall-into-only-promotional-schemes-police/articleshow/75056194.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Kidney patient ‘ousted’ from Lok Nayak Hospital, dies||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old kidney patient from Old Delhi, who was admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital a few days ago, was suddenly asked to leave on Tuesday because the facility, which has been designated a Covid-19 centre, had to make space for patients suspected or suffering from novel coronavirus. The woman’s family alleged that they weren’t provided an ambulance or alternative arrangement to shift the patient to another hospital. They ran around on their own and when they couldn’t get her admitted elsewhere, they took her back home where she breathed her last on Wednesday morning. “Shahjahan passed away at 7am,” the 35-year-old’s relative, Mohammad Khalid, told TOI. He claimed that the woman was on ventilator support because she had breathing difficulty too. “The hospital didn’t listen to our requests. They simply asked us to take her to Safdarjung Hospital. We booked a private ambulance to take her there, but Safdarjung Hospital also denied admission. We then went to AIIMS and Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, but even they refused to admit her. Finally, we brought her back home where she died,” Khalid alleged. Dr JC Passey, Lok Nayak medical director, denied any knowledge of this incident. He, however, clarified that around 800 patients admitted under various departments of the hospital were discharged over the past two weeks because the hospital was being turned into a Covid-19 centre. “We told all patients to go to GTB Hospital and some of them have been admitted there,” Passey said. Lok Nayak has more than 2,000 beds, which are always full. Recently, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and arrangements made thereof for quarantine and isolation of suspected as well as confirmed cases, the hospital suspended all elective surgeries and restricted the OPD service. “Some of the admitted patients, who were waiting for surgery, were told to come once the Covid-19 crisis was over. Others continued to stay. However, they were discharged when it was decided to turn Lok Nayak into a dedicated facility for Covid-19 treatment,” said a senior doctor. Public health activist and advocate Ashok Agarwal said it was inhuman to discharge admitted patients without any preparedness. “The hospital should have at the least made arrangement for transfer and ensured a bed for them at an alternative facility before discharging them,” he added. While it is important to make arrangement for Covid-19, he said, the other patients cannot be left to die. Sources said many patients admitted at GB Pant Hospital, another super-specialty hospital run by the state government that has been designated for treatment of Covid-19 cases, have also been discharged over the past few days. “GB Pant Hospital has around 800 beds. At present, only about 50 patients are admitted in the hospital. Even they have been told to make alternative arrangements. The hospital is trying to help them,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kidney-patient-ousted-from-lok-nayak-dies/articleshow/75055803.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 9, 2020||Trichy||During peak season, Covid-19 is pushing folk artistes to the brink||Trichy: Panguni and Chithirai are busy Tamil months for drama and folk artists in the state because of the volume of festivals being held in temples in these months. But the spread of Covid-19 has turned the lives of many of the artistes upside down as temple festivals stand cancelled. Spiritual drama and folk-dance performance are integral part of temple festivals, especially in villages on set stages where dramas are performed with social and spiritual themes. Besides this, folk artistes dress up like temple deities and perform folk art forms. However, Covid-19 spread has hit the livelihood of these artistes in the peak season, which start with Shivaratri in the Tamil month of Masi, mid of February. The whole of Tamil month of Panguni witnesses Amman temple festival followed by Chithirai temple festivals. Vaikasi (May) is also lined up with temple festivals. “Majority of folk dance and drama artists rely on the season for their livelihood and manage the rest of the year with the earnings,” says folk artiste D Govindaraj of Madurai-based Kalai Membattu Niruvanam. Those who rely on the income cannot save money for such a crisis. Roughly 20,000 artistes out of 1.5 lakh folk artistes are registered with Tamil Nadu Folk Artists Welfare Association who will receive Rs 1,000 announced by the state government, he said. General secretary of Tiruchirappalli District Drama Artists Association M S Mohamed Masthan said that artistes may have earned Rs 600-700 a day and lady artistes will earn up to Rs 1,000 during these months, but all are sitting idle at home as temple festivals have been cancelled. During the same time last year, 43-year-old Shanmugam, drama artist and dancer from Kambarasampettai, was part of Mayana Kollai, a festival celebrated to worship goddess Angalamman in temples. Founder of Avvai Shanmugi Deiveega Nadana Kalai Kuzhu drama troop, he performs in temple festival where he would be doing the role of the Goddess. Shanmugam was booked for the next two weeks for programmes in Bengaluru, Theni and Madurai. But all the plans dropped and he is sitting idle at home. “The government has given Rs 1,000 but that is not sufficient to run a family of four for more than 3-4 days. As many as 20 families my troop members are depending on the programmes that I provide during the festival season,” he said. A character artiste, S Kannan, 66, who is a member of the South Indian Artists Association in Trichy, says that he was acting in awareness street plays organised by the state for dengue awareness apart from spiritual drama enacted occasionally in the city. But he has been left without job this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/during-peak-season-covid-19-is-pushing-folk-artistes-to-the-brink/articleshow/75055802.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Nurses criticise sub-standard PPEs||Aurangabad: Two days after a nurse tested positive for Covid-19, the nurses’ association at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) criticised the hospital administration for providing sub-standard masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. This comes two days after the resident doctors had refused to work in the emergency services without protective gear. A male nurse , deployed in casualty ward of the GMCH, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. He had no recent travel history, which indicated that he may have got infected at work. On Sunday, the resident doctors had halted work for a few hours demanding provision of adeqauate N-95 masks and PPEs. Following an assurance by the administration, they resumed work. On Monday, the GMCH medicine department screened the resident doctors and medical staff who came in contact or were on duty with the infected nurse. 25 doctors were put on home quarantine. On Wednesday, Maharashtra Government Nurses Federation raised concerns about the lack of good quality PPEs and masks. federation secretary Indumati Thorat told TOI that the PPEs provided by GMCH were not good. “The PPE kit for Covid-19 management includes gloves, goggles, apron, coverall suit, shoe cover, face mask and waste disposal bag. However, we are only provided a plastic cover, which has no manufacturer label — that too in only one size. When our nurses wear it, it starts to tear apart,” Thorat said. She said N-95 masks also did not have any labels. Such apathy, she said, is jeopardising the life of the nurses. “We are ready to work, but with protective gear. We will talk to the resident doctors’ association on what needs to be done if the administration fails to protect the staff. Currently, its officebearers are quarantined,” she said. When asked, GMCH medical superintendent Suresh Harbade said the hospital received PPEs from different sources. “We recieved some from the district civil hospital, some from Hafkinne Biopharmaceuticals, some from medical education department and others were purchased locally. However, these were sample kits,” he said. The administration, however, could not give assurance on when proper kits will be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nurses-criticise-sub-standard-ppes/articleshow/75055377.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Fruit cultivators brace for losses, banana growers on slippery slope||HYDERABAD: Even as banana and tomato farmers in Andhra Pradesh are facing severe distress due to lack of market and support price, the future looks bleak for all other horticulture crops cultivators like mango and sweet orange if the lockdown continues beyond April 15. Andhra Pradesh is the largest fruit producer in the country with 16% of fruits. It has now seven lakh metric tonnes of standing crop of banana in three top-producing districts of Rayalaseema alone. The farmers usually get Rs 10,000 per ton, but now they are getting just Rs 3,000 and transportation has become an enormous obstacle. To make matters worse, the mango and sweet orange farmers of the Telugu states are facing an uncertain future and are, therefore, demanding government support to bail them out in the crisis. P Chengal Reddy, founder of Consortium of Indian Farmers Association, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. The letter said, “The closure of the agricultural markets have resulted in the collapse of the market structures which would have facilitated in price discovery.” The farmer’s body asked the Centre to nationalise the procurement and wholesale markets of horticulture crops for the duration of the lockdown by using the various government agencies such as Food Corporation of India (FCI), APEDA and MARKFED. “Issue of transport permits to private transporters to facilitate the inter-state movement of goods should be sorted out. The government should issue a permit to the workers of the vehicles to ensure that the law enforcement authorities do not harass them. Provision of food canteens for workers involved in the transportation of horticulture products will help. The government should permit the running of cargo trains for transporting key produce to various markets across the country,” were some of the demands made by Chengal Reddy in the letter. The association also asked for a bailout package for horticulture farmers. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of Horticulture department, told TOI, “The mango season has just begun. It will take another week to pick up. In places like Reddygudem in Krishna district, harvesting has started and right now it’s just 200 tons harvested in entire district. Currently, mango crop is fetching Rs 18,000 to Rs 35,000 per ton but because of the poor quality it will get Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fruit-cultivators-brace-for-losses-banana-growers-on-slippery-slope/articleshow/75055810.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Govind Nagar complete lockdown Day 2: Residents resolute||Nashik: The residents of the 3km-radius sealed area in Govind Nagar are determined to observe the complete lockdown. Though grocery and vegetable shops were closed on the second day on Wednesday, residents seemed mentally prepared. On Tuesday, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed a 3km area around the Sumangal housing society in Manohar Nagar, which is a part of Govind Nagar, after a resident of the housing society tested positive for Covid-19. The prohibited area includes more than half of Ward 24 of the municipal corporation. Though the streets had been locked down, residents of the containment areas put up additional barriers blocking approaches to their housing societies. One resident said that people were not even coming out on their balconies. Prakash Vaishampayan, a gas dealer, said, “Our delivery men could not deliver the cylinders due to the barriers. Even when they managed to drive past the barriers, the customers did not want to come out to take the deliveries.” He said the delivery men were taking a risk too by visiting the containment zone, and they needed a little co-operation. Prakash Patil, who lives in Sadguru Nagar, said, “Residents of our apartment decided that no one will leave the building or allow anyone inside. We have stopped our milkmen’s services. Grocery articles are purchased as and when the need arises, or the police allow us to venture out.” Residents who have urgent work and need to go out, are making calls to their friends for help. A pathologist made phone calls to her friends and acquaintances when she realized that she too was not allowed to step out the society. “I have my lab and am attached to a private hospital. While I could keep my lab closed, it was important for me to go to the hospital. The officials, however, did not permit me or my husband, who too is a doctor, to leave,” said Pritika Chaudhary. Many apartment residents have formed WhatsApp groups. On these groups they discuss whether to allow vegetable vendors, milkmen inside; the proper way to use the elevator; informing everyone if there is an urgent need to go out of the building etc. Police officials said the bandobast would be lifted only after they get instructions from their senior officials. They added that 14 days from Tuesday could be the minimum period. Corporators on phone to co-ordinate form home Three corporators from the prohibited areas — Kalpana Pande, Pravin Tidme and Kalpana Chumbhle — are co-coordinating with the civic administration from their respective homes. They are ensuring that spraying and sanitation activities continue and people have access to essential goods and services. Residents from the sealed areas are calling the corporators with various issues and the corporators are trying to address their concerns. “I am continuously in touch with the health officials and the police administration after Govind Nagar and surrounding areas were sealed,” said Kalpana Pande. “I am ensuring that the areas in my ward are sanitised. Five-six residents, who came in contact with the confirmed patient, are isolated in the Zakir Hussain Hospital. Two of them are not in good health as they have blood pressure and sugar problems. I am continuously pursuing the matter with the authority,” she said. Pande is also trying to resolve other issues. “I got a call from one resident, whose relative passed away in Mumbai. She wanted to go there. I told her not to go to Mumbai and instead take care of her family,” Pande said. Pravin Tidme too is resolving issues over the phone. “There are also two slums in my area. These people are contacting me for foods and other essentials. Some calls are related to spraying and sanitation activities,” Tidme said. 10 tested negative, swabs reports of 7 awaited Meanwhile, the throat swab samples of 10 of 17 people from Govind Nagar areas have been tested negative. The reports of the remaining seven people are awaited. NMC officials said that 17 people, who had come in close contact with the Covid-19 positive patient from Sumangal housing society, were isolated in NMC’s Zakir Hussain Hospital and their swabs were sent to the for testing. The NMC continued its door-to-door survey on the second consecutive day on Wednesday in the core area around Sumangal housing society. A total of 22 teams, with three members each, have been deployed to conduct the survey. The NMC has conducted a survey of total 2,220 houses in past two days covering a total population of around 7,800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govind-nagar-complete-lockdown-day-2-residents-resolute/articleshow/75056196.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ozone new concern in air||NEW DELHI: As the emission levels in the city have gone down with the lockdown in place, secondary pollutants like ground-level ozone (O3) as well as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) are now emerging as the lead pollutants according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily Air Quality Index. Secondary pollutants are formed when primary pollutants interact in the atmosphere. Ozone in particular featured as lead pollutant for four out of seven days last week. With temperatures set to rise further in the coming weeks, experts say ozone pollution is one to pay attention to under the circumstances, as it can cause respiratory problems. While the lead pollutant in Delhi is generally PM2.5 or PM10 through the year, the lockdown has meant the only sources of pollution right now are the limited vehicles on the road, contributing to formation of ground-level ozone and NO2 in the heat. Even though ozone is considered beneficial in the upper parts of the atmosphere, it becomes toxic at the ground-level and is considered a pollutant, with breathing in high levels of ozone causing respiratory problems. This can also worsen pre-existing existing respiratory problems like asthma and bronchitis and can even cause permanent damage to the lungs. With Covid-19 primarily affecting the lungs, expert say people should only venture out during this period when it is necessary. “The levels of ozone generally tend to peak in April and May. We will soon be analysing the data to see if the levels are above prescribed limits along with the impact of lockdown on the ozone levels, and compare it with last year’s data. One needs to be careful, particularly in areas where ozone levels remain high through the summer,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, at the Centre for Science and Environment. A CSE study last year had observed that average ozone levels exceeded prescribed standards on 16% of the days between April 1 and June 15, 2019, against just 5% in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ozone-new-concern-in-air/articleshow/75056414.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 9, 2020||Nashik||Avoid visiting graveyards on Shab-e-Baraat: Nashik police to Muslims||NASHIK: The Nashik city and rural police have appealed to Muslims in the district to avoid the customary gathering at graveyards and praying for the departed souls of their near and dear ones on the occasion of Shab-e-Baraat Thursday night. Police have also reached out to Muslim scholars and trustees of mosques and graveyards, and have received an assurance that the gates of shrines and graveyards will be kept locked and people have been told to offer prayers at their homes in view of the nationwide lockdown. The night is considered auspicious by Muslims, most of whom take a bath and offer special prayers at home or in mosques soon after sunset and then pray the whole night. Nashik city police said all programmes on the occasion have been cancelled in the city in view of the nationwide lockdown to containg the fast spreading coronavirus. The city police, who will be taking measures to prevent gathering of people during the lockdown, have urged the scholars and community leaders to ask people not to step out of their homes on Thursday evening. Around 550 police personnel have been deployed in Malegaon to ensure the lockdown is not violated. Last year, around 2 lakh people from across the country had gathered in Malegaon for Shab-e-Baraat. Arti Singh, superintendent of police (Nashik Rural), on Tuesday conducted a meeting with in-charges of all police stations to review the security arrangement for Shab-e-Baraat. She also instructed the police officers to take strict action against people and administrators of WhatsApp groups if they found posting communal videos or messages on social media. Singh also visited the Bada Kabrastan in Malegaon and urged its trustees to spread similar message. “The trustees have said that they would keep the gate of the graveyard closed. On our part, a huge bandobast of three companies of the state reserve police force (SRPF) would be deployed around Bada Kabrastan. At the same time, around 250 police personnel would be manning the streets of Malegaon to ensure that no one comes out of their homes.” Police have also decided to seize the vehicles of people who are found roaming in the town without valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avoid-visiting-graveyards-on-shab-e-baraat-police-to-muslims/articleshow/75056197.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Hiccup in ration disbursal to non-PDS recipients in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that 4kg wheat and 1kg rice would be provided to 10 lakh individuals who are not enrolled as public distribution system (PDS) beneficiaries, the scheme is yet to take off. Most centres are still awaiting the list of beneficiaries for giving free rations. The families without ration cards have to register themselves online with names and Aadhaar numbers of all members. An e-coupon will then be sent on the registered mobile number, mentioning the address of the distribution centre from where dry rations can be collected. A senior official of food and civil supplies department said that rations were being delivered in a phased manner. “There are logistical issues involved,” he added. Of the 405 schools earmarked for the purpose, 132 were operational by Wednesday and 90 would start on Thursday. “The rest will start working in 3-4 days,” another official said. When TOI visited several schools on Wednesday, it found only a few distributing rations. However, there was huge rush of people there. “I have the e-coupon, but the staff said the stock is yet to arrive. I had come here yesterday, but they asked me to come today,” said SK Sharma from Ganesh Nagar. At Gole Market’s NP Girls’ Senior Secondary School, the staff said that the stock of wheat and rice had arrived, but they didn’t have the list of beneficiaries. “We have been told that the list will be sent on Thursday,” said an employee. At Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School No. 4 in south Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar, the stock was delivered on Wednesday. “We will start distributing foodgrains from Thursday. We have pasted a copy of a demo e-coupon, which has a QR code, at the gate to let people know that they must have it on their phone to get the rations,” said a staff member. The story at the municipal school in Mayur Vihar-I was different. The staff said they had the stock and the list of beneficiaries since Tuesday, but nobody turned up to collect rations. “There is a possibility that people might not have got the e-coupon yet,” an employee said. At Government Senior Secondary School in Khichripur, the ration couldn’t be delivered on Wednesday. “Due to server problem, the QR code was not being downloaded. The ration cannot be delivered without scanning the code,” said a staff member distributed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hiccup-in-ration-disbursal-to-non-pds-recipients/articleshow/75056416.cms||Atul Mathur
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Tailor-made for crisis: Self-help groups boost fight||NEW DELHI: It is becoming increasingly clear that prudence lies in everyone using face masks for protection from the novel coronavirus against the earlier wisdom that only the infected should use them. But where are the masks to come from? Well, there are a number of NGOs and self-help groups that have taken up this crucial aspect of the fight against the dangerous coronavirus. Amba Foundation is an NGO in east Delhi involved with more than 30 women’s self-help groups in slum clusters. It is mobilising the women in its tailoring groups through video-chats to make cloth masks. Jyoti Sarwal, founder and director of Amba Foundation, said that the women had undergone workshops on cutting and tailoring before the lockdown came into force. “We are now seeking their help to make reusable face masks for free distribution. Around 20 women are working on this,” Sarwal said. “We are using Times of India stencils for the masks.” There is a shortage of elastic bands, but the women have decided to sew the basic masks so they can be quickly completed once the lockdown is lifted. Across in west Delhi’s Ramesh Nagar, Aastha Welfare Society is also churning out hand-made face covers for use by municipal employees on duty during the lockdown. The area councillor, Veena Virmani, said that five housewives were earlier making cloth bags to replace plastic ones and are now focused on masks. They have had over 4,000 sewn till now. “We were seeking the advice of a doctor, but the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner sent us the guidelines on masks issued by principal scientific advisor,” explained Virmani. The washable masks can be used for 6-7 months. The group also recently supplied 500 masks to the education department. In northwest Delhi’s Savda Ghevra JJ colony, NGO Mahila Housing Sewa Trust (MHT) have stitched over 4,000 masks in the last two weeks. The women members sell these masks at a nominal cost and has a local vendor delivering them to hospitals and underprivileged colonies. “This began as a way to give back to the medical community while simultaneously generating a livelihood for the women,” explained Veena Bharadwaj, coordinator, MHT. “We also make masks for vulnerable people who cannot afford to buy them. We let such people have the masks for free.” So far, around 800 masks have been distributed in Savda Ghevra, while a similar campaign is under way in east Delhi’s Sundar Nagri and Nand Nagri. “Around 400 masks have been distributed in east Delhi. These were stitched on machines by the women. A single woman can make 200-250 masks per day,” said Bharadwaj. Realising how ragpickers are forced to earn a livelihood without protection, Chintan, an NGO working with waste workers, has been making cloth masks in lieu of sanitised masks available for a price in the market. Anita Devi, a senior trainee at Chintan’s informal learning centre for ragpickers’ children, was unable to visit one of the 18 learning centres due to the lockdown. She and other senior trainees and teachers decided to put their time to good use to make masks, according to Chitra Mukherjee, head of policy, Chintan. Anita Devi and her companions fabricate masks out of old bedsheets and clothes and distribute them in the ragpicker communities. Till now, Chintan has made and distributed around 1,000 home-made masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tailor-made-for-crisis-self-help-groups-boost-fight/articleshow/75055827.cms||Paras Singh
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Curfew relaxation for farmers to transport produce||Trichy: The Central zone DIG has instructed police personnel not to restrict any farmers who are transporting their produce to markets. The DIG has also listed out the contact numbers to inform about any inconvenience regarding the conveyance in the five districts including Trichy in the range. To ease agro-based business the government has exempted certain agriculture activities from the curfew. DIG V Balakrishnan has issued a set of instruction to police personnel regarding this. As per the instruction, he has stated that police personnel working in the districts such as Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur should allow farmers to transport agro-based products such as food grains, vegetables, fruits and flowers. He has also stated five landline phone numbers for farmers to express their view or grievances. For any queries, farmers or trader from Trichy can contact 0431-2333638, Pudukottai 04322-266966, Karur 04324-255100, Perambalur 04328-224962 and Ariyalur 04329-222216.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/curfew-relaxation-for-farmers-to-transport-produce/articleshow/75055814.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Focus on shelters for homeless after two shifted to Covid-19 hospitals||KOLKATA: Reports of two pavement dwellers — one from Metiabruz and the other from Bowbazar — contracting novel coronavirus have prompted Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police to take a closer look at shelters housing more than 10,000 vagrants and homeless across the city. Civic officials and police officers are concerned since the crowded shelters do not allow social distancing. They fear the shelters could become hotspots for Covid-19 if even one person contracts the virus. An abandoned four-storied building near the Kalighat temple that now houses 4,000 street dwellers tops the worry chart and civic officials as well as cops are desperately trying to find a way to prevent it from turning into a Covid cluster. Among the proposals doing the rounds is regular thermal checks to identify a person if he or she develops fever and then isolate the group till the person is tested. With only a handful attendants at the centre, KMC health department officials are keeping their fingers crossed and hoping the situation does not go out of hands. “The condition at the shelter in Kalighat would have been fine in a normal situation. But now that social distancing is required to keep Covid-19 at bay, the situation is really worrying. The congregation of 4,000 homeless people, who are fed twice a day by two NGOs, is by no means acceptable in the present context. But then, what do you do about them? Apart from the space crunch in the building, lack of sanitizers or masks is also a problem, not just among inmates but also among KMC medical staff who visit the shelter,” said a senior KMC health department official. An official at KMC health department felt a majority of vagrants could pose a potential threat to adjacent localities in Kalighat that are densely populated. “There is no facility to individually check if the pavement dwellers are running temperature or suffering from cough and cold. At the most, we can arrange for random checking,” the civic medical officer said. However, police officers from Kalighat police station have swung into action following a direction from Lalbazar that has asked the cops to do a video photography of meal being served to all the homeless at the civic shelters. “Now, we need to follow the basic norms, including maintaining physical distance among the homeless at the civic shelters. Cops also need to wear masks as non-compliance will lead to punishment,” said a senior police officer. Some other areas where cops are keeping a vigil on shelters for the homeless include Bowbazar, College Street, Rajabazar, Entally, Canal East Road, Kidderpore, Garden Reach and Bhowanipore, among other areas. At Bowbazar, the cops became active following report of a pavement dweller contacting novel coronavirus. Cops on Monday roped in KMC medical officers to do a thermal screening among the pavement dwellers who have taken shelter at three places in Bowbazar. “We are conducting regular thermal screening among the pavement dwellers who have taken shelter at three places in Bowbazar as local residents are scared following report of one of them contracting novel coronavirus,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-shelters-for-homeless-after-two-shifted-to-covid-hosps/articleshow/75055380.cms||Saikat Ray
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Crackdown on Trichy clinic for illegal sale of siddha medicine||TRICHY: Following complaints, the district siddha medical officer (DSMO) on Wednesday cracked down on a private health centre in K K Nagar which was selling illegally manufactured Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam and seized 10kg of the substance, a siddha medicine suggested by the Union ministry of Ayush. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said many unlicensed people have begun manufacturing Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam – a decoction to strengthen the immunity system — and have been marketing it at an exorbitant rate aided by the high demand for siddha medicine. Acting on a barrage of complaints, DSMO Dr S Kamaraj carried out an inspection at a private clinic of an Ayurveda doctor at Indira Nagar on Wednesday. Kamaraj said the sale was illegal as it was not manufacturer did not possess the right licence. He urged people to check for details of the manufacturing license, manufacturing date, expiry date, maximum retail price, ingredients and composition and the address of the manufacturers on products. “In case any of this is missing, people should not buy the medicine,” said Kamaraj. Kamaraj also said the doctor was unavailable during the inspection. An employee told the DSMO that the centre was issuing the medicine to their patients only. “If they are giving it to their patients, they should not have the MRP printed, but here they are selling it at Rs 184 for 100g. They even advertised in several parts of the district,” said Kamaraj adding that they will be prosecuted after the tests results of the samples of the seized medicine comes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crackdown-on-trichy-clinic-for-illegal-sale-of-siddha-medicine/articleshow/75055836.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man in Rajanna Sircilla fined Rs 500 for stepping out||HYDERABAD: A gram panchayat in Rajanna Sircilla district has imposed a penalty of Rs 500 on a person for violating the lockdown rules. Manala village panchayat in Rudrangi mandal on Wednesday imposed the fine on Bathula Venkatesh for stepping out of his house and roaming outside five times during the day. There are 16 sections under which the panchayat can impose fines but since this does not come under any of them, it was imposed under the ‘others’ section. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-fined-rs-500-for-stepping-out/articleshow/75055815.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Police & health staff combating Covid-19, face a salary cut salvo||Aurangabad: Health department staffers and police personnel were left fuming after the bills submitted by the respective account officers proposed salary cuts as per the Government Resolution (GR) Salaries of Class I and II employees will be cut by 50%. For the Class III employees, bills with 25% salary deduction have been sent to the treasury department. There is no cut in salaries for the remaining classes. The authorities in the police department, citing that theirs is a “disciplined force”, refused to come on record. A senior officer said, “So far, there is no GR or state’s communication exempting police from the salary deduction. If we do not get it, we will have to send the bills with deducted salaries.” However, the medicos and healthcare professionals have termed the move ‘demotivating and demoralising’ for those working on the frontline in the Covid-19 fight. This deduction is result of the recently issued GR by the government. Sources in the administration said that though there was news on social media that the state will not deduct salaries of health and police departments, no official communication has been received by accounts officers. Many health officials heading different government medical colleges and hospitals apart from those heading public health institutions refused to comment. At least two accounts officer of health institutes confirmed that they have sent the salary bills in accordance with the recently issued GR. Aurangabad’s Government Medical College and Hospital’s dean Kanan Yelikar told TOI, “We welcome the state government’s move to exempt police and health department from the current stop-gap salary arrangement. However, we are still awaiting a GR in this regard, due to which our bills claiming 50% salaries have been sent.” On March 31, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the finance minister, issued an official statement, said that the salaries of Class I and II staff will be cut by 50% while for Class III employees, it will be cut by 25%. There will be no cut in the salaries of remaining classes in the state bureaucracy. His nephew and MLA Rohit Pawar took to Twitter on the same day, and assured the police, health and other departments that their salaries will not be deducted. A medico said, “The apex court on Wednesday told the centre that doctors, healthcare professionals are warriors, they have to be protected. In the name of protection, our salaries are being released partially.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-health-staff-combating-covid-19-face-a-salary-cut-salvo/articleshow/75055399.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: New treatment protocol to avoid NRS rerun||KOLKATA: In the wake of the NRS Hospital scare where 79 healthcare workers had to be quarantined after they unknowingly came in contact with an undiagnosed Covid-19 positive patient, the state health department has issued an advisory on steps to be taken to mitigate the risk of infection among healthcare professionals. All principals, medical superintendents and vice-principals have been asked to take precautionary measures so that healthcare providers as well as in-patients being treated for other ailments have protection from the virus. All government hospitals have been asked to create a separate zone or ward for treating low-suspect cases. These zones should have sufficient ventilators and beds should be placed at an adequate distance. “While adequate safety measures are being taken in isolation wards and fever clinics, the NRS incident has brought forth the fact that healthcare providers are at risk of contracting infection while treating patients with no symptoms. Hence, they were so far not being tested for Covid-19,” said a source at Swasthya Bhawan. Hospital authorities have also been asked to post an optimally minimum number of healthcare workers in such a zone to minimise exposure. “At the slightest suspicion, swab samples of such a patient would be sent for confirmatory test so that if the patient is positive, s/he can be taken to the Covid-19 centres at the earliest,” said the Swasthya Bhawan official. Till the confirmatory report comes, hospitals have been advised to assign specific nurses and doctors to the patient to restrict the number of exposed personnel. Hospitals will also maintain a record of such healthcare providers to that they can be identified and traced quickly if the report of the patient turns out to be positive. Health workers have been asked to take adequate personal protection to minimize chances of contracting the infection while treating any patients of unknown status. Doctors and nurses have been asked not to stay in close contact with any patient for a long duration without taking enough protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-treatment-protocol-to-avoid-nrs-rerun/articleshow/75055385.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 9, 2020||Delhi||Civil society to take care of food disbursal in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has roped in civil society members to ensure better coordination at hunger relief centres where close to seven lakh people get lunch and dinner every day. In an order issued on Tuesday evening, District Disaster Management Authority gave the responsibility of each of the 11 districts in Delhi to one civil society member. They will coordinate with the “district administration and beneficiaries for better facilitation at food/hunger relief centres set up in wake of Covid-19,” chief secretary Vijay Dev said. The members will be coordinating in the districts to help in ensuring timely provision of food at centres, monitoring quality, and check any wastage due to demand and supply mismatch, the order stated. Delhi government has already formed a state executive committee under the chairmanship of deputy CM Manish Sisodia to look after hunger relief measures. AAP government claims to have the capacity to feed over 10 lakh people at 1,800-odd hunger relief centers spread across the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civil-society-to-take-care-of-food-disbursal/articleshow/75056417.cms||Atul Mathur
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||PPE supply eases at government hospitals in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), which has been erratic ever since the corona outbreak, has become smooth across hospitals, much to the relief of healthworkers who had been struggling to manage with inadequate stock. Fresh supplies reached the state last week and they are now being given regularly to hospitals with Covid-19 isolation units. Hospitals are now focusing on rationalizing PPE use to avoid any shortage. According to the state health department, every hospital with Covid-19 isolation beds are being given 60-100 PPEs on an average every day. Calcutta Medical College, for instance, which has 15 Covid-19 beds, has enough stock for the next five-six days. The hospital has five suspects admitted now and five medical personnel are attending to them in three shifts. “While five personnel are deployed in every shift, not more than three are getting close to the patients so that they don’t have to use PPEs. This way, we are saving our stock without compromising on treatment,” said a Medical College official. An RG Kar official said the crisis has eased ever since the health department started disbursing PPEs this week. “We were worried till a week ago. But now, we have got enough to last a few days,” he said. The number of PPEs allotted to each hospital will depend on the number of beds and the number of critical surgeries that are being held. “If there is no serious patient, then we are restricting the entry of our healthworkers into the isolated cabins. It will help to preserve stock,” said a government hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ppe-supply-eases-at-govt-hospitals/articleshow/75055392.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite virus, no let up in illegal animal trade||HYDERABAD: From star tortoises to slow lorises and even pangolins, Telangana has seen quite a few cases of illegal wildlife trade in the last few years. In 2019, the state forest department listed 351 habitual smugglers and 80 poachers who were involved in illegal wildlife trade of various protected species and also handed over their details to the police department for surveillance. However, activists claim the official figures of cases that are booked every year are much lower. A prime example of ignored numbers comes from the smuggling of pangolin scales across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Despite being an endangered species and now considered a source of Covid-19 pandemic, pangolin poaching is rampant in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “Pangolin trade is very rampant in Telangana. The average price of pangolin these scales is reportedly over Rs 2 lakh per kg in the international market, triggering many local hunters and trappers to take up the trade. Pangolin meat is also considered a delicacy and its body parts are believed to have medicinal value. Although there is no market for pangolins in Telangana and AP, we are definitely a source,” said an official source under the condition of anonimity. Also, in 2019, the police along with forest department officials seized four slow lorises, one Indian star tortoise and a softshell turtle in Hyderabad. This apart, in a few raids conducted at Murgi chowk, a pet market in old city last year, officials recovered a 10-month-old black buck and a golden jackal among many other protected wild animals and birds. Wildlife conservationists and biologists say that they see a persistent threat of epidemics if the forest department does not tighten the noose of wildlife crime in the state. “There are 31 disease or in other words 70% of diseases have emerged from ildlife in past few decades. Destruction of nature displaces wildlife and it could come in close proximity to humans and transmit the Zoonotic diseases.,” said Iqbal Siddique, wildlife biologist and founder of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-virus-no-let-up-in-illegal-animal-trade/articleshow/75055824.cms||Moulika.KV
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private medical colleges to provide 15,000 beds to treat infected||HYDERABAD: With the steady increase in number of covid-19 cases in the state, the state health authorities have roped in private medical colleges for using 15,500 beds facility for covid-19 patients if the need arises. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said on Wednesday all the 22 private medical colleges staff and infrastructure will be used only for corona treatment, with this 15,040 beds will be available, he said. While currently the state health department is only using government teaching hospitals for housing positive patients, the Gachibowli stadium hospital will have another 1500 beds facility ready in a week’s time said health authorities. The private medical colleges have said that they will coorperate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-med-colleges-to-provide-15k-beds-to-treat-infected/articleshow/75055821.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||Indian Railway bookings open with full refund||MARGAO: Even as no plan for restoration of train services after the lockdown period has been notified by the Indian Railways, bookings for train journeys after April 14 are already underway. Sources in the Konkan Railway said in case the lockdown is extended, full refund of the fare will be provided to the passengers. Currently, only the freight trains are in operation along the Konkan Railway route carrying essential goods. “Konkan Railway comprises of a 740km long route and is currently being maintained by only 1,300 staff. This staff is deployed at various good sheds, stations and control offices working on 24/7 basis to ensure that the supply of essential items for the nation is not affected during the lockdown,” a press note by Konkan Railway states. “Close coordination is being maintained with various government offices so that rakes of essential commodities are handled smoothly without any delay, amidst various restrictions imposed,” the note adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/railway-bookings-open-with-full-refund/articleshow/75055837.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid hospital: Just 3 apply for 90 pulmonologist posts||Ahmedabad: At the time of this novel coronavirus pandemic, Civil Hospital authorities received just received three applications for the 90 vacancies for pulmonologist vacancies at its new Covid-19 hospital. Similarly, only 20 doctors applied for 165 posts of medical officers and just 150 applied for 700 posts of staff nurse, said a source in the Asarwa Civil Hospital where the new Covid-19 hospital has been set up. Hospital authorities through the district collector had on April 1 invited applications for 90 posts of pulmonologists offering a monthly salary of Rs 1.20 lakh, five posts of anaesthetists at Rs 1.20 lakh per month, 165 posts of medical officers (MBBS) for Rs 60,000 a month and 700 staff nurse posts for a monthly salary of Rs 13,000.The recruitment procedure was held at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital on the Civil Hospital campus which was set up on April 3.Many candidates for the paramedical posts said the hospital was offering to meagre a salary of Rs 13,000 and this was the reason for the low turnout. A city-based doctor said that Rs 1.20 lakh monthly salary for a pulmonologist on a three month contract is also an indecent proposal. Any doctor or paramedical worker working with Covid-19 patients will definitely need better remuneration, he said.Sources in the hospital said the poor response will force authorities to hold another recruitment drive.Superintendent of Civil Hospital, Dr Gunwant Rathod, said that the government would take decision on holding the recruitment drive again. Last month, when the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) held a recruitment drive for 354 doctors for urban health centres, only 94 doctors had applied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-hospital-just-3-apply-for-90-pulmonologist-posts/articleshow/75055444.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cases surge, Telangana braces for long-haul fight||HYDERABAD: Authorities in Telangana on Wednesday said they are gearing up for a long battle to contain the surge of coronavirus cases by procuring more equipment and protection for its health workers, even as 49 more Covid-19 cases were reported in the state. As the overall count of coronavirus cases went up to 453 in the state health minister Eatala Rajendar said the government has ordered five lakhs more Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and an equal number of N 95 masks for them. The minister said the government has also ordered 2 crore general masks used by the doctors, despite having a stock of 20 lakh masks already. To prevent people from going for private labs with higher costs, the state government will also procure 3.5 lakh corona testing kits. A total of 20 lakh gloves used by medical staff will be added in addition to one crore to be procured. He said, about five lakh goggles will be ordered as well. “Though the cost of masks has increased, the government is going for massive procurement of the masks,” he said. Addressing a media conference, the minister said there are 397 active cases in the hospitals, and he was hopeful of bringing down the count soon with renewed efforts. The minister said because of the tests are being conducted regularly there are 535 samples remaining with the government and the number of cases could come down to a single digit in few days. Authorities said the 397 patients who are getting treated in hospitals, all are healthy and they will be tested again before considering their discharge. Etela said that little more than 1100 people went to Delhi event and all of them were traced and those who tested negative among them will be under quarantine till April 21. The first contact persons and their families of these people are 3158 under quarantine. He reiterated that said all the coronavirus positive cases will be treated in Gandhi hospital and they will not be sent to Koti or Fever hospitals. The minister said that there is no case of community spread in the state and there is no need for random tests in the state. Meanwhile, two persons from same family have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Jaishankar Bhoopalpally district. While the man, who attended the religious gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz tested positive recently, it was confirmed on Wednesday that his daughter also got affected by the virus The district administration has moved 37 people to quarantine in an attempt to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Three areas have been declared as red zones and authorities have taken up spraying operations. The affected areas are Madina colony, Ramnagar, Shantinagar and Gandhinagar, Kakatiya colony, Akudariveda, Fakirguda and Singareni area. In order to prevent the spread of pandemic, sarpanch of Laxmareddypalle, Oddula Vijaya Reddy is participating in the spraying operations. In Nalgonda district, a sub-inspector (SI) was issued a charge memo by Superintendent of Police (SP) AV Ranganath for beating up a farmer of Damarcharla. After enquiring both parties about the incident the SP found fault with SI, Naramishma Rao. The SI had beaten farmer Subba Rao, who was returning from the agricultural fields. Warangal Urban district administration went into high alert on Wednesday after one more coronavirus positive case was reported from the district. Nineteen positive cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin have already been reported and all of them quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mounts-to-453-govt-to-buy-5l-ppes/articleshow/75055834.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 9, 2020||Hyderabad||BITS Pilani researchers develop 3D-printed face shields||HYDERABAD: Researchers at Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS) Pilani, Hyderabad have developed a non-hazardous and reusable 3D printed Face Shield for frontline healthcare professionals fighting Covid-19. The cost estimated for manufacturing the face-shield, which is air and water insulated, is about Rs 40 per shield. Made out of a Polylactic Acid (PLA) based biocompatible and biodegradable filament and a 0.1 mm thick A4 size lamination sheet, a shield can be printed in three hours. Researchers said that manufacturing time can be reduced by increasing the layer-height and the required resolution. “Using a high-end printer, a shield can be printed in 10 to 15 minutes,” said Sanket Goel, principal investigator in the research. Goel, who is working as associate professor at BITS Pilani, added that they have made a prototype of the shield at the academic lab in the institute. He said PLA is easily available in the market and costs around Rs 900 per kg. “We need about 40gm of PLA and a lamination sheet, which hardly costs Rs 5, to make this shield. As raw materials are easily available, manufacturing can be done in bulk and the shields can be made available to healthcare professionals,” he added. Avinash Kothuru, a PhD scholar, one of the inventors of the shield, said that unlike other shields being printed at various institutes across the country, this particular one can be used any number of times. “Any virus will die when boiled at 70 to 80 degrees celsius, whereas the melting point of this shield is 220 degrees. All one has to do is boil the shield for a minute before using it,” said Kothuru adding that the same has been tested at the academic lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bits-researchers-develop-3d-printed-face-shields/articleshow/75055832.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Manpower woes constrain retailers in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: If you go to a retail outlet, don’t be surprised if you don’t find soaps, toothpaste, detergent, hand wash, sanitizers and antiseptic liquids, among others on store counters. Even though the manufacturing, supply and sale of essentials including food grains, medicines, milk and vegetables is permitted under a lockdown, shortage of manpower at manufacturer, transporter, distributor and retailer level has triggered a shortage of an array of items used in daily essentials. While medicines are not in short-supply, manpower woes are even delaying the supply of medicines to retail counter. Estimates by transporters suggest that the inflow of stock has gone down by at least 80%, especially of items manufactured outside the state, due to the lockdown situation. Manpower shortage which prevails across the country, because of which supply chain has been hampered and there may be a shortage of items if the lockdown extended. Retailers fret over depleting stocks, limited supply: Counters at retail stores are emptying fast and with no revival in supply chain situations. A number of retailers of essentials, food grains, FMCG products and medicines are currently battling shortage of stock of a lot of items, as manpower constraints continue plague sectors amid the lockdown. “Even though we have limited the store timings to four hours each in the morning and evening, the stocks are depleting fast as uncertainty over the duration of lockdown has driven people to stock up on double the quantity of items than what they normally purchase,” said a grocery and fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) retailer based in Prahladnagar area of Ahmedabad. No shortage of grain, pulses but worries over extended lockdown: Ahmedabad Grain Merchants’ Market in Kalupur area of the city is currently operational and estimates by Ahmedabad Grain Merchants’ Association suggest there is no shortage of grains with some 30-40% traders operating business as usual. “The stock of pulses come from outside Gujarat and at present, the stock is enough. However, there are concerns over extension of lockdown which may trigger a shortage,” said an association member. FMCG distributors face supply chain troubles: Manpower shortage with restriction on movement of labourers has crippled the FMCG supply chain. Estimates by distributors suggest that some 85% of labourer strength is missing due to which supplying stock to a retailer is difficult. “Labourer shortage already prevails and due to lockdown, those who are staying in Ahmedabad are faced with extreme movement restriction. Many of them have been stopped and questioned and even thrashed by the police and as a result, they don’t turn up to work due to panic situation,” said Rajat Diwan, vice-president, Federation of Gujarat Distributors Association (FGDA). Distributors suggest that apart from biscuits, noodles, toothpastes and soaps, the stock of infant food is also falling short. Vegetable supply continues unhindered:Estimates by Ahmedabad Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) suggest that 30,060 quintals of vegetables were supplied in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. “There is no shortage of vegetables whatsoever and in fact, there is excess stock at the APMC. There are fears over extension of lockdown, but the supply of vegetables being essential commodities, should not be disrupted,” said Deepak Patel, secretary, APMC Ahmedabad. Sources also confirmed that vegetables such as onions, green peas, cluster beans, string beans and coccinea which come from outside the state are being received in adequate quantities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/manpower-woes-constrain-retailers/articleshow/75055443.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Cop donates blood to woman to facilitate delivery||TRICHY: Bringing laurels to the Trichy rural police during the lockdown, a 23-year-old police constable attached to the Manapparai police station donated blood to a pregnant woman for performing caesarean. The woman gave birth to a baby girl at a hospital at Manapparai. S Syed Abuthahir of Valanadu in Trichy district was rewarded by superintendent of police Zia Ul Haq for his timely service on Wednesday. The 2017 batch Grade II constable was on duty near Kamarajar statue in Manapparai on Monday evening when he saw a pregnant woman, her husband and another woman walking towards the city. As the curfew was in effect, he called them out through the public address system. Sulochana, 25, her husband Ezhumalai and their relative had told him that the pregnant woman was due for delivery on Monday. At the hospital the doctors suggested for a C-section. “The doctors told us to arrange two units of blood as they are running short of blood due to lack of donors during the lockdown. So, we were on the way back to the city to take a vehicle to reach home. But we chanced upon the policeman. I never thought he would donate his blood for the caesarean,” said Ezhumalai, adding that he had no words to express his thanks to him. Initially, Abuthahir was under the impression that they had no vehicle to reach their house. So, he arranged a taxi from their village to pick them up on the assurance that police won’t seize the vehicle. “During the conversation, they told me that the caesarean could have been done if ‘O positive’ was available. Without wasting time, I offered to donate blood as I am also O positive. So, I took them to the hospital and donated blood. The baby was born at 8.30pm and I left the hospital after seeing the infant,” said Abuthahir. He credited the SP for motivating and encouraging the police personnel to serve the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cop-donates-blood-to-woman-to-facilitate-delivery/articleshow/75055838.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Crowded Jamalpur market closed||AHMEDABAD: Vegetable markets in Jamalpur and Kalupur, the fruit market in Naroda, and a dozen-odd smaller markets in the city have been shut down because they were drawing crowds, flouting the social distancing guideline. The main wholesale market of Jamalpur has been relocated to Jetalsar APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) facility, which is about 10km from Narol on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. The Jetalsar market will not let in CNG autorickshsaws. Loading rickshaw drivers will not be allowed to bring anybody with them. “The Jamalpur market is too cramped for social distancing to be maintained,” said Deepak Patel, the APMC secretary. “Nor was it possible to check people entering the market. Jamalpur is part of the Walled City which is under surveillance and hence the wholesale market was shifted to Jetalsar on the Ahmedbad-Mumbai Highway.” According to Patel there is no shortage of any vegetable, including onions. The city APMC gets 332 quintals of onions from Maharashtra and 2,926 quintals from Saurashtra. This was regular supply when local onions hit the market, he said. Ahmed Patel, a wholesale dealer, said that the prices have actually reduced in the APMC by 10-15%. He said that during a meeting, the dealers were told that the shift to Jetalsar was necessary to ensure safety and hence everybody agreed. Another dealer, Rafiq Shaikh, said that the prices have reduced as there is adequate supply. On Wednesday, the Jetalsar wholesale market received 30,060 quintals of vegetables, which dealers said was more than enough to cater to the city’s needs. Shaikh said that the shift had helped dealers as they are now able to also serve retailers from nearby villages. “Earlier, we had to travel 9km to get vegetables but now we have to commute nearly 30km to reach the new market,” said Ramesh Prajapati, a vegetable vendor who has a shop near Anandnagar. “This has increased the transportation cost fourfold. Moreover, now with the Walled City closed, we are forced to take a longer route.” According to Prajapati, the increase in transportation cost has increased the prices. “Earlier, there were fluctuations in prices but since the lockdown, we have noticed that the prices are only increasing,” said Manisha Shah, a resident of Satellite. “We are sure that if the lockdown is extended, the prices will definitely cross Rs 100 per kg.” A Satellite housing society chairman said, “The AMC has launched a service to deliver vegetables in bulk.” He went on to say: “But one has to take orders, collect money, and then distribute the vegetables. The process is cumbersome. Also, in my society, there was a major hue and cry over prices and weight.” The society discontinued the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crowded-jamalpur-market-closed/articleshow/75055439.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 9, 2020||Trichy||Swab of newborn sent for testing||THANJAVUR: Swab samples of a baby born to a Covid-19 positive woman have been sent for testing to government medical college in Tiruvarur on Wednesday. The baby and the mother are at Rajah Mirsadar hospital in Thanjavur. She is a family member of a Tablighi Jamaat delegate. The mom and the baby have been put in different special wards at the hospital, sources said. According to the hospital sources, the condition of the mother and the baby were stable. Based on the swab test result of the baby, doctors would take the next course of action, district collector M Govinda Rao said. “The condition of both the mother and the baby is now stable. We are waiting for the baby’s test result”, he said. Doctors are awaiting test results of around 71 swab samples that were sent to Tiruvarur Medical college hospital last week, collector further stated. However, no test report was turned positive on Wednesday, he added. As of now, the number of positive cases in Thanjavur was 11, 12 in Tiruvarur and 11 in Nagapattinam. No new positive cases were identified in these districts on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/swab-of-newborn-sent-for-testing/articleshow/75055839.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Police use geofencing to track quarantined people||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: Osmanabad police and Sangli administration have started using the geofence technology to track people who have been quarantined — an alert will be sent to the officials if anyone jumps the quarantine. Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, an IIT graduate, told TOI, “A geofence is a virtual boundary created around the person based on the person’s location. If the person is found moving beyond the boundary, a breach alert is immediately generated. Based on this alert, police can take action. This technology has been sourced from the existing infrastructure.” Osmanabad’s is the first police unit in the state to have devised the technology enabling the cops to geofence an area using mobile Sim card of a quarantined person, irrespective of the kind of phone a person uses. The district has reported three confirmed Covid-19 cases, following which, more than 500 people were quarantined. An officer privy to the implementation of the project said this technology does not require any application or additional infrastructure. If a quarantined person violates the quarantine, a dedicated police team formed for 24X7 monitoring, gets an alert, following which, appropriate action is initiated. To avoid any legal issues, the quarantined people are being counselled about the importance of being quarantined. They also get text messages seeking their consent for monitoring their movement. Senior police officers said that almost all quarantined people have given their consent. As a part of the procedure, the exact GPS location of every person, who has been either home or institutional quarantined, is collected and updated in the system at the Osmanabad police headquarters. The apt use of technology will save time and also shield police from coming directly in contact with the Covid-19 patients and those who have been quarantined. Meanwhile, the Sangli district administration has started the use of a mobile application developed by local youths to keep a check on quarantined people though tracing their location. Sangli district has reported 26 confirmed coronavirus patients of which, 17 are active. Over 600 people are in home quarantine in Sangli alone. A few days ago, some youths, who are software engineers, approached Sangli MP Sanjaykaka Patil, requesting him to allow them to develop the software. After the nod, they developed the app, which the administration tested. The application is first being used for the home-quarantined people in the Sangli Municipal Corporation limits. District collector Abhijeet Choudhary said: “All the technical aspects of the application have been verified. We have found the application to be better compared to tracking bands. The home-quarantined people have to timely update their photos in the app. Our staff, who visit them regularly, will ensure the app is working.” The app has features of geofencing and geotagging. In the case of geotagging, the person has to click a photo online. The date and time will appear on the photo. The staff has received training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-use-geofencing-to-track-quarantined-people/articleshow/75055409.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Toddlers perch in front of laptops for lessons in cooking, counting||MUMBAI: From preparing starfish sandwiches for a virtual breakfast meet with classmates to a lesson on numbers followed by a quick exercise session—this is what ‘work from home’ for toddlers looks like. As schools remain shut due to the Covid-19 lockdown, online tutoring has trickled to younger classes too. To keep the connection going, several schools are conducting brief online sessions for students of pre-primary and primary sections. “Earlier, teachers would send videos and home activity ideas, but parents were finding it difficult to keep the children engaged. So we moved to a more interactive mode. Our focus is to keep the emotional and social connect going with our children and the parents community, when they are grappling with constraints of work from home and work at home,” said Kusum Kanwar, director, Kangaroo Kids in Kandivli. The 20- to 40-minute sessions have students in front of laptops or computers with parents keeping them company, and consist mostly of rhymes, singing, music, movement, non-fire cooking, art and painting, and communication. “The students log in and are excited to see their friends, and a couple of minutes are spent saying hello to one another,” said Kanwar. Similarly, Shweta Bagul, founder of Bright Beginnings International Pre-School and Learning Centre (Thane), said there was a need to do something beyond getting children to watch YouTube. “We are continuing with the same content that we had planned for regular class. Right from engaging them in activities such as cutting vegetables to making a sandwich or teaching them French or meditation,” said Bagul. For the school, a normal 50-minute online session a day starts with prayers and meditation. Children aged two to five are also given home assignments. “We tell parents to record a video of their activities or click a picture and send it to us,” said Priti Wadhwa, a teacher. “It is difficult to engage students with an activity for more than seven minutes, so we keep changing it,” said Bagul. While they did face few technical glitches in the beginning, sessions are smoother these days. They see more than 60% participation every day. Experts, though, warn the content shared must be age appropriate, not lengthy and optional. Swati Popat Vats, president of Early Childhood Education, said, “Online learning for early years is very different from higher classes. Setting a timetable for home-based learning will not work for children. The content must be age appropriate and not be picked off the internet. There must be a balance between learning and life skills with more emphasis on the latter.” Vats, who is also the president of Podar Jumbo Kids, kickstarted home school for more than 45,000 children from Tuesday. “My son had to pick a chore to do, so today he decided to help his father mop the floor. Then, they had a session with numbers. We like the structure and flexibility that the school has provided. If the child one day doesn’t feel like doing anything, we can skip home school that day. On Tuesday, we did the activities in the morning since that’s the time he usually goes to school,” said Hema Dave, mother of Evaan, a senior KG student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/toddlers-perch-in-front-of-laptops-for-lessons-in-cooking-counting/articleshow/75054300.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 9, 2020||Goa||Shacks hit in Goa but owners say keep tourists out||CALANGUTE: The recent lockdown in many parts of the world and across India, owing to the global spread of the coronavirus pandemic, has come as a huge blow to the state’s tourism sector. Among those who have been severely affected are beach shack owners and operators, many of whom have labelled the 2019-2020 season a ‘flop’. Interestingly, they are of the opinion that if tourism prospects of the state are to be safeguarded, the entry of visitors needs to be curbed for some more time, till the Covid-19 risk minimalises. “I strongly recommend that the state government not allow any tourists to enter Goa for the next three months at least. There are a large number of cases reported in bordering states like Maharashtra. If the border is opened up, domestic tourists will come rushing to Goa, thus increasing the risk for Goans. Moreover, If tourists are allowed to enter the state without due precautions, and if the virus spreads in Goa, it will impact tourism for the next two years,” Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) secretary John Lobo said. Most stakeholders say that this season, which has already seen the tourism sector grappling with a sharp dip in tourist footfalls and low room occupancy rates, has at best been lacklustre. Now, despite the school holiday season approaching, uncertain about how long the shutdown may continue, nearly 80% of the shacks along the highly-popular Calangute-Candolim stretch have already been dismantled. Lobo told TOI that even if the existing beach shacks are allowed to operate from April 15 onwards, they will have no footfalls as it is unlikely that the state’s border will be opened up. “It will also take some time for flights to resume operations,” he said. Shack Owners Welfare Society, president, Cruz Cardozo said that in the current scenario, it is highly unlikely that tourists, foreigners or domestic, will travel. “People need to earn to enjoy a holiday. In the present situation, where industries and workplaces have been shut down to contain the spread of Covid-19, it will be difficult for working class people to save up for a holiday,” he said. And as if the lack of business wasn’t enough, many shack owners are also facing the problem of having to maintain their staff, almost all of whom are from other states. “The staff that has remained behind are already showing signs of restlessness to return to the native land,” Cardozo said. Lobo, said he is yet to dismantle his shack as it is currently being used to house his staff. “Out of my 25 staff, 18 are from Assam. Even if trains or flights restart, they cannot return as their state government has blocked their entry. So the earliest they can go back is June. And since I don’t have enough space at my residence, they are staying in the shack,” he said. Meanwhile, stating that they have suffered huge losses due to the pandemic, Traditional Shack Owners’ Association president Manuel Cardozo said that they would write to the government seeking compensation towards the expenses they have incurred in terms of shack fees and excise duty, among other charges. (With inputs from Nisser Dias & Denver D’Souza)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shacks-hit-but-owners-say-keep-tourists-out/articleshow/75056229.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Goa||IIT Goa works on 3D-printed antiviral face shields||PANAJI: An acute shortage of personal protective gear (PPE) is being faced by medical, police and security personnel working on the frontlines in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. To address this shortage, researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, have created 3D printed face shields which can be used as protective masks over regular masks as an added measure against infection. IIT Goa is in the process of printing more than 200 such face shields for the benefit of essential workers and healthcare professionals, institute director B K Mishra said. Amey Naikdesai, Sidhesh Sudarshani and Sachin Kore from IIT Goa’s mechanical engineering department have manufactured the 3D printed face shields using low-cost transparency sheets. These face shields, if used along with protective masks, will add one more layer of safety , the researchers said. Additionally, researcher Arindam Das, also from the mechanical engineering department, is working on the development of a low-cost antiviral coating for PPEs and other surfaces. This will provide yet another layer of protection to the face shields, masks and contact surfaces, Das said. Das, along with Manu Santra from the chemistry department, are “examining the effects of traditional plant-based oils and oil-like chemicals on viral envelope-destruction and chemical pathway suppression”. “At this time of global crisis, it is only imperative that national institutions like IIT Goa come up with solutions that could be quickly and easily deployed in the field for the benefit of frontline staff battling the spread of coronavirus. The protective face shields developed at IIT Goa is one such example,” Mishra said. The institute director said IIT Goa is looking for industrial partners, both from Goa and from other parts of the country, to scale up and test the solutions developed by the institute. Mishra also mentioned that wherever possible, IIT Goa is internally funding some of the development work. Mishra said that given the fact that viruses like coronavirus spread most easily from contact surfaces, Sharad Sinha from the computer science and engineering department of IIT Goa is also working on contactless interfaces using machine vision techniques||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-works-on-3d-printed-antiviral-face-shields/articleshow/75055845.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 9, 2020||Goa||Garbage piles up on Salcete beaches during lockdown||COLVA: The state tourism department continues to remain a silent spectator even as garbage keeps piling up along the popular coastal belt in Salcete. Last week, TOI highlighted that dry waste was left unattended by Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), the agency contracted by the state government to clean the beach. Director of tourism department Menino D’Souza had said there was a problem because travel passes could not be issued by the district administration as movement of vehicles was restricted due to lockdown over the coronavirus pandemic. However, the situation along the Colva-Benaulim stretch has worsened over the weekend. The entire stretch is lined up with plastic and glass bottles, pieces of nylon ropes, bags, slippers, syringes and many other items, giving it a very messy look. “The beach is being cleaned and garbage must have been brought in due to high tide,” said D’Souza. When pointed out that the garbage has been there since March 30, the director said work is in progress. With India’s fight against the pandemic forcing a national 21-day lockdown and movement restricted, these are difficult times for everyone, said the director, assuring that the garbage would be cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-piles-up-on-salcete-beaches-during-lockdown/articleshow/75056226.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rare wild cat spotted in Ranthambore park||JAIPUR: In a rare sighting, a pair of elusive caracal was captured in the forest trap camera at the Ranthambore National Park (RNP). The medium-sized wild cat, which is shy, nocturnal, elusive and difficult to spot in the wild, was spotted in Taleda Range at 5.59 pm on Tuesday. A forest official said, “Caracal is a medium-sized wild cat, native of Africa, Middle East, Central Asia and India, listed in the IUCN Red List as a threatened species. Luckily, Ranthambore has around 20 such cats. Being extremely shy, the cats are very difficult to spot. As park is closed and there were no tourists, movements of these cats were captured in the evening. ” Officials informed this species has tufts of hair at the ends of the ear. They are nocturnal, agile, fighters, elusive, good hunters and found in small herds. “It hunts rodents and game birds, which it hunts with amazing speed and dexterity. It can jump 3 metres in one leap and stalks prey on paws shaped like a cheetah’s. It is easily recognised by its long pointed ears that end in tufts,” said an official. They inhabit dry, arid regions and moist woodlands are protected under Schedule (I) of the Indian Wildlife Act for being critically endangered due to loss of habitat in many of the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elusive-wild-cat-spotted-in-ranthambore/articleshow/75055847.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin makes protective gear for frontline workers||Ranchi: Keeping in mind the acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPEs) that are essential for frontline workers combating Covid-19, the Ranchi district administration has started manufacturing cost-effective protective gear for health workers as well as district administration staff who are involved in screening and contact-tracing suspected coronavirus patients. Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray in consultation with a team of experts decided to manufacture protective gear so that the front-line workers could be shielded from the viral infection. Talking to TOI, Ray said: “We were in a fix as we needed to ration our PPE stock for frontline workers who were coming in direct contact with Covid-19 patients. On the other hand, we also needed protective gear for secondary workers, such as ambulance drivers, ANMs, sahiyas and sanitation staff who were visiting the affected areas. So we decided to manufacture the protective gear and are now collaborating with two firms in this regard.” The district administration is currently manufacturing 200 pieces of disposable as well as non-disposable protective gear — gowns, pants, footwear covers, face masks and shields — every day. However, the district administration plans to increase production in the coming days. Sairama, a Ranchi DC office staff who is a chemical engineer and holds a PG degree in chemistry from Bits Pilani, is supervising the exercise. He said: “As we needed a non-reactive material which can withstand high temperature and also resist any kind of microbial as well as viral particles, we are using 90 GSM tarpaulin material for manufacturing the non-disposable kits and 50 GSM low-density polyethylene plastic to produce disposable kits.” The disposable kit is available at Rs 150 per piece and the reusable one is priced at Rs 300.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-makes-protective-gear-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/75053061.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||App Ki Adaalat: HC logs in to carry out proceedings||Ranchi: With court proceedings shut owing to the ongoing nationwide lockdown, Jharkhand high court has now started using an app — Vidyo app — to carry out the proceedings on important matters and it has directed Ranchi district court to do the same. The vidyo app enables the lawyers to connect with all the stakeholders through video conference. They have to click a link provided by the court to participate in the court proceedings. The high court has also kept another app called ‘Zoom’ as a standby in case a technical glitch occurs with the Vidyo app, a court official said. In the last few days, a court of Justice Rongon Mukhopadhaya granted bail to an assistant professor at Doranda College, Shilpi Singh, who was in jail. Similarly, in another case, a division bench, led by Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan, rejected the leave petition application against an order that had stated that aspirants with a graduation/post-graduation degree in ancient India, medieval India or modern India are not eligible to be appointed as high school teachers as per an advertisement published by the staff selection commission in 2016. On Wednesday, the high court also rejected the bail petition of MLA Dhullu Mahto by using the app. Registrar General Ambuj Nath said, “Under the prevailing circumstances, hearings through video conference will be a regular feature in the high court.” Commenting on the new method, high court lawyer Indrajit Sinha said it is the only option available under the present circumstances. He added, “The court cannot be shut for a long period of time. The filing process in the court should be streamlined and made more accessible to people living in other parts of the state.” Sanjay Vidrohi, the former general secretary of Ranchi district bar association, said, “This is a positive step but many lawyers do not know how it works. There is an urgent need to educate and train the lawyers about the new method.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/app-ki-adaalat-hc-logs-in-to-carry-out-proceedings/articleshow/75053488.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Call on pending papers next week: Jharkhand CBSE coordinator||Ranchi: Clearing the air regarding speculations that board exams of remaining subjects have been cancelled, Jharkhand state coordinator for Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Manohar Lal on Wednesday said that there is no plan to cancel the exams and these are mere rumors. Lal said, “As of now, CBSE has not decided on cancellation. We are hoping that the situation will be clear by April 14.” Messages have been circulating on social media that CBSE has decided to cancel the remaining exams in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak and the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb its spread. (CBSE) advised the public and media to not believe any rumors regarding updates on CBSE and to check the official website and social media handles. The board recently noticed fake news regarding CBSE board exams, evaluation, pass criteria through various social media groups. The official notification reads "It is brought to the notice of all that there are some unscrupulous elements circulating fake news in form of lookalike circulars about CBSE board exams, evaluation, pass criteria through various social media groups with the sole purpose of misleading innocent students and parents." The board has already warned people circulating such messages of legal action, but such rumors continue to surface from time to time. On April 1, the Board has also announced that it will be conducting only important papers of the pending examinations of Class X and Class XII students whose examinations were earlier postponed as a measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Lal advised students not to panic and said the board will give them at least 10 days to prepare for the exams. He said, “We can understand what students are going through. This Is an issue for the entire country and we will take a decision in the best interest of the students. After announcement of a schedule, they will get at least ten days-time to prepare.” Even as students are uncertain about the exams, teachers are advising them to utilize the time at home to strengthen their preparations. Amardeep Sinha, a chemistry teacher at Delhi Public School, said, “Though the environment is negative and people have been advised to stay home, students should work on their subjects and strengthen their preparation.” He added that this is an opportunity for the students to prepare for competitive exams like JEE Mains and Advanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/call-on-pending-papers-next-week-jharkhand-cbse-coordinator/articleshow/75053530.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Varsities in Jharkhand launch helplines to boost sagging morale of students||Ranchi: Following the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directive, issued to all the universities in the country recently, to launch a helpline number for providing psychological aid to the students — suffering from stress and anxiety amid the ongoing lockdown — several universities in Ranchi have come forward to help the pupils. On Wednesday, the Central University of Jharkhand (CUJ) formed a committee — headed by the dean of CUJ’s students’ welfare body — and listed the committee members’ personal contact numbers as helpline numbers. CUJ registrar Hari Kumar said, “We have formed a seven-member committee, comprising medical experts and assistant professors, to help those students who are suffering from anxiety and stress.” While Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University is yet to launch a dedicated helpline number for providing psychological aid to its students, the university already has a helpline number to help out students in their studies. Ranchi University and Amity University, on the other hand, had already launched helpline numbers, exclusively dedicated to help the students in overcoming stress and anxiety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/varsities-in-jharkhand-launch-helplines-to-boost-sagging-morale-of-students/articleshow/75053496.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag Covid-19 positive patient stable, says DC||HAZARIBAG: The district administration here on Wednesday said the 52-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2, is stable and recovering from the disease. Deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “He is improving fast. Utmost care is being taken at the isolation ward of Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH).” The man, a resident of Kargallo village under Bishungarh block, had returned from Asansol in West Bengal on March 29. He was admitted to HMCH on the same day. Meanwhile, officials said the samples of 26 people, which were sent to Rims recently, tested negative on Wednesday. Singh said the officials have begun the process of screening 5.5 lakh people of the district from Tuesday. The drive, which is expected to go on till April 14, will include 60,000 people across 12 wards of the city. The remaining ones will be screened in Barkatha, Barhi, Bishnugarh, Chouparan and Katkumsandi blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-covid-19-positive-patient-stable-says-dc/articleshow/75053667.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Railway’s Chakradharpur division ready to resume services after lockdown lift||Jamshedpur: The Chakradharpur railway division on Wednesday said it has put in place adequate sanitation measures for their staff and passengers and is ready to resume service once the lockdown is lifted. Chakradharpur, Tatanagar, Rourkela, Barbil and Jharsuguda railway stations see a large number of footfall, and these stations will first receive cubicle-shaped sanitization machines followed by others under the division. Senior divisional manager (commercial) Manish Kumar Pathak said, “Besides sanitization machines, our medical and mechanical department officials are also manufacturing masks, gloves and alcohol-based hand sanitizers for the 50,000-strong workforce, which includes 28,000 contractual workers.” He added that railway personnel whose nature of job necessitates public contact — such as train ticket examiners, parcel office personnel and booking counter staff — will receive gloves, masks and sanitizers on a priority basis. The division also informed that thermal screening devices are also being procured to screen passengers at the entry and exit gates. “The staff at our parcel department already received masks, gloves and sanitizers, but there is requirement of more,” Pathak said. He added that the division has not yet received a word from South Eastern Railway zone on the resumption of services. “However, preparations are being made keeping April 15 as the tentative date of resumption,” he added. With over 150 long distance and short distance trains originating and running through the division every day, the authorities said preparations need to be made on a large scale. A senior TTE at Tatanagar railway station on condition of anonymity said, “Several of my colleagues fear they might get infected if they do not get protective equipment. We shall demand from the division to compulsorily provide us three disposal face masks every day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/railways-chakradharpur-division-ready-to-resume-services-after-lockdown-lift/articleshow/75053460.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Muslims join Hindus to celebrate Hanuman jayanti in Covid-19 lockdown||NAGPUR: Setting an example of social amity, a Muslim youth performed the ‘aarti’ of Lord Hanuman as two Hindu friends and residents of Saraswati Nagar, Takiya, Dhantoli, clapped at the 30-year-old temple to celebrate Hanuman jayanti, on Wednesday. With the country grappling with novel coronavirus and lockdown in force, the devotees maintained social distance, and ensured the puja remained a low-key affair. But, at the same time, the friends demonstrated that all are united in this hour of crisis. The programme began with the lighting of a diya, followed by recitation of Ganesh Vandana and Hanuman Chalisa. The event, in an area where over 100 families reside, was coordinated by youngsters, most of them taxi drivers, mechanics, labour contractors, labourers, and pav bhaji and chat sellers. The aarti was performed by Israil Abdul Sharif Khan and Lakshman Shahu while senior member of the organizing committee Tarachand Shende chanted the Hanuman Chalisa. Hitesh Sahu rang the temple bell even as other members asked kids to maintain social distance. “We celebrate all festivals together. Here we have some 100 huts and a few concrete houses, with around 400 residents. Due to lockdown, we restricted the celebrations and just performed aarti twice in the day before all were called to take prasad, which included a sweet for Hanuman jayanti,” said Tarachand Shende. Israil Abdul Sharif Khan said, “We are not divided by religion or caste. For us, all festivals are equally important. In 2007, we re-constructed the temple with funds collected from all strata of the society.” “Ours is a united bunch of friends who work in unison and celebrate religious and national festivals. Our Hindu friends join us in all our festivals and distribute sevaiyan during Tajuddin Baba Urs. Today I missed one of our close friends, Sandeep Sahu, actively involved in all these festivals, as he passed away a few years back,” Israil added. Event coordinator Bablo Thakur said, “For all festivals we pool in money from our savings and also get financial help from politicians and social workers.” Rupesh Mutalwar said, “We prepared masala rice and kadhi for all residents. We marked an area in the nearby ground where food was distributed, to ensure people do not jostle with each other and norms of social distancing are maintained.” Amid the Covid-19 fears, these Hindu-Muslim friends — mostly uneducated — gave the message of unity loud and clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslims-join-hindus-to-celebrate-hanuman-jayanti/articleshow/75055505.cms||Amit Sampat
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Maoists gun down ex-SPO, damage tractors, machines||Nagpur: Gadchiroli may have remained coronavirus-free so far, but Maoist violence has kept the police and district administration on toes. In two latest incidents, Maoists have shot dead a former Special Police Officer (SPO) and also damaged two tractors, mixer machines and some equipment at a construction site by setting them on fire. Maoists brutally murdered 45-year-old Jivte Ramteke, a former SPO, at Kohoka-Mokasa village near Kotgul in the early hours of Wednesday, labelling him as police informer. The rebels killed Jivte in front of his wife Neelam. In the past, the Maoists had erected a banner mentioning Jivte’s name and warning him of dire consequences for making money by becoming a police informer. It’s learnt the Ramtekes, whose daughter’s marriage was scheduled for April 26, were heading to sell mahua flowers when they were intercepted. Jivte was dragged around 200 meters away before being shot in the face. Nilam tried to save her husband by rushing to Kotgul, around two kms from the place where he was shot, and alerted family members and also arranged an ambulance. Jivte was taken to primary health centre (PHC) at Kotgul and was referred to rural hospital at Korchi where he was declared dead. An offence of murder has been registered against leaders of Maoists including the local guerrilla squad of Tippagarh and also Company number 4. Earlier, the rebels torched a couple of tractors, mixer machines and some equipment at an under-construction bridge between Lingapalli-Kistapur near Dechlipetha in Aheri taluka in the late hours of Tuesday. The bridge is being constructed following demand from residents of 16 hamlets around Dechlipetha village which get cut off from the mainland during monsoons. The rebels have also warned the contractor in a pamphlet and banner found near the spot against continuing the work. SP Shailesh Balkawade did not respond to repeated calls from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-gun-down-ex-spo-damage-tractors-machines/articleshow/75055515.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Two die in tiger attacks; villagers burn forest vehicle||Nagpur: With the onset of mahua collection season, man-animal conflict has once again raised its head. On Wednesday, two women, including a 20-year-old, were mauled by tigers in separate incidents. Yamaunabai Gaikwad (57) from Satara near Kolara in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) was killed around 6.30 am when she was collecting mahua flowers in forest area. “The spot where the incident occurred is a patch of protected forest which has been claimed under FRA. The claim is yet to be approved,” sources said. This is the 9th death in tiger attack in Chandrapur district alone since January this year. Last year, 23 people died in wild animals attacks in the district. Second attack happened in Khamba village adjoining Pench tiger reserve, MP. A young tiger moving in search of new territory attacked the 20-year-old girl in noon. Angry mob of villagers set afire a forest Gypsy and tried to attack foresters alleging negligence. “We had intimated about presence of tiger near the village three days ago but forest officials did not monitor the animal. The attack could have been avoided if forestmen acted early,” said villagers. MP PCCF (wildlife) Rajesh Srivastava said, “The situation is under control now. We will hand over a cheque of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of the victim on Thursday. The tiger did not consume flesh of the victim. We have intensified patrolling in the area.” Officials suspect in both the cases the victims may have been in a crouched position leading the tigers to mistake them as prey. TATR attack is suspected to be by a female cub of a tigress moving in buffer. The tigress has three cubs – two male and a female — all have separated from their mother. “Last month, one of these sub-adults killed a forest worker near Kolara. Swab samples in both cases will be verified. If it is found to be the same tiger then directions will be sought from the chief wildlife warden to capture it,” said TATR field director NR Praveen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-die-in-tiger-attacks-villagers-burn-forest-vehicle/articleshow/75055538.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||With salons shut, home remedies coming handy in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Amid the negativity of coronavirus, self love is finding its way back into peoples’ life, especially in terms of self care, beauty routine and grooming. Though women, teenage girls and men are frustrated that salons and beauty parlours are shut due to the lockdown, they are revisiting and incorporating the tips and therapy learnt from their mothers and grandmothers to keep their beauty routine alive and kicking. For law student Dimple Anandani, following a homemade beauty routine amid the lockdown is more about self care and peace. She feels one should not strain about the shutdown of beauty stores and parlours but instead, go to the kitchen and explore remedies. “I’m sure most of the citizens are finding it difficult but I am following all the home remedies which are working wonders for my grooming and self care. I make my scrubs with sugar, coffee and oatmeal. I feel the creation of beauty is an art.” she said. People are now grounded at home, which gives them plenty of time to experiment and take care of themselves. Beautician Jasmini Gimi, who runs a salon, stressed on the idea of self care and self love during such times and shared some tips that can come handy. “A little stress-busting beauty session is the need of the hour. One must try the tips their grandmothers and mothers recommended such as oiling hair, using wax strips for hair growth, eye shadows as temporary hair colour and making different face packs and masks using kitchen ingredients,” she said. Renuka Jhamtani, a make-up artist and blogger, couldn’t agree any better. “As bushy eyebrows and facial hair are annoying, one can use tweezers to fix them. I love to use ice cubes, homemade mask, face and lip scrubs made of sugar, lemon, honey, egg whites, rose water etc,” she said. Not only women, men, too, are equally affected. The lockdown gave businessman Rahul Bhojwani an opportunity to have a shave after two years and also experiment a bit with his beard. “It was becoming very difficult to adjust to life without a salon. Initially, I couldn’t do without it, but later, I tried a new style by trimming my beard. I have the luxury of experimenting as one doesn’t have to go out for work. One also gets to try various combinations and styles,” he said. Student Vishal Khatri is not far behind. “Because of my uni-brow, I used to regularly go to salons. But now that I am at home, it has become bushy. I’m trying facial hair trimmers and tweezers, but not as well as the salons.” he said. There’s a mother, who tried the experimental scissors to good effect. “I cut my daughter’s hair at home. She is just four. Her long curly locks were falling on her eyes and so, I trimmed her hair nicely and she enjoyed it too,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-salons-shut-home-remedies-coming-handy/articleshow/75055548.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe launches ‘Nagpur Live City’ app for plaints redressal||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has launched ‘Nagpur Live City’ app to resolve problems related to civic amenities. The app can come as a major relief for citizens during prevailing lockdown as they can lodge complaints related to civic amenities sitting at home and hope for redressal from Mundhe in prescribed time period.It will be the second app in NMC as mayor Sandip Joshi had already launched one, which is also related to addressing complaints of the citizens.Mundhe’s app will generate notices to officials automatically if anyone fails to resolve the complaints within prescribed time period. All complaints related to water supply, electrical supply, schools, education, solid waste management, property tax, birth and death registration, unsafe buildings, removal of fallen trees etc will be resolved by this app in a hassle free manner.NMC said in a press release, “The app is designed on the principles of transparency for every stakeholder including citizens and officers. Grievances will be forwarded automatically to higher officials if junior officials fail to resolve them within stipulated time period. The app is user friendly, easy to handle and has citizens dashboard for tracking the status of the grievance. It is available on Google Playstore. The citizens can also access it on https://www.nmcnagpur.gov.in/grievance,” NMC said.The citizens will have to make one time registration with the app by giving the required information. A registered citizen can track the current status of his/her grievance.Mundhe had started Janata Durbar at his office for two hours daily since assuming charge as municipal commissioner. He found lot of grievances from public. Therefore, he launched the app and will personally monitor the grievances daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-launches-nagpur-live-city-app-for-plaints-redressal/articleshow/75055557.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Docs: 12-yr-old may deliver preemie during abortion||Nagpur: After the medical board informed that there are chances the 12-year-old rape survivor may deliver a premature baby if attempt is made to terminate her 23-week pregnancy, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the board to advise on future course of action in such critical situation.While adjourning the hearing till April 15, justice Vinay Deshpande asked doctors to take instructions from the district medical officer in Chandrapur on how the care of such newly born pre-term baby will be taken. “If such an event occurs, then it will not be a foetus, but it will be a pre-term baby. The report submitted by the board is not elaborating anything about taking care of such situation,” the judge said.The directives came while hearing the plea of a 12-year-old girl who approached the HC through her counsel Sweety Harish Bhatia for termination of her 23-week pregnancy.Earlier, additional public prosecutor NS Rao informed that there are no written instructions to him regarding facilities available for meeting such a situation. He requested a hearing on April 15 to enable him to take appropriate instructions from the medical board, particularly in the light of its observations.The board report stated that at this gestation (23 weeks 05 days), the termination of pregnancy would be best done by inducing delivery with medical methods. “In case of failure of medical method, hysterotomy may be required. The possibility of baby born alive couldn’t be ruled out,” it said.Quoting the board’s report, the judge said there is a possibility of baby born alive during the course of medical termination of the pregnancy.The minor from Shegaon village in Chandrapur was sexually exploited by her father’s friend, Yogesh Dohtare, who was later arrested under POCSO Act and section 376 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-12-yr-old-may-deliver-preemie-during-abortion/articleshow/75055566.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||New vocational subjects for CBSE students||Nagpur: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has introduced new vocational subjects for students from Std VI onwards, with some being of short duration (12-hour study module) and some requiring full fledged year-long academic preparation. While vocational subjects have been on CBSE’s optional curriculum list for quite a few years now, it keeps on adding new ones to keep pace with the changing times. The thought behind vocational subjects is to introduce exposure to skill sets which a student may require later in life. More than 8 lakhs students are presently studying skill subjects at secondary and senior secondary level in 8,543 CBSE schools. The latest addition to the vocational subject list includes three courses — design thinking, artificial intelligence and physical activity trainer. A letter from the board to schools says that these have been introduced “to make the new generation more creative, innovative and physically fit, and to keep pace with the global developments and requirements at the workplace”. It adds that ‘thinking’ is a skill which all humans possess but 21st century requirement is of ‘critical thinking and problem solving’. “Design thinking is a systematic process of thinking that opens up the horizons of creativity and enables even the most conditioned thinkers to bring about new and innovative solutions to the problem/s at hand”, the letter says. For the other two subjects, CBSE says that “Artificial Intelligence is also a simulation by machines of the unlimited thinking capacity of humans. Physical activity is a must if the body and mind are to be kept healthy. With this view in mind, the course on Physical Activity Trainer has been prepared. It will not only help in developing the skill of a trainer, but will also become a life skill as it will imbibe the idea of keeping fit for life”, the letter said. Beside these new programmes, CBSE is already offering 17 skill subjects at secondary level and 37 skill subjects at senior secondary level to upgrade the skills and proficiency of the young generation and also to provide them awareness to explore various career options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-vocational-subjects-for-cbse-students/articleshow/75055573.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 9, 2020||Nagpur||Material worth crores gutted in MIDC fire||Nagpur: A massive fire broke out at an ink making unit Vyankatesh Udyog Pvt Ltd in MIDC Hingna on Wednesday at around 2.30am. The massive blaze also engulfed an adjacent cardboard making factory. The cause of fire is still unknown as the companies were supposedly shut due to the ongoing lockdown. Sources said that no one was injured in the incident but material and machinery worth crores was destroyed. MIDC fire fighting teams rushed to the spot as soon as the fire was reported to them. They failed to control the fire for almost two hours and then sought help from Nagpur fire brigade at around 4am. Several fire tenders of NMC, under the supervision of chief fire officer (CFO) Rajendra Uchake, were sent to the spot. Eleven fire tenders, including two bowsers, made several rounds to bring water from different locations. It took fire fighters more than 15 hours to control the massive fire. Apparently, the ink unit had a huge stock of alcohol. The alcohol-based chemicals were stored in underground and over ground storage tanks and also in drums. The building structure as well as most of the chemicals was destroyed in fire. Fire spread to adjoining Sainath Packaging unit belonging to Gowardandas Balani. The alcohol-based chemicals worked as fuel for the fire. Neither the company nor MIDC officials had alcohol resistant foam needed for fighting chemical fires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/material-worth-crores-gutted-in-midc-fire/articleshow/75055585.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 9, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS gets booths to collect throat swabs safely||Hubballi: Doctors at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi have received two booths in which they can collect swabs to test for Covid-19. One of them was developed by Gadag-based physician Dr Prakash Sankanur, and another by the Young Indians team of Hubballi. Dr Sankanur has already donated one such telephone booth-like structure to collect throat swabs to test for Covid-19 to Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences. MLC S V Sankanur handed over the booth to KIMS doctors. KIMS medical superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chavan received the booth, and said that it is useful for doctors and medical staff to collect throat swabs with a higher level of protection. Dr Srinivas Joshi of Young Indians was were present on the occasion. Later, district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar accompanied by MLC Pradeep Shettar, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan and other district officials, visited KIMS and inspected the booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-gets-booths-to-collect-throat-swabs-safely/articleshow/75052751.cms||---
April 9, 2020||India||More cities and states make masks in public compulsory||NEW DELHI: Delhi, Mumbai, and the states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha on Wednesday made the wearing of face masks mandatory for people stepping out of their homes. In the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, the mandatory masks rule announced Wednesday was limited to all officers, staff and visitors to the Civil Secretariat, while in the UT of Ladakh it applied to the general public as well as all government officials, including personnel of the armed forces, and violation was made a punishable offence. Mumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued orders "in the largest public interest" saying the face covering must be a three-ply mask or a homemade one, and a person not wearing one outside the home could be arrested and booked under IPC Section 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by a public servant). Punishment under this section is a minimum six months’ imprisonment, and the order applies to ordinary citizens as well as all government officials. Masks are mandatory even when moving in one’s personal or official vehicle. No person/officer can attend any meeting, gathering, workplace, site without wearing a mask. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe new orders have been issued under Rule 10 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe Maharashtra government’s general administration department also made masks mandatory for all staff in the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions. They must be worn from the time of entry to exiting a public office, said a circular. Masks are already mandatory at Mantralaya. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageDr Jayanti Shastri, head of Mumbai’s Kasturba Molecular Lab, said that with increasing asymptomatic infection, wearing a mask was important. "When a person talks, coughs or sneezes, there are droplets. The mask ensures the droplets do not fall on anybody or on a surface. It protects others from getting an infection," she said. The Delhi government announced its move on compulsory face masks after a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn UP, not wearing a mask or face cover will involve a penalty from now on, the details of which are being worked out by the government. On Wednesday, UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said: "It has been decided that from now on it will be compulsory to wear masks. In fact, not wearing a mask may invite a penalty as well." A GO issued later said the wearing of masks had been made mandatory under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 and the UP Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Manual, 2020. The GO also says that only health workers should use N-95 masks and recommends a three-layer cloth-mask, which can also be made at home, for common use. "If such a mask is not available, gamchhas, handkerchief or stoles could be used," the GO recommends. "People should cover their faces and the masks or cloth should be washed with soap each time," it says. With effect from 7 am on April 9, it will be mandatory for people in Odisha to wear masks while stepping out of their homes. "The general public is directed to cover their mouths and noses with any available form of mask while stepping out of house. A handkerchief or any other piece of cloth in at least two layers can also be used for the purpose until further orders," a government order said. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the wearing of masks compulsory in the state, too, amid a surge of Covid-19 cases. After bringing masks under the Essential Services Maintenance Act, Chouhan urged people to "compulsorily put on mask before stepping out of the house". "Even homemade masks can be used, but you must wear one," he said. The J&K government’s official spokesperson said on Wednesday, "The step is part of various preventive measures taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the Civil Secretariat." "In this regard, the general administrative department issued an order today which reads that all the administrative secretaries have been authorised to purchase masks so that three reusable masks for each employee in each department in the Secretariat would be provided," the spokesperson said, The DM of Leh (in the UT of Ladakh), Sachin Kumar Vaishya, issued orders for the general public as well as government officials (both civilian and armed forces) to mandatorily wear face masks in public places, without exemption. "In case of any violation, penal action under rules shall be taken against the violators. This shall come into force with effect from April 9," he said in his order issued in exercise of powers under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-cities-and-states-make-masks-in-public-compulsory/articleshow/75056539.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ludhiana||In frontline Punjab coronavirus hospitals, 1 PPE kit for 4 nurses||JALANDHAR: Nursing staff at the frontline of the fight against the novel coronavirus at an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients in Civil Hospital Phagwara on Wednesday protested outside the office of the medical superintendent to red-flag the lack of personal protective equipment (PPEs), which puts them at an increased risk of infection. According to WHO guidelines, PPEs include gloves, masks, gowns or coveralls and respirators, such as N95 masks. The 550-bed Civil Hospital in Jalandhar is a designated centre for treating Covid-19 patients and the biggest civil hospital in the state after medical colleges.The nurses,raised slogans ouside the medical superintendent’s office, and demanded PPEs for staff handling Covid-19 cases. They also revealed that contractual staff was being paid Rs 10,000-12,000, but had to handle high-risk patients. They said that only three PPE kits were provided in a shift when three doctors, four nurses, two sweepers and two Class IV staff were on duty. “We are told that one PPE kit would be used by a doctor, one by a nurse and one by a sweeper,” nurses said. Nurses without PPE cover in isolation ward Doctors don’t even enter the ward and advise through notes, only the nurses interact with the patients. If one nurse wears the PPE kit, she has to look after all the patients in a shift and If the other three unprotected nurses come near the patient, they are at great risk of infection,” the nurses said. Another nurse revealed that the latest patient to be confirmed virus-positive was in the same isolation ward where the nurses are not duty without PPEs.A male staffer said they don’t get foot wraps and he uses polythene bags to protect himself. The nurses argued that if the doctors are not entering the ward, they should allow one more nurse to wear the PPE to improve working and reduce exposure to infection. Medical Superintendent Dr Mandeep Kaur neither answered calls nor responded to text messages regarding the staff ’s allegations “of inadequate PPE kits and doctors not visiting patients in routine”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-frontline-punjab-coronavirus-hospitals-1-ppe-kit-for-4-nurses/articleshow/75056535.cms||IP Singh
April 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sanitisation tunnel stands, cross it at Sector 26 mandi||CHANDIGARH: Visitors to Sector 26 vegetable market will have to walk through a 16ft long and 6ft wide sanitisation tunnel that will spray a disinfectant solution on them, a move to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Hundreds of people, mainly vendors, visit the mandi daily. On Tuesday, police had to use mild force to scatter vendors who had thronged the site in large numbers and defeated the purpose of social distancing. The tunnel built by the engineering department of the municipal corporation (MC) has nine nozzles. All of them will continuously spray a mixture of a disinfectant solution. Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said, “It has a facility of thermal screening, pedestal operated hand wash and soap dispenser, mist spray of sodium hypochlorite solution and hand dryer.” Two wings of the MC — building and road and public health — worked separately on the first of its kind project in the city. “If it is successful, more such tunnels will be constructed in different parts of the city. Money is not an important aspect in the current scenario. With the approval of the competent authorities, more such projects can come in the city in the coming days,” said a senior official of the MC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-sanitisation-tunnel-stands-cross-it-at-sector-26-mandi/articleshow/75056555.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Circular dispatched, virtual classes are closer to reality in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: District education officer Alka Mehta on Wednesday sent a circular to principals of all government and government-aided schools activities to be taken up for online classes for Class IX onwards during the lockdown. Mehta said the department will begin virtual classes for classes VI to VIII on a similar format in some schools. "If the project is successful the project will have implemented in other schools," Mehta said. Online classes were likely to begin from next week, officials said. Officials felt starting online lessons for classes IX to XII will be easy as students have access to smart phones and are mature enough not to require support of parents for studies and assignments. The circular said teachers could download textbooks from e-pathshala, NCERT website, and share it with the students. Teachers were asked to update themselves by reading and interacting with others to share activities. The circular said all principals should ensure that subject-related activities are prepared by teachers and disseminated to students through suitable technology like WhatsApp videos and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/circular-dispatched-virtual-classes-are-closer-to-reality-in-chandigarh/articleshow/75056561.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 9, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Prepare vulnerability map of districts, ease curbs accordingly, GoM told||NEW DELHI: A panel of senior officials studying the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic has suggested categorisation of districts based on “vulnerability mapping” and accordingly deciding the extent of curbs that should apply to these areas whenever the national lockdown is relaxed. The suggestion, along with others outlining a cautious approach to lifting restrictions, is understood to have found favour with the group of ministers (GoM) considering the issues. A source said a committee of secretaries has recommended colour-coding of districts as per number of cases and varied lockdown strategies for each category and added that all inputs will be considered for a final decision by PM Modi. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesAs reported by TOI on Tuesday, curbs on air and rail travel will remain. Additionally, schools and colleges are expected to remain closed and the ban on religious gatherings and extending shutdown of malls is on the cards. Standalone ‘general’ stores selling daily household items will be allowed to open, as is the case currently. These suggestions found favour with the GoM led by defence minister Rajnath Singh which reviewed the lockdown on Tuesday. The GoM also considered inputs from states like Maharashtra, Telangana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh favouring extension of the lockdown beyond April 14. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe GoM noted shopping malls should remain shut for some more time to ensure strict adherence to ‘social distancing’ norms, said an official. It was, however, felt that ‘neighbourhood’ general merchant stores selling not only foodstuff and essentials but also other items of daily household should be allowed to open. “Allowing ‘mom-andpop’ stores to function is expected to increase the availability of items of daily need to the public while ensuring that livelihood of small shopkeepers is not lost indefinitely,” the official said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaignThe GoM favoured testing only where required, rather than following the South Korean model of random diagnostic testing. This, sources said, has essentially to do with limited availability of testing resources. The GoM was largely focused on ensuring how to tie up loose ends in supply chains of essential items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prepare-vulnerability-map-of-districts-ease-curbs-accordingly-gom-told/articleshow/75056559.cms||Bharti Jain
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Must wear three-ply or handmade masks in public places: BMC||MUMBAI: Residents cannot step out anymore without wearing a mask. Violation of the order could mean arrest and a case under section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), which has a minimum punishment of six months’ imprisonment. The mask must be at least three-ply or a homemade one. The order, issued by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Wednesday “in larger public interest”, applies to citizens as well as government officials. It mandates wearing of masks in public places like roads, hospitals, offices, and markets under Rule 10 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. It is mandatory even when moving in one’s personal or official vehicle. No person/officer can attend any meeting, gathering, workplace, site without wearing a mask. The state government’s general administration department has also made masks mandatory for all staff in the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions. They must be worn from the time of entry to exiting a public office, said Tuesday’s circular. Masks are already mandatory at Mantralaya. Dr Jayanti Shastri, head of the Kasturba Molecular Lab, said with asymptomatic infection increasing, wearing a mask was important. “When a person talks, coughs or sneezes, there are droplets. The mask ensures the droplets do not fall on anybody or on a surface. It protects others from getting an infection,” she said. Dr Samir Dalwai, national joint secretary, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said the mask is especially meant to protect those around a person. “The mask decreases the incidents of viral shedding and thus reduces the spread of infection,” he said. Activist Zoru Bhathena said the rule was welcome, but BMC needs to implement it properly. “There are labourers working on the coastal road project and they have not been provided with basic protective gear,” he said. Policemen, among highrisk groups as they patrol streets, got plastic shields to cover their faces only last week. In all, 26,000 shields are being provided. In Mulund market, a group of shopkeepers has taken the onus of reminding citizens to wear masks. Those without masks are embarrassed when they are pulled up and quickly cover their face with kerchiefs or dupattas. (With inputs from Ahmed Ali and Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/must-wear-three-ply-or-handmade-masks-in-public-places-bmc/articleshow/75056578.cms||Clara Lewis
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Today, Bombay high court to live stream videocon hearings via app||MUMBAI: Ten days after the Kerala high court first made a proceeding held through videoconferencing (VC) available live to the public through an app, the Bombay high court will be offering similar accessibility on Thursday on a trial basis. Justice Gautam Patel will, on a ‘testing basis’, make hearings of matters listed before him on April 9 publicly accessible. The access will be via Zoom app. No password is required. The HC cannot provide tech support for installation for the app available online. A circular issued by the HC on Wednesday placed some conditions including “there is to be no recording under any circumstances” and violation will invite “stringent action.’’ Among the matters on board for the VC hearings include one by Reza Borhani for bail in a narcotics case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/today-bombay-high-court-to-live-stream-videocon-hearings-via-app/articleshow/75056590.cms||Swati Deshpande
April 9, 2020||Gurgaon||12 with Markaz link test positive in Gurugram in a day||GURUGRAM: Twelve more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday in Gurugram, taking the total number of cases in the district to 30 (excluding the 14 Italians who were admitted to Medanta hospital). All of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at the Alami Markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month. The number of such cases in the district is now 15. Gurugram is now being treated as a Covid hotspot, with the number of cases surpassing Palwal and Faridabad (both 28) and only eight short of 38 in Nuh (Mewat). While two of the new patients are residents of Agra and were found in Pataudi, the other 10 are residents of Himachal Pradesh and were found staying in a mosque in Sohna Raipur village by Gurugram police on Tuesday. At night, they, along with six others, were tested at Civil Hospital in Sector 10. A massive door-to-door campaign was launched to collected data on their possible chain of contact and the village was sealed.  "We received a tip-off about 16 people hiding in the village. We took their samples and 10 tested positive. These people are residents of Solan and Una districts of Himachal Pradesh," said chief medical officer JS Puniya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/12-with-markaz-link-test-positive-in-gurgaon-in-a-day/articleshow/75056601.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM to meet trade representatives for views on longer lockdown||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to meet representatives of industry bodies, the hotel and hospitality industry, the tourism sector and MSMEs on Thursday to take their feedback after Prime Minister Narendra Modi hinted at an extension of the lockdown beyond April 14. Banerjee said she empathised with the public, particularly daily wage-earners, who have been hit hard by the lockdown, but stressed the state government would abide by the Centre’s decision. “I understand the hardships faced by the people during the lockdown,” she said at Nabanna on Wednesday, a day the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state rose by two to reach 71. “I will put across my views if the PM consults the states before announcing anything. If the Centre takes a decision, we have to abide by it.” The state government has also set up a task force — called Restriction and Relaxation Task Force — headed by the chief secretary to give relief to sections of the public without compromising the fight against the pandemic. The task force will periodically review the situation and take decisions accordingly. Banerjee said she has been getting calls from states, aski-ng for gunny bags for the supply of food. “The chief ministers of Punjab and Telangana rang me up, asking for gunny bags for the supply of foodgrain,” she said. She also said that the government had relaxed the supply of essential commodities — such as food and milk — during the lockdown. “We have also relaxed the flower market and the supply of betel leaves and bidis,” she said. “Most medicines are available in the market. There is a dearth of quinine, used to treat arthritis, among others. We are keeping a stock of quinine for the treatment of Covid-19 patients because they are our priority now.” She reiterated the importance of adhering to social distancing norms. “I urge people to follow social distancing while going to shops and ration shops,” she said. Taking up the cue, the Kolkata Police directed ration dealers to issue not more than 20 ration coupons at one go. The government has also set up a Finance Task Force, under the finance secretary, to devise stimulus packages for vulnerable sections at a time the International Labour Organisation has predicted huge job losses. An Enforcement Task Force under the home secretary has been formed to plug hoarding and black-marketeering. Banerjee did not rule out chances of the virus spreading in the fourth and fifth week since the beginning of the lockdown. “Experts have been saying that the virus reaches its peak in 49 days from the start. Going by the advice, we need to be cautious till May 19. Keep safe distance even while having lunch at home. If you don’t get masks in the market, make it with handkerchiefs, towels that are there at home,” she said. The chief minister said that Bengal, like other states, was waiting for a special financial package from the Centre to tackle the unforeseen situation. “We have written so many letters to the Centre. My finance minister has talked to the Union finance minister about this. We are waiting and watching,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-to-meet-trade-reps-for-views-on-longer-lockdown/articleshow/75056282.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Man killed, 5 injured as Covid-19 rumors sparks violence in Gumla||GUMLA: One person died and five others sustained injuries in clashes as rumour-mongering led to violence in Sisai Basti in Gumla on Tuesday night. The district administration on Wednesday closed all shops, including those selling essential items, across 12 blocks of the district for 24 hours to contain the violence. Sources in the police said clashes erupted around 5pm on Tuesday when some locals thrashed Anis Ansari, a resident of Basia Road, for loitering around a pond. Police said the locals believed that a few outsiders are moving around the locality to spread the virus. Ansari was immediately taken to Rims by the police and his condition is out of danger. Around 8pm, another group armed with sticks and torches took to the streets in protest against the attack on Ansari. The group spotted a few tribals and attacked them. Bolwa Oraon (47), a resident of Sisai Basti, died on the way to hospital, while Somra Oraon (45), Jatru Oraon (53), Vivek Oraon (26) and Bhuneshwar Oraon (38) sustained injuries. Senior police officers, including DIG (Ranchi range) A V Homkar and Gumla SP Anjani Kumar Singh reached Sisai and camped there through the night. Jharkhand Police spokesperson-cum-IG (Operation) Saket Kumar Singh on Wednesday said additional forces have been deployed and the area is tense, but under control. IG Naveen Kumar Singh, who visited the village on Tuesday, said: “The incident was sparked by rumor-mongering among locals. A few persons have been arrested for spreading rumours while cases have been lodged against others. The situation is under control now.” While Jharkhand has reported four Covid-19 cases and no deaths so far, four people, including Oraon, have died, over rumours and violence over the spread of the virus in the last week. A man in Jamshedpur was pushed from the third floor after he dumped some garbage near his residence, while a lockdown violator drowned in a lake while trying to run from the police. In Palamu , a man was killed by a group he confronted for violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/man-killed-5-injured-as-covid-rumors-sparks-violence-in-gumla/articleshow/75062469.cms||K A Gupta
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad unlikely to get parole||RANCHI: Incarcerated former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad, who is undergoing treatment for various ailments at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi, is unlikely to be released on parole amid the Covid-19 pandemic. TOI on Wednesday reported that the Jharkhand government was considering whether to release him release him on parole for a few weeks. Sources in the state home, jail and disaster management department said The 72-year-old has not applied for parole yet. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, IG (Prisons) Shashi Ranjan said no jail inmate in Jharkhand will be granted parole during the lockdown. “No vehicular movement is allowed during the lockdown. Keeping that in mind, no convict will be granted parole as of now,” Ranjan said. Speculations about Lalu being released on parole surfaced after the Supreme Court on March 24 directed all states and Union Territories to set up high level panels to consider granting parole to convicts who are serving sentences of up to seven years with an aim to decongest jails. Since then, several convicts have been released from various jails across the country to maintain social distancing inside the prisons to stop Covid 19 spread. There are a little over 18,000 inmates across the prisons of Jharkhand currently. In Jharkhand, the panel led by the high court chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan met on Tuesday. “There was no specific discussion on any particular VVIP inmate was held. It was decided that convicts, who are seeking bail, can file their bail petitions at their respective courts,” a source said. Former Bihar deputy CM and Lalu’s son Tejaswi Yadav recently called up chief minister Hemant Soren and expressed concerns over his father’s health. Lalu is admitted in Rims since December 2018. Rims has set up a dedicated isolation ward for Covid-19 patients, where two positive patients are currently under treatment. Ranjan on Wednesday said Lalu will not be shifted to any other place. “The superintendent of Birsa Munda central jail inspected the paying ward where Lalu is lodged. The jail authorities have reported that the ward is separate from the Covid-19 isolation ward and there is no chance of contamination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-unlikely-to-get-parole/articleshow/75053997.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||2 with Hindpiri links die in less than 12 hours||Ranchi: Two suspected patients of Covid-19 with links to Hindpiri locality in Ranchi died have within 12 hours, a couple of days after a 54-year-old from the area tested positive for the disease. The deceased are a 24-year-old man from Hindpiri and a 61-year-old woman who visited the same dialysis clinic as the positive case and was marked as a high-risk suspect, sources in the district administration said. There samples have been sent for tests and the results are awaited. About the man, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said: “He had symptoms of Covid-19 and had visited sadar hospital on Monday with cold and fever. The doctors gave hime medicines and sent him home. When we found that he was from Hindpiri, we sent him to Rims for sample collection on Tuesday and then he returned home.” He died at home on Tuesday evening. Eight members of his family have been sent to a quarantine center. About the woman, Dr Rishi Tuhin Guria, who attended to the woman at Rims, said: “The patient had come to us in a critical situation and her blood pressure was too low to be administered dialysis.” She was admitted to hospital, but she died on Wednesday morning. Rims administration has kept the bodies at the mortuary and it will be released only after the test results are out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-with-hindpiri-links-die-in-less-than-12-hours/articleshow/75053971.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||‘Missing’ Kol TJ meet attendee in Del quarantine||Kolkata: West Bengal’s hunt for a Nizamuddin Markaz attendee from Kolkata has ended at a quarantine centre in New Delhi. According to sources in police, the Kolkata resident reportedly left his home near Park Street for the religious congregation in Delhi along with seven others, but never returned. Based on the Centre’s report to the state, this person’s name figures on a list of 71 people who are believed to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. While the others have been traced over the past few days, this person was “missing” until now. Cops here contacted Delhi police and the person was finally tracked down at a quarantine centre in the national capital. Police have dismissed as “speculative” some reports that suggested that six persons from Bengal who went to the markaz are still missing. “Everyone who participated in that event in Delhi and has Kolkata links is accounted for,” said a senior officer. Cops have traced one person to Beniapukur and one to Belgachhia whose links with Tablighi Jamaat are being looked into. “So far, we have not linked them to the congregation,” said a source. Altogether, 225 attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi and their contacts have been placed under quarantine in Bengal, a senior health department official had said last Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-kol-tj-meet-attendee-in-del-quarantine/articleshow/75056290.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||Hundreds of trees burnt down in Bankura hills||Bankura/Goaltore/Purulia: Several hundred sal, simul, palash and other trees, besides a lot of vegetation, were burnt after suspected miscreants set ablaze the middle section — locally referred to as tilla — of the 1,442ft-high Sushunia hills of Bankura district early on Wednesday. Residents of nearby villages rushed out and saw flames engulfing the trees. Sushunia beat office staff called the fire services, which sent tenders. By then, the fire had engulfed an entire section of the Hill. Bankura North divisional forest officer J V Bhaskar arrived at dawn to survey the damage. He said: “Preliminary findings indicate the fire was lit by miscreants who fled. We are assessing the damage.” Wtness Sushi Mandi from a nearby village said: “Several tourists visit this hill. This is the third time a fire has been lit there. There were fires on this scale last year and the year before, but the culprits could not be nabbed. We want those responsible arrested immediately.” Bankura DM S Arun Prasad said: “An inquiry is on.” Bankura town was also hit by a mild earthquake. No death or damage to property was reported. Bankura apart, smaller fires allegedly struck seven forest areas near Purulia’s Ayodhya Hills — Bagmundi, Jhalda, Ayodhya, Matha, Arsha, Kurshila and Balarampur. Locals brought these under control. In West Midnapore, Rupnarayanpur forest range officials said a fire destroyed a large number of sal and palash trees in Goaltore forest. Unlike the Bankura and Purulia fires, officials said it broke out due to friction between leaves when strong winds were blowing across West Midnapore on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hundreds-of-trees-burnt-down-in-bankura-hills/articleshow/75056286.cms||Falguni Banerjee
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: As supply chain breaks, local farmers go for distress sale of bumper crop||KOLKATA: The breakdown in the supply chain in a year Bengal has seen a bumper harvest is forcing farmers, who lack storage facilities, into distress sale of their produce. But the low procurement price isn’t making any difference to retail rates at city markets. A group of middlemen, instead, is making a killing by buying perishables from the farmers at dirt cheap rates and selling them to retailers at a huge profit. Tomatoes, for example, are selling at Rs 3/kg at the Tarakeswar haat but a buyer at Kasba is getting it for Rs 30-40/kg. Times ViewThe government has already taken some steps to reduce the pressure on farms. It is now up to officials on the ground to follow these directives and provide some succour“The farmers are selling tomatoes at Rs 3-5/kg because they can’t let it rot in the field. The same tomatoes are selling at Rs 40/kg at the Santoshpur Municipal Market,” said Uttam Kundu, president of the Tarakeswar Bazar Samiti. Kamal Dey, president of the West Bengal Vendors Association, claimed the middlemen were making a profit “of more than 200% on most vegetables”. Before the lockdown, the field-to-city market was a smooth journey with the farmers transporting their produce by train to different local mandis, from where wholesalers picked up the perishables for delivery to the retail market. But with train services off, there has been a sharp spurt in hiring charges of goods vehicles despite repeated efforts by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to ease the movement of food items. “High hiring charges are inhibiting farmers from carrying their produce to the local mandi where they could get a reasonable price from wholesale traders. Middlemen are taking advantage of the broken supply chain,” said Dey. Many big rural mandis at Panskura, Mechheda, Uluberia, Kulgachhia and Panchla have shut down for the time being because the farmers are unable to reach these haats with their produce. Many farmers with fields close to urban neighbourhoods in Panchla and Dhulagarh in Howrah are selling their produce directly to retailers at much cheaper rates. A kilo and a half of potatoes are selling for Rs 20, onion prices are down to Rs 18/kg, bhindi, tomatoes and striped gourds are all selling at Rs 20/kg while carrots and French beans are selling at Rs 25/kg at retail markets across Howrah. “We are ready to reduce our prices if people buy in bulk. Some vegetables have started rotting because we don’t have storage facilities. So we are focusing on reducing stock than price,” said Lakshmi Jati, who comes to Kadamtala market from Kulgachhia. In many places of South 24 Parganas, vendors have stopped selling vegetable in kilos. In Bishnupur, Usthi, Joka or Laksmikantapur, vegetables are being sold in plastic bags. One such bag weighs more than 2 kgs, but the price charged is much less than that of one kg. This is called thauka or price based on volume. “This is a tell-tale sign of distress sale,” said Shankar Ghosh, secretary of Usti wholesale market. Besides local transportation issues, the complete stoppage in movement of vegetables to neighbouring states is playing a huge role in the distress sale. Äround 50% of Bengal’s produce goes not only to neighbouring states but as far as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Rajasthan, said Dey. “Since majority of the haats in North 24 Parganas and Nadia are located closed to the international border, 10% of the vegetables are still going to Bangladesh. But the remaining is becoming a surplus burden for the farmers,” said Gobindo Karmakar, who runs a haat at Bashirhat. (with inputs from Falguni Banerjee, Monotosh Chakraborty, Sanjib Chakraborty, Asish Poddar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-supply-chain-breaks-local-farmers-go-for-distress-sale-of-bumper-crop/articleshow/75056280.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Man killed, 5 injured as Covid-19 rumors sparks violence in Gumla||GUMLA: One person died and five others sustained injuries in clashes as rumour-mongering led to violence in Sisai Basti in Gumla on Tuesday night. The district administration on Wednesday closed all shops, including those selling essential items, across 12 blocks of the district for 24 hours to contain the violence. Sources in the police said clashes erupted around 5pm on Tuesday when some locals thrashed Anis Ansari, a resident of Basia Road, for loitering around a pond. Police said the locals believed that a few outsiders are moving around the locality to spread the virus. Ansari was immediately taken to Rims by the police and his condition is out of danger. Around 8pm, another group armed with sticks and torches took to the streets in protest against the attack on Ansari. The group spotted a few tribals and attacked them. Bolwa Oraon (47), a resident of Sisai Basti, died on the way to hospital, while Somra Oraon (45), Jatru Oraon (53), Vivek Oraon (26) and Bhuneshwar Oraon (38) sustained injuries. Senior police officers, including DIG (Ranchi range) A V Homkar and Gumla SP Anjani Kumar Singh reached Sisai and camped there through the night. Jharkhand Police spokesperson-cum-IG (Operation) Saket Kumar Singh on Wednesday said additional forces have been deployed and the area is tense, but under control. IG Naveen Kumar Singh, who visited the village on Tuesday, said: “The incident was sparked by rumor-mongering among locals. A few persons have been arrested for spreading rumours while cases have been lodged against others. The situation is under control now.” While Jharkhand has reported four Covid-19 cases and no deaths so far, four people, including Oraon, have died, over rumours and violence over the spread of the virus in the last week. A man in Jamshedpur was pushed from the third floor after he dumped some garbage near his residence, while a lockdown violator drowned in a lake while trying to run from the police. In Palamu , a man was killed by a group he confronted for violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-killed-5-injured-as-covid-rumors-sparks-violence-in-gumla/articleshow/75053860.cms||K A Gupta
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Hindpiri locals allege discrimination, approach administration||Ranchi: Many residents of Hindpiri in the capital city have started alleging that they are being discriminated against ever since the area emerged as the ‘Ground Zero’ of Covid-19 infections in the state and the administration sealed the neighbourhood. On Wednesday, a few volunteers from the locality went to the district administration’s camp office at Guru Nanak School to seek help for those residents who require medical advice but have not been able to arrange any. The residents said that even those with no flu-like symptoms are being refused treatment. A social worker and a member of All India People’s Forum (AIPF), Nadeem Khan, said that not just residents of Hindpiri but even those who have relatives in the area are being discriminated elsewhere. Khan said, “People such as Ishteyaq Khan of Doranda and Baitul Ahmed of Karbala Chowk (names changed on request) have relatives in Hindpiri. These two men work in a sector which is open during the lockdown, yet their respective employers have asked them to stay away from the offices until the government declares Hindpiri a safe zone.” Khan said that people are scared of coronavirus and have become even more apprehensive after a couple of cases were reported from Hindpiri. Dr Shahid Akhtar, the former chairperson of the State Minorities Commission, said he, too, has received a few complaints about people in Hindpiri who were suffering from other ailments not receiving medical care. “I have asked those facing problems to inform us so that we can approach the district administration and arrange medical consultation and treatment for them at their respective residences,” he said, adding that the problem is also arising because the area has been sealed. When told about the problems that Hindpiri residents are facing, an official in the office of the deputy commissioner said that since the volunteers engaged by the administration there are locals, they can easily find out if any family requires medical assistance. “There is no complaint about a particular doctor refusing treatment but since the OPDs are closed, people in Hindpiri area might be facing difficulties like those living in other areas of the city are also facing,” the official said. The district administration has engaged 24 volunteers in Hindpiri to collect information on whether the families living there have enough food and medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindpiri-locals-allege-discrimination-approach-administration/articleshow/75053925.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Cops drive down to needy with food||Ranchi: Ranchi Police are not only feeding the needy through the community kitchens, set up at various police stations, but are also moving around the city with cooked food to feed the poor, including children and women. Every day the cops stock their patrolling vehicles with cooked food and distribute them among the needy. A stranded family of four from Jhalda, who are currently living in the streets in the Lower Bazaar police station area, was pleasantly surprised when the police approached them with food and drinking water on Monday. The police team, including sub inspector ranked officer Shiv Narayan Tiwary, visited the family on Wednesday and offered them food. Tiwary said, “The family is extremely poor. I found both the children without clothes today as the only clothes they own had to be washed today. I have purchased clothes for the kids and a sari for their mother and would give them to the family on Thursday.” The officer-in-charge of Lower Bazaar police station, Satish Kumar, said police have formed two teams in this regrad, one for preparing the food at the police station and and another for the distribution. City DSP Amit Kumar Singh said, “Similar teams have been formed in all the 18 police stations of Ranchi district. Many people are unable to come to the police station due to lack of awareness and physical disability. We are providing them food regularly. In many cases, women living alone are being given food at their doorsteps.” The Ranchi Police’s efforts got a thumbs up from the director general of police in Jharkhand, M V Rao, who appreciated their work on Twitter, especially that of S N Tiwary, an officer at the Lower Bazaar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-drive-down-to-needy-with-food/articleshow/75053959.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 9, 2020||Ranchi||Docs urge Hemant to extend lockdown, use time to prepare for battle||Ranchi: Prominent doctors in Ranchi on Wednesday asked chief minister Hemant Soren to extend the ongoing lockdown in Jharkhand to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Soren met the doctors at Project Building in the afternoon to discuss a way forward in dealing with the pandemic. So far, four persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand since March 31. At the meeting, Soren instructed chief secretary Sukhdev Singh to constitute expert medical teams at the state and district levels to monitor the coronavirus situation and guide the government about the best possible course of action. Talking to TOI, Dr Pradeep Kumar, secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Jharkhand chapter, said, “All the doctors present at the meeting unanimously agreed that the continuation of the lockdown is the only way to contain the spread of Covid-19 as there is no cure for the disease yet.” At the two-hour meeting, doctors also called for using the lockdown period to conduct a mass sanitization at government offices, shopping malls and other public places through fire engines. Pointing out the shortage of RT-PCR machines for testing blood and swab samples and the absence of testing infrastructure in rural areas, the doctors urged the CM to use ICMR-approved rapid antibody tests to identify patients. “The testing kits can be taken to areas that have suspected cases. This will reduce chances of transmission that comes with transporting a suspect to hospital for tests,” Dr Sanjay Kumar, vice-president of Ranchi Medica Hospital, told TOI. The doctors also said that there is a need to hire manpower on contract basis on war footing. “The frontline healthcare workers are supposed to be sent to quarantine after they come in contact with a patient. If a doctor or any other health worker gets infected, it will create a host problems,” another doctor present at the meeting said. City-based eye surgeon Dr. Bharti Kashyap, who heads the state IMA’s women’s wing, said women doctors involved in screening drives needed to be given security owing to the resistance of locals. “The rapid antibody tests must also be done on frontline health workers,” she said. Rims director Dr D K Singh pointed out the lack of technicians at the hospital. Emphasizing that the hospital’s dialysis unit has just two technicians on duty, Singh said there is a need to hire manpower to tide over the ongoing crisis. Speaking at the meeting, Soren assured the doctors of implementing their suggestions. “We have strengthened social security schemes, bBut on the health front, a few things are yet to be done,” he told the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/docs-urge-hemant-to-extend-lockdown-use-time-to-prepare-for-battle/articleshow/75053848.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||‘Don’t suspend MPLADS, will give up pay’||Kolkata: Shrugging off its initial reluctance to be part of the video-conference meeting, Trinamool Congress on Wednesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to suspend MPLADS and pledged instead to forgo MPs’ salaries. The party’s leader in Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandyopadhyay, further urged the PM for a financial moratorium for West Bengal to help tide over the acute financial crisis. “I have requested the Prime Minister for a financial moratorium for West Bengal and to give the financial package of Rs 25,000 crore as demanded by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I have also requested him not to suspend MPLAD funds and told him we are ready to give away our full salary,” he told PTI. On hydroxychloroquine, Bandyopadhyay said TMC had conveyed its opinion the medicine should be shipped out only after ensuring India had adequate stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-suspend-mplads-will-give-up-pay/articleshow/75056088.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Kolkata||CM Mamata Banerjee tries to set record straight on Nizamuddin event||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday broke her silence on the Tablighi Jamaat front while trying to set the record straight following the dissemination of “misinformation” targeting a community. “An epidemic is an epidemic. It doesn’t make any difference between caste, creed and religion. There is no point finding out if the affected is a Hindu or a Muslim,” Banerjee said. She took a dig at those trying to point a finger at the West Bengal government. “The MEA and MHA keep track of foreigners coming to India, not the state government. The state government, within six hours of being tipped off by the Centre, took the Nizamuddin participants from Malaysia, Indonesia, Myanmar and Thailand to quarantine centre,” the chief minister said. “We have also tracked the participants from Bengal and put them in isolation,” she continued. “We have kept all of them, a total 177, at Haj Towers on the recommendations of the Haj Committee. They are under the health ministry’s direct surveillance. Those who are doing the surveillance are blaming us themselves.” Banerjee pointed a finger at “those who didn’t act on time” and were now finding fault with the state government. “Corona virus was first reported in January, and Kerala had the first Covid-19 case in the country. That was in the last week of January. “The Nizamuddin event was held on March 13, much before the Centre announced the countrywide lockdown on March 23. In between, there have been riots in Delhi and an event in Madhya Pradesh,” the CM said, pointing to the stream of misinformation in the public domain over the Nizamuddin event in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-tries-to-set-record-straight-on-nizamuddin-event/articleshow/75056079.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Air India pilot couple’s SevenHills Hospital quarantine ‘horror stories’ a cause for concern||MUMBAI: An Air India pilot couple that has been in quarantine at the civic-run SevenHills Hospital in Andheri since the past four days, put down their experience, an indictment of BMC’s handling of its coronavirus quarantine facility, in a widelyshared message that has led to concerns among the pilot community. An AI top official said the pilots’ lab test reports have come negative and they will be released for home quarantine soon. The wife had operated a flight from New York on March 19, and was under home quarantine when within a week she developed a cough. From March 30, she started taking medicines prescribed by an AI doctor and turned down the April 2 Mumbai-Frankfurt flight she was rostered for. The next day, she felt feverish and decided to get tested. The couple lives with their elderly parents and 11-month-old child. The couple couldn’t get a private lab to come home for swab test as AI couldn’t give them the referral on a doctor’s letterhead. The AI doctor referred them a doctor from a private hospital. The next morning, the couple reached the hospital, but the said doctor wasn’t there. Another doctor directed them to SevenHills, where they put in quarantine after their samples were collected. The pilots called up their AI bosses who delivered their clothes and essentials. The pilots said a doctor visited them only in the evening and asked basic questions about health. “The same staff who looks after positive patients come to our ward. One or two people who are coughing whole night are positive and not separated...On one instance, this guy came coughing... almost opposite to our bed at night, found out he reached here by mistake, was supposed to go to Kasturba,” the pilots’ message said. They also alleged that WHO guidelines weren’t being followed at the facility. “No gloves, no sanitizers, no N95 or triple layer mask, not disinfecting the whole area including common washrooms…” Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of Seven-Hills, said people kept in quarantine don’t need to be attended regularly as most are asymptomatic. “Regular monitoring is done for patients in isolation who have symptoms,” he said. Another doctor said the pilot couple could have chosen to stay in a hotel-based quarantine instead of getting admitted to a public facility. “Even in hotels, the treatment of suspected patients in quarantine is bad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-india-pilot-couples-sevenhills-hospital-quarantine-horror-stories-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/75056603.cms||Manju V
April 9, 2020||India||Government may ask states to seal more Covid-19 hotspots||NEW DELHI: The government is likely ask states to seal more Covid-19 hotspots in various districts across the country to stamp out the risk of infection transmission and flatten the curve amid rising number of cases in the last few days with measures announced in Delhi and UP signalling the pattern. The decision is intended to ensure small islands of the disease are swiftly contained and do not undo the larger gains of the national lockdown. The UP government said the measures were intended to ensure that low cases in some areas, even within districts, were not jeopardised by hotspots. The decision to go in for intensive lockdowns was taken by the government after it received technical inputs from experts monitoring incidence of the disease. On Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh government sealed around 103 hotspots in 15 districts that reported more than six cases. Except for people who have been issued special passes, nobody will be allowed to come out of their houses in these areas and fire tenders will spray sanitiser in all tehsils and districts of the state. The decision in 20 hotspots in Delhi also came after consultation with the Centre. “Similar actions will be taken to seal various other hotspots in the country, including those in Haryana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan,” a senior official said. Sources said the move was aimed to ensure that the chain of transmission was broken and there were minimal chances of the infection spreading further. Besides, sealing of hotspots will also help ensure the gains made by social distancing and lockdown are not lost. On Tuesday, the health ministry had cited a study suggesting one person infected with coronavirus could possibly infect 406 others in just 30 days in the absence of a lockdown and social distancing measures, but this could dramatically come down to 2.5 people with a 75% reduction in social exposure. The government has also said that lockdown and stringent social distancing measures undertaken in various districts of UP like Gautam Budh Nagar and Agra have started showing results and steps were needed to ensure these gains were not lost. Officials maintained that minus the cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat, India was witnessing a decline in rate of growth in new cases. However, since infected members of the Islamic congregation dispersed to several parts of the country, the number of positive cases surged suddenly, hurting the impact of the lockdown. The government has so far identified over 25,500 members of Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts who have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-may-ask-states-to-seal-more-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/75056597.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 9, 2020||Delhi||At 38°C, Delhi to get hotter in coming weeks||NEW DELHI: In the next few days, the mercury levels are expected to touch 38 degrees Celsius by April 14, while the minimum will be around 22 degrees, forecasts IMD.  Delhi's maximum temperature on Wednesday was 33.5 degrees Celsius - one degree below normal for this time of the season. The minimum temperature was 19.8 degrees Celsius - a sharp rise from Tuesday's 17.6 degrees. The hottest location was Palam, with a maximum of 34.7 degrees Celsius, followed by Ayanagar at 34.2 degrees. The humidity levels oscillated between 37% and 66% in the last 24 hours.  Met officials, however, said with clear skies persisting for the next few days, both maximum and minimum temperatures were expected to rise by 3-4 degrees by April 14. "We may see cloudy skies on April 10, but later in the week, clear skies are expected with low wind speed. This will lead to a steady rise in temperature, which was below the normal mark until now," said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD. He added that the humidity levels would not be very high during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-38c-delhi-to-get-hotter-in-coming-weeks/articleshow/75056609.cms||---
April 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi labourer flees for fear of isolation, booked||MUMBAI: Fearing quarantine, a 34-year-old labourer from Dharavi fled to his brother’s Boisar home on bike on Sunday. He visited a private doctor there as he had a cough. He has now been booked by the police and quarantined. The doctor alerted district health officials and the labourer was moved to the Palghar rural hospital. His swab test result is awaited. Doctors said he has not shown symptoms of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dharavi-labourer-flees-for-fear-of-isolation-booked/articleshow/75056614.cms||---
April 9, 2020||India||Government asks each district to ready 500 beds for corona||NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked every district to immediately identify and earmark around 500 beds for Covid-19 patients and ramp up temporary health facilities to ensure effective surveillance and screening in every nook and corner of the country. Teams with representatives from the health ministry and the World Health Organisation will visit individual districts to validate creation of infrastructure and ensure adequate measures are taken to combat spread of the infection. The decisions are part of a detailed plan charted by the empowered committee on isolation and hospital facilities. The committee held a meeting with district collectors on Monday and asked them to create such facilities at the earliest. The primary focus is to treat 80% of the cases at the level of Covid Care Centres and Covid Health Centres. Therefore, large number of temporary clinics will be set up in identified schools, hostels, hotels and lodges which will be linked with ambulances and district hospitals. The Dedicated Covid Hospitals will act as referral points for Covid Care and Covid Health centres. The government is also ramping up its response and preparedness commensurate with the increasing number of positive cases, the heath ministry said on Wednesday. “We are working with a twin approach of implementing lockdown and social distancing measures along with stringent containment strategy,” heath ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. The Centre has also asked states to focus on surveillance and contact tracing. Besides, infrastructure at the field level must be increased immediately, joint secretary Agarwal said. In hospitals, the focus is on infection prevention and control measures so that health workers aren’t infected by Covid-19, he said. The government also maintained that there was sufficient stock of hydroxychloroquine available in the country and this was being monitored at the highest level of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-asks-each-district-to-ready-500-beds-for-corona/articleshow/75056615.cms||Sushmi Dey
